agency in saving democracy then gene
Basler
professor of history of Missouri State
University
why is Betsy DeVos demanding that Duke
University and University of North
Carolina their Middle East Studies
programs serve u.s. national security
interests that's what's happening here
we'll talk about academic freedom it's
been middle east and touch a bit on
potential crisis with Iran even as Imran
Khan the Pakistani premier says that
Indian actions in Kashmir could set off
a nuclear war in the subcontinent but
don't worry when he's not fighting off
impeachment Trump's gonna be able to
negotiate that we've got some sound for
that later
Trump offered the Ukrainian president
the Justice Department to help in
investigating a Joe Biden conspiracy
theory part about his son very real very
Biden swamp secret servers not so much
acting National Intelligence director is
testifying before Congress as we speak
and the whistleblower who initially
brought this testimony forward
tentatively might come forward if they
get proper protection
Lula's defense team is denied a request
to include the intercepts reporting on
how the prosecution of him was corrupt
and politically motivated hmm that
sounds like a corrupt and politically
motivated ruling even as a team of
progressive legislators led by Raul
Grijalva deb holland and ro khanna put
forward a comprehensive resolution
demanding labor indigenous amazon me and
protections as well as the release of
political prisoners lula da silva and a
probe into the Department of Justice's
role in brat
and backing the corrupt lava jato
investigation inequality grew including
in the heartland according to the latest
census even as medical costs continue
the skyrocket they've surpassed twenty
thousand per person this year hitting a
new record go team
even as Elizabeth Warren continues to be
slightly Budaj edge S on what exactly
her health care plan is she gave a CFR
questionnaire as well which reinforced
standard democratic foreign policy and
problems all that and much much more on
today's majority report matt is on the
road he's water boat and himself sorry
down on the bayou down on the bayou and
but we've got a great
I think this triad has actually never
happened before this is exciting first
time for everything
yep generate go of ideology its way what
is your ideology just get it done done
at New Jersey no bumps in the road the
dope bumps in the New Jersey music
Lubeck ideology klubecks ideology I
relate to the clue Beck ideology my I'm
across my ideology is a fusion of Mao
and clue Beck yeah she likes to get
things done I'm a I'm a I'm a there's a
business book called good to great and
it's sort of like a combination between
that and the Vietcong that's how I
describe my politics um did you were you
around when when we did the New Jersey
Jeeves bit I don't think so okay because
we were taking like the I cuz you're
like you know you have to like deal with
Sam and manage him and we were all just
we were just thinking him being he like
it's alright take a freaking breath
jeez where are the tickets
let's show Kato right here my phone said
very good very good and you just like
manage and calm them down and that's
part of it and like Jeeves actually
basically like baton essentially what
I'm trying to say is Brendon is the
power behind the throne there's a lot of
like speculation about like the power
dynamics and all everything like you
know what's going on here but what I'm
saying is that it's not it like it's
Brendon
so that we keep people guessing I mean I
think when people build around
narratives so what's happening it keeps
people engaged and you know I'm all for
that
it's funny how these ask of you to say
very good sir
people think about their own narratives
it makes them more active in the Twitter
analytics it's fun to think of these
things in terms of your fantasy life
Michael it's just the accents people
have and the things they say it's it's
better than real life it makes it so
much more tolerable you know my comedy
versions are obviously not in Brendan's
case but certainly for a lot of the
people that I do impressions of an
enhancement in Brendan's case it's just
like some type of acid it's like it's
like some type of like LSD peih-gee
Woodhouse parallel reality which I find
amusing me too still waiting on mine
you're still trying to figure out how
you can pull that one off without
offending anyone right I mean look the
obvious one would I mean look to be I
could I could feed some of your lines
through a Bernie or bust bill filter and
that would be funny I felt like just we
got through gotta broaden our horizons
gotta broaden the horizons I know I
always talk about this but Street action
and union militant say that one works
yeah
all right folks here's what we are gonna
do this yesterday um Oh Jamie you you
understand what's happening with Ukraine
right yeah you're talking I mean the
first single one right yeah you asked
what was happening today and it was like
a relief because instead of being like
well there's a private security
contractor named Brett CrowdStrike and
then they talk to a Democratic staff or
three years ago and then Trump you know
said the n-word on the supremists and
somehow Putin's involved like the usual
pinball's of these stories this was
pretty straightforward time one of my
brain shuts off yes right exactly this
one's pretty straightforward this one is
uh and then somehow that turned into
Robert moley troller tchotchke art and
we're all exhausted this one is
refreshingly simple refreshingly simple
Joe Biden's son is on the sits on the
board of a Ukrainian energy company
that's that is the swamp in and of
itself but of course it's metastasized
and to a broader conspiracy that is not
true which includes actually literally
something that Joe Biden said at a
meeting of the Council on Foreign
Relations while it was being taped that
somehow Trump thinks is like basically
Trump thinks to Joe Biden publicly
admitted to like a significant crime in
Ukraine at like a Q&A at the Council on
Foreign Relations and it's and it ties
into a broader conspiracy theory about I
think another thing that's happening
here is that Trump is confusing the
CrowdStrike investigation with Hillary's
private email server so I'm trying to
tease all this together but the bottom
line is is that he basically thinks that
those Nicholas Cage movies about like
the secret treasure map and the
Constitution are real except they're in
Ukraine and they're gonna put Joe Biden
in jail and it's just like a map
reloaded and so I I pointed out
yesterday that you know what the Trump
administration is gonna do for their
spin is they're gonna say hey I got my
buddy the president Ukraine right here
does he say that he's being threatened
or asked to cooperate in our political
campaign in order to get the funds that
Congress already allocated for him I
don't think so and of course because the
president of Ukraine is in the world's
periphery dealing with Russian influence
and does not want to
it's the United States off obviously
he's not gonna contradict it and lo and
behold I believe this was this morning
this was yesterday this is a yesterday
after the show look what happened here I
think you read everything so I think you
read text I I'm sorry but I don't want
to be in rural posit
I'm really sorry I know this is
obnoxious of me but this is literally my
impression coming to life yeah I like
this this is exactly the bit we did
yesterday yeah I saw it after the shows
like last Matt Michael and Sam are the
Nostradamus of two hours from now
yeah I've been you you see what you read
no chumps is like wow what a smart
cookie I love this comedian
this guy's a former comedic actor who
starred in a Ukrainian television show
about a schoolteacher I believe who
became president and then leverage that
popularity to become president he's also
doing
oh yeah he's kind of an interesting guy
actually I don't know enough about him
but you know and I don't know he might
be on the Pro austerity side of things
but he's at least biography wise he's
interesting I appreciate the post
modernist of that story yeah that's like
hyper normalization yeah this is he's
basically a gnat what actually happened
is Adam Curtis engineer to Ukrainian
Kuhn and installed a crisis actor for
his next BBC Doc okay let's go I'm sorry
but I don't want to be involved to
democratic often I think good phone call
it was normal we spoke about many things
and I so I think and you are ready that
nobody pushed it pushed me yes
you know you literally said he's having
a normal one yes yes that's exactly what
he just did just watch the majority
report it just in case you want to skip
a Trump press conference we've got you a
couple hours in advance also once he
really gets into his answer that trumps
been waiting for he Trump does not break
eye contact with him the entire time
it's just no Trump is told normal we
talked about many things
I think nobody did that nobody push me
is definitely a sound drop so did I hit
my wines yes you did very good you can
tell he was an actor right he wasn't an
actor he was a comedian that's the other
part of my bit as that Trump is confused
with him being a stand-up and all of his
bribes involved maybe we could get you a
Netflix special maybe even HBO I'd watch
that I would totally watch that all
right folks
Sam blows reading ants watch him do
something he enjoys and then we'll be
right back everybody in the house shoot
I'm saying was this cut hey guys got a
little b-roll here little b-roll fine
with new school that's fine I I was just
a little worried first you don't want
the footage where Jamie says she's
actually voting for Julie hey support
for today's shows I'm sorry hey support
for today's shows come from Carrie uma
to Mary's old-school design with
new-school ethics they're shoes that are
made responsibly they feel crazy
you comfortable and they provide
effortless style I think everybody knows
here I've been trying to up my style
game a little bit I have been told for
years I got to start wearing a better
class of shoes and sneakers and these
guys they make their sneakers by hand
with premium natural materials they have
canvas which is from cotton sourced via
fair trade initiatives they have a
cleaner premium leather which is made
with water that's been reused and
treated with zero chemical waste output
their outsole is even made of natural
raw rubber plus they're shipping
footprint balance is zero offsets folks
it's amazing they ship worldwide and
here in the US as well they even have
Express shipping they can deliver your
shoes in just two to three business days
and then if for any reason they don't
fit perfectly you send them back free of
charge I'm loving these things I have
them right here as you can see on my on
my feet I got the high-top black leather
it reminds me of of my my youth but
these are they look nicer frankly and
they're made a little more substantial
and of course like I say they're made
more ethically so these are great
sneakers super comfortable they look
good and now for a limited time our
listeners can get an exclusive 15% off
your first pair of kereama sneakers go
to kereama dot-com slash majority to get
15% off that's ciear
I um a.com slash majority 15% off today
CA are I um a.com slash majority very
good alright we're gonna take a brief
break we'll come right back with Cal
Winslow he's a journalist and editor and
we're gonna be talking about the Harlan
County strikes
you
majority report Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Cowell Winslow he is a
labor historian he's author of the
recent peace and Jacobin magazine no
neutrals in Harlan County Cal thanks for
being here
no problem my pleasure what's happening
in Harlan County tell us about this
strike well I think this strike protest
might just be winding up for now at
least what I if what I read in the paper
this morning is true but never mind
typically of the Eastern Kentucky coal
fields and the southern coal fields in
particular the employers have been have
been viciously a harsh on their workers
whenever they felt called upon to do
something and this time what they did
was they just closed a couple of mines
and fired the workers and didn't give
them their paychecks and left them
really a nice in an isolated part of the
world like Eastern Kentucky left the the
miners with with very little option
except to try to take some action and
they did by first shutting down the
railroad tracks and closing off the the
mind from making it impossible for the
mind to sell the coal that had already
had out of the ground and then and then
constructing a camp with supporters
there that lasted Oh for more than a
month now I think and got some attention
and bright and for us I guess it also
brought back to the memory the the
bloody story of Harlan County which goes
right back to the 1930s and before then
and that's kind of what interested me
being a historian I guess that
in in times when there's trouble and
when workers are moving it all he seems
that we hear about Harlan County mmm we
tell us that history that story of the
30s and before in Harlan County well the
American coal fields were organized
relatively early on and the northern
fields Pennsylvania Ohio across that
belt we're pretty strongly organized in
the 1890s when the United Mine Workers
of America was founded in Columbus Ohio
and a union were pretty powerful Union
organized on an industrial basis that is
everybody who worked in or around the
mine was would be a member of the Union
was pretty strong Union except there was
the feeling that the southern fields
that they were called southern West
Virginia Eastern Kentucky and Virginia
were always a threat to the strength of
the of the of the competitive fields
because they were being non-union they
could always be relied on to keep the
supply of coal moving and so numerous
times under numerous leadership's there
was an attempt to bring what were called
the southern fields into the Union and
this happened in the 1910 and it
happened for our subject is born today
it happened in the 1930s who are
particularly difficult times for miners
for all workers in the country so in
1931 when one third of the coal miners
in in Harlan County were unemployed and
many of those people had been evicted
from their homes and there was no other
work in an isolated area like that the
miners struck and it led to bloodletting
on
besides the intervention of the federal
government and a fight for a union that
lasted for almost a decade tell us about
the song which side are you on and how
it fits yeah I wish I could sing it for
you because very moving but the sheriff
of Harlan County at the time in 1931 was
JH Blair
he was particularly nasty fellow I guess
but there were plenty like him but he
was involved in a raid on the home of a
coal miners organizer
they came in the middle of the night as
they would and broke up the house
searching for the miner who wasn't there
and terrifying the family so in response
Florence
Reeth who was the leaders wife wrote the
song which side are you on and it became
kind of an anthem first of the mine
workers and then I think for the
American labor movement in general and
it says hey they say in Harlan County
there are no neutrals there you'll
either be a union man or a thug for JH
blare which side are you on and as long
have been sung and many strikes and
rallies ever since what about the United
Mine Workers as a union where do they
sort of fit in terms of their militancy
and kind of in the ideological spectrum
historically well I think they shifted
they were they haven't always been in in
one particular stance but and an
interesting thing about them was to go
back to
said they were always an industrial
union and and and in that sense
implicitly a challenge to the American
Federation of Labor which was based on
craft unions now can you explain the
difference to people well an industrial
union would be say in an auto automobile
plant in an industrial union everyone
would be in the same Union one union
if craft unionism prevailed the election
the electricians would be in one union
the machinists and another the janitors
in another the secretaries is another
does that help yep so a big plant might
have 20 maybe more unions involved in
representation and negotiation so the
there's always been a movement for
industrial unions in the US it came
mainly from the left from the Socialists
on the Left going right back to the
founding of the labor movement but it
came to a head in the 1930s when the
United Mine Workers led by its president
and John L Lewis felt that it was time
with Roosevelt administration now in
office it was time to organize the
workers in American industry and Lewis
and the UMW broke from the AF of L and
set out to do just that and an
incredible few years they were able to
organize workers in the automobile
industry in the steel industry the
rubber industry chemicals farm equipment
you name it and brought millions of
workers who who were deemed to be
unorganized mold by some bee
because they often were immigrants or
they were unskilled brought these people
into the union movement in a
particularly powerful way into the
Congress of Industrial Organizations or
CIO and so John L Lewis and it certainly
wasn't all up to him but at least as a
symbol John L Lewis will forever be
remembered as the person who led to the
to the unionization of the workforce
really in the nineteen thirties and just
looping it back now because we're gonna
expand the conversation in the next in
the next several minutes but the
basically the federal government has
agreed to spend three point seven two
million retrain Kentucky's black jewel
coal miners I have an enormous amount of
skepticism about what exactly these
retraining will entail and for what
economy exactly the back paychecks for
the miners have been cut for those in
West Virginia but they're actually still
waiting on their back pay in Kentucky in
Virginia and my understanding is that I
mean this this strike was literally
about not only were they not getting you
know back pay I believe that they had
actually taken money back out of their
accounts that had already been as
deposited and of course this incredible
strike happened and you know it earned
national attention and Bernie Sanders
came and showed solidarity and support
but it's still it's incredibly important
but it's striking that you know manin
for such a bare minimum in the sense of
really reflecting on just the relentless
war against workers and organized labor
for the last several decades well you
know you said it as well as anyone can I
think there that's absolutely absolutely
right that even though led by sort of
West Virginia teachers things see
to be maybe opening up in the labor
movement a bit we're still mostly on the
defensive and and people are afraid to
ask for too much and so even with all
the discussion of wages not having him
him improved really in almost decades we
hear of a good settlement being one or
two percent you know hardly keeping up
with inflation and I think that's what's
going on with these workers and what's
traditionally one of the very poorest
parts of the country what do you make of
that of this emergence though I mean the
West Virginia teachers teachers also in
Oklahoma and California the Chicago
strikes in 2012 rate union leadership
there and once again fighting you know
in that case fighting this you know
democratic mayor was one of the most you
know active anti-union mayor's in the
country the ever odious Rahm Emanuel we
have the GM strikes happening looks like
a little bit of a similar dynamic of GM
at this point I believe is a thirty
billion dollar profitability and the
strikers are asking for really quite
little the company responded by cutting
off people's health insurance I guess
again and that sort of similar dialectic
of the real incredible relentless war on
workers but at the same time and you as
a historian you have an article coming
out which I'm incredibly excited to read
about the Seattle general strike you
know what what's the positive end of
this equation as well that I mean if I
guess my question if people are willing
to take the risk to do something as
Extreme as a strike when does the shift
start to become of well you know yeah
we're taking this huge risk so how about
you know equity in the company how about
a 30% raise you know or so on I once
again you know you've said it but I
would only I would only add that you
know the appetite in
Croesus with the eating that you might
say and and for those of us on this side
of things we have to hope that seeing
workers back in struggle seeing people
make gains even if they're small is
going to be a lesson for other people
and it will lead them to possibly ask
for more but I think that we probably
are going to probably going to need more
activity before we see really important
increases on the other hand I'm active
I'm an active supporter of California
Healthcare Workers Union the National
Union of healthcare workers and over
their their past 10 years of existence
you wouldn't know that there was a
problem because they've been winning
good contracts and they've been
increasing benefits and they're a
democratic union and they're militant
and they go on strike all the time so
you know one never knows you can't you
can't tell what can be won until you try
indeed and I and that may be my final
question you know what is the difference
between you know you talk about a
successful example like the California
Nurses now you know and obviously
there's some structural factors in place
you know we haven't even gotten into I
mean one of Bernie Sanders most
important genuinely revolutionary
proposals would be getting rid of
so-called right-to-work laws but when
you think strategically and you kind of
balance somewhere between the California
Nurses Union and then maybe the heads of
other major unions even sort of you know
helping run interference for candidates
running against single-payer health care
which would seem to be one of the most
kind of basic things that any union
person anybody with an interest in the
middle class and working people would
obviously support as a policy and
equivocally it is this also may be like
a time of reevaluation even on the left
of you know going like the the ground is
more willing to take risks and do
radical things than the leadership
typically and starting to think more
around working on that revitalization
instead of maybe and you know forgive me
but you know maybe maybe folks who've
you know put in some really important
work but are also kind of you know used
to being the Washington Generals to some
extent for the last couple of decades
well I think a very strong argument can
be made that the most important changes
have come about not just in society but
also in the labor movement itself that
they've come about as a result of
movements from the bottom up where we
might say so to go back to Harlan County
really that era symbolically began in a
sense with these obscure coal miners in
Eastern Kentucky who had just had enough
and then when I going back to what I
said about Johnny Lewis and the movement
that began at the time of Roosevelt's
election what happened was coal miners
apparently heard of the new
administration in Washington and got the
idea that President Roosevelt wanted
them to join a union and started
flocking into their union headquarters
literally by the thousands so that there
were reports from union officers and
organizers saying they couldn't keep up
with the number of people who wanted to
be in a union and it was that it seems
to me that said to Johnny Lewis and the
others hey we can do something but also
you know looking back at that period of
time we better do something because
along with everything else and and I
don't know the Bernie Sanders fits right
into this
picture but people are starting to think
of different ways of going about things
doing things and that includes workers
today if you see what I'm trying to say
though III think that you're absolutely
right and we need to really keep an eye
on what's going on with the
rank-and-file workers you know
especially at a time I shouldn't end up
with this but at a time when the
ordinary General Motors workers are
trying to run a strike when their
leaders are trying to stay out of jail
yeah there you go I think you distilled
it
I guess the I have to say I'm more
charmed by those ones than the than the
centrist wonk ones at least there's
there's some fun to it but Cowell
Winslow I really appreciate your time
people read this great piece no neutrals
in Harlan County and look forward to a
forthcoming peace in the monthly review
press about Seattle's general strike and
I'll just say I mean in addition to it
being a fascinating piece of history it
was a major point in sort of I would
basically radicalizing america's oleg
art class because they were so terrified
of what was possible cal Winslow I
really appreciate your time I appreciate
thing and involved in the discussion and
so thanks very much and keep up the good
work well thank you thanks so much take
care alright folks we're just going to
take a brief break and come right back
with Jean Basel on
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now the
second player in our doubleheader gene
Basler Lonnie's a professor of history
at Missouri State University you can
find his writing and outlets like the
Jacobin you could find him regularly on
T MBS he's fresh off with the Chicago
team vias live show in fact gene how you
doing I'm doing great Michael it's great
to speak to you today thank you so much
so a lot of conversations about
censorship about this and that I have no
problem actually I think some of the
criticisms of the of a sort of coke you
know culture of censorship isn't the
right word but kind of control and
constant kind of monitoring is correct
and I do think that there does need to
be a sort of commitment to openness in
some respects open this in all senses
but you know the right makes a lot of
hay out of this stuff and then when
there's like a actual literal threat not
a cultural or stylistic conversation a
you're speaking about the human rights
of Palestinians we're going to cut your
funding maybe even fire you that is the
only time that actual academic freedom
is threatened in this country and that
takes us to the extraordinary thing
happening at Duke and I believe also UNC
and Betsy DeVos and the Department of
Education Jean what's going on well
there has been a letter published in the
Federal Register basically criticizing
the Middle East Studies program that is
run jointly by Duke University and the
University of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill it's not a particularly big Middle
Eastern Studies program but it's
obviously fairly prestigious Duke is a
you know well-known University UNC
Chapel Hill is a very prestigious
university as well and this letter has
basically been criticized in quite
chilling terms the the activities of the
Middle East Studies program they're
accusing them of bias and so on and so
forth and this really hits a number of
different points related to the sort of
the broader debate taking place in the
United States pertaining to campus
freedom so you know as you mentioned in
the lead-in there's a lot of complaints
that students are you know refusing to
listen to alternative perspectives and
they're your friends in the intellectual
dark web make careers basically
complaining about how their freedom of
speech is being sort of stifled but you
know a little a talk I'm gonna take to
the New York Times to talk about how I
can't talk yeah and you know this is
obviously kind of a little bit bizarre
given the fact that these individuals
usually have very large platforms and of
course we have seen perhaps excesses in
in very small cases or very marginal
cases in sort of particular institutions
you know people focus on Oberland I
think it's ever evergreen or and some of
the University of California systems
where things perhaps have got out of
control or people have acted in a
irresponsible way but there are hundreds
there were thousands of universities in
America and you know individuals on the
political right are often you come to
speak in this places and with very
little problem and if there are protests
there usually as you know civilized and
within these sort of realms of
respectability but yet we have this kind
of discourse that you know people on the
right are kind of you know being
persecuted in universities now what
we've seen here though in this case is
the full power of the American
government well being sort of deployed
to threaten the Middle Eastern Studies
program which receives federal funding
was a title nine program which they have
in the United States which is designed
to capacity build trained people up in
languages you know prepare people for
the before four sort of careers in
government careers in business and also
careers in education and so we had this
letter basically what triggered this
whole event was an event held by the
Middle East center in Duke in Chapel
Hill in which there was a discussion of
Palace Gaza
and it included individuals obviously
from Gaza who have discussed who
discussed the impact of the Israeli
blockade on that region and also
included people from you know
respectable think tanks in Washington
and so on and so forth but this provoked
local Republican congressman from rally
to forward a complaint based on the
based on sort of the assumption or the
sort of accusation that this had been an
anti-semitic debate and and you know
people were engaging in all kinds of
anti Israeli and anti-semitic tropes
against the you know against Israel and
you know this is the sort of classic
conflation of you know criticism of
Israel and you know anti-semitism often
deployed by the political right to
confuse that issue but you know people
you know this individual had not for
example this congressman hadn't attended
the event and was basically going offs
of secondhand information now sort of
reports about that particular vent
search you know they makes the point
that you know there were a diversity of
opinions but the problem is you know
increasingly you know the politicians
are critical off of sort of anything
which perhaps didn't immediately is the
Department of Education so the okay so
this is so I mean this is disturbing and
problematic but and and typical
everybody you know I mean in fact I
think you know especially as we actually
start to see some resurgence of
anti-semitism in the United States
including terrorism aimed at the Jewish
community the you know the fact that
people who just defend Israel is
Israel's conduct anytime anywhere any
place you know from occupation to the
you know indiscriminate killing of
civilians and the fact that they've said
any discussion of a sovereign
nation-states policies is anti-semitic
they've you know they've done an
incredible amount of work to turn one of
the greatest poisons in
human history's in human history into a
joke frankly you know at least until
quite recently but the the you know
moving forward I think that um yeah so
that that this somehow this letter gets
the the the Department of Education now
if I understand correctly is actually
threatening funding yeah that's right so
there's this title nine funding which
which has certain strings attached and
this has always been the case and it
sort of comes out of this Cold War
tradition of area studies where you know
there was sort of a need for specialist
knowledge on various regions of the
world during the Cold War and you know
basically the Department of Education is
making the claim based on very little
evidence it doesn't actually cite much
evidence except for for example the
titles of particular classes or the you
know doesn't look at the content or
types of or the names of conferences
that we're giving at the University to
make the claim that a the sort of the
university that is not using the money
appropriately it isn't sort of training
people to go into government it makes
accusations that be it's actually quite
ironic you know they accuse accusing
them of not sort of following people
into government careers which is bizarre
given the fact that there's no career
counselor at that program and are they
trying to sort of dictate how people
should you know use their education and
do they have to go to a particular labor
quota in the State Department or the
military if they learn a foreign
language so there's all these
accusations they accuse they use the
program off doing esoteric topics which
aren't really related to the national
security of the United States which they
claim is the sort of function of these
title nine grants and this is you know
there is a certain element of truth to
that but you know the the language on
these grants are pretty a pretty board
and they talk about building cultural
competence right and of course that
means sort of delving into deeper
cultural issues so one of the things
that they get that they highlight in the
letter
is a conference on Iranian cinema which
they don't see as having a relevance to
American sort of national security
interest but if we're trying to build up
cultural competence about a Middle
Eastern culture then it is a very
relevant target you know the fundamental
problem is that these individuals don't
have any competence to make these
judgments there's a very good example of
this in the letter first
it complains that you know Islam is a
being shown in a positive to positive
light or it's been focused on too much
which is a deeply problematic and
straight-up Islamophobic but it also
talks about the lack of focus on Middle
Eastern religious minorities and one of
the religious minorities that they
mention is the Kurds who are not a
religious minority Kurds a Muslim Sunni
Muslim part of the part of the sort of
majority of the Islamic laws which just
demonstrates the complete ignorance of
the people writing this letter it just
comes straight out of sort of an Islamic
Islamic approach babby what from me uh
could be plucked from a you know a
Harris book
let's I'm moving forward I mean we'll
loop back to this and this is a bigger
problem but I do want to touch on a
couple of other issues actually emerging
from the corollary of this mindset that
are even an obviously a far more
dangerous fashion what's the what's what
do you read is the last couple of days
state of play with Iran I mean a lot of
us breathed a sigh of relief and laughed
when John Bolton was humiliated by
Donald Trump that was good for a couple
of hours but it still seems I mean you
basically have an administration almost
saying you know happily that they are
sort of a security subcontractor of
Saudi Arabia certainly how sati Arabia
moves the Saudis you know so these jokes
about the Saudis will you know they'll
fight till every last Pakistani soldier
or Sudanese soldier is killed for them
what is happening in the last couple of
days at the same time I mean Iran is
certainly winning the kind of global
public relations war because at least in
this instance they're right I mean you
know they are right about who destroyed
the
the agreement the jco a they're right
about you know many aspects of their
critique of you know the general sidle
us Sally Warren em and Yemen yeah I mean
this is kind of like an escalating game
of chicken where you know parity becomes
reality I think there was a couple of
months ago there was a an article in the
onion in which Joe you know John Bolton
was saying I attack on a saudi arabia's
attack on every american or something
like that right and then we come to a
position where basically the
administration is putting board this
discourse you have people like compare
yet from sort of really pushing this
sort of narrative that an attack on the
Saudi oil infrastructure is an attack on
American national security interests and
it's deeply concerning I mean obviously
there's been a lot of play within the
within the security establishment in the
United States the Saudis saying that the
Houthis who claimed this attack did not
actually do it and it was a plot it was
an Iranian attack the Saudis brought for
example you know bits of the drone onto
Saudi television and you know experts on
on sort of drone warfare say well yeah
it's possible that this is an Iranian
drum but it could also be one of the
drones that is built by the Yemenis with
the support of the Iranians and sort of
the whole idea that well the drones came
from the north you know security experts
again said you can drive drones up and
down in different directions make them
hover so you know it's still very
unclear you know even even though the
governments are you know the United
States and Saudi Arabia are sort of
claiming the Iranians did this it's
still you know very difficult to say you
know I personally do not necessarily
believe that this Iranians were behind
it and you know of course if the Houthis
did it they did it with Iranian
technical expertise and Iranian support
in a kind of general sense but if we go
down the path of like you know weapons
supplied to one group if that group
attacks somebody
then the country that supplied the
weapons is to blame that's perhaps a
past that Saudi Arabia doesn't
necessarily want to go down give him the
people that they have supplied
militaries support to an idiot assed and
and more generally visit from the Saudi
perspective blaming the Iranians kind of
covers up the complete failure of their
military adventure in Saudi in Yemen you
know they have pumped millions and
millions into warfare their you know the
countries on the edge of starvation and
yet the Houthis are able to strike and
you know seriously damage the Saudi
excellent by the way in a way that's
legitimate in everybody any
understanding of even of just basic
international law I mean you know the
Saudis are you know waging a genocide
ulm ass killing campaign they're bombing
hospitals they're bombing schools
they're bombing children they've led to
cholera outbreaks there are countries on
the edge of starvation all of that
bloodshed is in the Saudis you know
hands and it's entirely legitimate of a
you know ground force to resist a
foreign invader I mean you know I'm
sorry but I don't it's reality yes
the Houthis since since the sort of
attack attack took place the Houthis
have declared that they won't launch
further attacks on fadiouth territory
but it is let's say a little bit strange
to to sort of imagine you know that you
can attack a country and then not expect
anything to come back to you I mean
right Yemen is right next to Saudi
Arabia of course if you're going to end
if you're going to go to war with one of
your neighbors expect that there will be
strikes back on your territory it's the
nature of warfare as you say this is
hardly unexpected and you know whether
or not one supports any particular
sudden this is this seems entirely sort
of normal consequence of the war that's
taking place so you know the Saudis but
I think their desire to blame Iran is to
a certain extent a function of fact that
this is a huge humiliation for them in
military terms they obviously
although well-armed and you know has a
lot of money behind it is not anywhere
near as effective as they would like to
present it to the international
community final couple of minutes I just
want to touch a little bit on Kashmir
Imran Khan has stated now several times
that India's you know incredibly
aggressive moves in Kashmir which I mean
should be a lot of its interpreted
domestically obviously which is that
they've the BJP mode and their nd Modi
government has torn up the Indian
Constitution they're going in and waging
an aggressive human rights assault in
the in Kashmir which already was by many
estimates the most militarized Zone on
earth there's been a tech blackout
there's been you know children have been
blinded by rubber bullets there's family
separations there's detentions even
local moderate political leaders have
been put in jail and there's multiple
interpretations of this I mean one part
of it is there is obviously you know the
extreme far-right nationalist project
the Hindutva project of Modi and the BJP
and you know this we go back to Modi and
the Gujarat pogroms and mass murderers
and mass rapes of 2002 so this stuff is
already you know quite on the public
record for anybody who bothers to look
it up but how does this fit with
Pakistani concerns you know in Pakistan
obviously Pakistan has certainly
supported groups that engage in
terrorism in India including I mean the
the Oberoi Hotel atrocities in 2008 but
there is you know the point is is that
there's a dimension of Kashmir that it's
an atrocity and a problem in and of
itself but this really is the place I
mean even more so than the Korean
Peninsula where the worst thing
imaginable could actually happen so you
know where are we at I mean the problems
with India and Pakistan of course go
back to the partition of the
subcontinent in the late nineteen
forties and sort of Kashmir was one of
those flash points one of those areas we
which conflict between whether they
should be part of India or Pakistan
emerging violence
it was a Muslim majority province which
was ruled by a Hindu prince and
according to the sort of partition
scheme in those provinces which were
which the British had allowed to be
ruled by indigenous monarchs the
princely states the princes were allowed
to decide you know which country their
province would go into so of course you
have a situation where the the cash
Merrie Monarch brings Kashmir with its
Muslim majority into India and so this
becomes a bitter bone of contention
between India and Pakistan for example
Hyderabad which was another princely
state in India was a ruled by Muslim
monarch when Muslim Manik chose to be
part of Pakistan the the the province
was occupied by India so there's a sort
of long rancorous history going back to
the sort of partition era and this of
course is made all the more dangerous
because both India and Pakistan are
nuclear-armed talas so we have in those
60s and 70s
you know ongoing conflict low scale
conflict and of course the people who
get stuck in the middle of this at the
Kashmir the Kashmir population and it
strikes me that sort of more generally
speaking this assault by Modi on the
cash Mary population is an attempt in
many ways to kind of bring about a final
solution to the province to the issue of
Kashmir by opening it up to Indian
settlement and diluting the Muslim
population it's like that family Errico
its gentrification and population
displacement yeah yeah I mean this is
this seems what this seems what it's
what the plan is and of course in an
international environment where there
isn't even any pretense of sort of a
respect for human rights
this becomes you know this becomes
possible you know under a prayer even
under a president Hillary Clinton
what he might not have been so willing
to make that that date that leap to sort
of escalate this conflict because you
know what's the what's to come back well
however I think it should be noted right
that that you know you do have I mean
Modi was just the United States he did a
big event in Houston with Trump he met
with Steny Hoyer he met with mainline
Democrats and of the presidential
candidates you know as is the case
bernie spoken clearly and bravely on it
the other main contenders have had
nothing to say and then you know
obviously you know Gabbard sort of
basically Gabbard echoed the talking
points of the RSS which is the you know
paramilitary organization that sort of
you know oversees all of the ideological
direction of of the extreme variant in
in India you know led by the by Modi and
you know I just I'll add and I I always
struggle with it but I mean look at when
Indonesia is doing in West Papua you
know I mean this is half this is
definitely a global dynamic right now
yeah I mean we're seeing it with a
Dhawan attempting to sort of push to
three million Syrians into Occupy Roger
and put two three million Syrian ABS
there nothing to dilute the Kurdish
population that we're seeing what as you
when should you know people don't talk
about the brutality is taking place in
Western pop yeah and of course Kashmir
is again part of this sort of newly
aggressive nationalism which is really
taking hold you know as sort of the
pretense of liberal internationalism
breaks their I think we're going to be
seeing more and more of these kind of
events as governments move under the you
know under without any fear of sort of
international condemnation moved to sort
of resolve these long-standing ethnic
and religious conflicts in the most
brutal way possible and in India's case
Imran Khan speaking on MSNBC today he
made the point that for many countries
India is a market of to a 1.2 billion
people so you know criticizing India has
a
have an economic cost to it as well and
we can add of course the just absolutely
horrifying footage and stories emerging
of you know China's let's say I mean
there's certainly deaths but the
detaining of you Gers is really
essentially I mean it's just it's
cultural cleansing the idea that we
maybe we won't necessarily kill
everybody although some of that is
taking place but we are going to you
know strip you of what you are in an
aggressive horrifying manner and of
course you know China you know that's
even beyond just a powerful emerging
market like you know India I mean China
already I mean arguably we already are
really in the g2 world so yeah so yeah
it's very disturbing and I think the you
know this isn't caused by the election
of Trump or the you know ascendancy of
the right wing in the United States but
it's certainly intensified by it and
facilitated by it so I think you know
this is a very disturbing trend and this
is why for example the difference
between Elizabeth Warren and Bernie
Sanders on foreign policy is extremely
critical right the highlights you know
there's a lot made about the how
different they are on domestic policy
but is the foreign policy dimension that
really has a you know has a there's a
very serious difference there and a
standard presidency may we might hope
sort of help arrest some of the the more
sort of extreme manifestations of this
intensification of violence and ethnic
and religious conflict Dean bodger on
from your lips to Allah's ears I
appreciate your time as always professor
of history at Missouri State University
thanks so much Jean thank you so much
yeah all right folks
remember the majority reported a
majority dot F M slash become a member
that's how this whole thing happens
bless you Jamie
check out literary hangover with the
water boat man himself the literary
scholar at the bon vivant Matlack check
out the Michael Brooks show patreon.com
slash t MBS to get the whole thing
Michael Brooks show
on YouTube buy your tickets today for
the Philadelphia live show November 23rd
with our tzo ball drop Emma biglan and
crystal ball we're very excited to see
their and I will also be putting out
information soon on an event that I'm
emceeing for Lauren Ashcroft who is
running for Congress I believe that's on
October 6th I'll have more details
forthcoming grab your tickets to Philly
today become a patron today subscribe to
youtube today Jamie what's cooking hour
now on the anti Fattah we have an
interview with Aaron Bustani from
Navarro media about his new book fully
automated luxury communism which is
named after a meme that I believe he
started or at least he likes to take the
credit for it it was a very good
conversation if I do say so myself
we brought up some of the critiques that
people have made of his ideas as well as
just like what he means when he says
fully automated luxury communism and
that's out now we also have a bonus
coming out on Friday for our patrons
that is taken from a conversation that
Andy had with our friend Corey pine this
week actually I'm on Corey's show
wherein they talk about Tom to launches
to the Stars Academy the Navy
acknowledging the existence of UFOs and
of course the topic of Andy's
forthcoming book posad ISM so that'll be
out I'm Friday which is tomorrow our
patrons and II fully embrace it at this
point I mean it like does he believe in
it oh no I mean I think he's pretty
skeptical no no no he's merged with his
subject yeah okay maybe he went native
with the Posadas the aliens the space
comrades yeah I mean he was kind of
babbling about it the other day in a way
that concerned me so maybe you're right
yeah but also if you want to see him do
that live in person you can come to our
live show at Littlefield in two it's two
weeks now holy crap and we're doing that
with pod AM America as well as some
really awesome guests including
Matt Chrisman Virgil Texas Simone Norman
Leslie Lee the third from struggle
session oh my god and a subversive drag
performance from comrade Barbie it's
gonna be great folks very cool
jam-packed awesome alright stated we're
gonna see you in the postgame no on the
fun half this is not team vs I'm sorry
you
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping to add more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no excuse me all
right take quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber silastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report them we'll be with
you shortly
welcome to the fun half folks we are
here let's do some sound so uh there'll
be a lot more of this tomorrow obviously
because I believe this testimony is
happening now
Joseph Maguire who's the National
Intelligence director basically is
testifying today and you know
essentially what he's saying is is that
the Trump administration put out the
transcript of this call and so therefore
I am going to speak freely on it I don't
know you know Joseph Maguire is not a
figure I'm particularly familiar with I
don't know about this institutional you
know sort of machinations of this I will
just caution in general and this is
dissipated a bit but in the beginning
there was a huge amount of you know very
active fantasy life about the
intelligence apparatus saving us from
Donald Trump and I would you know point
everybody to reporting that you know
Donald Trump went to CIA headquarters in
the beginning of his administration very
early on he gave an extraordinarily
bizarre speech everybody thought it was
funny and you know some resistance
people went really overboard and sort of
you know a lot of lot of CIA jokes will
save us say CIA will save us jokes and
memes and sincere you know gnashing of
teeth and actually what happened after
the bizarre speech was that pretty much
Donald Trump told them like anything
like there were no
you know the the gardening gloves that
you had on or off you can do whatever
you want with drones and so on so you
know we've seen them the intelligence
and defense apparatus is extraordinarily
happy under Donald Trump so that is
important to remember even if some
people are you know individually and or
even institutionally concerned about how
erratic he is and so on so I do want to
sort of caution that I don't know what
the mechanisms are but apparently
director McGuire has you know has
basically said look I'm gonna say you
know what I have to say so we'll see how
this testimony plays out here's his
opening statement
it's 26th the Inspector General
forwarded to me from an employee in the
intelligence community the inspector
general stated that the complaint raised
an urgent concern a legally defined term
under Whistleblower Protection Act that
has been discussed at length and our
letters to the committee on September 16
and 17 before I turn to the discussion
about whether the complaint meets the
definition of urgent concern I first
want to talk about an even more
fundamental issue upon reviewing the
complaint we were immediately struck by
the fact that many of the allegations of
the complaint are based on a
conversation between the president and
another foreign leader such calls are
typically subject to executive privilege
as a result we consulted with the White
House counsel's office and we're advised
that much of the information the
complaint was in fact subject to
executive privilege a privilege that I
do not have the authority to waive
because of that we were unable to
immediately share the details of the
complaint with this committee but
continue to consult with the White House
counsel's in an effort to do so
yesterday the president released the
transcripts of the call in question and
therefore we are now able to disclose
the details of both complaint and the
Inspector General's letter transmitting
to us as a result I have provided the
House and Senate intelligence committees
with the full unredacted
complaint as well as the Inspector
General's letter
right so there you have it we'll see how
it plays um we're getting we're still
getting a lot of complaints about
YouTube so I guess just keep me yeah it
says it's rolling on YouTube guys I'm
not sure what's happening right now it's
something on youtubes end and we're
dealing with it yeah guys it's we
appreciate it
but well we'll take care of it to the
extent we can right wing Mandela effect
was watching pac-man's livestream on
impeachment the other day and he kept
imploring people to support his channel
he was very convincing so I finally
pulled the trigger and became an mr
member taimi okay just wanted to give
him some credit keep up the fantastic
work left his best Lula Libre okay got a
support independent media across the
board Ukraine is a country not a
glorified IR a thought experiment okay I
don't I don't I don't know what that is
in response to but okay I agree
black Marxist Warren is losing to trump
is the worst scenario because I'll take
establishment Harris or Biden over her
well I understand actually that's gonna
trigger a lot of people but I understand
what I don't agree with it but I
understand what you're saying
well I will say this you know I'm gonna
continue to point out vital policy
differences that exist because they're
huge and massive and Bernie Sanders is
an unparalleled opportunity um and if
and I think they're you know it's very
clear there's people who are able to say
I have a different opinion of Elizabeth
Warren but you know I acknowledge
reality when it comes to like Venezuela
policy or housing policy or health care
or other really vital differences but
you know folks that just demand no
criticism you know I mean that's just
that bridge is never gonna be crossed
and and I will just say don't make it so
it's impossible for me to vote for
Elizabeth Warren to turn the phrase that
I have for a lot wait you know people
feel so comfortable having so many
double standards about Sanders and his
supporters and you know throwing the
most insane lies and nonsense around you
know it might become turnabout is fair
play I will I mean I will say I the more
I contemplate
bizarre hatred of Sanders that comes you
know not from the people who would like
you know the corporate establishment but
from people who claim to be you know
progressive whatever start to wonder how
much of this is really deep-seated
anti-semitism I mean there is a lot of
talk about how much he yells any rate at
any rate so just don't make it
impossible for me that's all I'm saying
to be fair these people do exist on both
sides we've both seen it it's also not
helping when Bernie people are so
hypersensitive that they can't entertain
any criticisms of Bernie whatsoever even
the valid ones and I say that as a total
Bernie I mean I'm willing to
entertain here's the here's the here's
like the actual problem with Bernie
Sanders criticisms that I see so
everyone just needs to shut up I mean
actually honestly to some extent yes if
you're serious about running an election
and I make no bones about that that is
partially true it's not a time to
nitpick but also like a some one line
that I'm sorry
like all student debt versus os-- to
dn't debt medical debt or not these are
not just like oh don't say that there's
a big difference like yeah there is
there's like millions of people well
okay and then there's criticism that is
either like so ridiculous and pedantic
that we would not want to apply to
anybody right I'm not gonna say like oh
well I'm gonna do like a three-hour
segment because I don't like like the
tone that Joe Biden used when he
answered a question that's like a lot of
the stuff that I hear about Sanders or
it's like you know and I'm sorry I don't
you know I don't want to I'll just say
it and you know you can respond but like
some of the other stuff is just like yes
like Bernie Sanders is not advocating a
simultaneous worldwide revolution - and
capitalism is great but that's most of
the criticisms is like Bernie is not
demanding a worldwide vegan compound so
we have a problem like the truth of the
matter is is if you were on the left
this presidential campaign is putting
more on the table the
anybody has ever even come remotely
close to doing on every major issue and
you know look I sure I can say I wish
Bernie would go further and following
the Portugal model on drug
decriminalization that's fine but I'm
gonna say that like one out of a
thousand things that I say because I'm
gonna unequivocally support the person
who would by far increase the lives and
most human beings the most and I you
know and and honestly from like a media
branding and game-playing perspective it
would be better it's as like throwing
silly jabs and stuff but I'm not doing
that because I actually take this stuff
really seriously across the board and
you know the reality is is green New
Deal rent control all medical debt
relief the only person who's clear on
single-payer the only person is clear on
freeing Lula the only person who will
talk about using Israeli you know
foreign aid against Israel I mean I'm
sorry it's like we got to be real here
so what you're saying is there are no
good faith criticisms of Bernie Sanders
so everyone should just shut up that was
not a good-faith representation of what
I'm saying but well I was just talking
to a black guy the other day who thinks
that Warren is better at talking about
race and yeah I don't think that's good
faith that's possible possibly true
everybody needs to read the new Adolph
Reid piece in the New Republic
I I have increasingly less time for
those arguments and I also don't know
what like I I can assess on policy like
cuz it cuz to me the other problem with
that sort of thing is like talking about
race and a certain sense like Bill
Clinton's better at talking about we
also came out in favor of reparations
know that support reparations that's
another thing that I can't deal with she
does not if you go into the specifics of
what she there's one candidate that
supports reparations that's marianne
williamson so if that's what you're
voting on vote for her Elizabeth Warren
just like Barack Obama said it although
he upset he opposed but in this in this
context just like Hummel Harris she's
actually proposing policies that would
be economic restitution across-the-board
but because it disproportionately
affects African Americans she's saying
it's reparations it's dishonest so
that's actually disgusting and then on a
just
broader level of like talking about race
like Bill Clinton people remember his
racism correctly so but there are
certainly other areas in terms of like
fluency on history literature and
culture that Bill Clinton is far
superior to Elizabeth Warren or Bernie
said Bill Bradley spoke better about
race than a lot of these people speaking
is not policy and enacting are correct
obviously I think the Bernie is the best
candidate but I don't think that they're
all being made in bad faith and some of
them are totally fair questions for
people to be asking and we should be
willing to respond yeah well that's the
other thing is that you know right but a
lot of them have been answered tens of
thousands of times so when some people
going oh it's true though you're kind of
proving my point right now no you're
proving my point what's new that you've
heard that hasn't been Blake I mean it's
again cuz you're not saying anything
that has anything to do with anything
policy or concrete it's just like yes I
know there's a narrative that's been
pushed very aggressively about some of
these things for a very long time
they've been addressed to the extent
they're gonna be addressed and some
combination of really good policies
being put forward and the fact that
literally nobody is perfect if I was
writing a script like if the world was
just a screenplay I was writing Bernie
Sanders would be running for president
he would support BDS and a one-state
solution he would be a 48 year old like
biracial lesbian and would have worked
for Lula at some point but we're not
playing Dungeons & Dragons we're not
writing screenplays we have to work with
what is and the vast huge
disproportionate majority of criticism
is either bad faith or or just not
well-founded and I have to say like when
I've had conversations including like
people like Bill Fletcher Jr who marshal
some like
who have actually marshaled really smart
criticisms particularly in the context
of late 2016 there it's either like you
know well in his case he knows
everything so it'll be like yes there's
been some improvement and then he has
like a concern about age writ large but
that's unbridgeable and then there's you
know another conversations I've had with
folks are like oh I didn't know that
Bernie had a proposal to cut the prison
population in half abolish the death
penalty I didn't know that you know he's
more clear and unequivocal about these
issues than anybody else so you know
maybe I didn't like his facial
expression that he gave during a TV
answer but that's actually good to know
so I'm you know look I'm sorry
and it would be honestly it would be
more politic for me to you know play
more of those games but the stakes are
too high to be more politic for Bernie
as well and that's the main thing not
that we all do that like he needs Bernie
knew it to take a lot of Warren voters
in order to win despite the fact that
he's also going to pick up a lot of
people who don't normally vote hopefully
but that's a less sure thing I would say
there are plenty of Warren voters well
done Warren and it's not just rich
people right there's plenty of like nice
teacher ladies or whoever who just think
that Warren is gonna be able to get more
done or they don't really see the
difference between the policy and they
want a woman so like these are all good
faith critiques that we need to be
willing to respond to that's all that
I'm saying well they've all been happy
for the last one whoa
I'll be dismissive of people who've
already had the answers whether or not
we're right whether or not we're correct
too to just say that we're right and
you're wrong like it's not going to help
I really don't think it's okay and there
are all kinds there are all kinds of I
feel like we're not gonna not gonna come
to an agreement I mean it's just because
all we're doing is just like we've
already done this for years so at this
point we're just when we play that game
we're just indulging so much dishonesty
and double standards but I I mean Evan
there are all kinds of double standards
it's not fair absolutely not fair but
I'm not gonna win dolger I think
really clearly the strategy of letting
false equivalencies be made and not
drawing any differences is not working
and so they're in gut and it's actually
because we're at a point now that if
Bernie says at a debate senator Warren
is a friend and colleague of mine and I
respect her which he clearly does and
should and we have a disagreement about
single-payer there's gonna be a meltdown
on social media saying that Bernie said
that women's voting rights should be
stripped that's not what I was saying
but that's what a vast majority this
stuff is so that's what I'm gonna
respond to when people are you know and
and I see like so much you know
mishegoss about this but it's like I'm
sorry guys like if we just see things a
little bit clearly that's the dynamic
that's playing out and I also would say
that if somebody who actually takes
meaning Trump really seriously it's not
advantageous to you know it's atrophied
muscles if one candidate gets nothing
but passes and the other one gets
nothing but uh you know fast balls the
whole time if they do end up getting the
nomination bring us all together tell me
we're live again on YouTube we will not
live that whole time now there was a
period of there was about a five-minute
window there where we weren't live as a
result of something on YouTube then it
said we're streaming on our end the
whole time so apologies to our viewers
on YouTube I hope you're okay I'm I'm
sure that me and Michael will argue
again about how defensive we should or
should not be of our King Bernie so
don't worry I mean sure it's not but I
mean it's like I guess if you if if if
we brought in this though Jamie because
this actually is relevant and you met
somebody and they said well I think
communism is terrible
because I read the black book of
communism and I read half of the
communist manifesto I'd be like that's a
fair right fair critique absolutely and
then you had a conversation with them
and you gave them some resources and
they had it and then you realize you
looked at this person and they were
saying the exact same
to you to the fifty-fifth time you might
start to say hmm I know this person
actually just has an agenda that I'm not
gonna indulge sure but I don't think
that's every critique but it's
functionally 99% like I don't look when
I hear and this is funny because it goes
back to like Bernie when he first dealt
with black lives matter it was not doing
a good job and I said it
contemporaneously I have no problem
doing it
Bernie should call for the
decriminalization of all drugs a hundred
percent but a vast monastic horrifying
majority of what I hear now from both
professional and supporters is just like
nonsense and actually like deeply
unethical and profoundly dishonest and
I'm not here for it sorry that's it
don't criticize the king for Desai's the
king when it's an actual criticism but
if it's a fantasy or a lie then you're
gonna get some pushback by the way
that's politics
maybe I just have more experience from
being a communist from having people
tell me constantly that my ideas are
totally unrealistic so I'm just like
used to it right now
I well I don't think you you don't take
when people say that particularly well
either
in fact you're calling from a 443 area
code who are you where he calling from
443 hung up bad job not good you're
calling from a 909 area code who are you
calling from
sorry can't tell me your name again
Daria Oh Darius from California
yeah hey how you doing what's on your
mind all right
so I'm calling in because a few months
ago I saw a post on Twitter from Vick
about that home cowboy nonsense and the
West Coast and so I'm suffering tweets
that I thought I was praying Oh from
Dick burgerfi yeah okay okay yeah yes
yeah so I saw X week going round that
there was a gif Olinda probably leaves
with bragging got the order to
intentionally cause basically like chaos
and his driver basically their taxes for
all the police our Hyatt right and Vic
suggested that perhaps we should go
after these guys by having a city sue
them but I was kinda taking it back at
it because I'm thinking well if they
start this precedent of like going after
so-called leaders of groups I have to
have police presence went in just like
right Winx it right-wing mayors and
still sees this dude out to any
left-wing movement like say like matte
black lives matter or anything like that
because you know as we go down the
president of like doing basically
community people who are starting
protests well that's just opening the
floodgates and yeah I just don't agree
with that I was wondering what you guys
what your thoughts on it yeah I don't I
don't agree with that either but I would
look more deeply at UM at uh I mean
there's legislation across the states
that Republican legislators have already
passed with sorry I'm like basically to
target protesters there's a really
horrifying laws yeah exactly so yeah so
no I think anything in that road is um
is super problematic I agree with you
thanks for the comment see take more
calls 971 who are you where you calling
from hey how's the guy Michael good how
are you that's your name where you
calling from
Oh name is Paul I'm calling you from
Southern Oregon what's going on not a
mooch I've been trying to get on for
months
well here we are we have a nominee I'm
kind of what I kind of want to talk I
kind of want to pull out two pinatas
again and talk about fortunate in so
terrible violinist and human squeaks
oi Ben Shapiro yes and and rays do band
also known as Dave Rubin and the
dissemination of they're like completely
ridiculous narrative from everything
from like everyone's going to have I
don't know free toilet paper to the
compelled speech narrative the Jordan
Peterson started where Ben Shapiro and
Dave are just running with that football
without any real knowledge of what it
means and what it entails by the way as
far as Jordan Peterson is concerned I
like his lectures but I don't like its
public persona and I'll just come out
right now and say that you know I better
get a little bit more arraigned in here
man
well let's pick one of those things and
tell me what you want to talk about okay
well I know a lot of people who side
with ben shapiro okay because because of
his his elegant argumentation which we
all know is BS right and when you're
when we're talking with those types and
we're trying to convince them as I do
that Bernie Sanders is the way forward
right I guess there's no golden hammer
to those arguments because they feel
they have it but I'm trying to get some
sort of ammunition in my repertoire
where I can kind of shoot it down and
the only thing I can ever do is just say
that he's the Ben Shapiro argumentation
okay on everything he takes because it
doesn't make any sense but see that's
the thing right it doesn't make sense
and so it's easy for them to side with
it and to regurgitate it and it's not
logical so arguing around it is almost
impossible okay yeah I mean I I think
you're mostly right I think that the
best-case scenario is you know when
you're look if you're really debating
with somebody who's actually locked into
you know ben shapiro nonsense then
you're you know sam always says this
you're basically arguing for somebody
else who might pick up the argument
right like you're you're kind of maybe
if there's like a third person in the
room but i I don't know man I I just I
would read Ben Burgesses book I think he
does a great job at really outlining
logical fallacies and how poorly people
argue but you know if somebody's really
committed to it then you know you're
dealing with a belief system and we were
seeing that in all sorts of factions of
politics right now you know people have
really intense emotions and really fixed
beliefs and then they just repeat repeat
repeat repeat yeah you know looking I
mean look at the Blues support I mean
I've you know as people you know Andrew
yang he's great
period doesn't matter how many
dissections you do you know Tulsi
Gabbard great doesn't matter how many
dissections you do and then obviously
it's other stuff we've been talking
about you know people take it you know
yeah that people take it yeah so I don't
really know but I would just say read
Ben Burgesses book give them an argument
logic for the left thanks for the call
man let's do this sound because I don't
want to alarm people but in the midst of
all these Twitter arguments there might
actually be like a global arms conflict
that could come out of South Asia
situation between Pakistan and India is
legitimately terrifying and that's why
Donald Trump is taking a break from his
extremely busy schedule to suggest that
he might have the answer for how to
mediate on Kashmir
whether it's arbitration or mediation or
whatever it has to be I'll do whatever I
can because they're at very serious odds
right now and hopefully that'll get
better
you look at the two gentlemen heading
those two countries two good friends of
mine I said fellas work it out just
working it close it to nuclear countries
they've got to work it out just work it
out fellas work it out because that
fellas diplomacy whatever be great if
that worked that would be amazing if
that works I could see some inroads with
Imran Khan and that cuz emraan Khan's
kind of a slightly Trump figure in a way
former cricket star very comfortable in
the cameras pretty flexible kind of a
pawn of the Pakistani military who I
actually don't think they would be super
receptive to the c'mon fellas
and the Renda Modi is definitely not a
come on fellas guy to say the least
Colorado guy as a queer person and
Sanders supporter I think Bernie missing
all the LLB LBT Q forums due to prior
plans could easily appear as dismissive
to the community however Bernie has a
100% voting record on human rights
campaign a well-documented history of
clearer solidarity in Vermont spending
decades and he specifically spoke about
LGBTQ issues at his recent Denver rally
talking about how the national debates
barely touch on LGBTQ issues or how gay
acceptance is now in decline in the u.s.
seems more productive folks much love em
our crew Lulla Lulla
so that's yes right that's a totally
fair point
and but I also liked like you know
Bernie in the last forum and I remember
looking it up I was like why does he not
going to this that's stupid I was like
oh because he has prior plans to speak
at I believe a hpc woman's college which
was set and you know months ago so
that's good I guess that's like a good
example right like okay this is tricky
you need to prioritize getting to one of
these forums even as we acknowledge the
reality of the record but what you see
now for most people who
just constantly go after and lie about
Bernie in this disgusting relentless
ways they'll just say he wasn't at the
forum
they will not acknowledge you know you
could say hey there was a real conflict
here but I still think he should have
made it fair what most people were
attacking him now are precisely what
they would in fact do is that if he did
rearrange his plans they would then just
Blair that he canceled at a historically
black woman's college like and that's
again I'm just not playing with that and
sorry me neither
yeah that's not what I was talking about
again like they're only critiques like
that and people like that that you have
to look at and say I know what you're
doing and it's not gonna work on me
and then there are people who are just
genuinely concerned oh the whole
Democratic Party seems to hate him how
is he gonna get anything passed in
office and you have to respond to those
arguments on the merits sure absolutely
absolutely
that's definitely not when I'm working
against Joe from West West Ford from the
West Ford Michael love your point on
monopolization regarding impeachment
look no further than the UK where the
past three years of political discourse
as a result result revolves entirely
around brexit yes that is a concern for
me Jen Michael don't take this the wrong
way but I think you need to have your
impression of Jeremy Corbyn challenged
he is a brexit problem if you can please
talk to a youtuber of a youtuber a
different bias he's a school teacher and
policy walk he's pretty good at laying
things out I find sure I look into it
but I mean jeremy corbyn's position on
brexit that he's gonna support a second
referendum is to me that's the only
viable position I see and I get that
Briggs it's a disaster and a bad move
but I I don't have the same willingness
to simply override a democratic mandate
like that and I think the best case you
can do is say look guys this is an
absolute disaster do you want to vote on
this again and also the political
calculation he's pulling off you know I
think there's a lot of focus on
the components of Corbin's coalition
that are opposed to brexit and in fact
there is a a big working-class
constituency in labor that he can't risk
losing to pro brexit parties so he needs
to he needs to be very strategic about
that he's playing it well um okay
YouTube audio is out yeah no no no that
must be old I'm sorry I'm sorry I think
we're fine I think we're fine sorry
sorry sorry yeah it looks fine to me
yeah I'm sorry about that I think that
must be old okay they were like like a
ton of youtubers out questions you're
calling from a seven-one-seven area code
who are you where you calling from hey
this is Chris calling from Sheepshead
Bay hey what's going on Chris what's on
your mind hey so uh actually like two
quick things
the first one is did you guys have you
looked at the whole issue going on right
now with those Elizabeth Warren's
daughter and the endorsement from her
group so the working I think that's a
debunk story at grim debunk I think
that's debunked I I'm I don't know it's
been debunked
I haven't honestly I haven't read any of
it either way but if Grimm debunked it
then I trust Grimm it just seems like a
whole lot of ng oh hey what's up hey
sorry yeah my my daughters the week I
would like the Working Families Party
story to take up less oxygen and for us
to talk more about Bernie's policies and
why they're better than everyone I mean
it's just a whole lot of NGO inside
baseball that it's really not that
interesting to me huge problem they
haven't released their vote totals that
they still absolutely should be doing
and that is a huge problem but I think
that whole grim this is the grim thread
my information was from Jordan I forget
how to pronounce I don't know I was
looking right I don't know I look at
grim I think rim debunked it but I don't
know anything about it either way I
didn't read it one way or another and
yeah
yeah what's the second one I know what's
second question the fact
was so while YouTube was out I was kind
of listening to yours and Jamie's
argument mm-hmm and the impression that
I'm getting I think maybe the argument
between you two is I think Michael
you're kind of like speaking more from
the social media maybe news perspective
of misinformation and misinformation and
like how you're speaking to normal
people you should take Jamie's approach
on social media and among sorry people
I'm sorry to jump ahead but I think what
you're I think you're drawing a really
smart distinction I'm not talking about
your like nice friend or neighbor who's
like hey I'm kind of unsure be nothing
but polite and respectful I'm saying
that like I see people who absolutely
know better
saying things like okay you know
somebody like this somebody who I
actually did show with once as recently
as like well if anything Wall Street's
more scared of Warren it's like okay and
I just and I didn't and by the way I
never attack people personally I just
said okay here's literally like your
person was influence and you are looked
on for expertise you're saying something
that's just demonstrably not true I you
know it's so maybe but maybe you haven't
done the research so I'll go and I'll do
Google yeah and I will drop you
literally five articles showing with
headlines like Wall Street warms to
Warren Third Way never Sanders but maybe
Warren and so in the social media game
and in this space there's a just
awe-inspiring amount of disingenuine
about Sanders and it gotta say like the
reason that it pisses me off is really
Frank look I like Bernie Sanders I think
it's you know hating Bernie Sanders is
weird but I don't hate Elizabeth Warren
right and I know her fans right like I
don't actually in fact to be honest with
you I hate very few of these people one
way or another I don't have a big drama
about this how they making power its
politics
well yeah whatever right so but I know
people in my life and I know people in a
broader context that it's like when
you're
lying about Burnie or playing games
about that that's translating to like
litter like homelessness increased
budget you know military spending you
know a lack of seriousness about
Medicare for all
and that really matters and if you know
and and I'm by the way and I'll draw
another distinction I see a lot of
people you know a great example of this
on the other side is Emma biglan who
supports Bernie Sanders and likes
Elizabeth Warren much more than I do
right and she's an incredible reporter
and super smart and totally good faith
and I've said multiple times I see
people who like were you having an
ability NBS she's a shale that's
disgusting that's stupid that's
delusional she is never and she has
never once in the prot she's just said I
really like this Warren thing and in
conversations I've had with her it's
either like I agree with you that
actually is a good Warren thing or
actually I think I have a different
concept of power versus corruption than
you let's have an interesting
progressive socialist conversation but
what she never does and I and by the way
and this is C this distills my
frustration first is that she never
predicates her praise of Warren on lies
and smears about Bernie and his
supporters that's number one and that's
what a ton of people do and number two
she accepts uh you know she'll say like
yeah Elizabeth Warren didn't answer my
question about military spending I get
when I'm dealing with people that are
gaslighting me where it's like on one
hand they're telling me you can never
deal with criticisms of Bernie blah blah
blah and it's like well no actually here
are actual examples of real things that
I'm willing to criticize him on and I
have and I also make no bones about the
fact that this is a usually important
election he's the best candidate so I'm
gonna focus on that but then they'll be
the same people that turn around and say
oh well you know talking about Elizabeth
Warren's Venezuela position or vote to
confirm ben Carson that is just unfair
so when I'm dealing with that level of
disingenuine and ridiculousness
that I have no tolerance for and make no
bones about it I know people get upset
by that I'm sorry I just can't lie I
can't I need to be honest when you're in
a good interaction with either a
brilliant good faith person like my
friend Emma or somebody you know in your
normal day-to-day life and honestly in
general like I think in general people
should try to frankly be like a little
bit more pleasant in social media but if
you're coming and you're pulling
 with me I'm not playing that
game and I don't accept the premise that
somehow because it's Bernie there's like
way more latitude to be dishonest about
him in his supporters and I in fact not
only do I not accept that I see that as
a direct attack on people that I like
literally know personally who are
immigrants who are people of color who
are people in serious economic
circumstances that are like thank you
for advocating and like I actually need
somebody who's serious about this stuff
okay
so that's it that's it there's really
and I don't and honestly I don't and I
know you know I don't even think you
disagree with that frankly so no I'm
just saying we really need to be sure
who we're dealing with before we pull
the trigger there upon that kind of
defense because you know neighbor so I
agree with you probably on social media
and we need to know who we're talking to
before we assume bad faith on someone's
part and I would like us to err on the
side of caution
you should never pull the trigger on the
first interaction there's a big
difference between you know as I said I
think you know influencers who should
know better
that's brass knuckles out yeah but then
but then the and I agree with you 100%
the only thing I would add is that you
know when it's legitimate and responding
in the way that we both agree then
that's not defensive this that's being
clear and honest or if it's
defensiveness then Jesus Christ
Elizabeth Warren supporters are insanely
defense like it's either that we're not
gonna use that word in a pejorative way
or it's just like sure everybody's
defensive of their candidate it doesn't
mean anything right to be
aware of how they're coming off at all
time I was doing this before as a so as
do Warren supporter I've been sitting
this for a long period of time trying to
fix the youtubes New Jersey geez the
Jersey ideology hit us it's when dealing
with these people online and dealing
with like surrogates and people who are
the most vocal I can understand the
Bernie supporters feeling at this for
you know warm supporters to say hey
she's the same as him
like we know that's not it's a lie we
know that's not true right however these
are the two most progressive candidates
on the ballot and for them to be
pointing at each other and saying that
they're so demonstrably either like
arguing bad faith or whatever it kind of
looks like the Spider Man mean to to
onlookers and I think like a lot of this
is going to end up coming down to what
happens in Iowa and I think this is
going to be the most ravenous time for
these people because of like what lies
ahead and I think for the Bernie
supporters the most important thing is
expanding the electorate and like
getting those regular people out and I
know it's you know an online battle all
the time but Bernie's gonna win by
getting people who don't show up and
polling and things like that so you've
got to remain strong on that message and
keep that sort of like North Star if
Bernie supporters want him to win
absolutely you are racing Marianne
Williamson who is my second favorite
candidate because of her courage we
can't be leaving any votes on the table
yeah you can't believe in any votes on
the table all right I appreciate the
call man thank you I think that was a
very helpful distinction and yeah thank
you and I thank you for giving a shout
out for Lauren Ashcroft and her show
coming up I'll be there let's make that
happen
take care of man okay thank you thanks
figure all right let's see let's
actually play this some Edward Snowden
has a book out um he should be pardoned
you know some people are extremely
perfect like the guy went to save
himself personally frankly after
you know and if we can understand that
institutions make compromises and
nothing is black or white I think we can
certainly Accord that to somebody who at
enormous personal cost exposed the most
aggressive domestic spying program
imaginable or an extremely aggressive
one he has a book out he wants to come
to the United States and I believe here
he is on Democracy Now I just want to
show Edward Snowden solidarity this is
the reason I think although this
whistleblower is absolutely being
mistreated by this White House and this
White House is doing absolutely
everything they can to stop this person
from communicating what the public needs
to know to the public in the meaningful
way so that we can evaluate it I do not
think they will succeed because in this
case the White House is in isolation and
in a meaningful way in opposition to the
Congress that feels their prerogatives
are are being stepped on by this and
that's quite unusual in the context of
whistleblowing typically we see all
three branches of government aligned
against the whistleblower in this case
because the at least alleged bad
behavior is so bright line clear and
because the White House is trying to
deny Congress access to the complaint
more so than the public itself I think
there are enough people who will go to
bat for whoever this person is that they
will end up all right and that's
actually a wonderful thing it's not
enough whistleblowers are today and will
remain unfortunately a vulnerable class
until we fix the broader system but the
most alarming part of what we see in the
treatment of this person today by the
White House is what every White House
does they try to make the conversation
not about the allegations they try to
make the conversation about the source
of the allegations they want to talk
about the whistleblower rather than the
government's own wrongdoing and we need
to have access to the facts and we need
to hear this person out because it
doesn't matter
the provenance of an allegation what
matters is the proof of it is what this
person is alleging to be true in fact
true and if it is what are we going to
do about it
yeah and that's an important point
obviously because a lot of the kind of
you know under the trump administration
there's so much more sort the you know a
whistleblowers or all of a sudden
praised by the certain part of the
political you know fields who were quite
willing to criminalize people just
exposing NSA wrongdoing before and of
course on the Trump side of the equation
let's look at Trump Trump and before
everybody gets all freaked out
benefited from WikiLeaks I have no
comment beyond that about anything else
about it he benefited from WikiLeaks he
praised WikiLeaks when he was running
for president then they unveiled the
most horrifying indictment against
Julian Assange which even though the
Obama administration was very bad on
journalism and whistleblowers they did
not go that far
they never unsealed an indictment
literally pressing charges against
somebody for doing investigative
journalism and you know of course
Chelsea Manning continues to be be
terrorized under those conditions as
well so you know Edward stone and I
think is pointing out there this sort of
there's the politics of whistleblowers
and then there's the fact that
whistleblowers whether they're exposing
corporate or governmental wrongdoing
need to be protected period regardless
of where it falls politically this is a
Vijay Prashad this was also on Democracy
Now we put we talked a lot about and he
was a guest on this show a couple weeks
ago I'd recommend everybody read him
he's the director of the Tri continental
Institute for Social Research we talked
a lot about how boring
Trump's UN address was and there was
certainly the extreme xenophobia the
terrorism against refugees and migrants
but it was an incredibly Bush like
speech with the threats about Iran the
extreme positioning around Israel
and Vijay Prashad really outlines the
Imperial dimension of Donald Trump's
speech at the UN General Assembly here
you know it was a very chilling speech
Trump attempted to suggest that he was a
nationalist you know pushing the agenda
of so-called patriotism against
globalism
that's how Trump tried to define his own
politics of course this is quite
incoherent on the one side mr. Trump and
people like him used the term patriotism
or sovereignty to defend their right not
to participate in international treaties
such as treaties about climate change
about refugees you know and about the
Iran nuclear deal you had bolsa Naru
give a very spirited defence of
so-called Brazilian sovereignty to allow
the Amazon to be exploited so you had to
Trump for instance here use this
language of sovereignty to remove the
United States from its international
obligations on the other side
quite encounter distinction to this mr.
Trump put forward what can only be
described as an imperialist agenda in
other words there was no consideration
for the sovereignty of Iran or Venezuela
in fact he used language which I was
quite shocked by the term bloodlust for
instance to describe Iranian foreign
policy so you know it wasn't quite
patriotism on one side or sovereignty on
one side and globalism it wasn't a
principled distinction in fact behind
the cover of sovereignty mr. Trump was
saying countries like the United States
and Brazil don't have to conform to the
climate treaties that have been agreed
upon on the international stage you know
we just had this very powerful climate
strike initiated by great return Berg I
think this kind of thing this kind of
attitude about sovereignty was a way of
setting that aside but on the other hand
as I said incoherently
he lashed out at Iran
and you know you've got to understand
that the countries of the world are not
interested in a war against Iran so
that's exactly right and the parallel
he's drawing with ball scenario is very
important because in fact even for all
the talk against globalism there is real
coordination of these right-wing
authoritarian governments across the
globe and you know yes the abandon is
kind of a goofball and a self-promoter
but he's been seen in Brazil a lot
recently nationalized international
there is a nationalist it's a real thing
and the rhetoric of the sovereignity is
quite important to interrogate however
in a place like Brazil the you know what
Lula is saying in prison about the
Amazon and protecting Brazil's
sovereignty and borders from imperial US
intervention and the fact that he's
almost certainly in jail because he
would not privatize oil discoveries is
distinct from you know McCrone is
correct on the merits but you have to
understand that when international
figures demand that you know Brazil do
something about the Amazon that's the
opening for balsan ro and for all of
these thugs to say well who are you to
tell me what I do in fact what's been
really funny is to note this neo-fascist
Brazilian government using woke
anti-imperial rhetoric to defend their
amazon record from people like McCrone
so you need to you know seriously
undermine these arguments with an actual
left solidarity populist approach
globally and lula in prison is the best
articulator of that and i want to just
get to this really important thing that
just was released in yesterday from
congressman Raul Grijalva office he
along with Deb Holland and ro Cana and
so forth 13 other co-signers I will say
with the notable admissions so far of
AOC and Rashidah to live which is
pointing hopefully that will be fixed
soon I've put out the most comprehensive
Brazil set and resolution that's
happening so far they call for a
protection of the Amazon rainforest
opposing racism and bigotry and and
defending rule of law in Brazil it talks
about the labor rights dimension it
talks about a very variety of other key
things a quote now from congressman
Grijalva as a member of Congress we have
a duty to condemn the tragedy has
befallen our Brazilian brothers and
sisters under the destructive and racist
policies of the most narrow government
said a representative Grijalva chair of
the house Natural Resources Committee
bowls and arrows failed leadership has
brought Brazil to a crisis point he's
curtailed the rights of indigenous
communities openly threatened their
right to exist and is presiding over the
unprecedented destruction of the Amazon
this is not the type of regime that the
you know us should support and I'm proud
to stand up for environmental justice
indigenous communities and the and the
Brazilian people with this resolution
now they also talk correctly the
resolution directs the Department of
Justice to perform a full review of DOJ
activities in Brazil to determine any if
any DOJ employees or supporters
employees supported an unethical conduct
by the lava jato task force or other
Brazilian judicial agents and it calls
on an assistance of us stopping of US
military assistance
now recall bolson ro visited CIA
headquarters when he visited the United
States last year or several months ago
none of this happens without a variety
of moves but the epicenter politically
is the political prism intently la who
still sits in jail in Curitiba even
after the lava jato releases and
reporting for the intercept proved
beyond a shadow of doubt that the
charges against him are politically
motivated and corrupt from the inception
now what that shows you obviously is
that this is a political imprisonment
it's not a judicial imprisonment it's
corrupt and illegitimate so of course
he's still in
jail because the process is
fundamentally illegitimate and this
resolution also calls for Lula's freedom
and it also talks for about a full
investigation of the DOJ in lava Giotto
and I will say point to a recent
interview that Lula did for the Asia
Times where he talks about how his
strategy for the BRIC countries was to
create an alternative world currency an
alternative reserve currency to be used
for developing nations and that he
wanted to use the BRICS and which is
Brazil South Africa China and Russia in
a creative way to counteract the
hegemonic instincts of the United States
and if you look at that in conjunction
with his refusal to privatize key
strategic Brazilian assets and the
history of the United States as an
imperial enforcer of Latin America and
the Caribbean you will see the broader
Imperial designs of his political
imprisonment again this is another issue
where Lula you know you have these great
Congress people to Holland Raul Grijalva
Roy Akana on this issue and others Hank
Johnson Ilan Omar and then of course in
the presidential campaign this is
another area that of course you know Lou
Bernie has been the only one to speak on
but this is one that honestly I mean
anybody who has any pretensions to
climate concerns and global democracy
should be demanding this because you
have a demented lunatic who's even worse
than Trump and then somebody who could
be the most effective center-left
statesman in the world in prison who
already in his first two terms lifted 40
million people out of poverty so thank
these Congress people the man thank
senator Sanders and demands that more
and more people take action on this it's
a really big deal in all dimensions
dead-ass and on the imperialism tip can
we just give a shout out real quick to
Daniella Rodriguez diplomat from
Venezuela talk about that during Trump's
garbage UN speech and read a book on
Simone Boulevard for the entire duration
can I read can I read what she tweeted
here she said this is the book I read
while real Donald Trump desecrated the
General Assembly of the
with his xenophobic and imperialist
speech long live Bulevar long live
Venezuela long live the Venezuelan
people who do not bow to any Empire
hashtag hands off Venezuela it sauce
Queen she got taken off a Twitter soon
probably that's awesome nothing but
respect for that Trumpy bear warns
reformist while Sanders is revolutionary
how is that the same also Mary Anne is
an Oprah shill boo first part true
second part fake news all love to Mary
Ann go off Brendan thanks I will go off
thank you
don't mind if I do I don't mind if I do
you're calling from a 773 area code who
are you where he calling from hi this is
on our Gus from Chicago's North Side I'm
the Lula Libre down with glide go guy
hey nice what's going on Gus what's on
your mind and a bus just enjoying a nice
day here in the north side walking my
dog but I wanted to tell you they're
trying to get on the show for about two
and a half weeks I actually met my first
British lib dems that I got a good story
whoa boo the Lib Dems they're not good
very bad for you well I listened to the
story this is why it's funny I was
getting petitions for a friend of mine
running for judge in the city and I was
at the Logan squares farmers market
which is the last place I want to be out
of Sunday but when got these signatures
and I saw these two people kind of like
shag shaggy and Daphne from Scooby Doo
and they said they were from England and
I said oh I love Jeremy Corbyn in a real
matter-of-fact way the the young man
goes we don't and the hilarious part is
I didn't say anything cause I was
shocked at first but basically I kind of
figured out they were lived in because I
actually know people that belonged to
the British
Tropius Party and those guys actually
dressed so well they make the Tories
look like bums and hippies but and the
Tories usually come to America dressed
like American tourists right but it was
funny because I kept looking and I'm
like those are the first people ever
said they didn't like Jeremy Corbyn like
every British tourist I met either says
they love him
or they said in a quiet voice yes a bag
of leaves is better than anybody so
we'll take Jeremy but I found it so
interesting that these two said so
matter-of-factly they didn't like carbon
and I'm like it was like like seeing a
white tiger without him breathing it's
like oh my god you exist well
unfortunately a lot of them exist so
we're gonna we've got a really pull for
labour over there that's a big election
and again I mean Labour Party's it's
actually another thing that's really
analogous I mean they're they're putting
incredible stuff on the table that's a
really important election john mcdonald
the shadow know it is it's as important
as our as our election here in the
states in 2020 i don't think it's quite
as important just because of the scale
but it's it's up there that's up there
thanks for the call man appreciate it i
promote in the same team work week in
the labour party four-day work week this
yeah the same seeded method i mean yeah
the problem isn't that Sam has the Sam
cedar work week it's that that is not
available to everyone the problem is I'm
just giving Chris yeah be here okay it's
my game I feared gay I'm gonna go take
it now all right going to the phones
people always ask for this let me see
how long I can pull it off
you calling from a six one six year code
who are you where you calling from God
be quick
yeah hi my name is Ethan I'm calling
from Vancouver hi Ethan what's happening
hi well I'm calling from the southern
vancouver not the northern vancouver and
I was gonna give you guys a grab bag of
Betsy DeVos stories or white flight but
I think it's kind of important to talk
about both at once why she is yep what
was that Michael no go ahead
oh wait did you think yeah I thought
this is Sam Oh Michaels Michaels out
again very bad yeah well yeah but I
figured okay yeah go ahead and get to
talk to Michael
all right yes sir tell me what you have
in mind brother yes so I'm from Grand
Rapids Michigan and went to school with
the DA bosses the van Andals which was
the two families that started my and a
multi-level marketing scheme pyramid
stuff yep
and during my time there was really
given the opportunity to see why they're
acting in the way that they are acting
um and I think it's important to store
size it so I'll be very concise I I
apologize no no basically we're talking
about a group of people who are beyond
tribal it's it's more of a
socio-economic religio ethnic barrier
that we're talking about so the barrier
to entry is higher than for most people
to be in and in this part of the let's
say deciding class right and you know if
you're not white if you're not Dutch if
you're not specifically a Calvinist you
don't get to be part of the party right
and she comes from a group of Dutch
immigrants that are more connected to
you know puritanical religio fascists
from Europe that came over in the 1800s
and then when they got to America they
had such a hard time branching out from
their own tribe that they almost died
during a blizzard they refused to ask
for help
Wow and you know there's this of what
was that Jamie I just said it's a shame
they didn't would have benefiting and
unfortunately the existing indigenous
people and the other white settlers in
the area would well they refused to
allow them to die because they were
their neighbors big you know it's an
interesting history so all right so just
grass on yeah the point is you know
we're we're talking about a group of
people who are not just individualistic
we're we're talking about a group of
people who believe that they themselves
are seeking out a destiny and one that
is predestined for them and so even in
the face of their own destruction they
will have faith that that was what was
intended to be done so when you guys are
talking accurately about maligning
globalists are people who are attacking
globalists or Zionists and pointing out
that you know religion is actually a big
deal here one of the things that
complicates Michigan particularly
politics is that a lot of the
thought-bubble that these people are in
is from not only their social class not
only their religion not only their s
nested ethnicity but all three at once
right and they will take the down I
appreciate the call man I yeah it does
need to be a lot more I I think Betsy
DeVos and the whole DeVos family and
obviously Jesus Christ
Eric prints it's one of those like
terrifying macro studies that could tell
you yeah I appreciate it man I think I
just finished a book on a series of
essays by this woman Megan Oakland and
she was raised the event Jellicle in
Michigan in the Midwest and the
narrative that like the religious right
is you know losing influence and this
country that may or may not be true but
they're not going away and they're going
to like die on that hill well influence
is very outsized too how many of them
there are sure because of the people
whose ears they have and I also want to
make a you know sharp distinction
between people who are you know there's
there's like even just inside the
Republican coalition like there's middle
class you know white whatever who live
in areas where literally church is like
the only form of social cohesion that
exists in the industrialized America
yeah I'm not judging that's why I'm just
not interested in being a snob about
people's religious stuff but certainly
people like the DeVos family who have a
hyper fundamentalist exclusionary view
of religion grafted onto being oligarchs
that's one of the most potent dangerous
Saudi royal family I'm style yeah that's
that's bad news that's not you know
people struggling and finding solace or
cohesion in something where none else
exists which has put my push back on the
rhetoric sometimes to the degree that
any working-class people support Trump I
think the evangelical church plays a big
role in it and we should be very
critical of that definitely attorney
Andrew lots happening on Twitter today
including warrant supporters claiming
that the Bernie agenda is quote-unquote
expecting a pony right Hillary to point
out and this is the other thing like yes
and some people are getting behind will
play the gist framework comment but then
there's also it's deeply troubling that
Warren's housing plan which does not
have rent control and other key things
is described as reparations yes that's
what I was talking about it's extremely
that's problematic but when Bernie
published his significantly better is
better housing plan it wasn't called
reparations politics and in fact um
there is a restitution and some people
say reparations for people who suffered
home foreclosures which again in fact is
disproportionately because of racism it
affects black homeowners so Bernie
actually has this incredible part as
part of and as I say someone who's
literally experienced homelessness
and knows people who dealing with
precarious situations that plan moves me
I saw a you know I won't even name but
some extremely disgusting you know
Twitter account literal just say that oh
well because somebody used the word
reparations in that context for people
who dealt with foreclosure in a by the
way a technically correct I mean I use
the word restitution because I you know
I just think that's sort of smarter
politics but it's correct that it is
literally reparations that is what that
word would mean that context he called
it racist and reparations for white
people I mean that's anyway I'm not
trying to talk so much about that that
issue in the Bernie Sanders racial
justice forum the other night with
Thiago Yamada Taylor Brianna joy gray
and my friend Ariela Thornhill they
don't exist and you all know that they
don't there's no just three three ghosts
up there I guess yeah definitely
and obviously people like kianga Taylor
well they either they don't exist or
clearly they just they're not yeah they
really do not like Brie joy well I mean
that's another thing that I also will
see is like and again if people want to
be remotely consistent about this stuff
the stuff that people say about Nina
Taylor Nina Turner Brianna joy gray is
there's no analog to that there's just
there's simply no it there's no and
again the analogues that you could find
I'm talking like okay I talked to
somebody who's supported the warran once
and they said one of the reasons they
didn't like Bernie was he remind them of
a landlord now I think we all know Wow
guys but I don't use that example
honestly because like it's funny I mean
and it says something but it's but
that's not a leadership person so what
you have and this is another part of
what's so disgusting is what you do have
is you'll have like oh here's somebody
with 75 followers saying like you're a
jerk WFP and that is headline news
that's somebody who like actually might
have a few followers says
Nina Turner's the dumbest person I've
ever seen in politics DailyKos a person
implied that Bernie paid her for sex so
that is fine that's fine we can just say
the mo in addition to lying about the
policies and obscuring the big
differences we can just it's open town
and again it's beyond personalities
because it translates to and this is
also why I don't have any time for
people who are like oh well you've got
to coddle other people's feelings and
all of the stuff you know when you lie
about and you terrorize people working
for Bernie you're not considering the
feelings of people who are homeless and
don't have health care and those are my
top priorities guys I mean I make no
bones about it that's my top priority as
a foreigner I'm very invested in
Bernie's foreign policy that's also
another top priority for me people from
global South I do that kind of work they
say really hope you'll consider people
outside of the you know in the periphery
it's more important than me than you
know a professional class person saying
that they don't like the tone of a tweet
sorry sorry not sorry
pyjama boy
oh let's see I feel like if Brad Warren
were to drop out at this point it would
only help help Biden what do you see is
Bernie's path to victory I think the
only way Warren supporters go to Bernie
is by her endorsing him well I I think
again you know look if I was on um you
know Meet the Press every day I would
probably just be attacking Biden and
talking about how much more electable
Bernie as than Biden according to or you
know making that argument but in the
spaces were in we're in one of the only
small handfuls of spaces I agree and a
broader electorate there is actually not
a lot of crossover as Bernie as the
working-class vote and Warren solidifies
the white professional class vote but
inside this bubble were in of highly
informed highly engaged people
people who influence the discourse and
people who are choosing between Warren
and Sanders and that's why we need to be
clear about the stakes and differences
and it can't only be the white
professional class who's saying they're
gonna vote for her right like holder I
know they're over-represented in these
kinds of polls but there's definitely
are working-class people who support
Warren I mean to the extent we say polls
mean things and politics that's the Oh I
mean sure I'm sure there's there's
multimillionaires though to support
Bernie but we wouldn't say that that
like makes up his base in terms of just
the actual polls yes she is vastly
disproportionately that that's what
every single poll says yeah right then
uh but of course yeah um say I I know
one working person I think it would be
working class who supports more but no
poll wise that's not the story more of
them out there than I thought but we're
working on that that's not gonna last
nomad protests for Kashmir tomorrow 10
a.m. to 2 p.m. in front of the UN
building I can't make it but whoever is
near or an NYC at that time should go
yes all right we're gonna take the final
call of the day see final call of the
day where do we go for the final call
today trying to pick randomly cuz
there's so many people you're calling
from 1/8 1/2 area code who are you where
you calling from hello hello eight ones
who are you there
yeah I'm here hi what's your name where
you're calling from hey this is Chris
from Indiana hey Chris what's on your
mind well I kind of wanted to start with
just the boys Boris Johnson talk okay
well let's not only gonna do one thing
so you want to talk about Boris Johnson
let's uh let's go do it what do you have
on your mind
oh okay yeah it is towards the end of
the show if I could just pick one thing
I guess NPR was doing a story about
include earlier today about the one I
didn't know if maybe yeah just being
from Indiana I feel a little under
prepared for some of the information
that they were trying to shed and I
didn't know if maybe it wanted another
look at how theocratic and a pen so
administration might end up being you
know we have a guest on who talked about
this a couple of months ago we had a guy
Michael D'Antoni who Sam's on a panel
with a politican last year wrote a book
about the theocracy of pence and like
his entire project is basically to
mobilize the religious right yeah yeah
that would be my impression yeah that is
the impression that most people get but
they were just kind of going into the
details of like how much is wife
influences like directly the policy
stances that he made in Indiana and for
other wife mom wife yeah for sure
right uh well they were just trying to
get into the details of like the
progressive side of some of the disputes
that he actually ended up taking because
of her and just didn't know if since the
impeachment hearings are actually
underway now we might need to take a
closer look at what Trump for print
pence presidency might actually look
like even if it was short-lived I don't
mean I think it's worth being where Mike
Pence cuz he has power but I mean
Trump's not going anywhere
because I mean even if they impeach him
the house the Senate won't remove them
so I but yeah I mean we should be aware
of pence in general because he's a
powerful dangerous fear I mean thanks
for calling me but there are people who
think that impeachment is gonna end with
Nancy Pelosi as president so why are you
actually serious yeah oh that's oh my
let's not underestimate the folks out
there
somebody needs to just turn me and do
like a production robot until the Iowa
caucus please
seriously it's not even that soon oh
alright folks no more calls today let's
do two more quick stories this is funny
Juan Williams on Fox News said and Ida
Anna and this is one of those moments
for props to him but it's like how is
this different than literally any other
moment on Fox News since any time any
Republican president is in office but I
guess his colleagues did not appreciate
the breaking of the fourth wall here so
I guess it was leaked but I think you
know just listening here I think boy
those talking points they've made the
rounds because here we go asking a
foreign government to investigate a
political rival is illegal it's illegal
it's a violation of the conscience that
for media matters one and the
Constitution oh wow you know they are so
triggered and there's such babies
because it might even be more true than
I thought it was now Roger Hill oak
there's fire Roger Ailes was a you know
the the grotesque predator that founded
Fox News he did he gave very disciplined
talking points he advised the Bush White
House the level of coordination and
propaganda there and the Bush era was
stunning and deep of Fox News but I
don't know like I'm sure I mean I'm sure
they all have their you know their
message of the day I mean that's clear
because there's uniformity in a lot of
the programming but you know and even
like you know the sort of subpar idiots
like gutfeld in Waters I you know you
kind of think like I don't know maybe at
least they're trusted to wing it but
maybe they're not because they reacted
like they're getting like they're
literally reading their iPhones because
they're such morons they can't figure
out how to like
spontaneously lie themselves that the
triggers the tail right there yeah I
mean backed into a corner like they are
I guess right now because they're really
actually working and kind of like
melting down like the slightest hairpin
trigger really set them off that was
hilarious
yeah to an actual brawl happening on
this set this is the first Fox clip I
saw in a long time most of the time at
this point I'm just like this is drivel
and like not our audience knows what's
going right I was like oh my god no that
was wrong they are legit upset they are
babies also I do like the yeah not Media
Matters that that that Juan's gonna
could probably hit you back with like
you know like the Constitution Penal
Code case law like I mean these people
are such brain-dead propagandists that
they could only go in their heads like
wow where where did you get laws about
court putting pressure on a foreign
government to hurt your political rivals
well where was dad was from a Media
Matters post it's like I know it's the
law that was great alright we'll play
one more piece of sound Ronald Reagan
tweeted out yesterday and I I'm not sure
I mean there's a lot of disputes in the
polls my consistent understanding for
most polls that I've read is that if you
present single-payer in a way that is
honest polls well now obviously if you
pose it as there's this new risky scheme
that might take away your health
insurance it does not pulll as well what
is clear on the merits is that you if
you want a plan that covers everybody
without question and saves millions of
people's lives and radically decreases
human suffering its single-payer health
care period full stop that that is that
is as close to two plus two equals four
is you're gonna get in this business now
now I happen to
agree with Sam I'm of the eliminate
private care entirely because to me it's
not just a technical question it's a
political one I want I don't want that
industry to even have any capital I
don't want them to have the money to
regenerate into a future astroturf
campaign to try to mess with
single-payer when we have it I want it
gone
you know I joked the other night look
maybe you want to do some type of
private company that offers like I don't
know like body waxing vacations to Aruba
and that's private although frankly I'm
pretty generous I probably want
government to pay for that too good for
the working class that's what I'm saying
best cigars and infinity pools for
everyone but that's Bustani right but
the so but the key thing is
non-duplicate care even if even if
you're you know gonna let some of these
private plans which I would not yeah Tim
Foust compares it to having your house
full of termites and then you move the
termites with you to a new house right
like if you let the private health
insurance industry stay alive I a
hundred percent agree with that now this
is coming off of a record-breaking year
which I'm assuming this is like climate
change that each new year is the new
record-breaking year twenty thousand
people twenty thousand a year in average
medical cost now I spent and this is
another reason that I am intense about
this and care about this election you
know I spent a lot of my life without
having health insurance and what's funny
is I actually know people I know I know
uh I know I have pretty broad set of
people so I know some people who are
extremely moneyed and I see how the
system they can kind of it works for
them in some ways and adds two
incredible disproportionate wealth I
know people and this is the position I'm
in now actually where they radically
overpay for a a subpar product and
essentially what they have is
theoretically if something truly
catastrophic happens
they at least have that insurance but
Dan and dad I had to use the emergency
room a couple of months ago minor but I
needed to see ear nose and throat
specialist I have insurance now I my
copay is insane and it is something that
until the last year or two of my life I
literally could not pay literally
couldn't pay so and then and then and
then in fact funnily enough and this is
one of the only good things in the
system I know some people are on
Medicaid and they're the ones who get to
go to the hospital and take all of the
blood work that they need that they're
the only people that are like yeah I
just went to the hospital and had that
taken care of and that's what we need to
give to everybody . . now in order to do
that and this is why i'm sorry i'm gonna
play this warren clip and again i i will
renew for those of you who are triggered
I will say what I just said before using
Emma as an example of an amazing person
awesome journalist who does great work
well there's actual disagreements with
on some issues and some areas not
disagree with although Emma would not
spin for what Warren's doing here ah and
then when you're dealing with normal
people in the day-to-day you know what
trying to be nicer to everybody normal
people in the day-to-day but if you were
out as part of a campaign part of
ideological warfare part of putting your
candidate forward and you're lying and
you're bullshitting about this I'm not
here for it and if you cannot understand
that this is a pure substance criticism
and this triggers you because in fact
you are what you project you're
emotionally fixated on a candidate and
unable to hear criticism of them well I
got nothing for you I'll say again and
I'm not gonna keep repeating this I like
and respect Elizabeth Warren she's
absolutely not Hillary Clinton now she
absolutely is not committed to the fight
for single-payer health care
that's clear from her long-term record
she wrote unequivocally and bragged
about it in the to income trap that she
was not supporting an overhaul of the
tax code in health care she said that
explicitly
she's prevaricated on multiple occasions
she's done very well in the debates and
then outside of the Bates she walks it
back she didn't have a health care
section of her website until a couple of
weeks ago and the website does not
clearly state Medicare for all and now
you're seeing supporters around here
talking about it like oh well that's
some long term political projects not a
life-and-death matter for millions of
human beings that will take a Herculean
political effort to have a prayer of
passing and I'm not gonna hold hands and
 and obscure the differences on
that that's millions of people's lives
if that makes you uncomfortable you need
to step out of your narcissism and think
about life and death for people so I
have a problem with this clip in light
of that
there's no sound it's gonna be difficult
I don't have any problem with this clip
Elizabeth Warren talking in front of the
flag that's fine we're gonna give you
two seconds but oh man she said talk
about a blue balls of after that setup I
know
are we ready she said right now and
we'll play this right now in
medicare-for-all right now what we've
gotten medicare-for-all and a framework
it doesn't have the details and you're
right to be asking but the most
important part of your asking is to
raise awareness so we get this right as
we go through it guys right now what
we've got a medicare-for-all as our
framework and it doesn't have the
details in your right to be asking but
the most important part of your asking
is to is to raise awareness so we get
this right as we go through it can we
just stop for a minute though and say
guys guys that's a Republican talking
point that's so bad that's a third way
talking point prem allah Jai Paul and
Bernie Sanders in the Senate and the
house have written exhaustive pieces of
legislation that precisely outline
through a gradual process of essentially
lowering the age of Medicare I think
it's three years under Jay Paul four
years under Sanders that gradually
expands out governmental programs that
already exist to cover every single
human being in this country and there is
total transparency that the costs are
gonna be through a well Sanders a lot of
Sanders exists plans exist on the
foundation of the largest wealth tax and
the race something incidentally that
he's been talking about since 1997 as
well as the fact that yes for some
people they might pay relatively higher
taxes but overall their costs of living
will go down which incidentally is a
smart distinction that Elizabeth Warren
has made saying that this details are
not spelled out and not clear is
dishonest
and I'm gonna say it's dishonest because
Elizabeth Warren is smart so this is not
somebody who doesn't know that now I
make I think that you know there's a lot
of overemphasis on has a plan and all of
this and you know I don't know if blog
posts or plans sorry
I don't know if they're clear policies
but she absolutely is fluent in policy
and incredibly well briefed an
incredibly fluent and smart she knows
the answers to these things so why is
she obscuring it why are there different
answers on Medicare for all depending on
the venue she's in why when she's on The
Young Turks
she pivots from yes I co-sponsored
Bernie but look the real problem is
Republicans don't want people to have
health care and let's talk about access
maybe for you you're in a position in
life and actually I would suggest to you
if you go and look at Jemile of
Michener's research on health and
ethnographic studies across the country
in fact unless you're Jeff Bezos you're
actually not in a position of life where
this doesn't threaten you but maybe you
feel relatively comfortable in your
health care and you can afford for this
to be an abstract and obscured issue but
millions tens of millions conservatively
cannot the labor union movement cannot
because even those Cadillac plans that
Ryan and Biden lie and try to you know
Gaslight around can be taken away at a
moment look at what's happening with the
GM strikers they're out striking for the
bare minimum children are losing cancer
saving medicine right now because a
company can use that as a political
threat this is an elemental and
foundational issue and you have to clear
pieces of legislation on it and you have
one candidate who has ran on it and
talked about it for 40 years and you
have another candidate who I have no
doubt will attempt to do something maybe
that would be better than the status quo
but would still leave a lot of folks
vulnerable and is being misleading about
policy right now
that's what I'm voting on and that's
what I'm advocating on and if you find
that to be triggering or arrogant or
whatever I'll check in with myself about
my patience levels but you should check
in with yourself about your own
emotional needs superseding tens of
millions of people's lives this is what
Bernie Sanders said about this GM showed
why we need Medicare for all your health
care should never be in the hands of
greedy corporations who can take it away
to publish punish workers who will
guarantee health care for all with no
co-pays premiums or deductibles Bernie
Sanders might amass a movement he might
become president he might put everything
on the table for single-payer health
care and it still might fail that's
where we are in this world anything
short of that is guaranteed to fail and
if it continues to fail millions of
people will die prematurely suffer
unnecessarily and have their lives
fundamentally ruined because we cannot
just provide people some health
care in this country and it's disgusting
to obscure that no matter who you are I
totally agree and this is exactly the
kind of substantive critique that we
should be making and the kind of
comparison that we should be drawing
because if you've only seen Elizabeth
Warren talk about health care on say The
Young Turks or even in the debate the
other night where she seemed like she
was fully on board with Medicare for all
you wouldn't see this side of her and it
really it doesn't reassure me
it doesn't reassure people who are under
maybe could die because they don't have
health care to see a candidate waffling
on it at all like we need to be suiting
up for war right now and I totally agree
with you absolutely
all right guys um I posed myself a
little bit Jay cool hey Michael I agree
with your take on Warren 100% I would
FDR's point about people's making him
keep a promise okay I'm sorry I just I
don't want to keep going over the same
ground but obviously I agree with you
trying to find the same okay this is a
good final one final I am of the day
can I have my board Brendan ooh we gonna
have to tell Sam is there something
going on with this Michael laughs at his
own jokes that's a fact shout out to
workers at Scotty's pizza in Portland
for organizing with the IWW to form the
first federally recognized pizza shop
Union shout out you guys are awesome oh
yeah much love to each and every one of
you see you tomorrow in that
where I want
I'm going
the advance
No
I'd assume where the choice is made
so the option where you tell get
Desmond
we tried
teacher takes you
while I should
