[Music]
Mehdi Hasan was on Seth Meyers programme
last night and he is on the AJ
al-jazeera do not the stream right see
it and here is making observation about
how the US press treats its politicians
it said something about competition I
think but but uh what are the
differences that you've seen and how the
UK press and the u.s. press deals with
power it's a very good question and I
think you guys it's a definitely there's
a cultural issue you guys had your
Revolution War of Independence you kick
the Brits out and yet weirdly you're
more deferential to power I would argue
than we are you know the president walks
into the East Room of the White House
and the White House press corps stands
up which I find British journalist for
all their sins would not stand up if the
Prime Minister comes into the room
they'd be lucky to even pay attention
sometimes you guys have this thing where
it's kind of Banana Republic
esque where you allow your politicians
to have their job titles for life so
remember in 2012 it was Governor Romney
Governor Romney go governor avoid his
backyard he hadn't been governor of
Massachusetts for five years secretary
Albright Secretary Clinton mayor
giulliani ambassador Bolton if anyone
here lost their job they wouldn't get to
keep the title the next day why did you
do that why did you do that with your
politicians it's true I mean I was
dreadful
like you know the Brits have the
monarchy and so it lets a little air out
of the tyres this is sort of our you
know wanting part of that like we hadn't
have Dukes
so we call him governor and we don't
have you know sirs or you know knights
and and kings and queens and we're even
protected by the First Amendment over
here Lewis actually somebody asked me if
if I had watched the it was as a former
in-law asked me if I had watched the the
George Herbert Walker Bush
funeral and I was like nah I didn't and
he thought it was cuz it was about
Bush's politics and I was like ya know
didn't I'm not a fan of his politics but
I'm also like what like what like he's
in a mausoleum and like why do I I don't
I don't like I'm not gonna watch that
I don't it's no I show up to some
people's funerals that I don't know I'd
show up to Noam Chomsky's funeral well
no I would show I'm not saying I shunned
the idea of funerals but like just
because he was a president it's not like
I'm stopping everything I did if I
really liked the guy I might do it but
it's the the implication of like a
former presidents died we we got to shut
this religion I'm gonna shut this gotta
get over that I do like the idea though
Kalas Sam like Noam Chomsky was great
but whatever
yeah he's the ground it doesn't make to
me cut errands to run all we are is good
errands run could test out the spring of
my new Casper mattress
