[Music]
this Kelly craft on CBS at CBC I should
say this is number five some of you may
find this a little bit disturbing I
imagine if you were in Canada and you
were watching this I mean I think
they've seen some of this before right
have we seen this already
isn't this old this new this is new I
think she is the American ambassador to
Canada and I think I've seen her say
this before but um her husband well well
well that's uh that's the that's the
chaser right
guess what industries he's involved in
well let's see let's see if we can gain
it from her expressions let's see she is
on CBC and sent to terrify Canada I
believe there are signs that there but
both on both sides better accurate well
I think that both sides have you know
they have their own results from their
studies and I appreciate and I respect
both sides of the science I both sides
of the science are accurate the side
that says man is not contributing to
climate change in the side that says the
man is contributing out there both sides
are accurate what's that I have cancer
you don't but one cancer says I don't
I'm happy just I don't need a third
opinion says I'm gonna just I'm gonna
hang out with those two opinions and I'm
gonna just see what happens but in this
instance in this little play lit that
I've done where one doctor tells me I
have cancer and the other one doesn't my
my husband is a makes a ton of money off
of me not having cancer for whatever
reason there in this case the the new
ambassador to Canada from the United
States husband is a coal billionaire of
course
so maybe the worst type of billionaire I
don't know that could be that's up there
that's a it's up there I mean I think if
you I think like the opiate the Sackler
is pretty bad to actual vampires yeah I
mean it it's arguable as you could just
put in like chapo like you could just
say like they're just like cartel heads
yeah there were yes where they are worse
you're right because like I were some
level like you know they are their
people by the street drugs there there's
there they're assuming some measure of
risk yeah that's the truth right and and
the thing is even with Cole like you
could make an argument that like look
don't lean start on the lights we need
to turn on the lights and we only had
this is what we had for a long time and
you know it was one of those things
where it's like you know yeah I
shouldn't have you know the desert but
the real problem is I have like the
whole pie I think the Sackler is pretty
close and maybe you could say like oh
we're the ones who developed like
cluster bombs did you say the Sackler
have been moving to African markets did
you see where they're they are a
personification of capital
