so foxnews has cracked the code ladies
and gentlemen about Alexandra Acacio
Cortez
it is it is amazing to me how much work
how afraid the right is of her and of
Bernie and the whole movement on some
level certainly guys like ben shapiro
get it when they do their you know
socialism watch and they come up with
all of their explanations about norway
and venezuela here is and this is funny
this this this segment is so
backward-ass it's unbelievable to me but
let's listen to this is on fox news and
what's her name
it is Charles Payne hosting Kelly Jane
Torrance she's a writer at the Weekly
Standard right Charles and think about
Alexandria okay zo Cortez right she
actually was in a protest at Nancy
Pelosi's office just a few days ago
about the green new deal that she is
going for I think she is trying to be
the Steve Bannon of the Democratic Party
and we saw how well Steve Bannon did he
tried to primary some candidates in some
cases successful in some cases not and
those didn't work now well first of all
this is so confused
so AOC is not part of the insurgency
against against a Nancy Pelosi and I
will remind people
Steve Bannon was the reason why Donald
Trump got elected I mean I remember
we're talking about a razor-thin margin
it's quite possible that without Steve
Bannon he loses
without the Mercer's with without
Cambridge analytics he loses it doesn't
take much 10,000 votes in Wisconsin
10,000 votes in Michigan 30,000 40,000
and in Pennsylvania but I also just
don't get it
Steve Bannon is preying on his ideology
preys on the racism and xenophobia of a
significant portion of our population
and is she saying that a o'seas desire
for expanded Medicare and health care
options and free college is playing on
the desire of people to what to have
like a materially better life I think we
might be running up against the
limitations of Kelly Jane Torrance's
political vocabulary yeah that might
explain this and I mean is there any
doubt that if Steve Bannon was still
working at the White House that he would
be a hero at Fox News I mean how many
times was Steve Bannon on Fox News
