I wanted to start by saying you all know
my good friend Wow
the person I debated I should say say
charlie Kirk I mean I don't I don't know
if he's a bad person or not I just think
that he does bad things in public and
not not horrific things I just think he
espouses ideas that are mean and cruel
and and what I mean by that is he puts
out tweets that say stuff like health
care is not a right I mean here's one
time where he he did that let's take a
look at this he said it to Bernie
Sanders but I believe he believes it
just universally health care is not a
right and never should be rights come
from God not government and relationship
to a CNN debate now he may have changed
his mind because this was almost 12
months ago but I suspect he hasn't maybe
he has well but when something is a
right that means that you have the
ability to access it and and not just
the ability to access it but literally
can receive it that there the government
has an obligation it is a right insofar
as that the government must provide for
like look we have determined that the
public schooling is a right for kids in
this country and the government is
obliged to provide for it in a specific
way in fact you can't just throw up a
building and say it's a school there
have to be certain standards and that
doesn't mean that we have people who are
forced into teaching at gunpoint that
doesn't mean that teachers who decide
like uh I've got my teaching degree but
I'm just I'm gonna do something else
they can't
you can't barge into their homes and say
sorry that job as a real estate broker
you want to get no you must go back to
teaching that doesn't happen now I don't
know if we had a system that recognized
healthcare as a right if well we should
say this let's start with this
unfortunately for charlie kirk the other
day apparently he was i think he might
have been working out I'm not sure
exactly what but his buddy Kyle Keshava
who I guess is also at the turning point
USA a tweeted last night I'm with buddy
charlie Kirk in Los Angeles who was
rushed to the hospital for a potential
bug blood clot throughout his back
can't stand and the hospital said there
is no beds available and suggested he
lay on a bench outside cedars-sinai
hospital disgrace now look I don't know
if and first of all this should not
happen to anybody this should not happen
to anybody
I don't know if we had a system in this
country that perceived health care as a
right if we would have a situation where
a hospital either a is so overwhelmed
because people can't get proper care
from their primary care doctors that
they rely on the emergency room and it
it takes up all the beds or be if
emergency rooms would be you'd have to
equip them in such a way that despite
your profits had room for everybody who
needs it but I suspect it would
certainly go in that direction and the
question is is like why is this a
disgrace why is it a disgrace it's a
disgrace because people who are ill
deserve to have health
care immediately they don't deserve to
be rejected for any reason now this is
just a pure physics reason right we have
ten beds there are 11 people your back
is hurting find a bench and that's wrong
it's a disgrace but can you imagine if
it was we have 10 beds we have 9 people
but you can't come in because you don't
have insurance or you can come in but
this is going to bankrupt you and your
family you're gonna lose your house
because of this that's also a disgrace I
wonder and I hope that as charlie is
recovering and I do hope he recovers I
wish him a speedy recovery if he thinks
about the idea that he should have just
relied on God to fix his back that the
market forces don't always address all
of our problems that maybe we need an
advocate for people who are far less
advantaged than he is
and now Charlie knows I've seen the tax
filings and we had talked about he did
get a raise it's my understanding so
he's a lot more fortunate than a lot of
other people sure I live like a
capitalist every single day ah like God
like god I hope Charlie that as you're
sitting in bed that you take time to to
you know maybe this changes your
perspective just a little bit I mean his
paycheck relies on you know his not
having his perspective changed but on
the other hand I mean that is the right
wing path if he's have a smart guy he's
personable he's wealthy I don't think
he's a bad guy
he could find well I don't know that
he's not a bad guy I'm just saying he's
pretty I don't know I don't know him
well but I know that he's personable he
certainly has a skill set that I think
he could find other words you mean
that's marketable skills his market is
not for evil exactly I see
exactly so the God says super I think I
think as Charlie my senses as Charlie
does a little more reading and at one
point he will into stuff that isn't so
that isn't just the sort of delivered to
him as talking points that I think he
may he may yet find that his politics
changed right well not to be a Pettit
then because that's kind of what I meant
by and then in order for him to do that
he would have to on some level not be a
bad guy you know what I mean like the
interest of actually going out and
reading some books and using this
experience to expand his intellectual
and empathetic rise right now
right now but then he would have to on
some level not be a bad guy well I can I
guess time will tell also like I have a
pretty tight theft like I don't I think
that there's only a few people out there
that are really like bad guys you know
sama bin Laden from ben shapiro right
bad hombre
