why wanted to have Nathan Robinson on to
talk about the many ways in which we
know Brett Kavanaugh is lying basically
goes to that concept that Blumenthal
introduced the Latin phrase that means
false and one thing false in all things
and if you have a federal judge I mean
put aside for a moment like he doesn't
quite have the temperament that you
might want from a federal judge not
quite you also might not want a federal
judge on there who is literally blaming
the Clintons no you are for her you are
I don't know blame the Clintons I mean
to blame the Clintons for Blasi Ford is
depend territory got to get applause we
forward on that just the same guys it's
amazing around the vince foster it's
really not Blasi forward it's really
nuts and that seems to me to be contrary
to the temperament you might want for a
justice on the highest court in the land
but because the Senate is such an
incredibly undemocratic place let's tune
into the to people I guess to get to
decide everything that is Jeff Flake and
Chris Coons Chris Coons incidentally the
guy who says like if we take back the
Senate we should really reinstate
institute the filibuster just to give
you a sense of just sort of how rarefied
the air that these two must breathe that
they think let's just play this there on
60 minutes but forward if judge Kavanagh
is shown to have lied to the committee
nominations over oh yes I would think so
yes I would think so well then I've got
good news everybody you should send
today's podcast to Jeff Flake and Chris
Coons because maybe they haven't figured
this out themselves Jeff Flake responded
to the words shown so not listen if you
hear that he was testifying naked or
then that's still that still doesn't
count he has to be shown it visually
what someone consented I'm just saying
how flakes gonna get out of it like it
depends on what he has known is he isn't
you actually said that well that's what
he took out of the sixty minutes guys
yeah I like the way you're saying wait a
second wait a second if it's shown that
he was lying like Jeff Lakes just gonna
say I it didn't meet my criteria for
what shown to be lying it right well
yeah of course but maybe we'll see if
that's a little bit different after
today's show
