[Music]
do we have Trump responding to Pelosi
how long is that okay so let's let's
play this Nancy Pelosi like I said
earlier basically said the Trump has
been engaging in cover-ups this is a
function of at the very least what's
going on with minuchin and bar
withholding parts of the the redacted
parts of the Muller investigation
keeping Muller from testifying in front
of Congress etc etc and so here is
Donald Trump responding to the idea that
he is involved in any type of cover-up
he's got nothing to hide folks nothing
whatsoever so that Nancy Pelosi just
before our meeting made a statement that
we believe that the President of the
United States is engaged in a cover-up
well it turns out I'm the most and I
think most of you would agree to this
I'm the most transparent president
probably in the history of this country
hmm we have given on a witch-hunt or a
hoax the whole thing with Russia was a
hoax as it relates to the Trump
administration and myself was a total
horrible thing that happened to our
country it hurt us in so many ways
despite that we're setting records with
the economy with jobs were the most
employed today that we've ever had in
the history of our country we have the
best unemployment numbers that we've had
in the history of our country in some
cases 51 years but generally in the
history of our country companies are
moving back in things are going well and
I said let's have the meeting on
infrastructure we'll get that done
easily that's one of the easy ones and
instead of walking in happily into a
meeting I walk in to look at people that
had just said that I was doing a
cover-up I don't do cover-ups you people
know that probably better than anybody
oh my god
he is transparent in a certain way yes
open about his crimes right exactly
never cover up get the 30,000 emails and
don't forget to stay at Trump Towers
tonight Trump Hotel do everything in the
open they can't get you out just think
how a monuments do it all right
[Music]
