[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday December 18 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
editor-at-large of New York magazine
Rebecca tracer offer of good and mad the
revolutionary power of women's anger
also on the program today following the
release of a damning Muller memo that
shows he was directed to lie Michael
Flynn to be sentenced today meanwhile
st. John McCain's last reminder that he
was a pretender the Arizona losing
candidate martha mcsalley will be
appointed senator from arizona meanwhile
Elizabeth Warren wants the government to
manufacture generic drugs
that's right and the vulture capitalists
who skinned Sears alive and destroyed
its workers give themselves a bonus
homelessness arises in the shadow of the
continuing to grow wealth inequality in
this country and us student debt has
doubled since the recession to 1.5
trillion dollars an Amazon cush Cuomo
implements Governor Nixon's proposal
says pot to be legal in New York State
next year in while Tucker Carlson losing
advertisers because he's an ass and
patreon fires back and lastly Republican
leaders look to beg Donald Trump to not
shut down the government ladies and
gentlemen it is a Tuesday just a little
a programming note I am going to
introduce our guest which we pre taped
earlier and then I'm gonna skedaddle
I've got to go do a um I never do this
you know I get asked that to do MSNBC
during the day and blessedly I say I
can't because I've got my own show and
I've got to do that because more often
than not and it's no well maybe it is
but no offense to any of the Daily
Show's on MSNBC just tends to be not my
fair do you know what I mean but
occasionally I'll do it but but for the
most part one
but today we're pre-taping a chris hayes
like christmas year-long special which
I'm actually pretty excited about the I
think Eddie Glaude is one of the guests
who are the other ones
[Music]
let's see who do we have here mm-hmm
tag-team partners with tag-team partner
uh reuben dave rubin what what are you
talking about Jennifer Rubin Oh Jennifer
Rubin no it's all it's all people on the
left I mean I guess maybe she's had a
what about Carter Paige
Carter Paige will not be there gosh I
don't have the list I can't remember but
it was a it was a impressive oh I all I
know is uh Eddie gladden Chris Christina
Greer but it's gonna be full hour
whatever we're gonna record it you'll
see it I don't even know who's gonna
show up so but that's where where I'm
headed before I go I should remind you
that 2018 has been a difficult year for
human rights me frankly I would imagine
2017 wasn't terribly better or frankly
2016 but have you ever wondered how
rights abuses are documented around the
world you probably have with the sheer
volume of global crisis we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing in Miramar to the
caging of children on US borders it's
critical that we exposed the truth in
order to defend the rights of all and
bring those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that they
are an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often in partnership
with local activists and human rights
groups they accept no money from any
government but they rely on the support
of informed dedicated people just like
you so if human rights are important to
you visit HRW org slash majority to make
a donation and support it's vital work
around the world
that's HRW org slash majority when you
do not only is your gift to
tax-deductible it will be matched dollar
for dollar until 2019 that means your
donation will go twice as far to advance
justice and defend the basic dignity
of people who need it most again that's
HRW org slash majority oh and this is a
great gift there's still time and
naturally this is a perfect gift if you
are like some people I know and have not
given their Christmas gifts yet have you
gotten yours
Matt I got to write a third of them Yeah
right well you got a whole five days
left buddy is it five days well I guess
you get a little bit more does it always
fall on the 25th every time every time
no that's weird
anyways I got this for my folks last
year it's just wrapping up I may
actually extend it story worth makes it
easy and fun for your loved ones to
share their stories so you can get to
know them in a whole new way with
questions you've never thought to ask
you can purchase a subscription for
someone you love and each week story
worth will send them an email with a
question about their life your building
basically your a memoir for it's great
gift for your your parents your
grandparents they simply reply with
their story they can record it over the
phone by calling story with the story
worth number all stories are private
only shared with the family that you
choose you can easily and securely save
and edit all your stories on story worth
com after a year the stories will be
bound into a beautiful keepsake book
story worth brings families together
every week it's a great way to connect
with your loved ones
learn about your relatives and preserve
your memories for future generations
story worth makes a great gift for the
holidays for any of your loved ones who
enjoy telling stories to be honest with
you it's actually it's it's great for
it's a great thing to do to send to your
parents and then give to your kids or
just send to your parents so you have it
as a record of the family
both my folks are just wrapping up
theirs now so we're gonna bind them and
probably make I don't know I don't know
how many of the books we'll make cuz I'm
gonna give me my sister's I'll probably
give it to my kid
I'd probably give them an apparent it's
a huge one of those deals that's the way
you got to do your gifts in it's it's
fascinating these are these are
questions that you know you just don't
think to ask for 20 bucks off visit
story worth dot-com slash majority when
you subscribe
that is story worth dot-com sto ry worth
wor th comm / majority for 20 bucks off
okay so we're gonna take a break in a
second I will remind you if you are a
member of this program today you're
either going to get you're going to get
an audio file in your member feed right
well release that later today of the and
I put it in quote the debate I had is
really an interview it was really it was
really an infant dialogue who was a
dialogue but it really was a what what
he called it a interrogatory no what
would you call that inquisition no
there's another word for it but the
point is that this guy
branded target off what was it I'm sorry
that you got it
we know honestly would threaten struck
okay I get him confused with the former
television executive from the 70s
Brandon target of right all right target
okay so anyways Brandon Straka he's a
guy who set up a thing called walk away
which was I guess an attempt to
influence the midterm elections and if
it if it did influence the midterm
elections like I told him to his face if
I was the the head of the Democratic
Party I would pay him to do it again
because it was not only not successful
it was whatever the opposite of totally
unsuccessful I mean of being successful
could be and like it probably did more
harm than good
and
so we we were talking about him we did
you know we did a full 10 minutes out of
the I don't know 15 hours we did that
week or the hundreds of hours we did
this year we did 10 minutes on his silly
video and he got very upset about it and
so I went on a show to tell him you know
to say to his face what we said on the
video cuz there was nothing I think I
probably went a little further and
anyways it was fun and it's funny it's
not you're not gonna learn anything from
this there's not gonna be you know like
when we debate the libertarians around
here it's the idea is that like you know
when you run into people there's gonna
be arguments that you can employ this is
not gonna be one of those situations
this is just watching me be you know as
smug as I've probably ever been in my
life in a public setting and and so if
you are a if you're a member of the
program or if you your patreon you will
get access to it and check the member
posts we'll put a link to the video in
it as well so you can watch it and you
can become a member they're going to
join the majority report dot-com do it
now you will have access to to all our
archives of course all right folks quick
break when we come back I'll be talking
to Rebecca tracer and then Michael be
doing the fun half
[Music]
you
the writer at large a New York magazine
author of all the single ladies we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
back to the program
the writer at-large a New York magazine
author of all the single ladies and now
the equally as New York Times
bestselling good and mad the
revolutionary power of women's anger
Rebecca tracer welcome to the program
Rebecca thanks for having me back Sam
all right so let's let's just you know I
I'm struck by well right let's start
with just how you decided to write a
book about anger because in in many
respects well I don't wanna say all
respect but in many respects you're sort
of I guess personal journey with this
issue is mirrored in the country
contemporaneously all around us yeah I
mean I think that one of the things that
is true
about my professional work that's been
going on now for you know 15 years I've
been a feminist journalist for 15 years
and anger has always undergirded my work
I write about gendered and racial and
economic inequality I write about
progressive politics I write about the
women's movement in as many iterations
and you wouldn't do that work if you
weren't angry so it's not as though that
is new but one of the things you know
that you asked how I came to write this
book one of the things that became clear
to me is I I have also in my work as a
journalist sort of tried not to lead
with anger because I know that women's
anger I know from the history of how
women's movements are caricature I our
caricatured and characterized how
progressive movements and women within
them are caricatured as troublemakers as
disruptive as hysterical as illegitimate
as particularly for women of color as
threatening and militant how progressive
just disruptiveness as characterizes mob
like right we see a lot of examples of
that right now
and because of all that although all
those men
is that in fact have been internalized
over my you know 43 years on this earth
I have taken care to not make anger my
the primary register with which I
express myself I have taken care in my
writing to sort of make anger easier my
anger the anger that necessarily
undergirds the kind of work that I do
more palatable to you know to be funny
and light-hearted and cheeky and ironic
and and I haven't wanted to look too
hard at either the anger that I cover I
haven't wanted to portray some of the
people and figures that I cover is angry
or present myself as angry because I
know that for women and for lots of
kinds of marginalized vulnerable people
anger becomes a liability anger
undermines your message and in the wake
of the 2016 election there was so much
anger bubbling and I I found it hard the
way I put it in my own head was it was
hard for me to think straight because I
was so angry and it was like seeing the
anger not as a clarifying or instructive
force or reaction but as an obstructive
one as something that clouded my
thinking and you know it was in a
personal conversation I had with my
husband where I sort of expressed just
that thought like you know I'm - I don't
know I'm trying to figure out what my
next what my next set of
responsibilities is a writer as a white
feminist as a you know somebody looking
at progressive politics
what's my work going forward but I can't
think clearly because I'm so angry my
husband sort of said in passing well
maybe you should write about anger and
it was just this you know bear
suggestion that I was like oh my god
what if I look directly at the anger the
thing that we're supposed to sort of
cover over or put to the side or not
stare directly at that undergird like
that that was the that was the thing
that led me to write this book and it
was incredibly revelatory and freeing
and I learned a lot because I learned
about how the degree to which we're all
discouraged from considering anger as
it's Oh as politically consequential as
a potent force in social and political
movements when in fact it always has
been and so it was really the the
process of writing the book was like
lifting a curtain on a thing we've been
you know we hadn't we've been trying to
take care not to look directly at or
deal directly in
for so long and it was I've learned so
much just by the act of sort of taking
the anger not not just my own and not
about my anger but the anger of women
who have preceded me and who have been
angry long long before I ever made it to
this earth of taking that anger
seriously and looking at what it's
wrought the way it's changed laws
customs protections how it has been the
propellant force behind so many social
movements it's been incredibly
surprising and I've learned so much all
right okay I how much all right because
I feel like I have like now like eight
questions I want to ask simultaneously
but I know that's not fair
I think I just answered yes but there's
but there's but I mean there okay so
let's just I want to just keep it sort
of somewhat sort of like a personal then
I want to get to that sort of the more
of the the role of anger in the context
of of progress for women and and then
we'll get into sort of how the you know
anger is received you know and express
differently obviously between men and
women and and and differently situated
women but that quality of being aware
and I feel like I feel like every woman
must to some degree or another have an
awareness that there is a danger in
expressing anger in a way that's not
dangerous for men and to what extent do
you think the election of Trump as an
inciting event like sort of raised
people's consciousness to how much they
were suppressing or or simply said like
you know what I've done I've done with
the suppressing I think it was a
combination of factors I think that the
excuse me I think that the shock of it
and my shock of it I mean like I was I
was somebody who covered Hillary
Clinton's campaign I was not shocked
that Hillary Clinton lost the presidency
simultaneously if this makes any sense I
was shocked that Donald Trump won right
talked into almost a point of paralysis
it's like the reality settling in of the
fact I was not I was I was not
that Hillary Clinton didn't win but the
fact that the man who did win is the
president with a sort of it was a shock
to the system right and I and I think
I'm not alone in those things even
though it seems like they don't make
sense well the idea is that he should
have been disqualified because of who he
was in some way obviously right there's
no official to step in and say you're
disqualified but the country should have
disqualified the guy regardless of any
of the shortcomings that Clinton may
have had as a candidate right so here's
what there are two things well there are
a million things but a couple things
stand out about what happened in the
wake of that election one is that it was
such a shock for so many people and
there were you know I cover women in
politics I wrote about Hillary Clinton
for a long time that to some degree
explains why I wasn't surprised that she
lost right yeah for a lot of people who
don't you know who aren't looking at the
history of women in politics who aren't
looking closely at Hillary Clinton her
campaign in the way that I was for
really almost a decade I think that her
loss was a shock there was the
expectation and in part this this ties
to the next thing I'm going to say it's
born out of a pernicious set of lies
that Americans like to tell themselves
all the time throughout our history
which is that the inequities on which
this country was built or have been
rectified
they've been addressed they've been
fixed the great lie that has told people
who from the start in this country have
been have been rendered marginal or who
have been subjugated or oppressed in
some way is that it's been fixed now
that the inequities are in our path and
we saw an example of that during the
Obama administration when the notion
that Barack Obama had been elected
president somehow supplied this and and
grounded a myth that racism was a thing
of our past but in fact we know that of
course it's not I mean of course it's
not but there was a way in which you
could say well look you know a black man
is president like how you know a you
know that anything is possible this is
not racism is we solved it the civil
rights movement solve it the evolution
hasn't solved it Barack Obama solve it
what's done the Supreme Court the
Supreme Court basically said that and
again they're gutting of the Voting
Rights that's exactly right that's
exactly right that is what they said
this is no longer a problem that's like
us we no longer need these protection
okay now that is part of and the same
thing
around gender the same thing and we've
heard it we're bathed in it right there
are more women at college campuses that
there are men in fact there's the boy
crisis in education there's you know who
is like we've saw this too twice we've
had an inevitable presidential candidate
who was a woman 10 100 times I don't
know if you heard she was inevitable
it's weird that she hasn't been
president yet because she was totally
inevitable
this is a done deal and in fact part of
why people assume that Hillary Clinton
was going to win is because of all the
sort of structural stuff that had
historically kept women from the
presidency or even the nomination from a
major party for the presidency stuff
like they didn't have the support of
their party they didn't have the
fundraising capabilities that their male
peers had you know Hillary Clinton
anticipated all those things that had
kept shirley Chisholm from winning a
nomination in 72 shirley chisholm who
had neither the full-throated support of
her white feminist allies in the
movement her activist allies or the
Congressional Black Caucus her
colleagues in the House of
Representatives she talked about that
that she didn't have the sort of
structural institution support
institutional support she didn't have
the fundraising money in 1987 Pat
Schroeder a representative Pat Schroeder
tried to try to the thought about
running for president she couldn't raise
the money and she didn't have the
support of her party these were part of
the structural impediments that had been
in women's ways Hillary Clinton wanted
to be President she tried twice she knew
what the impediments were she gained the
system she's like I'm gonna do this I'm
gonna get the support of my party and
I'm gonna get the fundraising money well
that made her appear to be part of the
establishment which she is it's not just
an appearance and sort of took away the
notion that she everybody was like oh it
they there was a sense that there were
that she was a woman because she was the
establishment candidate she was Louie
was coming in with more power than
anybody else right and that of course
wound up working against her in 2016 but
all of that is found in all the beliefs
to be able to say that a woman candidate
for president is inevitable and people
did say this about Hillary in 2008 and
they started again in 2016 it is it
functions alongside that sort of Supreme
Court like we can got the voting rights
at it we could never say in this country
it is utterly dishonest to ever suggest
that a cut that a nation that has never
had a woman president that has until
2016 never had a woman dominated by a
major party for the
see there's never had a woman vice
president that a woman would inevitably
become the president that is a lie and
it's part of a far more pernicious lie
that is attached to all this look
post-feminist thought there was an
anti-feminist background the eighties
and nineties that undergirded this
there's no longer anything for for women
to be angry about this was especially
true for white middle-class women who of
course did many of the benefits of the
civil rights and women's movements at
the nineteen sixties and seventies and
did reap the benefits of affirmative
action at higher rates than almost
anybody else and did have all kinds of
educated middle class white women who
got all kinds of rights and protects
protections extended to them and those
were a lot of the women who sort of
swallowed this notion that there was no
longer if they were angry about what
they perceived to be sexism or misogyny
unequal power in the world that anger
was probably illegitimate because it's
not true right that is the lie we solved
it women have women are there more women
on college campuses there's a navigable
woman president things are fine for
women now what Donald Trump winning the
presidency did and it's not just this it
was also it was exposed that even the
women who basically won white patriarchy
even Hillary Clinton a wealthy woman who
had gained out the system who had gotten
institutional support who is wildly
qualified to be president could still be
beaten by this cartoon character of
juvenile incompetence and racism and
xenophobia and sexism that made
undeniable that women had something to
be mad about right and it's in the same
way you saw a similar thing happen
around the hashtag me to movement in the
fall of 2017 when many of the most
prominent complainants about sexual
assault and harassment were not only
middle class white women but extremely
wealthy white actresses who lodged some
of us who told some of the first stories
about Harvey Weinstein these were women
who you know would have been told like
what if they're rich they have power in
Hollywood they're you know they have
every advantage in every privilege and
yet they could still tell stories about
how the arc of their career was
fundamentally shaped by assault about
how they had experienced the the you
know in many cases physical violence
sexual violence or you know harassment
how they had been sidelined how they had
had left
in a situation a lot of this made people
aware of and better able to give voice
to the fury that they felt and have
things to pin it on this famous trip
Christine Boise Ford a middle class
white woman advanced degree you know it
was evidence there's evidence out there
that it's not everything is not equal
that there are still power imbalances
and that is it's a period a window in
which we are there's ample evidence to
correct the pernicious lie that America
tells itself over and over again which
is the inequity as a thing of its
structural systemic inequity is the
thing of its past but what that means is
that it's brought a lot of middle-class
white women to anger in a way that they
haven't been before and that is the
population that is sort of newly
awakened to its anger and it stems from
the shock of seeing Hillary Clinton lose
the presidency and also the realization
that okay now I can point to certain
things and say I wait I have every
reason to be mad you can't tell me that
my anger is illegitimate I mean in the
the pernicious nough sub that lie it
seems to me is even greater or was even
greater than the lie that we tell
ourselves about race because it it it
almost didn't even have to be
articulated you know I mean like the I
feel like there was you know the Supreme
Court he's gonna make an argument like
we don't have racism anymore because
they have to almost it was almost the
the notion that there was not this sort
of deep misogyny in the you know
interwoven into our American psyche it
was almost as if that argument didn't
even have to be made it was so accepted
that it wasn't there on somewhat there
are different there are things about a
gender power imbalance that are very
particular to the nature of the fact
that you know women are an oppressed
majority it's a very unusual structural
reality right there are more women than
there are men and yet there they are
women are subjugated and oppressed and
offered less economically socially
sexually professionally in the public
sphere
that creates a number of crazy dynamics
including that every woman has men in
her life and every man has women in his
life
and that means when you when you and
that's one of the reasons that it is the
women's movement is explosive it is
combustible it is always precarious and
it really only cohere sort of if you
look at the historical story only about
every 50 years it's very hard to
converge around a movement that wants to
challenge gendered power imbalances and
that's because the nature of gender
relationships which are familial social
sexual romantic you know within a
community means that if you challenge
those gender imbalances you are
disrupting intimate personal
relationship and that is different from
other kinds of social and even identity
politics disruptions within power
structures because it means it means
fighting a battle that might have
consequences in your bed at your kitchen
table at your Thanksgiving dinners right
it's it's it's changing dynamics of
romantic and marital partnerships it's
changing dynamics within the offices in
which you work and that is a it's a it
makes things it's hard to get people to
have that fight because it disrupts the
day leanness of their lives it's a is it
the it's a it's both it seems the the
stakes and the constraints so I mean
it's both like the price that you could
pay but also just structurally there's
not even the room to take a step back
and assess because it's so it's all
kinds of things these are these are
intimate relationships with the people
we love you know it's one of the reasons
that the conversation around sexual
harassment you know there have been so
many iterations of this you know this
has been a building awareness starting
in the mid 70s when women began filing
some of the first sexual harassment
lawsuits many of them were women of
color who were borrowing from civil
rights law to you know and sort of using
the things that they
learn you know via fighting for legal
protections around race and applying
them to the treatment that they were
getting within offices and that led to
the sort of naming of a behavior that
was that came in the 1970s to be called
sexual harassment worked its way up to
the Supreme Court in 1986 there's a
Supreme Court decision that bans sexual
harassment under Title 7 of the Civil
Rights Act then in 91 you have any Hill
describing the sexual harassment she
experienced while working with Clarence
Thomas it of course does not stop his
ascent to the Supreme Court in fact his
place on the Supreme Court leads to and
is part of the gutting of the Voting
Rights Act and which indirectly leads to
or directly leads to the election of
Donald Trump right you can draw a direct
line between all of this stuff but it is
also true that Anita Hills testimony
also leads to a record you know year the
next year the year the first year of the
woman in which a record number of women
are elected to office it leads to a
broader conversation around sexual
harassment but when you talk about these
things one of the reasons it takes so
long is because it means changing
behaviors like there are so many we are
intimately dependent on and connected to
some of the I write in the book that it
means the bad guys are in many cases
also are good guys right they are our
colleagues and our friends and our
boyfriends and our husbands and our
fathers and our sons and that's why you
can hear this language of intimate
reliance and intimate loyalty for
example in the push back against taps
after the Cavanagh hearings when you
heard so many women deployed actually on
behalf of white patriarchal power saying
well our sons are vulnerable this is
down what Donald Trump says it's a very
scary time for young men the notion of
maternity we have to protect our boys
it's that's the kind of those are the
kinds of relationships that are thrown
into disarray when you have a mass
conversation and desire to revise the
rules of the game that a lot of people
are deep into their lives having already
played right and so you know that that
makes these things really complicated
because if you change the rules mid game
some people who you love and who you're
attached to you're dependent on either
whether it's emotionally or economically
because they're the breadwinners or
they're your bosses or they're your
mentors gave you here you know and they
may
behaved in ways that you can
intellectually acknowledge our bad but
there are real perils and costs
emotional professional and political to
to saying look the you violated these
rules that we're now going to be
enforcing and you've got a base
repercussion for them these are
complicated challenges to to make
because there are costs that wind up
being personal the disruption of
marriage as I write in my book about how
some of the women's activism that we've
seen erupt over the past two years women
who previously not been politically
active who'd been perhaps voted Democrat
but mostly have been kind of
sleepwalking kind of you know passive in
their political investments and are now
devoting their every hour to activism to
electing candidates to participating in
teacher strikes and and labor disputes
those women often tell they're talking
increasingly about their marriages
ending about divorce because the terms
in which they'd entered their marriage
you know had changed they were now
different people there they want
different things from their partnerships
and from the way that they organize
their lives and marriages or anything
and we know that that was used against
the second way of women's movement
because it did change assumptions about
who was permitted what kinds of
opportunities and who you know who
should have what kind of power within
within our most intimate relationships
and the divorce rate spiked 1970s all
right man and anti-feminists used it
against them and say look I'm gonna take
marriage they ended all these marriages
in the seventies these are really
complicated changes to try to make
because I mean like you say it's on both
ends I mean Brett Kavanaugh was up there
he was very angry because he was raised
in such a way that I I was allowed to do
that as a kid and that was that was the
group that was the that was the
agreement that I made when I got born
that I will you know as long as I keep
it back in the you know at college and
maybe you know my youthful indiscretions
then I could go on and do this and I get
I get a gimme and you're trying to tell
you like fair right telling me that I'm
not allowed to be angry and my love of
beer right I mean it's that was that was
a time that kind of code that was kind
of cut right but he wasn't
actually he wasn't copping to the thing
he was actually being accused of which
is assault of a woman but he was that's
a great I mean in fact the beer thing
and the sort of defense of a certain
kind of social life that he had that we
know is quite closely connected to the
kinds of allegations that were made
against him it was a sort of like this
is how I was my life I had my calendars
like my dad and I love beer and I you
know squee or whatever his name was when
we go to this course we all know this is
the rule we all get the Mulligan and
you're telling me that Mulligan doesn't
count anymore and right that Mulligan of
course was built upon the oppression and
suppression and the physical violence
against women and and and and he felt
like but I but I didn't do it since then
theoretically and you know that type of
probably I mean I'm giving me the
benefit of the doubt but all right so I
wanted to circle back though because the
the this was there was a lot of things
that came together between Donald
Trump's win and Hillary Clinton's loss
and you know I I won dynamic that just
strikes me is that I don't know if you
you read that book of the persistence of
the color line by Randall Terry and his
I had his argument it was it was it was
many years ago or four or five years ago
oh yeah yeah and he argued that you know
Barack Obama could not talk about race
and could not engage in race and could
not show anger because it would have
destroyed everything and certainly
Hillary Clinton like anger at a time
where anger there's an anger in the
country she can't she's not allowed to
access it because of the way that anger
is perceived by women so basically one
arrow that would have been there for any
politician who was not a woman that's
taken out of the quiver at that point
right that is exactly right and it was
that is exactly right and she was
running against
two men on both her left and her right
were able to access anger and they both
used it quite masterfully right and my
my politics are on the side of one of
those guys you know Bernie Sanders
speaking with righteous fury about
economic inequality and the 99 percent
and the you know that he was able to
channel the rage of millions of his
supporters who were feeling for my you
know in my view had every reason in the
world to be livid and he was able to be
a voice of that of swagga singer and
shake his head and pound a podium and
Donald Trump whose politics are
announcement of me I mean you know he
was able to challenge a rage coming from
a sort of a base that was furious about
the perceived incursions on its status
and its power and he was able to channel
a fundamentally racist xenophobic
misogynistic fury through a you know
truly in many cases direct calls to
violence I mean in the old days we used
to take protestors out at you know right
he was able to actually give voice to a
punitive um you know not just borderline
but sometimes directly violent rage that
had racist and sexist implications to
talk about you know to talk about those
fears that have obviously worked for his
base and Clinton when she tried to be
angry first of all I mean this is a
woman who is raised also born in an era
in which this was completely verboten
the raising of the female voice you know
had actually been a young adult in the
moment of the of the second wave women's
movement but she's already you know she
had been raised in the country that had
no tolerance made no space for the fury
of especially a powerful women who were
threatening male power in any way and
when so it says it is i inauthentic when
she tries to you know transmit rage to
she would sometimes thunder under a
microphone and what would everybody by
the way including me do is rear back and
say stop yelling because we're not used
to hearing that well even goes back 92
when she said I'm not going to be baking
cookies in the kitchen or something and
and I was no fan of Bill Clinton at that
time either but that the reaction to
that was just I mean that dynamic you
know is like reminds me of like when
Steven Spielberg did his first movie and
it was a bust and then he decided I'm
only making huge hits for now on that
are less nuanced I felt like that's that
was her moment where she was like all
right now I've got to change my hairdo
and etc etc but so so I think the one
that came before that was when she was
blamed for her husband losing reelection
in Arkansas because she kept her own
made name huh where is like what are you
gonna I mean that was 1980 and after he
lost his reelection bid in Arkansas the
press said it was because his wife
wouldn't take his name and that's when
she think about I was like that for me
was like the first moment and like the
transformation into Darth Vader it's
like the moment that like she then and
she writes about it was actually
incredible candor in various places
about that moment where she realized she
had to become Hillary Rodham Clinton
okay so we take that forward she's
learned those lessons because those are
less in society but it it it not only it
not only takes that arrow out of her
quiver it forces her at that point to
use an arrow maybe that she doesn't want
to use right which is like maybe being
too optimistic in some respects but if
you can't differentiate one way because
it's not available to you it you know
part of the problems it forces you to to
avail yourself of another option that is
suboptimal but leaving that aside so
going from there let's talk about the
me2 thing because it seems to me that me
too was a it was a sort of a surrogate
for Donald Trump like with like the
country did not hold this guy
accountable for the obvious like because
the the the the difficulty is always
like it's a he said she said type of
situation and you know we can't know
what happens when two people shut the
door or why you know you know but in
this instance it was clear to everybody
right there's like literally they tape
and the it was the message to women that
like even when it's we don't have these
evidentiary questions even when we all
know what the truth is still not gonna
hold him accountable it feels like me to
was came out of like we couldn't get
Donald Trump but we can get other people
and I don't I don't mean to be saying
this like it was just it was about time
but it was like there there's an overdue
debt of justice here and we're gonna go
for that on some level and what's your
sense of that well yes and no I think I
agree I think that I agree with you that
for example I don't think me the the
fall of 2017 hashtag me to movement I
don't think that it would have had the
staying power or exploded in the way
that it did had Donald Trump not been
president on the other hand I'm not sure
which is the symptom and which is the
cup right I think Donald Trump himself
it's like think of the number of men who
in fact wound up facing repercussion
during that meet during the 2017 hashtag
me to move it and we should say that of
course the media movement founded by
Toronto Berg in 2006 specifically to
address sexual violence in communities
of color and the the hashtag Nietzsche
movement that was popularized in the
fall of 2017 is an outgrowth of that
movement and it's a broader umbrella
term to cover harassment and and you
know in a wide wide range of things but
I think that so many of the men it
wasn't just Donald Trump consider that
Bill O'Reilly like stories about Bill
O'Reilly I mean he was sued I wrote
about a lawsuit against him for sexual
harassment when I was a young journalist
probably in 2004 Max and yet he yeah
Andrea Makris and yet he kept his birth
on television a bajillion dollar birth
on television for all the intervening
years consider Arnold Schwarzenegger
stories about his groping had been on
the record and and women had gone on the
record with their names and talked about
how he groped them and he nonetheless
got a
did governor consider roger ailes
stories about him had been published in
Gabriel Sherman's book about him and
they had been poo-pooed by the newer
times you know claimed and nobody paid
attention he'd kept his not only Bill
O'Reilly and and Roger Ailes of course
not only kept their jobs and made
millions of dollars they also had the
opportunity given their births to their
their media births and their platforms
and the power that that platform that
they built had to basically contribute
to the election of Donald Trump you know
Fox News created this president they had
so much power in addition to the wealth
that they were garnering they had so
much power to control the political
conversation and this despite having
been credibly an on-the-record accused
of acts of harassment and assault then
you have Donald Trump oh and Bill Cosby
there were many stories public stories
with name's Andrea Constance name
attached to stories about Bill Cosby and
for more than a decade for 12 years or
something he had continued to win
Lifetime Achievement Awards get new
television deals be healed at hailed as
a hero in some community so this is a
build up of it's not just about Donald
Trump Trump was in combination with a
political fury in combination with the
surprise that many people felt at this
understanding that Hillary Clinton is
qualified woman had just been passed
over for this job for this for this
raging racist toddler you know the fact
is the that there had been an explosion
of rage in the wake of the Access
Hollywood tape and that it had not
prevented him from becoming the
president was like it was like a final
straw but it wasn't all about him right
right the point is that these men could
be credibly accused by people and it
just didn't impede their rise to power
their further accrual of power and it
was like there was an anger that was so
inherent that when that story came out
about Harvey Weinstein it was like we
are not going to let this pass by there
was like it was like a desire to hang on
and tell these guys face repercussion
and I've never seen anything like that
before I've never lived through anything
like that before but it was like the
period I don't think it was a City chirp
imaginatively it might have been a
stand-in for Donald Trump but it
also for its own purposes right so we're
not going to be chased out of telling
you stories Trump was the sort of the
the final symptom in some ways that
basically said like this is undeniable
now and you know we're going to treat it
on some level the the other thing that
that occurs to me happened during that
time or at least I mean I you know I
think we've you know we've seen it both
sort of publicly and and certainly in
the context of you know privately women
I know have reassessed like their
realities in some way their histories
and now realize that there were there
were relationships that they had work
relationships whatever non work
relationships where they were sexually
harassed they were they were in some
fashion either suppressed or assaulted
that they somebody else's case I mean a
whole reevaluation of once once we get
to the point because if you live in a
world in which all these guys and all
the guys I just mentioned right and our
getting elected president and governor
and running TV networks and being hailed
as heroes you know and and you absorb
the the reality which is that your
experience of having been you know
assaulted by them or harassed by them or
belittled or diminished or treated
poorly but it just doesn't matter it
doesn't matter nobody cares
and you really absorb that and so when
you have a meet you movement you have
something like it has happened over the
past year where there's an
acknowledgement of the damage that this
behavior has wrought it's like you
finally can open up that door in your
own brain in your own memory and all the
stuff that you stuffed in there because
what was going to happen what was going
to come of of really thinking about it
there was so much evidence all around us
that no one cared it didn't matter and
then when you get a sort of invitation
and then even it wasn't run off for it
out it wasn't as almost like it was like
an assess
of nothing wrong happened like it's not
even like there's something wrong that
happened and no one's gonna care it was
like that debt that's just normal right
that's just life that's just normal
yes so we're like like we're if if in
those if in the wake of Donald Trump
this anger there was this sort of a not
necessarily explosion of anger but I
guess this eruption of existing anger
and assessment that we should be angry
and a different expression of I mean
tell me like is there do you think that
there has been a lasting change a in the
ability into what extent has there been
a change in the ability of women to be
angry in you know relative to men let's
say we're you know immense anger is you
know the I mean it's uh you mentioned
Pat Schroeder if I remember correctly
the thing that really knocked her out of
the race was that she cried like there
was a right moment well she was
announcing when she cried she was
announcing that she wasn't gonna run oh
so I don't know if it's quite ready to
say that that's what knocked her out but
that was the thing for which she became
famous yes it was like the idea that she
would cry in public and then I feel like
we've seen many examples of men cry in
public and it's like John Boehner never
exactly yeah
and you know it's impressive it's
impressive he's able to do that took a
lot of guts to cry in public for that
guy and has the ability for women to be
angry because you know frankly like I'm
thinking about Elizabeth Warren I'm from
Massachusetts I'm a big fan of hers when
I talk to people in Massachusetts who I
think should also be big fans of hers
like I almost get like the like a
unilateral I mean like I should say
unanimous a response and I feel like
it's a gendered response to when she
gets angry like she's a scold and it's
like wow right thank the question of are
we making mature
change I do think that we are making
tremendous I think we are in the midst
of changing our perceptions about how
women can express themselves and be
taken seriously but we make a mistake
again when we imagine that we can fix it
quickly this is hundreds of years
generations upon generations upon
generation of conditioning of social
messaging around what's appropriate
around what tones are effective this is
again we we talk about change in this
country as if it's something that we can
be quickly proud of having fixed but in
fact when you're talking about a nation
that has that was based in to its
initial promises of equality and liberty
were were structurally enforced in
equality and in humanity you are talking
about problems that take so long to fix
and then we have to be in the midst of
probably for the inevitably for the rest
of our lives so I do think that there
are changes that are being made around
how we think if you look at the way that
some of these new young women are moving
into Congress Rashida to leave Ilhan
Omar Alexandria Ocasio Cortes Ayanna
Presley the voices that they're using
and the unwillingness to be sort of
solicitous of polite we know I think
you're seeing that that's a data point
in terms of we're changing the register
in which we can hear and respect and
acknowledge his consequential certain
kinds of women's voices that's a huge
set of changes we're seeing being
wrought around that I think that the
fact that we're having conversations
about how he'll about how Hillary
Clinton was heard how Elizabeth Warren
is heard how Kamala Harris as an African
American woman it's hurt when he
challenges jeff Sessions or or raises
her voice as a prosecutor on the Senate
Judiciary Committee you know she is she
and the ways that she gets characterized
as hysterical or punitive or or worrying
in some ways like we're the fact that
we're having these conversations is
helping to change how we hear these
women but it's not something where were
ever in our lifetime that you or I is
ever going to be able to say like well
now we love angry women like it's not
it's not going to be that quick it's a
long arduous
complicated multifaceted process and I
want us the thing I want this book to do
more than anything and people often
understand it to be like a call to raise
your voice and anger and it's not that
actually because there's still so much
there's so many ways in which women are
punished in one way or another for
offering loud challenge right so I would
never encourage you know if you're a
woman of color who's pulled over by a
cop for no reason you have every reason
in the world to be livid but if you
voice that period you risk your life you
know you end it yeah if you're a woman
who is playing unequally in her office
you have every reason to be furious but
if you raise your voice about it in your
office you're going to get a reputation
perhaps as difficult or you're not going
to get that razor you're going to get
fired you know there are real cost to
that so my book is not about not trying
to encourage people to speak differently
it's to listen differently it's to
listen for these patterns is to listen
to the patterns in our own head that
write off women whose voices are raised
if angry or disruptive dissent as you
know complicated or hysterical or too
much stop think start listening to anger
of marginalized people including women
as instructive and diagnostic as
politically and socially potent I want
us to listen differently to receive
woman's anger differently and to watch
for the patterns in which it is
discounted and dismissed and and in our
own heads and more broadly I you know
and so that is that's part of the work
of changing things but if that is going
to be the work of our lifetime the the
it's a long-term project to get people
to listen differently to hear it
differently and what not the other thing
that has I think you know obviously come
in the wake of this is that and Thetis
copal and Lena Putnam I think it was and
even you know the the intercept stories
about what was happening on the ground
show you know I think we're indicative
of a rising activism like and I think
you mentioned of women who had otherwise
been maybe a reliable Democratic vote
maybe midterms maybe but now our running
for office our
you know at the forefront of of activist
groups in terms of particularly in the
context of elections I I think just like
stumbled into multiple essentially
groups of women who were organizing to
send money to like you know a state race
in Colorado across the city that energy
you don't need is I mean is that what
what do you what what's your your
feeling about the that engagement that
level of energy where that's gonna be
within five or ten years I mean if the
listening and getting society obviously
to change their knee-jerk reactions to
women's anger is going to is a long-term
project what about that involvement I
mean have there been like a generation
or two of women whose political
engagement is forever implicated well I
hope so
this is an open question and it depends
this is why I you know I get anxious
when I hear this all just tied to Trump
because in part you know I certainly
hope that Trump is going to be gone soon
you know and and in two years or you
know even if it's even if it's in six
years god I hope not
um you know it's not that's why I get
anxious whenever somebody ties directly
to being about Donald Trump because
Donald Trump in this regard is
absolutely symptomatic he is the thing
that has made the project of the
american right wing evident because he's
you know he just says all the quiet
parts loud but and and if we attach it
too much to trump then there will be
this myth again that pernicious but
seductive myth that we fixed it oh we
got rid of trump it's done but in fact
we know that it's not done that he his
presidency was enabled by a party and by
a set of ideologies and attitudes about
who deserves to have power and who is
permitted to participate equally and
receive equal rights and equal
protections in this country that is
again anger of a lifetime now the
question is how many of those Noori
angry people will stay angry for the
rest of their lifetimes and that is up
to those people and include
us and and I think that one of the big
opportunities at this moment is even if
people are coming to the anger
specifically say about Trump I hope that
part of what we're doing is having a
conversation and in a period where
people are really getting an education
about all of the inequalities that are
out there that require steady anger and
vigilance and fight and commitment to
being civic participants and political
combatants right I think that the
opportunity here is an education and
that's within progressive coalition's to
about the racism the sexism the
inequality that exists within
progressive coalition a lot of the
conversations happening for it within a
women's movement this iteration is women
are about racism within that women's
movement and that's especially true for
a lot of the suburban white women
suburban middle-class white women who
are new to the anger a lot of them are
also learning about anger at them
because of the unequal amount of space
they've taken up with in progressive and
feminist coalition's while women of
color who often have been doing the
groundbreaking intellectual and
political work and have been the base of
the Democratic Party for years go
underrepresented in their needs under
acknowledged and within that Democratic
Party and any kind of less coalition
those kinds of conversations
I hope which are also rooted in it an
anger that happens within a progressive
coalition I hope are going to be are
going to reshape us so that that the
acknowledgement of the problems we have
to solve go way beyond Trump and I hope
that it extends deep into our future but
we won't know until we get there and
this is a question there will always be
incentive for women and particularly for
white women who are adjacent to white
especially middle-class white men there
were always the incentives in place for
them to quell their anger and to go back
to being non disruptors and that is
something that we have to be very
attentive to because there will be those
messages that are put on offer
Rebecca tracer the book is good mad the
revolutionary power of woman's anger
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you Sam
thanks welcome to
are we back all right welcome back
everybody
the team is here we're gonna take you
into the fun half but first we're gonna
do about about 30 40 minutes of plugs
for our respective programs so sit tight
um but first of course become a member
of the majority report majority dot F M
slash become a member it is merely
pennies a day to serve this five day a
week news an analysis program that
really is quite a feat any time I was
talking uh I was talking to a friend I
guess for lack of a better word in the
biz the other day and he was just like
you guys do this five days a week that's
an unbelievable know moment of work we
do we do it more than anybody we do the
smallest 510 news team in the country
with by certain measurements in a
certain sense many it's very very left
very very left very strong analysis
anyways we are responsible even with the
advertising over ninety percent of it
comes from you and that makes us
responsible to you become a member today
just coffee co-op get the deal it's on
the site January tickets are sold out
for the majority report show we are more
than halfway sold out of the February
first Michael Brooks show and I'm gonna
start talking to you about some other
things we're going to be doing including
a pre-recorded Dave Rubin Sam Harris
sketch Ilona minkovski is gonna be there
Bosch Carson car is gonna be there
trouble you is going to be there get
your tickets today for the February
first Bell house show on our website
tonight on T MBS we're doing a dive
connecting the barbarism at the border
today the caravan and the 2009 Obama
Clinton administration Obama
administration Clinton State Department
backed coup in Honduras the removal of
Manuel Zelaya how that connects with a
broader us-backed reversal of the pink
tide then we cool
Dunc don't complain coat manuel's lies
compromising your your coffee fields
with a higher minimum wage for workers I
don't see no come here to complain don't
raise the minimum wage and COO don't
raise the minimum wage have a coke then
hire some creep like Lonny Davis that
has some type of bizarre incestuous
relationship with Hillary to lobby for
it and then Vanessa a B she's for
current affairs she just was in France
we're talking a sort of ground-up
perspective of the yellow vest movement
and then it ties together with an
interview that is you know obviously
very important to me with Valeska
Martens who is one of the delete lead
defence counsels for political prisoner
Lula da Silva and we will talk about
lawfare that case the u.s. role and it
will link with Honduras and then of
course the postgame Thursday we're doing
another live tea MBS show because we're
off next week and big waze waze neil
hombre is going to be in studio looking
forward to that very much
Jaime what's going on all right so last
week on the anti Fattah we had a pretty
serious episode where we took apart some
of the anti-immigration faux populist
arguments being made by Angela Nagle
Tucker Carlson and more in the hopes of
arming people with facts and logic that
they can use to own whoever they're
arguing with or yeah just for their own
edification so this week we recorded it
as a very silly episode with Alex batac
of fellow goth socialists podcast pod AM
America which you were on recently right
Mike just was on yes I forgot to mention
how we did it it was the show's Lula
lads and I had a really fun time with
Jake Flores and those guys and I like
the phrase Lula lads very much yeah
they're they're awesome guys
so we did a show with Alex Batac and we
talked about many things we talked about
how Teen Vogue is leftist now and
penthouse
like some kind of alt light IDW
publication did you know about this I
don't even know penthouse still existed
oh he didn't know my friends to meet the
Mucca Pot I think is that Teen Vogue and
she's got some very legit politics yeah
Teen Vogue has been really good like you
could read a primer on like anarchism
right next to an article about like lip
gloss or the Jonas Brothers or whatever
teenage girls like now I'm gonna get
bought by some shadowy group and then
laid off like a day later for the fight
Teen Vogue yeah optimism unionized as
quickly as possible yeah be vigilant
seriously apropos of nothing Jonathan
Chait is a scab and his soul yeah oh
yeah we talked about that too oh you did
you took the New York Magazine yeah we
talked about how York magazine unionize
or Jonathan Chait is of course crying
about it like the little scab he is and
you know what if the New York magazine
union wants to bring back social
unionism where unions are fighting for
the good of society and not just
themselves they will make firing
Jonathan Chait one of their demands yeah
if the union's bad for Jonathan shade it
sounds like a pretty good union now say
another reason to love the union for
real all right awesome
the anti Fattah check it out on iTunes
and patreon yeah people can still check
out the democracy in Chains episode
although they might have already because
that's one of my best performing ones it
was very good i I if I may an editorial
suggestion I think semi-regularly doing
valuable left wing books that have I
think I think a Stephen Jay Gould thing
maybe that could be a joint TMDs
literary hangover but that guy needs to
be retrieved because he was really
positive and really important and
smeared by very awful people Oh is he
the IQ stuff guy is like Harvard I think
was a paleontologist anyways yeah right
he was he was trashed by a guy named
Nicholas Wade who was a New York Times
reporter that wrote a book that like he
sort of wrote like the kind of genetic
racist book that like the other people
that want to make sort of similar
argument
really yeah but not like that that guy's
book was actually pretty racist right
right like a real trash piece of writing
and he was a reporter behind a lot of
this revisionism around Stephen Jay
Gould it's actually it's a very
important story
ya know Jacobin has a good piece about
people to check out please go ahead sir
coming great episode yeah coming up I'm
going to release one on Anne Bradstreet
who people might know as the first
published poet in America she was also
one of the first pundits she wrote a
poem a dialogue between Old England and
knew about the English Civil War written
in 1948 and 1994 to 1642 at the time and
then published in 1650 so she talks a
lot about it and it's very interesting
because she mentions like Commons and
like like that's not the common but
she's not like she's not a procom she is
pro commoner but like also like pro land
owner cuz she's fresh like her dad was
literally governor of Massachusetts Bay
four times and then so but there's some
there's some good sentiments like
there's like a let's abolish prisons
because all this sectarian strife is why
we have prisons in the first place and
then it turns to a really
interventionist let's go to Turkey and
Rome and get these Papists out and just
like we did in Palestine like a hundred
hell yeah so yeah she's like Hillary
Clinton's very it is it's very is very
it is very like Imperial feminism
feminism stuff goes way back way back
alright folks see you in the photo it's
a nice feeling it's real it's a nice
feeling sweetheart get me a beer I don't
[Music]
sweetheart get me a beer nice uh-oh
welcome to the my up now welcome to the
fun half Michael Brooks and the crew
everybody's here I really thought the
very well timed transition music their
super producer Matt I have to say I'm
not gonna I think we've lived litigated
0 some enough and there isn't actually
that much daylight there but especially
distilled in that song I have to say
like my original argument of like I
don't think this is how we should be
framing our politics I I'm gonna say it
stands you're gonna lose
do you see I don't think that's how you
go to the masses that one we don't play
as much cuz it's not long a solid but
he's great but it is very funny to hear
Sam said get me a beer sweetheart get me
a beer to zero-sum game it's nice oh god
that's amazing okay folks let's take the
first call we're not warning to every
we're definitely we got to be done a bit
on the earlier side today which actually
means which is nor ending in a normal
time not these like radically expanded
hours you've been going on you're
calling from a 775 area code who are you
where are you calling from hey this is a
reverent and for punks for progress hey
what's going on ah not a whole lot I
wanted to talk to you I'm so glad that
you're actually hosting Michael because
I want to talk about D platforming a
little bit okay because I got a hang up
with this issue um okay so I should say
I don't have a real you know strong
stance on it either way although I am
leaning more towards D platforming of
fascism being a good thing but I also
want to kind up before we get into it
point out that there's a difference
between what we me and my comrades and
others did over the year - in Berkeley
in organizing counter demonstrations
against like Ben Shapiro and Milo's
so-called free speech week I don't see
those as the same thing and they get
lumped into the D platforming argument a
lot yeah so I agree with you I just I
mean you can elaborate but I think
protest is part of the same process of
free speech which I actually believe in
pretty strongly so I agree with you
excellent so I'm glad we sort of
established that but then the other side
of it so Kyle Kaminsky just recently put
up a video where he's really adamant
about the sort of slippery slope
argument of a platforming fascism
ultimately hurting us right and I'm open
to this argument now you know I have a
small platform we don't ask for money my
you know my income is not reliant on it
so I don't have as much you know flesh
in the game as people like you or Kyle
do okay right but I haven't seen the
evidence yet so Kyle sites it's going
down which is a fantastic media that if
people want to check out true an artist
you know critiquing perspective they're
amazing it's just going down but they
were all the time hold yeah yeah they're
incredible and they've even done stuff
for our platform and they're just
amazing for the community and they were
piled on I don't know year and a half or
so ago by all writers because they were
doing such a great job of supporting
Antipa and they got pulled down off
patreon now I don't
they've been reestablished or not but
this is the example that Kyle uses as
the slippery slope if we're going to be
bringing down you know sargon and you
know Infowars and all these other people
and I don't see that connection and I
know that you are definitely very
hesitant and skeptical of any type of
deep platforming and so I really and
most of the time that you've brought it
up on the show Michael you're kind of
like look this is kind of how I don't
want to get into it
BAM and then you're kind of out and I
really I'm interested in I don't really
want to get into it
BAM come out let me all right let me
okay all right well I do have to two
points I'll make on this but first I
just genuinely want to ask you I mean
because I don't I feel like it's how do
you not see the connection there right
like I to me the connection is okay
really like a matter that it's linear
you know yeah go ahead
well the premise for why in this
situation it's going down would have had
their issue is a dishonest premise it
wasn't based on their actual activity
and things that they were espousing it
was that so many right-wingers had piled
on a lot I'm not it so I'm not um yeah
I'm not me come on the conversation I
know I'm soso but let me just take it
here for a second right so I am NOT ever
gonna trust patreon or Twitter or any of
these platforms and some of them might
have better organizational cultures than
others so whatever we can make some
distinctions potentially but I am NOT
for a second going to trust the nuance
and disaggregating abilities of any of
these companies to make the distinction
you're talking about so stipulate that I
agree with you as a moral claim though
you know Sargon and it's going down are
totally different moral propositions but
the process by which a skittish company
that wants to avoid controversy
and we'll make a business decision to
avoid it and it's broader implications
on these crowdfunding platforms I mean
it's a very direct link there so
turnabout is gonna be fair play so I
don't so that's what I mean I'm not
making any like the actual right no I
could there's no actual equivalency I'm
talking about as companies and how they
operate so if I understand you correctly
it's you're saying okay you know people
like Sargon and Lorne southern and these
other people have been deep platform for
really gross behavior particularly is
bad for their business model right right
I mean we want them brought down because
we see that they have a real-time
influence on a lot of ignorant minds
that end up collecting you know a big
giant orange cheeto right and so it has
real-time effects in the world so that's
why I'm in teaching platform because it
terrifies me that their method to get da
QT so here let me just talk and then
I'll just throw it out before cuz I'll
I'll answer what you're saying and then
everybody will jump in on this because I
know there's a lot of thoughts on this
so and I don't and part of that I just
want to hear what everybody has to say
we're in a time because it's important
and I don't know all the answers
obviously and I want to learn but okay
so but my broader okay so the broader
thing and this is let's like kind of put
it into three buckets so my first one is
just the business of these platforms and
what you're the tendencies you're
creating so as an example one one
conversation I had a long many years ago
but it was a really smart sort of
distinction and this is much less
serious but it was like the whole
College like and this was actually a
left-wing critique of comedians
complaining about colleges and the point
was those like it isn't that there's
like leftist or subversive comedy
getting sponsored by college campuses
it's that all of these campus activity
committees as one might expect from the
type of students that want to be in a
campus activity community
no offense but you know I'm saying is is
to book performers that aren't going to
offend anybody and aren't going to do
anything that might disrupt anybody's
Sensibility and I think that that
potentially could be the trend line on
some of these platforms and I do think
that if you know controversy is your
concern and again I'm thinking about
profit-making companies that are not
making obvious moral and political
distinctions that is gonna have
implications for not only fascists but
also socialists and anarchists okay so
that's like the business concern the
other concerns I have are I think that
there is sometimes a culture on the left
that has gone so quickly to that
position versus actually like winning
fights uh whether they're you know
figurative maybe even literal but I'm
focusing on figurative so as an example
a couple years ago of Doug Layne tells
the story his son at a University of
Oregon they did a really important
demonstration at a meeting of
administrators to protest tuition hikes
like one of the most important things
students could protest about and they
got the administration cracked down hard
like we're gonna kick you out of school
type of heart right now their response
was well to a lot of the organizers
their response was not to you know call
the press dig in their heels you know
like get like not only we write about
this issue now we're literally getting
threatened to have our lives seriously
materially harm for exercising our
rights some people not in significant
number of people pivoted to well there
are these like anti-abortion protesters
who don't get in trouble for their
protests on campus and if we're gonna
get in trouble they should get in
trouble like disaster right like the
administration's go to shore we would be
happy to to you know police and monitor
and control as many students as possible
right again obvious
only I'm trusting people in the audience
to understand you know and it's annoying
that I even have to say this but I know
there's always like the you know people
who are like intentionally not gonna
understand things or literalist this
obviously is not an embrace of
anti-choice politics in any way shape or
form it was to say that that pivot is a
big problem to not go on like wait a
second we're staying exactly on this
issue and you're not gonna suppress us
too well why aren't these other students
getting into trouble like this kind of
like tattletale self policing thing and
I think that is a bit like that like why
didn't the police shoot the white woman
with the rock that's no we obviously
don't want anybody precisely
that's the Liberatore anyone wrong that
they shot the black person for first
place to precise with the argument of
the white women with the rock well there
and I and there is totally by the way
there's absolutely a tendency I could
see in certain sectors of criminal
justice reform where they'll say like
you know what you're totally right about
this there are these really unfair
racial and structural disparities and
our answer is gonna be we're gonna
incarcerate even more people to even out
the stats not we're gonna get rid of
this system that is horrible
full-stop and obviously
disproportionately affects people of
color exactly so I think that's a fairly
you know that's a really big problem i I
had one other point but I guess I'll
just sort of leave it there I think oh
and and I guess it's sort of attached to
the third point is I do think at times
you know I I definitely think that there
are some people ok but I think let me
make a distinction I think Milo because
Milo is as far as I understand it was
specifically promising to Doc's and
expose people who were transgender on
his tour in a way that could jeopardize
their well-being
so stopping that is a fundamentally
different thing because you're
protecting somebody's well-being right
so that takes on a completely different
equation ben shapiro being a little smug
 at your campus yeah
i would say if ben shapiro had been
primarily ignored or people had gone to
his appear
and just been cool calm and collected
and mocked him I don't think he would
have half the career he has I mean
that's what happens in most of the times
that he appears in places though like
there's all these stories of they were
expecting trouble at this speech
somebody made a huge threat about this
and it turned out like no nothing well
not actual trouble but the but it but
well look there's enough material he's
been given for a million montages to you
know feed his brand so on Jerry's I'll
tell you Michael I would I gotta wear a
nice one at the main island fair
demonstrations against him at Berkeley
right and what went down there was the
positive you were just describing okay
and anyone that got there and was
complete you know would do the things
that we on the Barris would be
embarrassed or shudder from or
understand could be used against us
would have been squashed instantly and
it reason that's just him ste they
really were creating copying speeches
and people that older that's his new yet
okay yeah that's his team creating
property I yeah I do think honestly in
some in the end man I just I'm hoping to
see that the the reality and the
possibility that there could be the
slippery slope with the platform I think
what I'm asserting at this point is I
just haven't seen II yes and again so
with the it's going down versus
Allwright model it's going down didn't
do things that then got the attention of
patreon house it's that have an intent
antibiotic ounce been removed from
picture I mean I think I mean isn't
auntie fat auntie excuse me yeah yeah
this could see your argument about not
trusting the the business that's running
this stuff because difference the
distinction being I'm hoping I guess
which is maybe you know kind of
misguided that they would understand
okay look you brought down it's going
down because of lie you brought down
Sargon because of things he actually did
they're not there's some there's the
thing in that art I don't think so
I think you're you're not going to I
would never depend on a Silicon Valley
company making the adjudication 'he's
like that and I think everyone no I
think what I'm depending on is I'm not
seeing any reason I should stop
supporting the D platforming a passion
I'm not seeing I mean look all I'm
saying is that that's the new game you
will have to fight it would be different
you know what the the real play might
end up being is that we are going to on
some of these platforms that aren't
totally monopolized there might end up
being a left-wing patreon and a fascist
patreon and we're gonna have to migrate
into these different business models
they already have hate Rhian don't they
I think yeah but those things are always
going to run into payment providers as
well well that's well that's actually
right and I think that's maybe right
that's a more what I'm saying though is
if you have two different platforms that
say like okay we are providing for
different types of politics then it I
mean and that's also scary too frankly
but I think like a payment platform
because of the way their business is run
is gonna be more likely to basically be
saying like like they they strop they
stopped processing Gavin McGinnis stuff
because they're scared that there's even
a 1% chance that there's organized
criminal activity going on that's not
because of somebody giving an interview
so that already becomes a completely
different metric that you're measuring
by so I you know but as long as these
things are in the hands of like a
patreon uh no I don't think it's a
sporran strategy it's like a problem
this is why the I always try to move
this conversation on to monopoly because
I don't think I'd win on actually having
this conversation outside of it cuz if
there was no monopoly you could have I
would take my business to a left-wing
platform that balances this correctly
right like it Isis out the fascists and
is favorable to left wingers I think I
could run a patreon like that fairly
well now if you wanted to but I'm not in
charge of patreon and the other thing
people need to realize with patreon in
the Sargon stuff is they realize and
they're conscious about the fact that
they're not just monetizing the content
that gets put on patreon right
somebody could subscribe to literary
hangover if they just liked what I do on
this show it would never even have to
listen to the well
they said that in their statement right
and that they said they basically said
like look we check out especially what
our top performers do on different
platforms that was always gonna happen
and that's got to be an increasing site
of risk and I mean the problem is I
don't I I think that continued to are
encouraging these things will lead so
like left when things it cut to honey I
think that's why the right wing likes to
play the like well if you're gonna let
us in then the if you're gonna let them
and then you have to let us in and if
you're gonna let us out we're gonna make
it has a lot of this xx and there's
always gonna be for the foreseeable
future as we work to change it there's
going to be a structural advantage on
the right in those dynamic yeah and I
think I mean I I think I understand what
he's saying about now like I think
Sargon and Milo like bf fuck'em but I I
I am genuinely like I don't want to pour
any more gas on the fire as far as that
goes
I don't think it's a wise strategy and I
even think I mean whatever I think we
can and I think we can also frankly if
you want so you can also parse you know
like I think Milo is in some ways a very
easy one to parse even in his tours
because he's specifically talking about
doing an actionable thing to students as
far as I understand it already becomes a
totally different thing then frankly I
mean even somebody like Sargon I mean
the guy is a jackass like take
them on use them as an example to
undermine the brand I mean it's so easy
marketplace of ideas thing and you would
because I think business cuz it's a
business that's and I agree with you but
that's not adorable strategy but but as
soon as it becomes as soon as they've
dumped enough money to make it so that
like you know enough Praeger view videos
have been taken literally by enough
people that even saying the word
socialism is gonna lead to you know
China you know a Cultural Revolution
that's gonna kill people like they as a
business you as a business will hint
we'll go away from any controversy you
as a business until the until the
backlash to what happened to Sam became
so unbelievably overwhelming your first
instinct would be you know what I don't
understand all of this it's too
complicated I get that you know this
guy's of uncredible source but the
tweets controversial you know I don't to
deal it that's what businesses do but I
also long with a smaller someone with a
smaller platform could have been
destroyed by that dude if it's someone
there is no doubt that somebody with a
smaller platform would have been
destroyed by that most people if that
happened to someone to the smaller
platform they would not have every
single entertainment figure and pundit
if it happened to somebody who hadn't
been platform me and a lot of different
journalists at a lot of different major
publications plunge RIT person worth
hundred percent so as long as we're in
the market game it's not a smart play I
guess with the monopolization thing I'm
saying like if we weren't in this
context of monopolization and I was just
running a patreon I would still kickoffs
are gone for explicitly his political
beliefs and I wouldn't just I wouldn't
run somebody who speaks like that but
you would be sending a different company
up which is what we're talking about
which is like I want my patreon is
comitia to socialist anarchist cool
content exactly you're some weird you
know bigoted idiot from Britain
no thank you so you talk about manure
and that's the monopolization and
innovation right there you go
yeah I mean I agree with some of what
you guys have said and disagree with
other parts of it I do think it speaks
to the need for real left-wing platforms
because I also do not trust patreon or
any evil tech company really to
adjudicate these things I also agree
that we need to pick our battles and be
smart about it and know where to draw
the line between a real fascist who
poses either clear and present danger to
people or like just spreading a violent
ideology that leads very directly to
violence like we've seen with the proud
boys who have actually put people in the
hospital
fairly recently and know when you're
just playing into people's hands and
when you're not but like okay I used to
be much more of a free speech absolutist
than I am right now
but but over time like as I've gotten
more and more information about this
stuff I've kind of changed my mind
because first of all like if you provide
a neutral platform we're not on equal
footing in the marketplace of ideas
right some ideas have a lot more money
and power behind them than others so if
I don't think any platform is truly
gonna be neutral and I do think they
have the responsibility to at least try
to be smart about who they're featuring
and who they're not and like we gotta
use all the tools in our toolbox you
know and I used to think that a deep
platforming and protesting people was
pointless because it didn't work but
I've seen it work a bunch of times like
really hurt Alex Jones it really hurt
Mike Stern ovitch Gavin McGinnis like
they're pissed off about it and fewer
people are being polluted with their
white nationalist garbage as a result
also there's no rule there's no law that
says the right and the left have to be
treated equally right so like the
slippery slope argument where oh it
would be so easy
once you set this precedent to use it
against the left but there's there's not
and there's no equivalence there but
which side is capital yeah I mean where
I'm not talking out more I'm talking in
terms of power obviously it's gonna be
used against the left I mean it already
is in fact a more practical just just to
add to this because we we always talk
about like the easy ones okay but on
Facebook in response to a lot of pushes
on these issues okay Alex Jones Gavin
McGinnis massive impacts on websites
like Brazil wire the Atlantic Council
which is a center-right to neocon
think-tank
is advising Facebook on Latin America
content and on foreign policy and it's
already had a massive impact
on independent adversarial journalism on
u.s. foreign policy and there is
absolutely not only is it gonna favor
the right in terms of where capitals
will go it it it is I mean it are it
that's not even slippery slope it
already is barring a couple of top line
personalities that we all focus on the
structural creep of what already is
getting flattened and moved out of the
discourse is on the left and that's for
obvious reasons that of course capital
will favor the the right so I just think
like look it's both a bad play because
of the context we're in and I also think
which shouldn't we shouldn't lose sight
to of you know the other facets of this
as well which is that like these people
can be out and we can defeat them and
beat them and we don't have to kind of
play that cop hall monitor role here's
the thing though they're gonna do that
to the left no matter what the left up I
don't know I don't know about that they
are well I do and they will but wasn't
evidence for that like we have actual
evidence of how these things are working
we need to respond to like what the
actual evidence is versus respect you
could be right but that's not what the
reality is now so the reality I feel
like you don't think that they would
keep trying to deep platform it's going
down if the left stop trying to do
platform Gavin McInnes because I think
they would possible and one thing I know
what is right what is is smart is they
use absolutely every tool in their
toolbox and they don't have
conversations like this unless it's in a
totally disingenuous way the only
benefits but I guess the problem is
they're sharpening the tools for them
right you're giving them I don't agree
they have more tools they have more
advantages and your hand like again we
don't operate in an idealized world I'm
having the conversation as if it's
already baked in that they have
structural I think you cannot to give
them I think they invented this and the
left has picked it up because the vast
majority of instances where people have
been harassed D platformed forced to
leave their jobs it's been for
expressing left-wing views I mean my
worry with the with and I think the
examples of Sargon and Gavin and Milo
beam to public
think it has damaged their careers and
probably definitely minimize their
ability to damage society but I worry
that the availability of those case
studies is overshadowing things like the
crimes of Britain accounts that get shut
down or that no it was Sergei to tell
the sir I mean it's a classic like the
headlines tell like look at these
companies they're cracking down on the
alright but the structural instruments
that are being put into place from the
Google algorithm searches to Facebook
certainly Twitter accounts in fact
Twitter accounts still are you know
there is there's satiric left-wing
personalities that have been banned and
Richard Spencer is still on so the top
line is that even in this like it's
already being lost on the left so maybe
look maybe the most practical answer is
and like you know there's conversations
that people are having about this that
maybe will come out down the road is
really just being like there needs to be
at least on like the patreon level some
type of explicitly left platform yeah I
and that because that I agree with you
here stay tuned man if you had so if you
have these sort of different you know
patreon sort of services or you know
personal services they're not normalized
by being on the same platform as
everybody else so it's like oh come on
you know this was how Milo got as far as
he did it's like oh he he's you know
he's just you know he's not that bad and
look he's on this thing and he's talking
on that thing he's humping we're sharing
this space with them if people have to
go to the place that says like in their
mission statement we're totally good
with neo-nazis and Liars then people
know that going I agree with that I
agree with that I also just want to say
too that another reason that Milo got
really punctured was because of also
just like like that BuzzFeed report on
Milo is I mean there was there was the
comment that people dug up the
pedophilia thing which I don't remember
but that was one and and to be honest
with you my read on that was that he was
already on the way out anyways I was
Dean screaming yeah they would have they
would have
run interference for him because that's
exactly the type of comment that he
would make and see like who I was just
joking and get away with so I don't know
about that but the BuzzFeed report that
actually was like all right this isn't
speculative like this is the pipeline
this is the piece and Breitbart this is
how they advise like actual act of white
nationalists this is how it gets
reframed and laundered for you know that
was devastating because it it shut down
a whole spectrum of the conduit
bullshit's conversations from people
like dave rubin who did the ideas and
then it was like okay this is the actual
idea process and that was you know that
was frankly just journalism and analysis
I think that really bought him no and it
destroyed their entire sort of finely
tuned yeah dog whistle in there exactly
that was so careful to not be racist and
fascist and bigoted but you know you
just scrape the surface a little bit and
it just ripped the whole thing off and I
had you know a total ripple effect
because now we can apply that rubric to
other people look his rhetoric is
exactly the same things that Milo was
saying you know so obviously he's you
know that's what Star gonzo stick you
know he was recently I heard him on a
Kevin Logan podcast and they ripped him
apart calling him names tore his
argument apart repeatedly and were
totally disrespectful to him he's really
fun sounds like other way to learn
following my lead - how did debates
kosher well he came away from it like he
took all the jabs all rode
gender-specific name-calling at him and
all this stuff and came away like I can
take it because I'm in the marketplace
of ideas so it was like yeah it was fun
to watch him just get ripped apart but
he just laughed it off right and so
that's again where that BuzzFeed article
is so important because he's not an
honest actor he's not sargon isn't
debating issues give me a break
hundred percent oh you you hundred
percent either a lot and for what it's
worth and this is where it's the last
thing I'll say I think where there's
value in defending like the actual
liberal bujji values that anybody who I
think is just even contextually
honest like if you're you know in your
early 30s in the United States of
America even in a radically changed
political situation you're gonna want to
preserve some of these things that we
call Buju or whatever the hell and
frankly I think for what it's worth the
Milo case is actually an example of the
most potent thing that really destroyed
him
was aggressive smart First Amendment
enabled investigative journalism and
that's when where he was totally
destroyed that was when the book company
dropped his book and now he's a joke so
I mean I feel like these are all men
these liberal media platforms who still
think that they can be neutral and
provide an equal amount of time to these
people they need to wake up because
throughout history we've seen fascists
do not respect their liberal values and
they're going to use any platform
they're given against them no doubt
Richard Spencer we played a clip of him
yeah you're an ass no he said we'll use
it and then we get in power we get rid
of the First Amendment yeah yeah so he
doesn't care about free speech and I
realize I do yeah and I realized that
most of these companies are more likely
to break for the right then the left
when push comes to shove but they should
be a little smarter than that
about it because the fascists are not on
their side
well I unlike you as a socialist versus
anarchist I have no trust in the
companies having that elegance just I'm
not I'm a communist with anarchists
leaning just an update on the IDW
patreon Exodus that's right they're not
doing it well Jordan Peterson and Dave
Rubin are still on patriarch really
seriously I'm actually making stupid
money what am I supposed to do you mean
maybe we should have had the replacement
set up guys so there's a really
interesting question which is also
Sargon I'll just an interview and it's
time to do in an exile but Carl Jung was
with Ezra Pound and Allen Dulles and
like we just have $30,000 coming in a
month so we just walk away from that
yeah and of course the answer is no I
mean that would be chaos
so what do you do so Socialists I mean
Sam Harris gets the shut down his
patreon because he's literally like I
mean this is material interest okay I
haven't it like look Dave Rubin in
Jordan Peterson definitely make more
money than they should make in my
estimation but they are not trust fund
babies as far as I understand Sam Harris
can do the patreon flourish because he
is literally like Scrooge McDuck in
golden girls money okay like he can do
that little play Dave Rubin I mean I'm
sure he gets plenty of you know
corporate money but I think he does have
actual patrons and part of his budget is
actually Al is actually like oh I need
this 3,200 patrons yeah so that's real I
also find it telling that the thing that
really turned the right against Milo was
him talking granted in a very flippant
way about something that I've heard a
lot of my gay male friends talk about
which was oh yeah my first sexual
experience was with an older dude and
you know maybe that was a little creepy
on his part but I feel okay about it and
this is the thing and conservatives were
like oh no no no we can't have that
because I knew at the end of the day
they were gonna reject him for being gay
not for being a fascist or whatever I
didn't follow that story very much but I
do recall to echo what you're saying
that when he when I heard that clip it
was like yes it was like first of all if
you had friends like that or gay men it
wasn't such an entirely shocking thing
to hear necessarily and it was also like
there was some things he said around it
as I recall that were actually really
gross that weren't just that but I do
remember being like this dude said like
literally hundreds of worse than this to
me like him joking about his childhood
sexual assault like to almost feel
better about it yeah yeah it was
probably one of course on the all right
the most like
humanizing potentially controversial
thing you'd say would be what would get
you what is it
I've got 7,000 451 the hatred yeah a lot
of patrons so yeah maybe you served on a
less french fries he would be in a
different shape what I would what is it
what a different comedy podcast has
9,000 something oh nice
I was all right patreon.com slash t mb/s
so I think the yeah I mean no I well
yeah we I think we covered a lot of it
speaking of which uh Dave Rubin did this
interview it's not on the sheet what is
this gentleman's name that Dave Rubin
interviewed it's Imam till wall D I
think he is and he's a not he's based in
Australia and sort of the best Imams go
and all the best imam imam tohe he D in
WOM tiny now I've tried to read about
this guy because it's like he basically
tweets out like the most far-right ultra
extreme uh you know anti-muslim
anti-immigrant give me do you have some
examples of things he's tweeted give us
a flavor ok Imams
I wish I this is just it's a picture of
Tony Robinson who was a British
anti-muslim fascist guy said if Tommy
Robbins head looked like this his right
to free speech will be protected I'm
just going to put this in front of
Michael's camera
[Laughter]
okay it's it's a it's a it's a Muslim
man with a beard it's Tommy Robinson
Photoshop to be wearing Muslim garb
that's awesome alright so so basically
like and what I'm trying to say here
though is as you can even get by that
tweet maybe we'll have a few others
this is not this isn't like Nawaz Majid
Nawaz like plausible deniability sort of
like pseudo intellectual liberalism
counterterrorism talk you know this
isn't just sort of like the middle brow
neocon to neoliberal with some
conspiracies sprinkled in that you get
from majid this is like the most pure
like even the most self-critical like
maybe i inertially might occasionally
say something like this although she's
not as dumb and she's also like I'm not
a Muslim like I'm done with it I hate
Islam I'm not into it
there is no person who is gonna still
wear religious garb and be an imam who
is just like yeah we're just horrible
and any any far-right any conspiracy
theory any xenophobia anything I'm gonna
endorse on Twitter because ironically or
maybe not that ironically all these
right wing idiots that follow me
actually are pure credulous
essentialists who are not able to
discern anything so let's just get to
the clip it's fine we can deal with it
after yeah oh that clip that's right
let's play that clip so of course this
guy zero credibility so where would you
go you go to the zero credibility zone
itself dave rubin
at least because you know in iraq we had
the same situation how did isis get in
isis got into iraq because certain
politicians played the diversity game
you know why have borders with saudi
arabia why have a war just let the
deserts be open and then these cars came
in from
the world and they took over 40 minutes
away from Baghdad I mean then
politicians when they're okay so and and
Dave Rubens just like sitting there just
like well like do you think one out back
when Jesus was round where the Muslims
that he spent time with nicer me those
working conditions that you're gonna
build a wall across the Saudi Arabian
desert what are those gonna be there's
gonna be a lot you guys have a lot of
supreme water I bet yeah you ready got
spring water for the people um so I mean
I I don't even know I mean that that's
just so catastrophic lead oculi he's
talking about Isis and Curzon's in Iraq
and I think 2014 now there was a pretty
strong border between Iraq and its
neighbors when Iraq wasn't warring with
its neighbors under Saddam Hussein and
the first sort of foreign invasion the
modern era of Iraq that you know I guess
one way of putting it would be opened up
its borders was of course the US UK mass
bombardment and invasion and occupation
of that country I mean that this is a
type of talking point that I have to I
mean I'm trying to get more amenable to
debating and reasoning everything out
but if you think that that's a credible
statement you're almost as dumb as Dave
Rubin do we have any more tweets from
this guy okay so basically I mean this
guy I am the enemy cursory and there's
all sorts of questions about his
religious credentials and where he comes
from this is the top this is the top ear
ABBA's ensuite Imams whole wall D Tommy
looked like this is right to free speech
would have been protected Tommy
Robinson yeah Tommy Robinson or you
know you wanna what's the what's the one
that's is exposed
let's see what the expose oh I don't
know if this is when you call terrorism
is when you call what you call terrorism
is called God's law and Saudi Arabia in
Iran there's always a special budget for
a God's law in any
Islamic government so Islam memes yeah
this is a great this is a great grift
it's a great business the right does not
know how to be him this is a great
business I saw funny one of those not to
deal with it but these free Tommy
Robinson okay so basically I mean you
know I the question for somebody like
this to be honest is gonna be how far
the laundering goes because Dave Rubin
obvious like he is no editorial
standards he's not bright
he's totally credulous the Sam Harris
has Sam Harris embraced this guy yet
that's a question like doesn't move up
the food chain does this guy have like a
Bill Maher segment with Bill Maher as I
can when I don't understand is the
Muslims the thing is is like that's and
some ways the the the way to watch Dave
Rubin is like he swims in the sewage and
then he's sort of like a sewage scout
for kind of like the soft all right or
just even just sort of general
anti-muslim whatever nonsense and
conspiracy theories Sam Harris might
have been tweet might have tweeted about
him but I can't I'm blocked so I can't
really read it the tweet that I can read
is Sam Harris saying this was remarkably
honest and refreshing why aren't most
Imams like this but I'm not Walter
that's him it's him he's tweeting there
you go so some nurse is on the grift
then and that's him Sam Harris I know
he's not even in on the grift Sam Harris
is in on the delusion that's how you
should look at it I mean this is a guy
that you hold up as having some type of
extraordinary intellect and oh my god
that's what he quote that's what Sam
Harris that Wow I promise future
segments on who this Imam for peace
really is thought it was a Sacha Baron
Cohen we litters in - yeah I thought it
was a Sacha Baron Cohen character -
maybe he is maybe it's a long time
remarkable honesty thank you you
confirmed all of my prejudices by our
inability to read history or policy
thank you
why aren't most of
mom's like this yep why don't most of
moms hate their own communities and
advocate for systemic repression of them
thank you
I'd be like it was like finding like
like you know that would be likely going
to the rabbis that go to like the
Holocaust denial conference doc Medina
JA did who are just like like like they
either deny the Holocaust or like you to
live happens because the wounds for
doing Jewish law and then you quote
tweet them and you're like thank you why
can't more rabbis speak like this
the honesty is refreshing Jesus Christ
and by the way another button that you
have to put on uni I realize down in the
YouTube world you need to button things
because there's all these various
versions of literalist idiots out there
none of this implicates you can
criticize Islam you can be an ex-muslim
you can object to religion you can
criticize the policies of Saudi Arabia
Iran whatever you have to disaggregate
that from being a far-right wing
xenophobe who is historically
anthropologically and politically
illiterate that's the point it's not
terribly complicated I had the most
sympathy in this scene for X Muslims who
grew up in abusive environments as many
people do in you know in various
contexts but certainly in the context of
religious fundamentalism but I will say
there's a podcast I believe it's called
difficult conversations is that thank
you
ina who's a notic conversation polite
how excuse me polite conversations I
know she's in she's anonymous now her
whole career I mean she you know she's a
really good podcast she's got a good
amount of Twitter followers check her
out on patreon boy children's books I
think right I think so
she's my point is she's successful she
but she still has to work other jobs to
support herself and it is very
specifically because she and there's
actually some areas that I I think I
disagree with her on certain
personalities and certain policies and
so on although I always enjoyed to
conversate
we had was great I have a lot of respect
for her the fact that she has not
embraced turned her critique of a
community which is valid and her
personal trauma which reflects systemic
problems that are real the fact that she
has not turned it into a bigoted grift
on behalf of the most reactionary forces
in US and European society has held her
back and that tells you everything about
these people and I would recommend
checking out her pocket yeah yeah the
bar is so low for somebody who's willing
to do that kind of scary it's funny
person look at Brendan stroker not to
bring him up again well we talked about
that guy way too much Jamie Brandon stop
saying Brendan I'm dragging my name wait
wait
Brandon stroker Brandon stroker
perestroyka do you know what that is man
I'm sure he's watching this brent is
Rhonda know what perestroika was no I
don't think so perestroika was a
partnership between Ronald Reagan and
Mikhail Gorbachev often bring coca-cola
to the Soviet Union
say it in your next video yeah that took
down the wall
yeah operation to bring boob blue jeans
The Velvet Underground in coca-cola to
the Soviet Union you're calling from a
to one for area code who are you where
are you calling from
hey this is why I'm in LA originally
from Dallas hey William what's going on
they actually have a comment about
yesterday's talk with Sam somebody
talking about slavery in the Civil War
and Sam had a question about just how
different the north and south were at
the time and how that sort of led up to
the war okay cool so just to kind of
give some background
the the south and the north are very
different economically at the beginning
of the colonial period Ryan the South
being much more of a plantation slave
labor economy the North sort of an
amalgamation of commercial interests
including banking trade front earing
homesteading not too much interesting
there and while the South was
substantially more wealthy than the
north you know you still had quite a bit
of an equality in the south and the
systems were pretty much compatible at
the founding of the Constitution but
basically everything changed in the
Industrial Revolution the reason it
changes because of value value added
manufacturing where say you know $100
bale of cotton could be imported and
turned to textiles that could be been
sold for five hundred dollars in a way
that wasn't possible before the
invention of heavy machinery and
industrial processes so the South
actually shipped so so way decision this
is fascinating but you got a we got to
get somewhere click because we're we're
tight today so could you I mean I'm I
wish we had more time actually because
I'm interested in this but just what's
the point yes so basically when the
north ended up industrializing they
brought they were able to just basically
control Congress because they had a
majority of the population in the United
States because they brought in
immigrants to have cheap labor in the in
the factories and they also had more
westward expansion into Indian
territories to basically when the Senate
for for slave states and it's because
the the North adapted capitalism were
quickly that ironically
you know ended up bringing them to a
point where they could control the south
and end up you know having the power to
say abolish slavery or to you know
change the ways that's exactly how it
played out though because there was
still literally a civil war and I I know
I get what you're saying but that's not
exactly how
played out because they literally needed
to fight a massive and complicated civil
war which also included I'm looking into
this more because I want to do more
content on this but even like like free
state of Jones things like some types of
internal conflicts in the South there
were not in any significant measure but
there were southern factions that fought
against the Confederates because they
realized that they were on the bottom of
the economic totem pole um so so I mean
I'm but I'm just I'm not it's a
fascinating point but I just think it
shouldn't be I don't I don't want some
libertarian listening to misinterpret
what we're saying as an endorsement of
the capitalism gradually evolves us from
slavery argument because that isn't how
it happened there was a civil war didn't
adopt capitalism right because where was
that cotton going it was going by the
factories like it was all part of a
supply chain that's right and that is
intimately linked with the rise of
slavery as well definitely slavery was
absolutely built I mean
allowed for American captains one of the
engines as an engine of America the
North's hands were not clean on that no
debt one neither anybody else and up
until like this right there's also that
Calhoun and like the South's distinct
foreign policy and the through line that
goes into modern libertarians today
actually so but that's fascinating man I
appreciate the call thank you thank you
all right let's do these sounds Joe
Biden he's thinking about running for
president all right I'm gonna continue
to unpopular ly say this on the show
he's a capable politician I think if he
was the nominee I think Bernie certainly
would have won and I think Bernie was
you know obviously is what we need but
you know Joe Biden would have smoked
Donald Trump we have an opportunity to
actually assess candidates on the merits
whether they be Bernie Sanders Kamala
Harris beta or or any of them for what
we actually need to do to not only get
out of the crisis we're in but actually
solve long-term problems so that the
crisis is not replicated
and Joe Biden was a hell of a lot more
to get back into about this guy the
bankruptcy bill Iraq his role in the
drone program during the Obama
administration
I need a hill the crime bill this is a
bad record the Biden crime bill he's
gonna talk about the violence against
women prevention broad provision in it
which we like but that whole bill is
hugely catastrophic side note Bernie
Sanders did vote for that bill whole
this mistake however the same people
that are Hakham for it most of them the
people they support if they were in
politics not only supported that bill
they helped write it and also if he had
voted against it because on the totality
of it it was a mass attack on poor and
people of color and an expansion of the
prison industrial complex those same
people would say Bernie Sanders voted
for violence against women so watch out
for that but this is Joe Biden today in
2018 showing us that he just does not
get it
one first I think we have to do is we
have to deal with income inequity
I love Bernie but I'm not Bernie Sanders
I don't think 500 billionaire's or the
reason why we're in trouble
I hope my grandkids grow up to be don't
listen to their parents who all decided
to do something run the World Food
Program run the another would be
Attorney General another one run a
social organization for at-risk youth
you know we got all this education and I
said you know I should have had a
Republican kid
so when they put me in a home I'd have a
window with a view you know what I mean
but now there's gonna be no view but all
kidding aside there's we have not seen
this huge concentration of wealth and
the folks at top aren't bad guys I get
in trouble in my party when I say
wealthy Americans are just as patriotic
as poor folks I found no distinction I
really haven't
but this gap is yawning its gaping and
it's having the effect of pulling us
apart you see the politics of it and the
country is not gonna stand for it
forever so we have to deal with the tax
code it's wildly skewed toward taking
care of those at the very top its favors
overwhelmingly favors investors over
workers and it's riddled with
unproductive expenditures okay I mean so
look so he ends a little bit better
there with a kind of basic center-left
message which was again I'm sure it gets
worse again which we've sort of moved
the party in the right direction of in
large part due to Bernie Sanders but you
know there's a lot going on there and I
think and part of it I'll just talk
about this clinically he's stuck in the
80s and 90s there was a time when
objectively believe it or not not only
did the Democratic Party need to
socially signify on things like race and
crime and welfare in very reactionary
ways that Bill Clinton was the exemplar
of but they actually did need to signify
on capitalism and comfort with business
there's no you know there's no mystery
why when this stuff started to migrate
across the Atlantic that one of the Tony
Blair's top associates said that New
Labour was intensely relaxed about
people getting ultra rich and that was
in a government that won a massive
landslide like we have to be real that
there was a time where there was an
electorate for this stuff it's rapidly
disappearing
and even the center-left so he's just
historically out of date
- well let's pivot it either way
is it about them personal moral
shortcomings of billionaires no it's
about a structure that rewards incumbent
wealth systemically so if you don't want
to personalize it you can say hey maybe
all these billionaires are the nicest
people on earth whatever blah blah blah
but actually structurally it is designed
literally exclusively to benefit these
people in their corporations and that's
why you have the issues he identified
like income inequality now third though
and this is where the two trains of
thought collide with each other and
become a big problem we've actually
learned that it's a hell of a lot more
effective as a campaign strategy to say
the millionaires and the billionaires
because it simplifies and distills and
gets us away from all the neoliberal
Wong curry and the West Wing
nonsense that he's doing there for
actual for the simplified version of the
real case about structural inequity and
who the economy is designed to support
and not and just as a final addendum
well they might not all be bad people
there sure are endless stories of
scumbag billionaires that you can
happily pepper your campaign with to
fill in the detail on why none of these
people should have the resources they
have yeah you can hate the player and
the game I firmly believe but it does
speak to some of the limitations of left
populism right because obviously it's a
huge improvement over right-wing
populism which is you know many would
say a phony populism but it still it
personalizes the issue and makes it
about individuals and then being good or
bad people where we should be talking
about the system that allows for that
kind of wealth accumulation and it is a
lot harder like it's politically more
it's a more complex difficult thing to
talk about but I would like to see
Bernie start to do that I mean I think
it's just much easier to tell people
what a capitalist is and what capitalism
is basically that's fundamentally when
it comes down to and when you get people
to understand that capitalists are the
ones making your
Asians it's which is basically like you
know whether you said complain about
bureaucrats like you want bureaucrats
making all these decisions right yeah
now it's Jeff Bezos it's not much of an
improvement do you want corporate
bureaucrats mate do you want corporate
oligarchs making your corporate oligarch
bureaucracies making your decisions and
of course the big functional difference
is that even those old bureaucracies
which were not moving towards and we
actually want to evolve out of - they
were at least and you see this today
they're they're actually trying to
benefit you on some level which is a
radical difference although I think to
Matt's point saying that it's Jeff Bezos
much better I believe that Amazon is the
most trusted institution by Democrats
we're going door-to-door and talking to
people in Long Island City and elsewhere
because people need to know yeah
Amazon's just now started targeting the
low-performing products on its website
it's coming yeah they ever made their
thing yeah Amazon is good it's coming in
Amazon it's coming you're calling from a
7000 area code who are you calling from
James from Denver James what's going on
man um I am just calling because why is
everybody shooting on Angela Nagel now
oh you really want to talk I don't think
we have time call for 210 Tucker Carlson
talking about immigration in a way that
was friendly I mean look I'm not gonna
she she published a very very bad
article called the socialist case
against open borders in which she either
ignorant Lee or you know just on purpose
disingenuously conveyed some extremely a
historical and just false arguments and
about immigration all right I think
these data from right-wing think tanks
and kind of told on herself I think that
okay
and I did a full episode just showing
well like with an actual labor historian
breaking down the lies and the bad
arguments that she was using and then
people like Tucker Carlson use as well
alright I think that and I'm not gonna
I'm just not gonna dwell too much on
this but I think that okay there's a
there's a context behind this Angela
Nagle thing I know that this upsets a
lot of people but it is what it is
she wrote a book that is a good book it
is a very worthwhile book to read to
understand some of the end time dynamics
of the last couple of years when I had
her on my show I challenged her on some
of the broader historical context of
that book I don't agree with all of her
assertions but I agree with a lot of
them and I think it's been really
unfortunate because I think that there
has been a sort of symbiotic cycle in
the last couple of years of look there's
plenty of things to criticize her on but
some of the criticisms of her are
ridiculous like people calling her
analogy okay people were calling and
that's what we're saying she did a
podcast with sargon of akkad
which isn't true he uploaded it she
debated him at the University in Ireland
and she made him look stupid as
right no there's a lot I think I mean
that is a bad move to go on Tucker
Carlson but let me let me just say how
people just get rid of people I hundred
percent agree with you I I think they're
the vampyre castle is very alive and
well it's a big problem and I don't
support it but I will say this that
piece again okay some people said she's
shown herself to be a Nazi or whatever
that's ridiculous okay I don't like what
she did show herself to be in that piece
is kind of economically illiterate and
making basically a third way Clinton
style argument it wasn't a Nazi argument
it was a Clintonian argument which was a
not only was it profoundly the wrong
time to write that piece in terms of
like the actual reality of what's
happening at the border it also uh it
ironically like because so much of the
drama around Nagel has nothing to do
with like the real stuff in the world
it's all of these inter scene debates
some of which are important some of
which would be better if people just
logged off but it read to me like she's
fed up for some very justifiable reasons
and also she doesn't absorb valid
criticisms it's a dialectic in my view
but she's fed up and then she goes and
she's gonna write like a kind of
you piece to the left and then the foot
and then the proxy for that is
immigration which like in the real world
what's happening right now is that
there's no open borders argument that's
on the table that's an irrelevant that's
that's a red herring on in two ways one
is that the left socialist utopian no
borders thing has nothing to do with
anything that we're dealing with today
whether you agree with it or not it's
irrelevant
sorry hard fact that is the mainstream
position on the Socialist Left so her
position I don't know mainstream one on
the Socialist Left whatever I mean I'm
talking like on an actual even even
socialist that are more policy oriented
are gonna are know that there is a
process by which it gets there right
like that's not nobody is in a
discussion today saying like oh yeah
tomorrow we're gonna just shut down all
borders that's not what's happening it's
a horizon sure and it's a horizon that I
agree with and I'm happy to say that but
it has nothing to do with what we're
talking about right what people are
talking about is a horrific alieve Isle
n't apparatus that is abusing people in
some of the most obscene and barbarous
ways imaginable and then and other
things just to add to it to uh you know
the libertarian version of quote-unquote
open borders ain't open it's highly
controlled highly bureaucratized
very violent but it just moves cheap
labor so you know look go to Dubai super
easy to move
their labor lines there's zero rights
for people right you know what I'm
saying so that's another thing it's the
rhetorically it's totally different and
the actual meat of it is having a
critique of ice and things like that
then the third point is and we're on
just an a hard-headed way and Bhaskar su
carro went off on this
it just isn't it's not an economically
viable argument because we've already
globalized to such an extent that you're
not going to just be able to like like
the engine of what drives wages down is
the corporate sector it's not immigrants
and so your analyzation of migration as
well drives wages down for everybody
agree with that but I'm saying it's just
a baseline like where we put our focus
of analysis is the corporate sector not
migrants so it depends where do you want
to start your argument if you start your
argument if like the world is as it is
and it's a given maybe you can make some
little tweak cases that a few more
low-income jobs would open up without
immigrants but if you want to make the
bigger case for restoring the social
democracy and enhancing standards
internationally then there has to be a
globally synchronised a movement and the
last thing I will dinger on which I and
this is harder for me cuz again she
wrote a good book she's not a secret
fascist or Nazi and some of the
criticisms of her have been insane and
ridiculous
I agree I don't believe in getting rid
of people like that I'm with you but
this piece sucked and the need to did
and this is even before we get to the
tucker carlson appearance and then the
last thing i'll say which really started
this is when I started to get irritated
when I read the piece she's making all
these arguments and it's like well why
don't we go to the afl-cio website and
see what their position on these issues
is and their position is as a mainstream
you know non radical not like we're
gonna all have daffodils and dance
together in the park and play drums in a
socialist utopia but as a
on-the-ground
powerful but under assault Union in 2018
America is a hundred percent Pro
solidarity and immigration
and that has infinitely more credibility
than any of the like right-leaning
scholar she's working from as well as
the fact that she yes she didn't paint a
fully historicized view of some of those
previous anti-immigration moves which
absolutely were racialized so look I'm
down I'm never gonna do this like who oh
she's done she's cancelled I don't like
that culture I don't support it I would
have conversations with Angela Nagel I
think it's a great debate to have and I
also think there's another counter
tendency of other people who have
rightly reacted against that culture the
vampire culture the Marc Fisher essay
where now it's like all of a sudden like
we've got to defend her doing an
uncritical appearance on Tucker Carlson
we have to pretend that this article is
really important and really formidable
it's not sucks and doesn't mean she's
cancelled doesn't mean that I don't like
her book and it doesn't mean I think she
I'm just saying what I think and that's
not how I go about things and that and
that leaves me in a position ironically
where of course everybody's triggered by
that but that just is what it is
so I nominate sorry James go ahead and
then flow to Jamie but what I just I I
know you didn't want to go into that and
I really appreciate breaking it down cuz
it's just so hard to even find anyone
really disgusting as well you know
because I agree I couldn't tell what to
trust on a tape because it's like it
would either be these tank easily oh
she's cancelled blah blah or people were
like I can't even come with maybe you
aren't all right right now and other
I've said I really appreciate it and I
think it's it's good to get back to
dialogues with these things in the last
you know just uh I I don't know it was a
bad new piece but people make mistakes
whatever appreciate and I think there's
also market conversations because it's
also like frankly an it's as pure pure
speculation I don't know Angela Nagel so
this is pure speculation but I also
think like what is the relationship
between you know these dynamics and
depreciating work opportunities on the
Left I think it's a date I mean I hope
it doesn't become a
self-fulfilling prophecy I hope she
doesn't move to the right but I already
has well I don't one basis of what are
you saying I mean the publication that
published that piece was sort of founded
to become like the intellect people
published in right places
sometimes that's not inherently a
problem
so I'm sexy I mean I've met other issues
that she staked out has she been staking
other issues out with spiked is another
major red flag for me I don't know
making friends with some very
questionable but actual positions actual
thing yeah I mean okay what I was going
to say about killing armies was um when
that book first came out like I
acknowledge we all most of us
acknowledge that like this kind of
shrill nasty social justice warrior or
whatever is a thing on the liberal left
and if that was my only experience of
the left
I might not become a right winger but I
might just not do anything which is also
bad right right like I acknowledge
that's a problem and just I just want to
add because I think you're making a
really important point that was by the
way that's the main point of that book
people superficially or like her point
is is that because of tumblr the
alt-right exists okay and that is part
of what's going on in that book and
there's a little bit of validity to that
argument but that can be grossly
overstated but the bigger more important
point if you're really reading it is the
material conditions of 2012 were such
that there was a ripe time to have a
materialist left and then what had
become left and the mainstream culture
was just these like shadowboxing twitter
games and not solidarity and not
politics and that was correct and that
was an important critique here's the
thing like we should not critique those
people because they care too much about
like transgender rights or whatever we
should critique them because they're
liberals and they have no class politics
I don't and this isn't a problem that
I've seen on the Socialist Left in any
substantial way in the real world which
makes me think it's
it's been used as a bit of a straw man I
think in leftist circles in a way that I
don't like also if that's your bailiwick
I'm sorry I don't trust you what do you
mean belly like if that's your thing
you're very issue what's the people
sjw's or whatever the the mean when I
was a primary she wrote a critique to
because she saw a problem in left coal I
mean I don't know that makes it your
Bali wood but whatever I mean my pain
yeah like no I lost my train of thought
because I'm angry my point with the
Nagle thing was I I'm allergic to a lot
of the tribalism around all of this and
I think right you know and I find were
allergic to some of the tribalism even
today we were talking but like Rebecca
tracers very much not our politics
profoundly so but the like oh she's
canceled because she opposed Bernie like
I just know that I don't like this
and I regardless of where it goes even
with politics I really have very
different politics from and I I read
kill all normies because of the
controversy around it and I I understand
why people were upset with certain the
causality implication right of some of
the things she says right but I also
thought like the the her tactical
critiques of certain things that
obviously play into our a propaganda I
think is I think is a case that people
need to be allowed to make the thing
that I like bothered me about it wasn't
it was like my whole position on that
whole book was like I'm gonna wait til
the next thing she like let's see more
body of work I don't really care to
predict whether she's gonna go nazi or
not like that's not a game we've seen
more yeah I don't we don't that's what
I'm saying right so we see the we see
the the next piece that's where she
decided to go and then also the the new
Jill Lepore book basically reproduced
the most I think vulgar and offensive
thesis that you could pull like reduced
nagels book to as what the modern like
culture war is but that's on Jill Lepore
not Angela it is it is I totally I agree
with that but the problem actually
because Jill Lepore frankly is a more
highly credentialed more important
platform person than anybody else in
this conversation exactly that's why
it's like goddamnit like big right you
just keep running into like
to the point where like I I was on I was
basically on the I don't want to hear
about Nagle
because I think like the book is fine
for what it is and I don't think you can
draw any like larger conclusions about
it because who does that really serve
but then I think you know like what is
like the correct critique of the
immigration piece is on the economics
it's on some of the a history and it's
on the fact that it's it's it's 90s
style Clintonian politics literally as
evidenced by the fact that Hillary
Clinton echoed the sentiments on the
same week that the piece came out she
may make that critique and that was the
problem as soon as it came out I mean I
was more than happy to register because
I realized it was important for some
people because they you know sometimes
you know it's like they have a
perception that I had this huge
investment because I like the book and
I'm not willing to play the vampire game
with her but it's like I was totally
well I read a piece I did I thought it
was a I thought wasn't I mean I'll keep
using Adventism I thought to be sucked
and so I said so and I and I and Bosh
Carr had a much more elaborate thread on
it which I appointed people to but it
was like but then it was like and this
proves that she's like Himmler and it's
like okay let's just stop it's like
argue it's Clintonian it's a historical
those are those are in my world those
are plenty negative terms without making
up extra certainly but like you
gotta wonder why she's doing that I
don't play that to where that I don't
why she would be so disingenuous because
I don't think she's ignorant about the
left I think she's playing a game that's
really really creepy but what I was
gonna say before was there are
good-faith disagreements among leftists
about how to approach issues of
quote-unquote identity politics so and
this is something that Sean reminded me
actually when we were talking about
killin armies like you have to assume
good faith on the part of your fellow
leftist when you're arguing about these
things uh and after that immigration
take I don't anymore she's not getting
the benefit of the doubt for me okay
yeah I hear that and she she did not so
you know yeah I'm not
I don't you know a some of this is just
difference in methodologies and and ways
of argument but I look what I'll totally
say is yeah I mean that it was bad if
you were it's an amazing piece on
climate change I'll maybe changed my you
know I'm always open to new evident you
know my trouble you know but but it's
also like she wrote some very good
pieces for current affairs as recently
as like 2017 and it's like the ethos
that's like oh you tweet that out but
she's cancelled because of this all
that and frankly all that in the
opposite direction to I'll tweet out a
Rebecca traced ur piece of it's good I
don't play that game and we need to
radically decrease that way of going
about things across the board i
emotionally strategically politically
bad look thanks for the call brother or
maybe or maybe or maybe ill thanks for
the call because it could have been fun
and funny yeah I mean we're trying to
feel this is why the people who aren't
as plugged in to this stuff right this
is why you like is why you don't engage
[Laughter]
because it was like the smartest take
edges like this just walk away from
these dumpster fires like I think when
people just use it as like sort of
tribal signifiers it could be the
out of hundred percent and that's what
we just gotta get the away from and
also realize like we are all what does
bodega boys say God is working on all of
us I mean my god like and it's and and
then we spend time on you know look you
have McGinnis that's a pretty
easy - that's an easy one to figure out
most people certainly most people on the
left or have a lot more complicated
thanks man I don't remember which I
think it was the Chapo pre-recorded
callin episode but I think Matt Chrisman
had a good take on the inner fighting of
the left that I found very bored easily
i I can't do it justice because I can't
monologue like that guy but basically
that I want to drink
okay I love Christmas no Christmas Oh
check that out he's super astute about
stuff like that I might be more on
Virgil's side in that discussion but
also I think they could have had it for
longer
let's do we got to get going oh I'm
sorry guys we got to get out of here all
right we got to play sorry yes let's do
this let's play one last piece of sound
this was great on on jaded artists
I would like props for at least 50%
improvement over Sam's pronunciation of
his name he was speaking at the Davao a
an ey event and shikaku sees me he's
being in the Chicago ideas festival
which was sponsored in part by ey
company called a why and Ernst & Young
Ernst & Young which is uh what is it
it's an accounting company right yeah
it's a big global accounting
conglomerate and he noticed something
about another event that he had been to
or another event no I understand but
he's can earn it he he also noticed that
he why Ernst and Young had sponsored
another event as well the small point I
couldn't help noticing we got a why
sponsoring theirs and they're sponsoring
ideas and I want to leave them with an
idea today as of this as of today
they're still listed in the knowledge
partners of the Saudi investment
conference the Davos in the desert how
many of you want to encourage them to
pull out if they haven't already have
that conference good
I just I couldn't I hope you'll excuse
me but that's what ideas are for and and
and we got to be real beautiful the
small point I couldn't help notice not
only so that's so beautiful and so
perfect and I can't help but echo cuz I
guess part of the theme of today's show
is this you know it's common thing like
that's what call-out culture is for in
the main is the powerful institutions
that run this planet and him using a
platform like that which could have
serious consequences to break that kind
of social convention is just incredible
alright final call then I'll read a few
items and then we are out of here sorry
I cannot get to all calls my apologies
but you've been on the line for a while
you're calling from a four eight four
area code who are you where you calling
from yes oh hey what's on your mind then
what's your name my name is Mauricio I
was calling I've been wanting to tell
you this for a while I do share a lot of
your positions and policy positions here
in the US but I do think that the left
doesn't talk enough or it doesn't really
attack enough they've been form
government and the Venezuelan case and
that hurts the best movement here
because they leave a room open for to
attack did you could you do me a favor
man and I'm really sorry but I'm I'm
actually trying to respect what you're
doing because I think you're raising
actually a really important point and we
really need to go in a minute
could you either call tonight on my show
or call you know another time I'm
hosting I I think in short though we
would have to really spell out
specifically what you're talking about I
know in the case of this show as an
example I know that you know we're
perfectly willing to criticize the
shortcomings of an example the Maduro
but I also know that in the mean my job
is to oppose US intervention and us
interference that's that's really my
basic position but I have no you know I
don't need to have a fantasy version of
you know of a government just because
it's on the left now that being said you
know there's other examples where I
think there's just an inaccurate us view
of things that are you know actually
very defensible and very important and
obviously I'm thinking of the Workers
Party governments that were in Brazil
does that make sense yeah okay brother
please call back cuz that's a great
topic I appreciate it I'll get to you
next time first thanks a million okay
folks the sargon getting banned thing is
interesting and that all of a sudden the
people on the right are suddenly
concerned about a giant companies with
wield over the power giant companies
will over the lives does that mean that
they might opt for a critique of
capitalism now no they will blame
cultural Marxist as you say I just want
bitter capitalists yeah all right
what up mr crew can you tell can you
tell chuck schumer that we haven't that
we haven't been serious and only kidding
the entire time we're sorry america left
his best I'll tell him tonight okay sure
yeah well tell him in the conference
call okay Marlo is threatened to expose
undocumented students I didn't remember
what it was I just knew that it with my
low there's a totally different dynamic
than just speech let's see let's see
alright the final I am of the day goes
to Maddie youth speaking of Jill Lepore
does Mr crew have any thoughts on these
truths its I don't know for your
eighth-grade nephew or niece I don't
know I thought its kind of
[Music]
instead of a final I am fanfare I gave
Matt a final dis fanfare he'd Hobsbawm
read Hobbs mom I as always I appreciate
everybody thanks I think it's very fun
when four of us are bantering thanks
everybody we're back live tomorrow see
you tonight Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel in Matt's it goes back to get
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
that
yeah
no the clock is ticking
[Music]
I
choice was made for the
you don't get paid
called rub their business
I guess she fell off sweet ride
Jeter takes yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
whether
[Music]
