so Paul Joe Biden perhaps the most well
known of I guess we would call him a
potential candidate at this point could
could announce that he's coming in any
moment let's just talk about let's just
start with you know what your sense is
of how he is seen by the a large portion
of the Democratic Party today because it
has been it has been almost 10 well 12
years in some ways since he's had his
own identity that wasn't so tied into
the Obama presidency but give me your
sense of just like you know what what
the what the thumbnail of Joe Biden is
today I think we're going to see and
maybe we're already seeing a big
generational divide and how Democrats
view him because he is in many ways such
a kind of old-school politician in both
style and substance and you're right you
know he was a guy who had been in the
Senate for over 30 years ran for
president unsuccessfully a couple times
and then when Obama plucked him to be
his vice president you know that kind of
gave him a new political life and by all
accounts he was a very successful vice
president especially when it came to
getting the stimulus implemented that
was that was something that that people
who reported on that which are not very
many reporters since it didn't that
since that kind of stuff doesn't get a
lot of attention
they say he really did a terrific job on
that but now he is as you say coming out
and kind of presenting himself at his
own as his own man anew and we're seeing
all the things about his his prior
record get re-examined in the light of
how people look at politics and things
like gender relations in 2019 and so
he's got a lot of his record that he can
point to that's very positive but also
things like what he his management of
the Clarence Thomas confirmation
hearings
are getting revaluated his work on the
1994 crime bill which was extremely
harsh you know his things like that are
getting viewed again and and you get
kind of get the sense that he's not
necessarily so prepared for this ya know
and and right now he doesn't have a
campaign which I think may make it a
little worse as this new controversy
over his hands eNOS has come up you know
he doesn't have an apparatus he's not
out there every day talking to reporters
and to voters he's just got a couple of
sort of spokespeople around him who are
trying to handle it but I think this
this is an interesting sort of symbolic
moment even beyond the the substance of
how he deals with people and what that
says about him you you're seeing this
this politician who's in his mid 70s
suddenly have to account for behaviors
that he'd been doing forever right but
suddenly are being judged by a different
set of standards right I mean that is a
an apt metaphor in many respects because
the the ground has shifted it seems to
me so dramatically over the past five to
ten years maybe even the less maybe
maybe a more narrow but but certainly in
the wake of the financial crisis I think
which is what brought a lot of this
stuff to head and of course other
cultural the socio-cultural dynamics but
let me ask you this let's just start
with this because you know you mentioned
the Joe Biden has run for president at
least two other times I think it was and
he you know he wasn't it wasn't close
right like he wasn't one of those people
came in like third he was one of those
people who was out really early in in
both instances of course back I think it
was in 88 he was out because of a
plagiarism scandal and and we can talk
about that but well let me ask you this
why do you think he's waited so long to
get in I mean that's you know and and
and and and I bring this up because I
want to first deal with his skillset as
a politician and then go back on his
record which I think you know oddly
enough there's a generational divide
in terms of Joe Joe Biden but the the
generation that's not aware of some of
his politics I think from back in the
day the tend to be the the most
skeptical of him which is which is an
interesting dynamic but but just in
terms of his skill of as a politician
like why what's the theory with him
waiting this long do you think if he
ultimately decides to run or maybe he
hasn't decided to run well you know the
interesting thing about him is that
unlike many politicians he's never been
coy about his desire to be President but
you know Cece just always seem to
conspire against him and she said the
first time he ran he had that plagiarism
scandal and pulled out before there were
any votes the second time he ran in 2008
he he did really poorly in the Iowa
caucus and then pulled out right after
Iowa and so that was it for him then you
know he signed on as a as Obama's vice
president and in 2016 he surely wanted
to run again but was basically you know
looked at the situation and was made to
understand that you know this was
Hillary Clinton's turn and the whole
party was lining up behind her and he
was going to have a very tough time but
he never let go of his desire to be
President and so this time around you
know I think that he really has seemed
like he can't decide if if he can really
do it or not you know is he too old are
there too many other new and interesting
candidates is going to be too difficult
so I think that's been the delay but I
think he also has felt probably with
some with some justification if he looks
at the polls he can say well you know
I'm still the most known I'm at the top
of the polls you know I'm pulling twenty
five thirty percent more than anybody
else you know Bernie Sanders may be
close behind but but he probably thinks
you know I don't need to you know you
know beat better will Rorick to the next
event because I can I can get in a
little later so I think that's probably
what what he's thinking but he's never
he never made any bones about the fact
that he wants to that he would like to
be President and he thinks he should be
do you think that he's been kind of you
know I
in terms of this period where you know
they run up to him running that I can
think of two occasions where he and he's
probably done more but I and I haven't
been you know I haven't been watching
him closely where he has done this thing
where he he crosses himself as a good
Catholic and and says something to the
effect of forgive me Father for I have
sinned in the context of a couple of
different things I think one of them was
you know sort of having friends with
Republicans and you know maybe you know
saying some other stuff that was there
there's a defense of this there that
makes me feel like maybe he is aware
that he's a little bit out of step and
isn't quite sure what is going on like
let's talk about the Stacey Abrams thing
he his camp denies that they floated the
idea of Stacey Abrams being his vice
president and it was quite clear within
a couple of days based upon her response
that this is nothing that was run by her
at all
something like this also happened with
Elizabeth Warren back in 2016 when he
was contemplating running it seems to me
that that's also a metaphor of some of
his problems the idea that you know
maybe back in the day you felt like as a
politician like this that whatever my
status is this other person should be
you know grateful or can't do anything
about me sort of leveraging them and you
know it's quite clear what the idea is I
want to project the people that I would
pick someone like Stacey Abrams or
Stacey Abrams herself because that means
that I'm amenable in you know certain
areas that maybe people perceive as
being a deficit right questions of race
questions of gender but what what does
that tell us about what what do you
think about the bat like the fact that
stacey abrams when she was asked this on
the vote on the view right and she could
have said I'm really flattered the idea
of being Joe Biden's VP is you know
would be quite an honor but I'm not
interested in that
you didn't say that she just said I'm
not running from you no second place
nobody would want to do that what do you
make of that like what do you think he
picked up any type of signal from that
because he got away with it with
Elizabeth Warren back at the back in
2016 but what's your sense of that yeah
I think the Stacy Abrams thing is
fascinating it's unclear whether it was
just something that his staff might have
floated and maybe to get him to convince
him that it was a good idea but you know
as you say wherever it came from it died
pretty quick but what's interesting is
that they represent two things that are
so different not just because she's
young and he's old and she's a black
woman and he's a white man but they have
fundamentally different ideas about what
the Democratic Party needs to do to win
Stacey Abrams her her political
philosophy is that Democrats need to
find the voters who are not voting she
has started two different organizations
devoted to registering people and and
securing voting rights and she as a as a
politician in Georgia spend lots of time
going out and meeting a you know meaning
all the voters she could from a permit
from every area and people of all races
however she was quite clear that the way
for Democrats to win was not to go to
the center and not to like chase after
that elusive white male but to get all
of those disengaged voters who are sort
of Democrats in waiting get them
registered and get them to the polls and
she and she did it then almost won and
some people including herself I think
would think that that she actually won
was not for for the vote suppression of
her opponent that's the philosophy that
she represents and Joe Biden is exactly
the opposite the whole the the basis of
his political persona and the reason why
he's supposed to be electable is not
because he's going to mobilize Democrats
but because he's the guy who can speak
to those people and the diners in the
Midwest the white men who feel like
they're being left behind Jill Biden is
supposed to be the guy who could reach
out to them all right so they're two so
different about political personas and
philosophies about how Democrats can win
Paul we got to take a quick break we'll
be right back with more in just a moment
