[Music]
as part of the right-wing authoritarian
white nationalist program it's just it's
 let's imagine we got one more
clip of Donald Trump and this is really
this is really the most important one in
many respects this is going to have the
most sort of like real-world
implications because the more responses
he gets from this the more he's gonna
say it like he doesn't care what it does
to the Republicans and so I hope that he
every time he brings up the idea of
repealing the ACA or Obamacare whatever
you want to call it he gets a great
response because that's what's going to
dictate him saying that in the future
and here he is talking about how easy
it's gonna be to repeal I feel like I've
heard this before yeah we're gonna
repeal replace much better to pay a lot
of money for the privilege of not having
to buy bad health care okay not too good
so we're gonna get rid of Obamacare and
I said it the other day the Republican
Party will become the party of great
health care it's good it's important
and we've created new options to help
Americans purchase affordable health
plans all across state lines you now
have options you would have never had
posit incidentally apparently he did not
get the message that a federal court
struck that down they were offering junk
plans outside of the exchanges outside
of the PP of the PPACA the patient
protections and they were cheaper
obviously because they were like selling
we're selling nuke eyes it's they're
much cheaper now they don't have engines
but they're much cheaper it's the deep
state folks the Democrats are pushing
socialist government-run health care
that bans private health insurance for
180 million America
now think you've loved a lot of jobs and
they're great they're great and you want
that they want to take them away that's
not gonna work I don't think that's
gonna work too well Republicans want you
to have an affordable plan that's just
right for you and by the way you can use
your doctor remember that that was a lie
28 times 28 times he said that was a lie
you get cheaper premiums and much lower
deductibles the deductibles and
Obamacare are so high on average $7,000
you don't get to use it unless a really
great tragedy hits and then you don't
really want it because you don't give a
damn about your deductible right you'll
be in a position as a who cares about
them let's see if I can live back on
it's lastly let's go to this I
don't care about that
BB though it's that Mona the queue and
on here is the I mean here are the Trump
folks I like how that how sort of almost
like calm they can be with with this
queuing on bus that they have yeah here
we go
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
it's weird to hear people say go Pew
well no Q is are the people embedded in
keep queuing on yeah yeah it's I'm
saying it's bizarre to see them just do
that luck like offer that up without any
prompt so many cute look you might be
listening
look at how many Q anon like I just it's
shocking there's that many who know
about yeah it's a where we work where we
go one we go all is also a queue I don't
know do you understand what the queue on
thing is they're cheering Q because Q is
the mole inside of the deep state that
is providing all this information and
fighting for Trump possibly multiple
moles I mean just like possibly dropped
himself I'm trying to think of like a
possible analog for a Democratic
candidate like what like if you walked
down the line of like a I don't know a
Bernie rally or a Warren rally or a
Torah or Obama rally or a Kamala Harris
Valley like what could they what could
every I don't know like they're walking
15 feet and they find another series of
supporters what could they what confess
entirely parallel to the candidate yeah
like but but I mean even like what
bat-crap crazy conspiracy I'm afraid to
make analogies now so I won't make one
well you're thinking the Russia
investigation there's actually a thing
but there was an investigation
I'm think the way psychologically that
some people engaged with it is similar
to the way these people engage with qa9
yeah okay I suppose if everybody if like
if they went down the line and people
are going like mother he's gonna
chambers
like if now there was like a thing where
like mothers actually doing it like a
double Lindy
he knows that bar is is working for
Trump
so Muller put it in there and there's a
ticking time bomb there in the Trump
Putin sex tape and then trouble be
canceled and Hillary will be president
but even if the craz and Stein brothers
run for president I doubt you'd get that
organic of a response from one of their
lines right no it's definitely a
minority louise mensch louise mensch
convention maybe what a thousand we
shouldn't we shouldn't have had her on
so many times that was a retro spirit of
called mistake to have louise mensch on
on half a dozen times that was a huge
mistake and and i would say that the the
eric garland poster that we have in the
studio is probably now we should take
that down yeah I'm gonna burn my game
theory game board that was I should not
have had that tweed tattooed on my back
yeah I'm gonna stop getting tattoos of
Mahler at my Brooklyn hipster Muller
tattoo parties yeah actually cover up
who does mother look close enough to
that people could just adjust their
tattoos to look like like any old white
guy who has an old white guy tattooed on
their on their Roger stone
representation all right it's late folks
sorry we did not get to calls or Iams
today but I think we did some some fine
work we didn't get any Schmucks today we
didn't get any
