politican I mean Politico oh yeah I
should talk about that what are you
doing at I have no idea you have no idea
I'm on anytime that there's like
something huge going on like for example
when jenk is debating Tucker Carlson
that's when I'll be scheduled to do a
really obscure six person panel in the
basement of the building so that's my
schedule for politican I honestly I
still don't even know what I'm doing you
should do a segment on how to be a
 sellout oh my eye I think I
think every panel is essentially that
according to some people you gotta hear
the panel together actually oh yeah
what's the panel should we be socialists
Oh is that oh is that actually happening
I think so you know they have no
socialists on that panel that like it's
I was texting with Kyle kolinsky and so
I think that that was slated to be me
Kyle kolinsky Ana Kasparian Bakari
sellers and I think that's it the four
of us and you're moderating yeah and so
Kyle said well my view is basically your
view I'm a social democrat is it oh okay
is Anna is Anna socialist he goes no and
I'm like okay well Bakari sellers is
definitely not so they're doing a panel
on socialism with no socialists right I
don't I mean I gotta be honest I don't
take political seriously okay I'm not
gonna lie I I didn't really I am excited
to debate Charlie Kirk right and if I
have to go and sit on a panel or
moderate one or moderate one fine that's
great yes am you ready for a president
pence - yes I'm doing a panel on on vine
on vice president pence oh really
yeah that resident I have no idea I
don't take it seriously Ann Coulter I
don't know I just you know I'm assuming
they're gonna give us lunch I am NOT
assuming that well I as long as I get
lunch
I've seen nothing about lunch this has
to be okay zoomy now we're taking a very
Jewish turn in the conversation there is
lunch you can tell the mom available if
they want a real socialist yes they
don't they don't care if they don't care
about all of it the socialism panel
definitely doesn't have lunch I thought
you meant like in general like they
might give you long no I just and we
have not what we talked about social I
just don't I I don't care about it
no one's it doesn't implicate anything
we got a Cabana do you want to hear the
copy can we cut this up and president I
don't come to Politico I would go to see
me debate charlie Kirk right right
that's gonna be fun
the panels you know it's one don't go to
the panels then you know and that
debates not scheduled to be like in the
second kitchen for the custodial staff
of the building they're doing it in like
a legitimate room for well III I don't
know the details
I would ask I don't I don't I know I
mean as long as this video of it I just
sit in a room I'll do I'll take Charlie
Kirk to dinner and someone's videotaping
I should say Backman was videotaping
last night and I told him he cannot
release that Siri David hit me on the
side I'll send you the video Sam and you
can make the call the restaurant had
started clearing out by that
