[Music]
there's some weird account on Twitter I
don't know what the story is behind it
but they apparently don't like Bernie
Sanders but they've been doing
incredible work for Bernie Sanders this
is a clip from 1988-89 18 it looks like
February 3rd excuse me ok so they're
talking to the 88 race right February
3rd 1989 so this is on c-span Bernie
Sanders I believe if this 89 I think he
was probably in between being mayor of
Burlington and getting elected to the
House he was elected to the House I
think in either 92 or 90
this question is about the Jesse Jackson
1988 campaign
it's no secret and again a kind of funny
irony of this attempt to you know of a
lot of the kind of smears and
disingenuous narratives about Bernie
Sanders he did in fact strongly support
Jesse Jackson's presidential run in the
late 80s now I don't think he frankly
should get extra credit for it either
it's just frankly that he was a
progressive leader and Jesse Jackson ran
the most progressive campaign and in
fact if you listen to some of the
conversations I've done with Bill
Fletcher jr. who's just indispensable
and please everybody fine built Fletcher
Jr he's I would just the brilliant I
mean really one of the most important
people you could be reading and
listening to today both on this program
and then much more specifically you know
in an illicit history 40 mb/s of the
Jesse Jackson campaign which he worked
on we have actually outlined some of the
ways in which the specific concepts of
the rainbow coalition and ideas of that
campaign including though also frankly
just some specific talents that Jesse
Jackson has as a campaigner Bernie
didn't replicate his effectively as he
could have done 2016 and should in 2020
if he runs again but that being said of
course he supported Jesse Jackson and
he'll explain why and it appears to be
that this
that really the account yeah no never
underscore Bernie not affiliated with
any presidential candidate has 102
tweets 27 it's following 27 people it
has 45 followers but this tweet has been
viewed 124 thousand times all right well
thank you
whatever the idiot behind this account
is and I guess the angle they're going
for here is Bernie's concern about the
Democratic Party but it's just good time
to remind everybody that Bernie Sanders
is a strong supporter of Jesse Jackson
[Music]
and I think in Burlington
we had a real debate about our attitude
toward Jesse Jackson's campaign I think
many of us were impressed by the
physicians that Jackson was bringing
forth we were deeply impressed by the
concept of the rainbow coalition which I
believe is exactly what has to be done
in this country and we were impressed by
Jackson's charisma and his going into
the ghettos and into the poor areas and
speaking for the family farmers were
being thrown off of their land and that
moved us very much the problem that we
had is that of course Jackson was
functioning within the Democratic Party
and we're not Democrats so we had a
discussion within our own organization
and we ended up saying yeah we're not
Democrats but we think what Jackson was
doing was so important that we are going
to support him and for one night in
Vermont we did go into the Democratic
Party and in fact Jackson ended up of
winning the Democratic caucuses so I was
sympathetic to Jackson I agree with the
concept of the rainbow coalition I do
disagree with Jesse in terms of whether
the Democratic Party can be the real
vehicle for social change I believe it
could be a third party well of course
Bernie has sort of revised himself and
actually ended up following Jesse
Jackson's direction on that practically
even though he still is an independent
and they actually maintained a decent
relationship I don't
whether Jesse Jackson stayed neutral in
2016 although I think he might have
actually endorsed Bernie although he
also has a close relationship with the
Clintons in spite of some enormous ly
disrespectful treatment that Bill
Clinton delivered Jesse Jackson in the
nine he's in Jesse Jackson certainly as
his own highly complicated and
problematic probably more populous than
the left politics if you listen to you
know some of Bill Fletcher's analysis
and Bill Fletcher has also worked on
that campaign as I keep saying one of
the most astute people in American
politics by far Bill Fletcher jr. but
yeah what a monster there's a there's
you know Bernie again beating the drum
for white nationalism I mean I you know
I you know again I it's just gotten so
demented especially as somebody and I
will always say this who was a strong
Bernie supporter as soon as he announced
I knew of course I would support him
because I'm progressive I but you know I
I thought the first several protests he
faced the first couple of roses from
black lives matter where excellent they
were correct to protest him and other
candidates in and of itself period and
in fact in his case they made him a much
better candidate but you know now we're
I mean some of the stuff I just see
about him is just I mean it's just so
cynical and breathtakingly disingenuous
and absurd and the kind of vendetta
against him look it will never stop
being just utterly bizarre and I and
again I'll and I'll throw one more in
the mix I say this is somebody who you
know I told people and we reflected I
believe 80 not 91 percent of Bernie
primary voters because only 90 didn't
vote for Hillary Clinton in the general
election who said of course if you're in
a swing state vote for Hillary Clinton
and in fact I ended up voting for
Hillary Clinton in New York because I
was so you know just you know the whole
Jill Stein thing is another thing but
the cult the Green Party's argument
about change was so moralistic and
non-strategic
that it wasn't even a satisfying protest
vote so I thought to myself you know
what
I'm gonna vote for the first woman
president that's something cool in and
of itself but I'm sitting here and I'm
tabeling support for the coup in
Honduras support for the bankruptcy bill
support for crime legislation support I
mean you can just go on and on and on
and on all on a policy level Haiti uh
and yet you know some people on the
other side of that equation
maintain a just bizarre cultish
fanatical hatred of the guy which is
just breathtaking and again I say this
as somebody who's like I'll disagree
with you if you know it's boredom in
2020 strongly disagree but like cool
whatever you know vote for who you need
to vote for it you have a criticism
that's legitimate like a Bill Fletcher
juniors excellent I want to hear it but
so much of what's marshaled against him
is just a response to a fiction that
people have created in their heads about
him or maybe bad response to people that
support him on on social media but not
him and you know I think clips like that
or a good reminder
