it's pretty stunning obviously we are
now less than two weeks away from the
election the president is lying about a
caravan that is I don't know a thousand
miles from the border of the US but
they're coming here quickly they're
walking at a fairly brisk pace for your
lake house
yes exactly to challenge the
Constitution and of course they
apparently are not only coming to invade
the country but also to pass a
middle-class tax cut that Congress
hasn't even contemplated yet that is
according to the president but still
dealing with the implications of the
Saudis being bold enough to kill a u.s.
resident and fairly well-known columnist
in the Washington Post in their embassy
because he was critical of them which
gives you a sense of how sometimes these
things happen where leaders from foreign
countries feel like oh the u.s. has
basically said the gloves are off we
have no handcuffs on us anymore we can
do whatever we want and then they sort
of get it wrong we have a history of
stuff like this going awry when that
happens check out the 91 invasion of
Kuwait by Saddam Hussein as a starter or
the Israelis heading up I think it was
into Lebanon again and and basically
also exiting Gaza unilaterally in
creating another mess there but here's
Donald Trump being asked about the his
perspective on the Khashoggi murder at
this point where it has become
increasingly clear that he was murdered
and here well increasingly clear in
terms of I mean it's
quite clear to everyone who doesn't want
you know who doesn't have a vested
interest in pretending otherwise but
even in the context of those who do it's
becoming you know clear that they can't
maintain this charade anymore and here's
Donald Trump expressing why we had a
very bad original concept it was carried
out poorly and the cover-up was one of
the worst in the history of cover-ups
it's very simple bad deal
should have never been thought of
somebody really messed up and then the
worst cover-up ever and where it
should've stopped is at the deal
standpoint what they thought about it
because whoever thought of that idea I
think is in big trouble that they should
be in big trouble
I did they tell him don't refer to
anything that actually happened just
call it a deal I don't understand what
what is the what what what is what are
they talking about what he's trying to
do there I think is first I think he's
genuinely offended by how bad the
cover-up was this is a guy who spent a
lot of time around Nicky Scarfo and
other really reputable members of
organized crime and the Saudis are
literally in the process of doing like
yeah it's just this weird rogue hit
squad that had no connections to any
senior leadership and bad ideation so
he's actually I might I think he's still
trying to give them cover those those
grooves are worn so deeply in his brain
also that everything is a deal to him it
it sounded like he's on set
it sounded like he was on set at the
apprentice and basically talking about
like some attempt to sell you know hot
dogs in Times Square like hey I mean
anyway he was executed poorly the prints
I mean the first couple of uh contests
you were so good you did a great job on
Yemen you had a great photo in Instagram
with the rock I don't know what happened
with you
it was bad at the ideation standpoint
you said a heated ice cream spoon that
you have to keep plugged into the wall
I'm just not buying I'm just I'm not
seeing it so Mohammed bin Salman you
find it really did sound like that it's
almost like we got to address this but
you can't say anything about what
happened this is like what the one thing
I can do don't worry I got it first of
all everybody can agree it was a bad
deal bad deal
finally poorly executed poorly executed
sorry no pun intended yeah this is a
type of deal you could have easily set
up a fake car accident I mean there's a
lot of traffic blaming on that boom
blame it on a woman driver I mean I mean
could it then that could reinforce the
whole point of Saudi policy I mean you
guys just weren't thinking frankly it
was a mess Mohammed so what I don't
understand what are they what it what
does he think that they're setting up I
mean they're obviously they're saying
like there's weather came up with the
idea is gonna be in big trouble and
that's gonna be some guy like one of the
guys who came into 15 guys that's what
he's saying his rogue idea it was a bad
deal that's what he's saying right but
no one's going to believe that like who
is this well or what who it's for
potentially is the king has actually
been coming back into public you know
he's very old and he hasn't been on TV
much cuz they give it all to the prince
he's coming back and being like alright
I'm still in control here so it's
possible that the substantive thing is
that this might be it for the prince
monarchies oh yeah is that real I think
I mean not not I'm not saying it's
likely I'm not saying I put money on it
but there is a tangent I don't
understand if he undercuts
if they say this isn't the Saudi system
this kid is out of control and he's nuts
is it possible he's doing it for his
base as well no because they hate the
media and journalists I just don't I
just don't think that the yeah but I
don't think that the the base isn't
thinking the base is like I don't
because he implied yet that the
journalists deserved it and all the
other journalists better watch what they
say no all right fair
although I did it was interesting the
Saudi foreign minister went on Fox for
his first interview in the US but that's
just because Trump will be watching
