we've mentioned of top line there look
there's there's tons of stories out
there I'm sure many of you have seen
them they're individual stories of of
federal workers who are you know
deciding choosing between insulin money
and electricity or food for their kids
the you you have IRS employees who are
skipping work because of hardship and
they need to either go work part-time
somewhere else or they can't they can't
get to work
Coast Guard commandant said that members
of the Armed Forces should not be
expected to shoulder the burden of a
partial governmental shutdown there is
Coast Guard folks having to go to food
pantries I mean that we're seeing this
across the board and never mind like you
know I don't know how you measured the
anxiety that's created by this and the
just the the ripple effects the Sara
story the other day talking about how
the damage that's being done in some of
the more sensitive areas of our federal
parks just it will take decades for it
to recover because some of these there's
a reason why they tell you you know only
walk on the paths but the Trump
administration and family they care
ladies and gentlemen here is Lara Trump
she is Eric Trump's wife on sitting down
with Kerry Sheffield of course is the
founder of bold TV and on bold talking
about that very very issue Oh in terms
of the workers who are coming to work
and not getting paid what would you say
to them listen this is it's not fair to
you and we all get that but this is so
much bigger than any one person it is a
little bit of pain but it's going to be
for the future of our kind
and their children and their
grandchildren and generations after them
will thank them for their sacrifice
right now I know it's hard I know people
have families they have bills to pay
they have mortgages they have rents that
are due but of the president only
imagine every single day to come up with
a good solution here and the reality is
it's been something that's gone on for
too long and been unaddressed our
immigration problem if we do nothing
right now
it's never going to get fixed this is
our one opportunity so I would just tell
them please stay strong we pre
appreciate everything that you're
sacrificing we are behind you and we're
gonna do everything we can I know the
president is doing everything he can to
resolve this quickly
yeah that's just important that
everybody remembers that this is not
about one person that's right that's the
takeaway is that this has nothing to do
with an individual highly disturbed
persons individual needs and whims i
honest not be further from what's
happened people right and then plus you
have a I don't know how many tens of
thousands of contractors maybe more that
have been impacted by this that that
probably be impacted him more severely
in some respects because they may never
get repaid for this for the loss of work
and I'm trying to figure out some type
of algorithm of how many of those people
actually would if they were sitting as
the third person in that group right
there
with the founder of bold TV and Eric
Trump's wife if they would they would
nod their head in agreement yes I
understand it's bigger than me and it's
really about the future my grandkids are
probably going to thank me so much
because there might be 160th funding for
a wall that will never get built if this
ever gets resolved they're using this
she's using the sense of urgency that
should be used right at this moment for
climate change to talk about
demographics oh yeah all right Chinese
yeah way to give up the Stewart
totally sad totally unfair
I dare we do I mean I know Barbara
Ehrenreich is now on this and obviously
you know it's been in the air for a
while but I mean we got a look at some
type of general strike action it's I
mean it's ins yeah well yeah a lot of
there's been a lot of people actually
been calling for that particularly for
the the TSA and like Ross the Boeing
case thing is just totally unacceptable
it can't replace them with scabs because
there's no money so who's gonna work for
no money that's right and and they and
and it's also checks in the mail
theoretically you're right you need a
little bit of training right like the
whole theater of I was gonna say that
part I don't know about right
I think anybody they I don't know IPS a
training would be like hey you want to
be really annoying
I flew tell people air traffic
controllers huh exactly not that dis
definitely I can do that I I flew this I
flew this weekend and I made a point of
you know saying to the TSA folks I saw
thanks for being here
if I was you I just walk out and there
was a little bit of like you know
they're not going to talk that way but
there was a little bit of a little head
nodding a little bit well thank you so
much it's still happening I'll thank
them and say like where's the future
right likewise commandeer the sound
system at least guys they did that in
some airports
