[Music]
years ago Michael debated a British
gentleman who is now apparently running
for a member of parliament in in England
under the you Kip party and apparently
some people have taken issue with his
sense of humour he was at one point this
guy Sargon of our card Carl of Swinton
yes he was making jokes about raping a
female member of parliament this was
well I mean the hustling making jokes is
a very broad term but he claimed he was
making jokes about about raping a member
of parliament but the joke not
necessarily terribly sophisticatedly
constructed here is a clip of that this
is from a 2016 I thought feminism is
about empowering women arming the trolls
the terrible harassment won't someone
think of the women I know the feeling
it's not the viciousness of attacks I
guess on the internet that bothers me
positive talking apposite he is reading
a a statement from this member of
parliament just Phillips yes and here is
his he is one of those intellectual dark
web type of guys who who who you know
your your feelings don't care about the
facts or the facts don't care about your
feelings and he's very reasoned in his
arguments apparently I know the feeling
it's not the viciousness of attacks I
guess on the internet that bothers me
people talking about raping me isn't fun
but has become somewhat par for the
course well I'll tell you all Jess I
think that's terrible and you know what
I wouldn't even rape you I wouldn't I
wouldn't even rape you not even what is
a real pain ism ok so that's his that's
his big joke I would not even rape you
which we've heard actually you know I
think Donald Trump in balsa narrow have
all made various versions of theirs but
here he is subsequent to that that
caused a little bit of of controversy
and so subsequent to that I'm not sure
when was the second video it was
subsequent to that he was I don't know
where he was on the coast somewhere
doing a live stand-up into camera a
report on the apparently controversy and
he clarified his position there's been
awful lot of talk about whether I would
or would not even rape Jess Phillips
I've been a lot of trouble for my
hardline stance of not even raping her I
suppose with enough pressure on my case
but let's be honest nobody's got that
much beer there you go the old I won't
even do her the favor of raping her a
joke hilarious and here he is
like most right-wingers he's on the the
business on BBC yeah BBC Southwest
he's on BBC Southwest he's now running
for a member of parliament and it's just
completely offended that anyone would
actually like talk about that joke that
he as a grown man was willing to own a
couple of years ago but now apparently
his ambitions have changed in some way
and he doesn't want to have to own that
sentiment or even this apparently even
seemingly apologize for it anything can
be joked about that's the point that's
the reason we have jokes is to remove
the horror from a particularly negative
thing
that's why British troops survived so
well in the trenches in World War one
and two they were famous for their dark
humour to help them cope with life and
cope to one second so sir gone of our
card is arguing that the reason why he
was joking about why he wouldn't even
rape
this MP had to do with the horrible
situation that I guess we're all in
who's in the horrible situation that
he's making these jokes to make it
easier it was like in World War one when
both sides came together in no-man's
land I started telling rapier all those
remembered that that was what Dunkirk
was like watching a nice routine we all
know about this so now he's not only a
comedian nice without the higher expert
an expert at rape jokes
he's also an academic about comedy there
we go
when British troops survived so well in
the trenches in World War one and two
they were famous for their dark humour
to help them cope with life and cope
they would joke and get some support all
that was going on around them you've
conjured up the notion of raping a woman
a named woman you've created a problem
for her I said that I would not even do
it this was it's a joke just once that
was dead wrong it was a mean thing to
say there was also sideswipe presumably
her appearance in that or you know her
attractiveness your eyes what does any
of this got to do with politics that's
the point you were standing for election
she's elected politician you bring that
you can't you oh because you say these
things I mean if you just decided to
engage with Jess Phillips or any other
politician on brexit or the Health
Service or defense or the economy none
of this would have arisen you know
you're saying my highly controversial
things and then you're expressing
surprise that people take issue with it
I am expressing surprise that you will
actually lie about the way I said
something to it to rile up radically
left-wing activists to then come and
attack me in the streets of Truro and
call it a scuffle that broke out it
didn't break out we were attacked that's
a that's a totally deterministic way of
viewing it as if these left-wing
activists had no responsibility for
their own actions as if us going there
to have a dialogue and asking them to
talk is us being just as culpable as
them when they attack us okay unreal the
way that you frame these things okay I
just want to invite some comment from
other guests Molly what's your thinking
well I won't comment directly on what
your
the guest said because that will
legitimize his misogyny and his racism
but my own I've done quite a study of
the rise of the far right and it's very
clear that these type of tactics of
provoking victimhood provoking violence
making attacks creating control see is a
tool that they used deliberately
creating division I represent people
across the Southwest in minority
communities ethnic minority communities
who are very fearful about rising hate
crime and hate speech and my job is to
be in solidarity with them and to resist
all this kind of behavior okay I see
folks I think the comments are
disgusting and I'd much rather talk
about the European elections than a
fringe candidate okay well that's the
plan for the rest of the program there
you go Wow you know there's a lot of
whining but I was mean to him right
[Laughter]
everybody's mean to him
everybody's so mean it is it is is there
like some type of course where all these
right-wingers are going now were they
just basically when you find yourself in
an interview and people are actually
just holding you to account for your
positions or what you've stated you make
sure that you make this about some type
of unfair malign mint and an unfair you
know well as remiel should have been
open about his membership in the DSA
libertarians so many Baucus before we
saw the same thing with Faraj yesterday
and Shapiro and now we see this with
sargon of card it's it's all about the
left wingers they made me do it he he
lies actually earlier in that clip he
says that the the joke was made only in
the close environment of his youtube but
he was tweeting out the link to it he
tweeted at the woman saying hey Jess I
wouldn't even rape you
like what does that mean the closed
environment of his YouTube well what
they're saying is if you would by the
fact that these jokes are like jokes and
funny then like you should know what
you're going when you go to a sargon of
akkad channel but like these tweeting is
out in public forums right yeah I mean I
need you to itself is fairly public what
is that even mean like I mean it's not
you know Howard
stern for years got in trouble for what
he was doing and he went into a
literally a closed loop where he was
just there was a subscriber base and no
one's saying that he can't say these
things if he wants to have his own
pay-per-view channel and nobody hears it
except for people who have paid for it
or even if he wants to have his own
YouTube channel and YouTube is okay with
the with a comedian who has such finesse
and expertise when it comes to rape
jokes that you know that's his right but
the idea that you can then enter into
the public discourse and be able to
disown that part of what has got you to
that seat right right like I mean that's
why he's sitting there it's not because
he you know he came up with it I just
dumped myself Sargon about card I had no
shows and I just show up and I start
running for this and that's why I'm on
TV you know Ben Shapiro shows up and it
doesn't you know I don't I don't need to
account for the fact that I called you
know any Jews who don't subscribe to my
narrow perspective on Judaism as not
real Jews you know the the idea that you
know Mike Tsarevich can go on Dave
Rubens show and Dave Rubin who
supposedly is so concerned about the
quorum at about non smearing and smear
merchants and Dave Rubin is gonna go
around going like I'm not responsible
for these things I mean you're all
adults you're all effing adults you're
responsible you want to move into other
segments of public discourse on what
you've said and either renounce it and
and explain where that came from and
where you are now on such a thing it's
not enough that Ben Shapiro has I've got
a page where I say the dumb things I've
said on social media was not just
question a social you know dumb things I
want to know when ben shapiro writes the
jewish people has always been plagued
by bad Jews who undermine it within in
America those bad Jews largely vote
Democrat now 75% of Jews vote for
Democrats at least and so now he's
saying those bad Jews largely vote
Democrats so he's saying that the
majority of bad Jews who exist he won't
say how many of those are vote Democrats
so either there's a small number of bad
Jews according to him and they just add
to the overwhelming number of good Jews
who vote Democrat but I would like him
to basically explain to me what is a but
what constitutes a bad Jew in his mind
and where in Judaism is there anything
any doctrine that suggests that ben
shapiro
has any authority to determine who is a
good Jew and a bad Jew I mean this is
frankly it's ice-o-matic I mean I would
like to hear an explanation of how many
Jews does he think are bad the ones that
aren't Orthodox according to him is that
I mean has he said that I feel like
that's what he says what today order you
yeah I mean he went to the border of
that well to the boy and Annie I think
also any Jew voted for Obama but he's
also gone to the border of I mean he is
calling the majority of Jews in this
country bad certainly the majority of
Jews that exist bad I find that
disgusting and I would like to see him
held to account look there is a long
history or certainly a history amongst
all peoples of other people who are
willing to to attempt to claim
superiority and determine who is a good
a good Muslim or a bad Muslim or a good
Jew or a bad Jew I mean in Catholicism
at least there is some type of structure
ostensibly where you know supposedly the
Pope can do this we have no Pope in
Judaism
the rabbi is not charge of people we
live as Jews now under a rabbinic Jewish
tradition that started in Jana some
3,000 years ago mm where are we I don't
know
mm some odd years ago and the idea that
Ben Shapiro is out there dictating who
he says are good Jews and bad Jews and
this is disgusting this is the this is
you know frankly things that the son two
commandos did right and I'm I'm offended
I would like to hear an explanation for
these things not just that it was a dumb
tweet that's not a ticket to I want I
mean I want this guy held to account to
explain what he means bad Jews that is I
mean look I want to talk about
anti-semitic trope bad Jews
