Trump has a vision of himself and it's a
painting it's sort of like the dogs
playing poker of American presidents
this was caught someone took a shot of
this during his 60 minutes meltdown with
Lesley Stahl and this is a painting that
apparently has hung in somewhere in the
Oval Office I don't know what room
they're in and it is of the Republican
presidents and they're sitting at some
kind of poker table I really like that I
have to say because it's all of them
Eisenhower's next to trump Teddy
Roosevelt's looking over shoulder Ford's
kind of actually for it's looking very
cool he's almost looking like James Caan
in the background there's a few missing
from the Gilded Age I feel like I'm sure
there's a few missing for the but it's
the heavy hitters it's risin Hauer it's
the new guys and the Aviators where's
Andrew Jackson he was with him in spirit
though he's littering in the Democrat
painting yeah he's in the Democrat
painting of course so what I will say
here is okay let's take this by tears
I think Reagan was you know more
charming and good stuff on arms control
but he was a far-right white supremists
entertainer so who tell the most racist
jokes like the quantity probably Reagan
right
probably Reagan Reagan is like well that
reminds me of how do you tell the black
burglar and the Trump of the head of
this guy so who likes Trump the most and
who likes in the least well know this is
the point I'm trying to work up to
though because take let's take Reagan
and then let's just throw both the
bushes in whatever them and then
Nixon is his own weird arch criminal
sociopath Teddy Roosevelt imperialist
and so on but I don't think he'd like
what Trump is doing for like the
environment and factories you'd be okay
with the ice stuff II doubt he'd be
totally into the ice
he'd be like you'd be harder on Bezos
now I have to say and again I already
can anticipate the annoying sjw Iams so
I understand that Lincoln was far from
perfect blah blah blah
as far as presidents go I find the idea
of Lincoln grinning across from Trump to
be like actually profoundly offense I
agree like like just the like like not
only politically like if you read about
Lincoln he was a he I mean a ultra poor
self-made intellectual attorney who
struggled with depression like he
struggled with emotional issues that in
in modern terms would be a clay deep
clinical depression and had an
incredible compassion and decency about
him but was also a very ruthless
Machiavelli and political player of
which of course I mean as a compliment
and just the idea of him sitting across
from Trump and Trump's just like and
that was a great hotel and we did that
by the way that was in Springfield
Illinois a lot of people don't talk
about Springfield Illinois just like
Trump motor mouthing like that's the one
that actually does I gotta admit it just
doesn't sit right with me that's
up that's not cool yeah Nixon would
absolutely hate Trump as well no Nixon
would definitely hate Trump but Nixon's
Nixon can be just fine next to Trump but
I do think Nixon would be like this guy
doesn't shut up can we kill him and I
think Eisenhower Eisenhower okay
Eisenhower just on military-industrial
complex speech alone is gonna be like uh
uh as an hour would have voted for
Clinton Eisenhower would have been like
however Republican my whole life but
Hillary Clinton's proven to me that
she'll kill some goddamn Indonesians
need be and she knows how to manage the
country although she does want to put a
little bit more in defense spending that
I think is prudent Eisenhower would
probably look like do I want to be
clapper or I don't want to be do I want
to be playing golf with Trump right
thank you thank you probably could go
the other way actually
you think he's clapper or playing golf
with Trump I think
play golf with Trump yeah but he
wouldn't have liked that he draft dodged
yeah then he be able to handle the diet
that trumps going yeah he would not like
the diet that's true so Lincoln Lincoln
gee you could see Lincoln in his smile
his side profile he literally drew like
his eyes are crease to be like Oh Donald
that really was a tremendous idea you
had for a casino with naked girls in
Macau you are a great president and
doing a terrific job
yeah that's offensive alright here are
the Republicans to stop taking the
credit for Honest Abe okay things have
changed
Lincoln would not be a Republican today
I think we came quite safe they're ready
they have an appreciation of what the
Radical Republicans were yeah the
Radical Republicans were both something
that we should have a sincere
appreciation for and are not Republicans
okay here is the Obama and this is
another funny juxtaposition because
Andrew Jackson is across Obama he looks
puzzled that oh body looks like why is
this me grow playing billiards with us
don't tell me wait
was he the gay Indonesian that I read
about in news max in the time capsule
they gave me was he the gay one from the
from the hinterlands who paid
a choirboy to give him oral sex
in a limousine as I have read in
Breitbart
Obama sees Woodrow Wilson and Andrew
Jackson talking amongst themselves
across the room just like one thing
to say arc of history and abstraction
but god damn good driving hasn't even
said hi yeah what drove well shake my
hat we're supposed to be all presidents
think meanwhile LBJ can't stop giving me
back row yeah I mean while LBJ wants me
go that's all of them it's work and Bill
Clinton's just like everybody loves me
we have more Andrew Jackson than Andrew
Jackson and more Barack than Barack I
like that FDR is one of the few standing
too early it's not one of the one
sitting oh no he you said no FDR sitting
that's Wilson you're looking at it
Wow yeah we're lucky or connect exactly
it is funny and JFK is just sort of like
wow Old Hickory he's a crazy
 that guy gave is he gonna
use the n-word X look at the Jeff kids
little rear end there I think that I
think Andy Thomas spent a little time up
he's got the back brace on too like
Andrew Jackson's like next thing you
know this this friggin Pope worshiper
next to me in the Muslim I gotta get
together I don't belong in this picture
where's the one with a marmalade face
who owns casinos okay yes now this is a
painting of Nixon at the Nixon Library a
very weird I don't even want to go it's
called Nixon it and oh yeah I don't like
where that kids placed but anyway this
is this is the this is the caption here
Nixon met and now in the fall of 1956
the Soviet Union brutally suppressed an
anti community revolution anti-community
revolution in Hungary at Christmastime
President Eisenhower sent his young vice
president Richard Nixon on a goodwill
mission to sympathy for over $100
drag you've just had an uprising crushed
by Soviet tanks and that guy they were
anti-capitalist still in that revolution
yes and Nixon's like I mean that's the
interesting thing about Nixon he was he
was heterodox with regards to
internationalism compared to certain I
mean that part that strain of the
Republican China after after official
meetings at the dinner in his honor
Nixon broke away from the constraints of
protocol and returned to see what
conditions were really like in the camps
he stayed up on that I mean I don't know
how I'm sure that he stayed up all night
riding in a hay wagon pulled by a
tractor as he accompanied the freedom
fighters on their rounds through the
countryside to search for others who
would escape the Soviet crackdown now I
would just say I and I don't know much
about this revolution but if Freedom
Riders are showing you around at night
on a hayride you're probably maybe not
getting the full story I don't know
maybe not but whatever maybe not the
full deal all right
