[Music]
the mcguire house Intel hearing Joseph
McGuire the Acting Director of National
Intelligence he said during the hearing
I believed at one point had I known this
whistleblower account was out there I
would not have taken this job clearly a
guy in over his head but what's
important is that the committee make it
clear that this guy messed up the bottom
line is if you got a whistleblower
complaint about the president United
States you don't go to the White House
and ask him is this appropriate for me
to give to Congress here is let's go to
Mike Quigley first asked why is Rudy
Giuliani being deputized by the State
Department I mean first of all let's
just assume Rudy Giuliani wasn't even
working for the president the United
States the question would be why would
the State Department deputize Rudy
Giuliani but hey there's an added I
think like mystery is why they would do
this if he's the president's personal
personal defense attorney as Rudy
Giuliani refers to himself
Giuliani a highly respected man he was
the mayor of New York a graver I would
like him to call you I will ask him to
call you along with the Attorney General
your reaction of civilian dealing with
these in the complaint it talks about
our national security that the command
specter generals talks about this as the
highest responsibility among those that
the DNI has and obviously mr. Giuliani
is playing this role to your knowledge
does he have security clearance
I don't know congressman Quigley I'm
neither aware or unaware whether or not
mr. Giuliani has a security clearance
before this all happened were you aware
of his role or understanding what his
role was doing what you do
congressman quickly my only knowledge of
what mr. Giuliani does I have to be
honest with you I get from TV and from
the news media I am not aware of what he
does in fact for the president are you
aware of his any communication by mr.
Giuliani and your office about how he
should proceed with this role given the
classified nature the national security
implications that are in the complaint
that are in the transcript in the role
that he is playing well I have read the
transcripts just as you have so my
knowledge of his activity in there is
just limited to the conversation that
the President had with the president of
Ukraine it's a it's a question that Rudy
Giuliani doesn't seem that I think is
any problem whatsoever
here's Rudy Giuliani on this is on Laura
Ingraham show right and Giuliani is now
explained he thinks this is all expel
pottery he thinks like oh I got asked by
the State Department as if the State
Department just sort of out of there out
of the blue just said like oh I know
Rudy Giuliani of course yeah they're
just sitting around the State Department
going like wow we got a we got it we
gonna get in touch with the folks in
Ukraine it's too bad we don't have an
apparatus for that well Rudy Giuliani
the mayor of New York yeah you'd be
great for this Rudy Giuliani the country
attorney yeah he's a country attorney
I'd love to do it my great honor is a
humble country attorney from Karachi to
go to Ukraine to help you commit a
global crime Laura Ingraham keeps having
Rudy Giuliani on her show and seems to
be functioning like you would like like
a like a like a daughter would if their
dad was starting to lose it and like I'm
gonna try and help you here dad like
okay dad calm down
just tell us why you did it you came on
you have a lie please deliver it this is
how I would have this
yeah Rudy I want to ask this who told so
where did the State Department get its
marching orders from here because people
I think are extremely confused all these
wild allegations about you you have a
series of texts that refute pretty much
every single one of them and so the
State Department was then what you was
then told to connect you with began
there's a reason I'm in the middle of
this and the reason it's very emerges
from the corruption of how they've tried
to hide this for years including trying
to cover-up Biden pausing for one second
now what Giuliani is talking about is
and he's trying to hide the fact that he
was sent to Ukraine in on a mission to
get information that would be
exculpatory or at least mitigating for
Paul Manafort to justify a pardon by
Donald Trump of Paul Manafort which is
how he met everybody there apparently
and while he was there he started
fishing around about these stories about
Joe Biden remember he was meeting with
the folks in the administration prior to
Zaleski so he was meeting with the old
prosecutors guys this prosecutor was
corrupt by all accounts this prosecutor
was in the sights of Joe Biden who
wanted to get rid of that prosecutor
remember now like in many respects
Ukraine is maybe client state is too
strong of a word
but maybe client state and everyone
perceived the last administration to be
highly corrupt they wanted the
prosecutor out this prosecutor knew that
Biden was gunning for him and so there
we go including trying to cover-up Biden
two years I got this because the FBI
wouldn't take it for the Ukrainians who
came to me back in November of 2018 and
then subsequently have told this to five
other people who could testify to
it told me that we've been trying to get
to you for over a year year and a half
we have solid evidence of collusion not
russian-ukrainian not with Trump with
Hillary and the DNC we believe George
Soros is behind it because his company
was was involved in it
by the way when Biden's sons case was
dismissed the other case the crooked new
prosecutor had to dismiss was Soros his
case which is why the Biden thing is
relevant to me because Biden's
corruption Biden is compromising the
president of the Ukraine led to the
dismissal of the case against analysis
organization like that case gone on look
at Lawrence look at leas feud
the Muller investigating this is like
literally it's as if you had like if
Laura Ingraham had said hey bring me an
AP go find me someone off the street and
make sure they're talking to themselves
and bring them in here and sit him down
put him in a suit and have him talk I
mean try Port Authority there's a lot of
people there you could find Giuliani has
basically said the reason why he was
involved in this is because the FBI
wouldn't do their job and the Ukrainians
came to him because they were the only
person they could reach because they
needed to get to the president you
understand what's going on here
and then Rudy was going to Ukraine to
find the hidden George Soros server
which was pulling the strings on Biden
and Clinton and that's when Laura
Ingraham goes yeah Betty continues on
and then I was the only one see I work
out quite a bit you know I wear I wear
this like look of like I'm out of shape
but like I had to go into Ukraine this
is where the ad for the late nineties
movie comes out wishes what happens when
a country lawyer for rural Brooklyn gets
asked but going to the Ukraine might be
above his pay grade or is it starring
Joe Pesci starring Joe Pesci I ain't no
 George Soros was involved I'll
forget clip he's a jewel
collaborated with Nazis I'm telling you
I'm telling you the impeachment goes on
and within like three or four months
like every like hugh hewitt's already on
this like every right wing talker
they're all gonna be all in on this and
and and the beauty is gonna be when this
stuff like dovetails in with cue and it
probably already is it probably already
is but this is all well and good because
this is why this is part of the reason
why you have impeachment is to drive
these people deeper and deeper into
these these rabbit holes that they get
right if this just leads them further
into the abyss that's great
do you have the part where he shows text
messages on his iPad I mean we could
pull it these are the these are the text
messages from Volker who is a jaw who's
like a member of the John McKee or the
director of the John McCain Institute
Rudy Giuliani in Ukraine without it I
would imagine as part of like to the
extent that there's any project to to
push for a war I'm sure that's what he
has been there sila fighting arms sales
privatization scheme absolutely and
he's doing
for free Rudy Giuliani was a simple
country lawyer who got a call from an
intern in the Ukraine
not only its volker unpaid interns for
arms deal I got into this situation
you're probably wondering how I wind up
in the that you crate Giuliani also
unpaid I mean it's a citizen mission I
don't get paid you don't understand how
payment works because you're a normal
store guards on the subway with your
dick in your hand you never gotten paid
through a slush fund in your life and
you talk about sex in the city like
you're some worldly cosmopolite you ever
get paid indirectly from a slush fund by
a gangster or one's a caviar factory in
Kazakhstan
I think not
