[Music]
here's John Delaney I heard that is this
from the MSA okay so today's right okay
so this is chris hayes thing right this
is the chris hayes climate climate thing
and he sat down with a bunch of
different candidates I heard I heard one
reporter on Twitter say after I think I
don't know if who who it was that left
the stage maybe it was Sanders had left
the stage and he said you know we're
gonna take a break when we come back
we'll be talking to John Delaney and you
know people got up and they were just
like if he had said I'm talking to John
Mulaney I'd be here but I'm not gonna
there's no point
and here is John Delaney with his his
proposal to deal with the urgent crisis
of climate change this is fascinating if
we ever want to get something done big
on climate it's gonna have to be done in
the Congress the United States by
passing laws and the best way to pass
big transformative laws is to get
bipartisan support so I introduced the
only positive bill nothing will happen
does anybody is there anybody in the
room that can tell me maybe you'll have
some disagreement about it specifically
but what is the conventional wisdom
let's just do it that way I'll qualify
it that way of what the most recent
transformative law that has been passed
in the United States in the past decade
what is it
of law would be the ACA would be the ACA
Obamacare can anyone tell me how many
Republican votes we got on the ACA three
and a half cuz of we counting Arlen
Specter is a Republican or not well he
was a Democrat well he had already
flipped yeah okay so then - okay
- and only one of them is left right so
before John Delaney even gets to the
premise of his weak tea proposal he has
already basically completely fabricated
some notion as to what is necessary to
get his weak tea proposal past centrist
parties anthesis by partisan support for
transformative I mean I if he ever makes
it to the debate stage again I'd like
someone to say like do you not think the
ACA was transformative because he will
eat his tie before he says well no he
was transformative but it was trans
transformative you might say my free
transform and I just need this tie right
let's just go backwards Aaron just hear
that I want one predicate he laid there
that is really the essence of his whole
answer can I just say like I'm looking
at like his the history of bipartisan
you know congresses and they mentioned
the 83 85 to 85 Congress as like a
hallmark and here's some of the you know
successes their declaration of Martin
Luther King's birthday which is good
though we know there was some holdouts
on there yes John McCain to up
amendments to Social Security to
preserve the pension system solvency the
raising taxes on workers a major
revision to the federal criminal code
that included increased penalties for
drug trafficking and terrorism suite and
reduction of the deficit through a
package of spending cuts and tax hikes
yes that's transformative we're I
completely transformative you know it's
another broad transformative what was
that one that made sure that we didn't
have poll taxes anymore in the country
was that a slightly transformative
oh yes the Voting Rights Act when honest
was that bipartisan well the Voting
Rights Act was well it well
I actually allowed to do this let's
historic size it if it was voted today
no it would be all totally Democrat
Republican but it was geographically
that stripped-down that's buddy very
northern repair announced back fair
enough we lost all the Democrats that
voted against it are now Republicans
that's true welfare reform in the crime
bill we're bipartisan right and they
were transformative you know bad way
that is the other point whenever they
get together and do something bipartisan
that's yeah that's for human beings but
let's go backwards here and so he's
wrong anyways about transformative laws
requiring bipartisanship the ACA
considered by conventional wisdom to be
a transformative bill it certainly
expanded Medicaid the arguably made the
case it certainly changed the quality of
insurance on some level if you don't
measure it by affordability it provided
at least a baseline for what constitutes
decent coverage not it not a terribly
high baseline but it's a higher baseline
but good done in the Congress the united
states by passing laws and the best way
to pass big transformative laws is to
get bipartisan support so I introduced
the only bipartisan bill on climate it
was a carbon fee and dividend which
Chris and I just talked about and it had
Democrats and Republicans an equal
number and I think it's a template for
what I'll do as president in my first
year oh we've all fought legislation so
that didn't get a vote didn't get a vote
but I carbon fee which by the way is
also known as a carbon tax right how
many well we introduced a three and
three three and three I mean that is
impressive but it's so far from the
reality of the political system right I
mean the point is the leadership and
again three members of our house person
it says us in every single person is
dealing with the problems yeah that's
telling anything you don't know but it
is the case that john bainer of course
never would bring that to the floor
in the same way that Mitch McConnell
will never bring a piece of climate
legislation of the floor unless he
thinks he can kill it and make a point
right so that's why we have to win the
house in the Senate
and but even when we win the house in
the Senate we've got to put four things
that can get broad support I like that
he basically got the type of
co-sponsorship that you can just go and
be like dude come on buddy you and I for
me oh this isn't going anywhere you've
got a golf game this weekend we cosign
in a bill it might even be proved handy
for you in some random interview the in
fact partisan credentials I would go
even further and say it's the the
conversation could also have easily been
like exons gonna throw us a couple of
bones if we put this out country so that
we have something a/c block if you know
what I mean for any real legislation all
we need is six guys to do this and we
know it's bipartisan we're not gonna
have to make our phone calls this month
incidentally I have a fantasy about
running for president and I'd like to
mention this when I'm on MSNBC I I wish
that kid ended in saying by the way
congressman Delaney I have more
followers that it's the Graduate
probably does I'm sure he does
I you got to appreciate Hayes's like
sort of quiet skepticism where he's like
every question is asked where you have
the sense that he's holding back a laugh
oh yeah you can see the look playing
across his face it's very clear
