[Music]
Brazil yesterday as part of this broader
far-right push and again
2009 is crucial to coup in Honduras was
the signal that u.s. foreign policy
starting under the Obama administration
was actually going to accelerate its
response to rolling back the pink tide
progressive governments which really
dominated Latin America from 2000 to
2014 and that is also why regardless of
any specific criticisms there are many a
Venezuela Cuba and Nicaragua we have to
see the Trump coup and regime change
efforts there as part of the same
process and obviously there would never
be any improvement in anybody's rights a
worsening of the right situation and
oligarchy Brazil's the prime example of
that in ongoingly Glenn Greenwald who is
of course under threat from JR bolson ro
and from the corrupt Justice Minister
Sergio Moro the politically motivated
judge who put Lula in jail they're
threatening Glenn Greenwald on a daily
basis
there's assassination threats and
there's also political and journalistic
threats including deporting him from the
country illegally investigating his
finances and so on people including Jake
Tapper and Tucker Carlson have condemned
what the Brazilian government is doing
in Clinton so he is under real threat
Lula in spite of all of the revelations
that the lava jato process just yeah and
the new revelations are of the lead
prosecutor Delta and taking money for
speeches to banks and other corporations
which is also completely unethical in
spite of all of these revelations and
the absolute transparency of the
political process that made Lula a
political prisoner and took him off the
ballot even though he was leading balsan
ro by double digits and that means if
Lula was able to run he would be
president right now you would not have
this aggressive deforestation of the
Amazon you would have the most powerful
country in Latin America that could be
as somewhat of a counterweight to the
Trump administration and you wouldn't
have murders of indigenous people you
wouldn't have all of these different
things that are first and foremost
horrifying for the people of Brazil but
actually have a global
impact annulling the 2018 election
releasing lula from prison has global
implications for democracy and yesterday
even if the courts have still not
released this political prisoner there
was a horrifying move that came in the
beginning of the day which was that
there was an announcement that lula was
going to move uh a from prisons
currently he's in curitiba in police
headquarters in a sort of makeshift
prison he's held in solitary confinement
very repressive conditions but he is not
in what is an incredibly dangerous you
know open population politician prisons
for a former two-term president so those
are the conditions he's been held in it
was announced yesterday that he was
moving to Sao Paulo and the first
reaction was that this was a positive
signal because the presentation was that
yes he this regional court judge said
yes he has a right to be close to his
family but there was immediate concerns
because this judge is close to Moro who
again the the justice minister who's
been exposed in his corruption with lava
chato and who has a extreme vindictive a
horrifying record with Lula which goes
back years including of course making
him a political prisoner Lula's lers
said we didn't ask for this transfer and
in fact we don't want it we're very
worried about it the moral wanted to
still push it forward and this basically
a quote now briefly from Brazil wire
Lula's defense team quickly acted to
prevent the transfer since the condition
of Brazil's Penitentiary's is dismal and
the transfer would likely put Lula's
life in danger I mean this really did
seem like they were attempting to
publicly orchestrate him being killed or
significantly harmed the action sparked
a huge mobilization by lula supporters
and social media to the point that by
the day's end in an equally surprising
move several parties in Congress
including Brazil's equivalent of the
Speaker of the House Rodrigo Maya a
staunch opponent of Lula and a key
supporter of brill
sinara called on the supreme on the STF
the country Supreme Court to stop the
transfer and is similarly unexpected
action by a court known for its
continued support for the path leading
to bowl scenarios election including
elite Lula's illegal removal from the
election last year the STF rule tend to
ruled in a 10 to 1 vote to annul the
decision with judge sorry guaranteeing
lula stay in curitiba so now actually as
dangerous and as horrifying as that was
yesterday some people read this as a
very positive signal because this
specific way grancy of this move was
actually opposed by some very right-wing
forces who demanded the supreme court
stop it
and as the daily endless revelation of
all of the just rot and corruption of
lava jato this whole scam process which
has led to the election of a fascist
president who is destroying so much of
the Earth's biosphere sphere and harming
so many in brazil that that pushed back
and the supreme court
finally even though obviously they
should have never put luan jail to begin
with and so on but they're totally
compromised in this might mean that this
is part of a broader push back on
unraveling but it remains an incredibly
dangerous situation Bernie Sanders and
bro Khanna have spoken on this AOC and L
on Omar and others have signed petitions
but way more needs to be done on this
from progressive forces United States
and another thing and it is he it's just
disgusting that Bernie's the only
presidential candidate who's called for
the release of Lula let alone any you
know the most major mainline politician
other than Rokon it has to be clearly on
this another I mean look tulsi gabbard
please
she's so progressive she hasn't said
anything about this because she
practices my view of form of
isolationism doesn't speak on these
things that's my speculation the only
reason as to why she wouldn't Elizabeth
Warren has no concept of courage and
solidarity on these issues it's the
blunt fact that's why she's been totally
silent and these other candidates by all
appearances indicate leading with Joe
Biden Joe Biden is a major architect of
things like what's happened in Honduras
his record along with the drug war
Latin America is despicable and
dishonorable and there's no indication
that any of these other candidates
Harris Buddha judge would do anything to
change and reform that relationship
which is so damaging to them and in fact
is generating these other broader
problems all right
