[Music]
here's an example I guess of Delta the
airline trying to do some silly
propaganda against unions uh you know
gasps this is Gil this is goofy but
you know union-busting as a private
consulting industry hired by
multinationals like Delta is actually a
major business I believe that was part
of the business portfolio of the lawyer
that hosted the first Joe Biden
fundraiser I just were always like to
remember you know as a Matt Karp wrote
that great Burnie profile that just came
out in the nation the transformation in
Bernie Sanders it's a really good piece
and he has one very nice juxtaposition
where he sort of talks about how like I
think was like Bernie in his 30s or at
40 like maybe when he first got elected
to become mayor of Burlington and the
work he was doing for land Trust's
peeping people in their homes and
supporting worker owned businesses and
he said something like and about the
same age that Joe Biden was writing
letters to segregationist senators huge
stop integrates good at the same time
that Kamala Harris was soliciting
multinational donors for her lock people
up campaigns Bernie Sanders was creating
a Land Trust yeah I think I like I like
that juxtaposition there so this is a
delta ad union dues cost around 700 a
year a new video game system with the
latest hit sounds like with the latest
hit sounds like fun wait a video game
system with the latest hit sounds like
fun
put your money towards that instead of
paying dues to a union and then there's
a gaming what do they call it a
controller gaming controller so of
course this wouldn't appeal here Michael
but yeah this wouldn't appeal to me it
literally I would be like what why do I
want I'm trying to unionize on our and
then Sam slip this to man now doomed
right exactly but these so but of course
the point being that without a union you
won't be able to afford that gaming
system begin with
you'll probably be so exhausted from
flying and dangerous and hazardous
tradition conditions I mean this is why
you join a union is so you can afford
the gaming system with the new games and
you can also negotiate for more time off
so let's say you play them let's say you
want to Wednesday's off a month as you
can play video games during the day just
the thought I don't have the stats in
front of me but I'm pretty sure
unionized workers the difference between
non-union wages and union wages is a lot
more than 700 dollars a year yeah and
also if you've ever heard stories or
seen reported stories on people that are
like airline pilots who make $30,000 a
year and might even be dealing with
homelessness yeah kind of some good
counter evidence yeah
air travel really is where the squeeze
comes down it's where this and also like
if you watch this is if you see this as
a delta worker what do they take you for
like there's like a you are
cheaply and you're so stupid that you
can't even like I get the like you know
gut-punch arguments like in jobs where
it's like hey you're so fundamentally
squeezed that you need like every five
cents you know we're we're exploiting
you so much that you're worried about
paying for groceries so you can play pay
play on a fear and a scarcity that the
company is creative but this is the like
hey man don't you want more time you're
like game like they think you're
an idiot
this is a great expression of what kind
of loser Delta thinks their employees
are if anything this would make me want
to unionize more exactly because
you how much time would it save if Delta
wasn't wasting their money on this sort
of right that's what I want how
about a company audit of all of the
money you're paying to some idiot firm
to keep your workers from having a
decent life
