a lot of people said you know at least
Stephen Moore sitting on the Fed a
completely unqualified self-professed
high steep learning curve type of guy
when it comes to the Fed monetary policy
yeah you say you say is that I'd I'm
gonna love it I got a lot to learn you
know a lot to learn this is a guy who's
jump from job to job I mean this is a
really this is just one of those guys
you're like what do you really need to
know though to just like set monetary
policy to benefit oligarchs and
corporations I mean there is some
technical knowledge at the very least
you want to come off like you know what
you're talking about he can't even
pretend to food to do that so here he is
he has walked into the Lions Den ladies
and gentlemen when you are in the late
stages of a campaign and in this case
Stephen Moore is on his own personal
campaign to get on the fed when you need
to shore up your base in the late stages
of a campaign that is an indication that
you're going to lose badly because by
the late stages of a campaign you're
reaching out so at this point Stephen
Moore should be going on Democracy Now
to make his case to those on the Left
why you'd be good for instead he's on
firing line with Margaret Hoover if
you've got a cell Margaret Hoover at
this stage you know you've got a problem
here he is saying he may have something
to apologize for in the context of a
joke that maybe some people
misinterpreted as being somewhat racy
or racist another statement that keeps
coming to light as a joke you made about
the Obamas just after the election he
rolled fair by the way did you see that
there's that great cartoon going along
that the New York Times headline first
thing Donald Trump does as president is
kicks kick a black family out of public
housing and it has Obama leaving the
White House I mean I just
that one but just a great one so you
know the joke I always made about you
know Obama lives and you know the
president lives in public housing but I
didn't mean it like a black person that
I just meant that you know you know
being in the White House you know for
example when I was working with a lot of
women and families who were involved in
the education voucher program you know
here in DC and people would say well you
know and these were these were blacks
who would say you know why does Barack
Obama get this on his kids study school
that he wants to weaken and they say he
lives in public housing and it was just
kind of a joke and that was really have
a particular resonance especially in a
moment yeah I shouldn't have said it
again you can find you go back 30 years
you're gonna be able to find clips over
and over and over again about me I have
a long paper trail I mean there's no
question about it and I was pausing I
would just remind people that that was
actually not on paper that was actually
just he said it at a on like a stage
actually in front of a better podium
yeah and it wasn't actually you didn't
have to go back 30 years I can only
imagine what Steven Moore was saying
about black people 30 years ago this was
all the way back in 2016 when my son
who's six could dye his shoes he doesn't
even understand that that joke is at
Trump's expense right like he's saying
it in a racist way to be racist but like
actually it's bad to kick families out
of pol III literally I know okay a nice
even more I know the origin of that joke
years ago there was a Trump roast on
Comedy Central these that you know
broadcast these roasts and and Trump was
totally fine and everybody did the same
like he's got so many wives in his hair
and he's just like uh you know good
and then Snoop Dogg came out and this
was in 2011 so it was you know it's
disgusting this was happening to begin
with but Snoop Dogg said why shouldn't I
run for president wouldn't be the first
time he kicked a black family out of
their homes right that was the joke and
Trump did not like that continue so I
shouldn't have said it again you can
find you go back 30 years you're gonna
be able to find clips over and over and
over again about me I have a long paper
trail I mean there's no question about
it and I've I say things that are kind
of jokes that people if people want to
pick them apart then I probably won't
you know get on the Federal Reserve
Board I think that might be the case
actually I suspect that part of the
reason why you're there on firing line
is to prevent that from happening
actually a little bit unfortunate but
look folks you know I've made the the
case many times in the past that that
racists and misogynist don't see
themselves in two separate categories
they go like I'm a double threat I'm
racist and misogynist they just go I
just don't like people who aren't white
guys and and so let's check in a little
bit later in that interview maybe it was
a little bit earlier with Margaret
Hoover where Stephen was explaining you
know some of the things he said that
maybe maybe misinterpreted in some way
about women a statute of limitations on
saying stupid things and I've said some
pretty stupid things I love the fact I
love the fact that she says they're not
it's true it's true you have said some
stupid things let's play this one we
have queued up for you right now it's
not a good thing that black women are
making more than black men today in fact
you know the the male needs to be the
the breadwinner of the family and one of
the reasons I said you've seen the
decline of the family not just in the
black community but also it's happening
now in the white community as well is
because women are more
economically self-sufficient so let me
kind of explain what I was saying just a
little bit like every sentence out of
this guy's mouth is so precious when
he's trying let me let me try and
explain what I said there now this is to
be fair this was all the way back in
2000 I think he's gonna probably use
that as the defense because you know
back in 2000 things were so bad things
were so different I remember back in the
the early aughts
we had the horse-drawn carriages you
know you got you got now in Brooklyn
it's like you get hit by a car if you
walk in the street well he used to be
you'd have to watch out for the horse
and buggies that were there in 2000
women are more economically
self-sufficient so let me kind of
explain what I was saying there and it
wasn't it wasn't said very freely and by
the way it was 20 years have changed a
lot yeah did you catch that
he said well times have really changed
since the year 2000 I've got news for
you folks they haven't changed that much
I mean things have changed but I think
in 2000 pretty we were pretty much all
on board with the idea that women it's
okay for them to be economically
self-sufficient I mean well you know as
a society we're pretty much resigned to
the fact that we just can't keep him in
the kitchen anymore
but then she comes back with well you
actually said that in 2014 when things
were really had progressed that was back
that was back almost when we had the
internal combustion engine believe one
of the biggest problems with American
economy today is what has happened with
male wages over the last 25 or 30 years
women's wages have gone up which is
great I'm for higher wages for everybody
the problem is black male and white male
wages have been falling and I do think
that's a problem for our society I think
one single degree has a problem the
problem is that you've said that the
male needs to be no I shouldn't have
said that
but what I am saying is you know when
you have male wages declining like that
they become less important in terms of
the breadwinner in the Econo in the
family and that can lead to family
instability we can't have societal
suitability if women are making more
than oh no no no no I like the direction
women's wages
than going I mean women have made a
choice what I'm saying women's wages of
like that and males wages of look at it
say it go back oh my god are you
thinking what I'm thinking no I'm not
sure what you're thinking like that
episode of Curb Your Enthusiasm no I
didn't know I don't know what that means
he's making a big vagina with I was not
thinking that I was just thinking he's
time eats a gap you could fit a baseball
in he's literally saying it's almost
like saying like Martin let me try and
do a physical representation of what I
am doing mentally and that is by turning
I'm trying to twist myself into a
pretzel to make it sound like I didn't
actually say in 2014 that it's a problem
that women are the breadwinners in a
family when women are the breadwinners
the vaginas they get too big and then
the men feel small that's right because
they win all their bread would their but
then the woman can't get in there okay
good like that and males wages are going
like that any I think that's a problem
hmm well Steven more if there's the
Herman Cain music yeah I exactly
Herman Cain is sitting back going like I
knew it excuse me all I had to do was
wait and also for what it's worth I mean
Steven Mora has just been on the like
right-wing propaganda welfare dole
Herman Cain is a successful businessman
well Herman Cain to be fair has also
been on the right-wing propaganda but
hey Steven Moore never ran a successful
pizza franchise that's true he didn't I
wonder there you know it I wonder if
this actually like it'll be curious to
see if Steven Moore if this if this ends
it for Steven Moore like if everybody's
like this dose of how ridiculous this
dude is dropped in one moment um Ben
Carson's still in charge of HUD right no
but thank Carson did it you know yes
that's true but I think like Ben Carson
just takes you into another world when
he like
that guy is trying to do what he's
supposed to do really
badly ben Carson would have just been
like I did say that and if you look at
the pyramids and then it would just be
like alright you know what fine
