[Music]
you at the book talk you had an
interesting assessment of Warren and
Sanders in and how you sort of you know
come around a little bit on on Sanders
and and people should understand that
Elizabeth Warren for people our
generation I'm older than you but our
generation in terms of like civic
engagement in politics you know at least
professionally Elizabeth Warren came out
of nowhere and deftly not only like
fought off Republicans but also fought
off Democrats as well who were hesitant
to allow her to have so much authority
which in many respects she sort of just
like finagled in creating the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau just give me
your your sense of how your assessment
of both those candidates and senators
has evolved yeah the irony is that the
centrist Twitter crowd is just caught
the calls me a Bernie bro relentlessly
with which is ironic given what you said
in that our generation you know we
watched you know we wanted someone to be
you know to have that fighting spirit
and to recognize that one of the
problems with Democrats is that they
weren't fighting hard enough for what
they believed and weren't and and so she
comes in and you know her famous quote
to the Huffington Post about the CFPB
she was like you know has asked about
compromising a particular element of it
and she said my first choice is a strong
independent CFPB and my second choice is
for the Senate floor to be covered in
blood teeth and that was her that was
her attitude that was her approach and
this was you know she's talking on the
record he's not it's not her aide giving
a background quote and every time that
they would try to weaken the CFPB
you know she would push back and there'd
be there'd be public outrage over it and
they would back off the attempts to
neuter it and the fact that it got
through it all is remarkable the fact
that it got through with a single you
know independent director and and
funding that can't be cut off by
Congress's is truly remarkable and so we
saw her doing that sort of thing going
after Tim Geithner in public calling out
you know Democrats and Republicans and
at the same time didn't see Sanders
involved in much in the light post 2009
Obama era fight you know he you know he
ironically the thing he got pounded the
most for in the in 2016 primary his
one-time suggesting that somebody should
primary Obama you know out of
frustration over Obama's kind of deficit
hawkish this right in the 2011 2011
period but you know he that was you know
it wasn't like he was in Elizabeth
Warren it was constantly pushing him so
he got the worst of all worlds like he
didn't he wasn't really in it but then
he also got you know punished badly for
it in the primary because Obama remained
so so popular you know Cabernets credit
he got some significant money for
community health centers in in the
Affordable Care Act
he got an audit the Fed bill through
with Ron Paul but but beyond that he was
kind of like a non-factor he didn't use
his position either to leverage media
attention to progressive fight he didn't
organize progressives in the Senate and
to form a block to try to leverage like
one of most important fights during that
time was blocking Larry Summers from
being said chair yeah god knows what
calamity the world was saved from by
Jeff Merkley and Elizabeth Warren
organizing progressive resistance to him
and enforcing Obama to drop him and so
for people like like me we watched it
was weren't doing all this
and then we see Sanders presidential
campaign taking off we're like where's
this coming from and so it did take me a
while to recognize that kind of in spite
of what Sanders had done before and also
partly because of his consistency and
what he'd been saying for so long in his
and his
the disengagement that I didn't like was
a disengagement that also gave him an
authenticity because he wasn't part of
the system and so it took me a while to
come around I did a real movement had
formed around him and that he himself
was start beginning to recognize that
and that he was know he stopped seeing
himself as a gadfly and saw himself more
as an actual political actor who who was
now on the world stage and had a chance
to actually succeed in making some
transformative change and so I think is
it hard for a lot of you of my
generation him to make that turn and to
see the new Sanders compared to the old
one right I mean it really in many
respects was like that you know where he
realized and you know January of 2016
like oh my gosh I didn't you know like I
entered in as doing a an issue campaign
my understanding is he got in when he
got in because he wanted to make sure
that Warren wasn't gonna run and he
really pushed her hard to run and she
didn't do it she didn't do it in 20 and
that and that cycle right so he jumped
in to talk about wealth inequality and
then realize that this really could
resonate yeah and it also helps explain
why Warren ultimately didn't endorse him
because she liked Sanders they both
thought that he was in there to raise
the issues like I mean he was in there
to raise the issues and so if you're in
there to raise the issues yeah they both
thought that he was there exclusively to
raise the issues not to win right and
right she wanted to be able to maintain
I mean the the the power there right
right because her holds her whole game
was
that and she talked to Hillary twice
probably about this thing like you know
I'm gonna go to war with you over your
personnel choices like if you try to if
you try to stack your cabinet with what
with Wall Street types then I'm going to
do everything I can you know in the
Senate to block them but I also want to
be constructive and I'll give you names
of people who who I think would be good
regulators and so Lillis we can do this
one of two ways and so she was trying to
keep some channel open between her and
and Hillary I think in hindsight Hillary
should have told her go ahead endorse
Bernie because then when she had altima
Lee beat Bernie you know have to have
Warren on stage endorsing her after
having endorsing Bernie it would have
had more credibility to it well we could
I could we could drop a long list of
what a shudders when it comes to
Clinton's campaign just I think nom
frankly taken Warren as her running mate
would have been a smart move and my
understanding is that Warren was
interested in that as well but Ryan grim
it's it's fascinating there's so much to
be learned and the thing that I I love
about this is that you know and I would
imagine even to some extent it would
have even more value to listeners is to
be able to compare what I perceived was
happening during throughout this era and
you know as recently as months ago
almost versus you know what deep
reporting tells me what's happening is
very important so that people can have
like a really clear diet assessment of
what's going on and and what are the
forces here it this stuff is it's really
fascinating and it the reporting is
impeccable and I appreciate you coming
on and telling us about it all right
that's nice to say thank you all right
