oh hi hi sorry I left the room for a
minute okay oh yeah you're sorry colors
Oh
Patrick Patrick you're calling from I'm
from New Orleans and I come from
Virginia okay and what is on your mind
Patrick formerly from New Orleans oh
yeah my question was well I mean so my
parents watch a lot of MSNBC
unfortunately they don't watch it when
you're on oh but I understand yeah yes
the bad part but my parents are so so
for quick reference I'm a Marxist I've
been a Marxist for past couple of years
considered myself one and people like my
parents and a lot of people I know like
in my family and around me they're with
me morally but not ideologically and I
think part of that is that there's very
little representation of like an actual
leftist argument in American media right
and I was curious as to what you think
how we can really put those people like
give them more of a spotlight because I
think that if you put that put it more
in like a global context you would get
more people it would you know like they
wouldn't shake it socialist like it
wouldn't freak out if like someone said
like I'm a Marxist I'm democratic
socialists or social democrat and i was
curious as what you thought we could do
to like contact those people more
clearly well I I you know and I think at
this point I'm probably and I will also
say that I do not watch MSNBC
that much but I am probably about as far
left on that network as it gets
and I am hello and I am a sellout the I
just don't think that people can
reasonably expect
and and maybe we you know and reasonably
I'm just using in terms of like you know
I'm not making a value judgment on that
that these cable news outlets which are
owned by major corporations
I mean MSNBC is still owned at least a
minority share
I don't know forty nine percent or
something by GE Comcast owns the
majority sit share but for a long time
GE owned the majority share and they are
the one of the if not the largest
weapons manufacturers in the country and
in Comcast of course is you know a BMF
and so the idea that they're going to
put any anti capitalists on their
network it's just I I just don't think
that's going to happen I think really
and what your folks are what about in
their 50s 60s maybe they're around like
55 like they're very they're kind of
like I guess she called Mike Kennedy
Democrats like I still really love Bob
Kennedy and people like that yeah Bobby
Kennedy well I think they like Christmas
look I think the bottom line is is that
my dad loves Chris Matthews yeah I love
you back he's like yeah he's basically
in love with Rachel no no I don't like
real mad I mean I love Christmas here's
I mean the bottom line is is going to be
that your generation is going to get its
news less and less from cable news and
more and more from sort of the web where
there's going to be a less of a bar to
entry for people and so you know on this
program we interview you know we we have
Marxists and Arco Communists and
across the spectrum and we interview
Marxist thinkers and and various you
know capital critiques of capitalism and
as you know time goes on more and more
people are gonna get their news from
shows like this where there's you know
less of a bar to entry we started this
program with no money whatsoever and
just a little bit of like you know
RadioShack equipment and and so I think
that's gonna change over time but I
don't think there is a I would not hold
your breath let's put it that way
I mean maybe you see someone like you
know Michael Moore will get on MSNBC
occasionally and I think he has a
critique of capital but it's not Michael
Voris that this what Bobby Kennedy was
trying to do and and and so I think you
know the the reality is is that I I just
don't think I think the idea is just try
and move your parents just as a little
bit to the left as possible and get them
to vote in the right way and cory booker
is this like your first yeah job
you're sort of shy about it but excited
it's a historical moment anyways we wish
you the best of luck I feel you I trust
me I've my family is much the same way I
love them very much
I felt really bad having to explain to
my mom that I was not actually going on
the Rachel Maddow Show cuz someone made
a funny Photoshop poster for the Katie
helper show that I was going to be in
but um yeah I mean in addition to
waiting for your parents to die you
could try to find some teachable moments
I think a lot of people in the older
generation have been insulated from a
lot of the problems caused by
neoliberalism and Obama era politics so
for instance I don't know maybe they've
never had to buy health care on one of
the exchanges before maybe you have
maybe tell them I pay like sorry maybe
like them know how much of your salary
per month you pay and then you still
can't afford to
the doctor because your copay is like
$100 yeah I mean that's that's the funny
thing about my parents is that they they
actually used to live in and Switzerland
for like a very brief amount of time but
like I think they're aware of the
benefits that come with living in a you
know in a natural like welfare state but
they're I don't know it's freaks and I
whenever they talk about this but like
I've had moments where I've been able
like moving a little bit but it doesn't
stick around long because I think they
watch MSNBC all the time like I was
talking to my mom a couple months ago
about about Lula da Silva in Brazil and
you know like I I think I said something
along the line of like my family's
Catholic and I said you know like
they're basically like Catholic Social
Democrats like liberation theologians
that kind of stuff yes and my mom got
really quiet for a moment and she was
like I really get that like I really
really get that and the thing is like
I'm not in the house that much but
they're watching him ascend you see all
the time and I can't come to the house
all the time
turn them on to some podcasts it sounds
like they're intellectually curious
people I was at a wedding in Houston
guys all the time
I like every time you can lon Chris I'm
sorry whenever you go in Chris Hayes I
say like you should watch his show and
they're on the computer all the time so
I don't know why they're not doing it
but there's this mother a good
person a here Leon Cedars podcast here's
what you do
okay you go into their their computer in
their browser yeah you change all of the
addresses on their on their favorites on
their browser bar you go in you don't
change the the logo whatnot but you go
in you hit info on their on their
favorite their you know their bookmarks
all you got to do is you hit you know
the you know the bookmark manager and
you change it all and send them directly
to YouTube videos of the majority report
that you like so that there's really
virtually nowhere they can go online
almost as long as they and then they act
gently will fall into it and that's what
you do so good luck with that Patrick
tell me how that goes
alright will do thanks Patrick
appreciate it
