so Sharon when we broke we were talking
about the essentially the birth of the
Clean Water Act and it came out of a
what feels like an ongoing sort of
awareness that the the rivers and water
bodies in this country were getting
increasingly polluted by corporations
who were just dumping using them as
their own private dumps for all sorts of
chemicals paints whatever whatever I
guess they want to do whatever was a
byproduct of whatever they were making
and it culminated in the burning of the
Cuyahoga River which had caught on fire
almost a dozen times before and other
rivers around the country also catching
on fire but something about the Cuyahoga
made it just too much to ignore and so
the federal government passes the Clean
Water Act what did that Clean Water Act
set out to do what were the provisions
of it well so it's limited the goal was
to broadly to clean water to clean up
our water to limit the kinds of
pollution that could go into it and
broadly they had set a goal of
eliminating it basically dumping into
the water by 1985 you know that was to
be all pollution discharges well I don't
have to tell you that that didn't happen
but broadly they were hoping to make all
of our waterways fishable and swimmable
and so we haven't done that well let me
ask you about that goal okay so it's one
thing to stop everybody from polluting
it's another to clean up the pollution
right because this stuff doesn't just
wash away into the ocean it gets into
the ecosystem it gets into the the soil
under the water I mean where where are
we on that project
I mean or before we start to turn it
back well yeah I mean
is a huge project in a separate project
I think people would say I mean I think
the answer is that we are in a much
better position and much of that
pollution has been cleaned up to use to
go with the example of the Cuyahoga and
continue with that it is a vastly
improved watershed and you've seen many
species return and you've seen water
quality improved at the same time we
have fallen far short of the goals that
the Clean Water Act set out in terms of
really cleaning the water and stopping
pollution discharges and and it's
important to note that that we have made
huge immense progress but we haven't
solved our problems by any stretch and
already now most of our waterways are
polluted they violate federal water
quality standards set forth in the Clean
Water Act and if it's sort of
mind-boggling when you look at the
numbers so it's more than a million
miles of rivers and streams are
contaminated seventy percent of ponds
lakes and reservoirs almost 80 percent
of bays and 98% of the Great Lakes
shoreline and these are of those
waterways that have been assessed most
of them are violating the Clean Water
Act in one way or another already ok so
we have the situation where I guess the
is that a question of just the the
nature of the nature of the endeavor or
a failure in in the in policing I think
it's a failure in policing and also and
and also just a it's the but you know a
disregard for the law on the part of the
polluters okay and all right so Oh
with that said better than it was years
ago obviously we don't regularly have
rivers catching on fire because of the
level of Newton's so all right so the
Obama administration in 2015
promulgate some new rules but but what
is the Trump administration rolling back
my understanding it's actually
supersedes it gets reported as if it's
the Obama rules but it supersedes a lot
more of those rules doesn't it yes I
know it's so very confusing and and you
know the blowing it into the weeds or
whatever the right metaphor is the more
confusing it gets and we can we can talk
a little bit more about how the EPA is I
think purposefully confusing and further
but um yes so the 2015 waters of the
u.s. role that was the Obama goal um
basically did increase the reach of the
Clean Water Act a little bit somewhere
that's most of a three to five percent
and basically what it did was clarified
that intermittent and what they call
ephemeral streams which are streams that
reliance rainwater are subject to that
federal law and are protected that role
kind of came in response to a series of
lawsuits that industry have brought that
were attempting to and in some ways
exceeding in rolling back the reach of
the Clean Water Act so there had been
for about a decade a little more before
that these these lawsuits were industry
was saying actually you know you think
it covers all these waterways but not
this and not that not this and then you
know it was sort of this patchwork thing
EPA came in and said okay here's our
rule and working on you know we're going
to say that these streams are covered
and I should know that when that happens
in 2015 a number of environmental groups
felt that it did not go far enough they
felt it would you know it was
compromised it should have done more
in any case industry hated it flipped
out
and continued a you know to aggressively
demand that it be reverse basically
since then so come talked about it a lot
of online campaign trail and you hear a
lot of big ad groups and big industry
groups talking about it that 2015 role
as overreach but basically the new rule
which came out on Tuesday says it's
pretty confusing but what they can say
is that ephemeral streams are definitely
not covered and there's a whole bunch of
water bodies that are not directly if
they're not directly connected by a
physical waterway to a what they call a
navigable waterway which is like a you
know a river or something that you can
you know take a boat on I mean that's
very big right I mean you can put a lot
of chemicals you can put a lot of
chemicals into a stream or a river that
is not navigable in fact you know so as
people drive around the administration
says navigable waterways and their
tributaries are going to be protected by
the rule but if you're not directly
connected to them by a waterway like if
you are just nearby or if you're if
there's a waterway that only runs part
of the year you know and it may not all
end is not directly connected to them
then it won't be covered by the law and
so one really interesting piece of this
is you know here's curves like what does
that mean and so of course that's what
all we reporters have been figuring
trying to figure out exactly how much of
our of the nation's water are we talking
about well when you ask EPA about this
and I should say before the rule came
out the estimates were about that around
50 percent of the waterways will lose
protections and that in the most in a
dry parts of the west like Arizona you
might see as much as 90 percent well
when they release the
EPA pushback on this that you can't no
one can give these estimates because we
just don't know and it's not knowable
and any any time someone says they go
they don't know
well iya news actually got a PowerPoint
through FOIA from the EPA which shows
that in fact they did these measurements
themselves not only was it not knowable
they knew and what it said was that 18
percent of our waterways of stream in
the country are ephemeral 52 percent are
intermittent and and what they say as
many of being ephemeral streams are
actually classified as intermittent so
if I hear you correctly I mean we've got
about 15-20 seconds left if I hear you
correctly we're talking about half of
what constitutes you know bodies of
water at least moving bodies of water
that are now subject to being dumping
grounds for all sorts of chemicals well
when you add in wetlands yes I think
we're talking about more than half of
the nation's wetlands which are so
important environmentally in terms of
filtering contaminant set of water and
providing storm surge which is
increasingly important in this time of
climate change and I think the impact
yes gonna be gonna be devastating Sharon
Lerner thank you so much for for the
deep dive into this I think this we're
going to hear more about this as it
becomes clear how the EPA is allowing
corporations to poison our water and us
Thank You Sharon Lerner
