[Music]
Wow speaking Abidin I don't want to play
the corn pop thing I don't care
honestly like he's got a store I
remember I was in Worcester and it was
somebody named Cohen pop I mean I was at
the swimming pool and I was an assistant
lifeguard hey I'm only life God cuz I
asked my but I was there this was 2017
right as it was when he was there cuz I
don't think he could deliver that story
today I'm not being I'm not I'm not I
don't mean to be a jerk I'm not being
cute when I saw that I was like well at
least he's got some energy he seems
maybe he gets more energized when he's
talking about the old days but I don't
think he could deliver that same story
today and korn just play a little more
pop play a little bit give it to me that
play a little bit of us because honestly
like look this corn pop story I think
it's true um I think it's his way of
showing like I'm a tough guy I'm tough
but I'm fair and you know this is it you
know and he was at the the pool and so
he just recalling his days at the pool
like I'm regular Joe coin pop I had
chains but yeah this is a you know did
you hear the whole thing hear you and
but but here's the thing I don't think
Joe Biden today could tell this story
like this go I learned a lot and I
learned that it makes a difference this
was the diving board area and I was one
of the guards and they weren't allowed
to through there's a three meter board
and he fell off sideways you landed on
the damp side the darn cement over there
and corn pop was a bad dude and he ran a
bunch of bad boys and I did gym and back
in those days the shot things have
changed one of the things had to use if
you use pomade in your hair you had to
wear a baby cap and so he was up on the
board wouldn't listen I said hey Esther
you off the board I'll come up and drag
house it so basically what what he's
showing is that like he was a tough guy
yeah he was a tough guy well is it
president said like Little Richard up
there Oh
this story also highlights the fact that
he's a million years old
yes that's my point like the pomade
comment you're like wait what and he
calls Mary greasers now I think he's
referring to Esther Williams sin or
something like that who was a they used
to do water ballet movies yeah all that
where he was really telling short pop
like yo yeah cool that I think I
actually like that that's okay hey
Esther Ben at the end of the story he
says I shouldn't have called you Esther
but I still need to follow the rules now
I don't like I don't think the story
endorsement retract I just think the the
I I just think that the the real main
problem with this story aside from the
fact that like he's really hanging on to
this this is from two years ago I
honestly don't think that Joe Biden
could tell a story that is six minutes
long today and have it be relatively
coherent I mean is there is there
footage of him talking not on a speech
on something that's written in front of
him but retelling recounting something
and be able to sort of follow it through
with that narrative I mean I'm not being
facetious here I just haven't seen it
and in the context of the debate I've
seen this guy debate plenty of times
before you see him in these debates and
his answer about in terms of reparations
was all over the place
you ever find out why they ended the
debate 15 minutes early I think people
just get bored or maybe they just
schedule it like it was supposed to be
that long and so that they could you
know that they'd get more some bad time
afterwards because they probably have a
higher ad density in that last half hour
and they probably want to keep it in
prime time that's my guess
so that's what Joe Biden ad for this
week corn pop and it turns out corn pop
is real by the way I was just reading an
article oh I believe it I believe I am
sure it's real there's I don't think
there's any reason to doubt that it's
real I think to me the most
part is like he's talking about how all
you know like how his perspective has
changed on things and the only thing
that he comes up with what's old about
that story is the pomade needing a
bathing cap I only wish corn pop were
still alive today to a comet maybe he is
he's not no corn pops family
