[Music]
okay it's speaking of rich people who
like hearing the sound of their own
voices let's go to the cool kids
philosopher bench Bureau this is
somebody who as we all know the logic
gene he's a logic genius he is a serious
philosophic mind he's the type of person
that you could say well you know I'm a
liberal but I appreciate the rigor of
his perspective and I do want to say I
agree with Ben Burgess who has a book
coming out called give them an argument
the left's
I think it's like leftist logic or
something I think that the left does
need to get a way more comfortable with
arguing with these people debating them
it can't all be snark and moral
condemnation fair enough that being said
I just want to remind everybody before
he played his clip which we will
logically respond to this is somebody
who is the leading light of this IDW
thing this is somebody who is highly
respected by the New York Times this is
somebody who can you know goes around
spreading the gospel of sweet logic well
this is Ben Shapiro and I don't recall
when this is from you guys don't have
this time when this comes from for me
but I don't think this is recent I think
there's a couple years ago this is Ben
it is evergreen this is Ben Shapiro
arguing that people need to calm down
about climate change for the following
only logical but really intuitive reason
and intuitive and what last year this
happened last year 2017 this is all a
logical it's intuitive intuitive in the
sense that this is probably a four year
old might think of this but then
actually promptly understand why that
might work not work
we have to include this ridiculous right
so a couple of things one the the subset
of climate scientists is not all that
large so I really don't care what a
doctor in biology has to say about
climate change he knows about it he
knows as much as I do so it depends on
what they have a doctorate in that's
gonna be debatable as we're gonna fight
that's gonna be debatable and I'm also
gonna say ad hominem if we can get into
the nerd mode not really dealing with
the argue that is not an argument that's
poisoning the well there but ya better
watch out we're gonna we're gonna
monitor this very closely yes fallacies
you're gonna monsters very closely go
ahead right so you said you're right
there's a lot of climate scientists and
in you know climatologists who have who
said that that global warming is an
absolute fact and anthropogenic global
warming is an absolute fact they have
very different measurements as to how
large that effect is going to be there
is a broad range among climatologists as
far as I can tell posit there is a broad
range among the over well over 90% of
climatologist who say it is human caused
which he just said in a more fancy way a
few seconds ago and the debate ranges
between absolute apocalyptically
catastrophic to really bad and we should
urgently do something about it go ahead
among how much the climate is going to
actually change sorry I just want to put
tack on probabilities work in a funny
way which is that there's a range of
them and and what Ben Shapiro and Bret
Stevens the odious older version of him
at the New York Times always point out
it's like well some people say it might
only be this amount of degrees right
they don't point out that when you use
probabilities like a lower end range you
have to also include the upper range
estimate because it could be either way
that's what that's what Pro yeah that is
what uncertainty is that's what
uncertain so so in fact the game of
probabilities and uncertainties does not
always just point to maybe miraculously
99% of climate scientists are wrong and
there's nothing wrong with pumping
unlimited amounts of fossil fuel
emissions into the atmosphere it could
also mean that their rate of the crisis
is actually even faster than the
consensus and the types of massive
global breakdowns in pre
mature human deaths are gonna happen in
an even higher and faster way rate then
as an example a UN climate report might
predict that's how probabilities work
this is logic and what is the direct
impact of carbon emissions on that given
the fact that for the last 15 years
there has been no global warming you
know the the the the single largest
study of global warming that was done in
the in the in Britain it turned out a
lot of the data was actually kind of
falsified so they kind of falsified I
bet because he couldn't really you can't
you know I was going into the the these
the an old story of a right wing effort
to smear British climate scientists and
that was an overblown misleading story
to begin with the murder Hillary's
emails the email gate which also
WikiLeaks published yeah Climategate
emails which was the first maybe one of
the first signals that WikiLeaks was
going fascist but exactly and also yes I
don't know if he's confusing i I don't
know what he means by no actual warming
I don't know if he's confusing weather
with climate but he's talking really
fast so it must be true right yeah but
average temperatures have been average
temperatures have been increasing each
and both last couple of summers have
been hottest on record urine and year
out so I don't know exactly what he's
trying to frame I don't think we've had
an under average year since like the 80s
but whatever no well certainly not in
the past several years each summer we
it's report I'm not saying that it's not
happening it may be happening you know
I'm happy to say that it may be
happening I may even be happy to say
that it's it's probably happening but
again always we had posit so all of the
caveats and time to maybe I might even
be able to say it may be happening but
do you notice how this sounds a lot like
how Trump speaks when he's talking about
Michael Cohen and so all of the
poisoning of the well is actually
basically irrelevant now because he's
actually happy - apparently stipulate
the main contention and this is where it
really gets logical base Aleutian to the
problem that does not involve killing
off millions of human beings or raising
taxes or raising taxes no no right no
and then no but this is a I agree but
the problem is that if you're going to
provide if you're going to make this is
another issue where
in ization is significantly more
important to the left and actually
solving the problem right so I wasn't a
dominant man projection the left says
about climate change is basically you're
a climate change denier therefore your
fool well yeah well yes right as opposed
to okay maybe maybe you're wrong about
climate change denial but little pause
in here I'm sorry it isn't just the left
backpacker the this is a facts don't
care about your feelings because the
Prime people look if there was not
anywhere near consensus science on
climate change and the anthropogenic
contributions for it I will totally
concede that my intuition with my
politics would lead me to think that
pumping an unlimited amount of pollutant
since the error is probably doing
something to the earth that isn't good
but I wouldn't say you're a fool like
you're a fool for not accepting that
because I wouldn't have the grounds to
say that I'm not gonna open up the GMO
debate I have a narrow critique of GMOs
from an intellectual property point of
view but I might have our concerns that
are more broad about GMOs which I know
is not a scientifically validated
concern it's an intellectual bias that I
have that I could be right about but I
could be wrong about but you're not a
fool for thinking I'm wrong the people
saying you're a fool for thinking
climate change isn't happening aren't
leftist it's those who do climate
science and it's because we know who
paid for the arguments you believe in
precisely but here's the solution that
you're ignoring where is the solution
that's being ignored I'm sorry it's not
Holocaust denial if you used to the
language denier is is pretty ridiculous
on its face considering that there that
thirty years ago they were claiming
there was gonna be a grip so now the
defense is he's not this don't call me
the same as a Holocaust and now the
defense is standpoint epistemology I
believe which is the thing he also
dislikes standpoint epistemology and
bizarre non sequitur I am offended by
this anti-semitic turn of phrase and Ice
Age that was gonna freeze us all to
death so you know I'm willing to wait
for the evidence to come in especially
given the fact that we don't have a good
solution for it at this point
positive we have plenty of great
solutions for it we have solutions like
stopping masks
forestation Norway just bandit we have
work that has actually advanced pretty
well in Europe and is starting to
advance in China on upgrading energy
fleets on rapidly deploying new
renewable technologies we even have a
debate which I'm on one side of but is
it debate that maybe we can have on
nuclear power there is a debate about
re-engineering the United States so that
we have more density and better public
transportation systems and people aren't
dependent on cars there is literally
thousands of smart ideas from the
activist governmental and private sector
which are being implemented particularly
in the European Union China but even
actually also India where they've
rapidly deployed solar panels there
people are already dying in cities in
India because it's too hot there oh and
also as far as yes as far as people
dying I'm I'm actually I'll just
stipulate that in fact people already
are losing their homes and dying
prematurely because of causes related to
climate change like air pollution and
overheated cities back to bed once
there's a once there's a plausible
solution that the left actually wants to
propose we can talk about costs and
benefits of it but you know then I also
have to I have to understand what
exactly is the real imminent threat to
human life I mean the idea that that the
gradual rise of sea levels is going to
kill hundreds of millions of people is
it's just fantasy it's just fantasy it's
not gonna kill it it's it they act like
the day after tomorrow is how global
warming is going to be right like the a
giant wave is gonna sweep in and then
the next morning it will freeze and all
of New York will be under ice and Dennis
Quaid and Jake Gyllenhaal be trying to
fight their way through it
that's not how global bop-bop-bop
warming is going to happen right global
warming is going to happen if it does
happen that the rate they say it's going
to it's supposed to happen over the
course of the next hundred years so
let's say let's say for the sake of
argument that all of the water levels
around the world rise by five let's say
five feet over the next hundred years
say ten feet by the next hundred years
and it puts all the low-lying areas on
the coast underwater
alright what you know okay in the world
so alright so the Caribbean fair amount
of people live there the Maldives
Bangladesh and I'm actually going to be
more conservative than him because I'm
gonna say that even though places like
New York City will be greatly affected
by it we probably do have like the
wealth and the capacity to shield a
chunk of it from happening Miami
that's impossible Miami's gonna be gone
so okay we're actually gonna stipulate
that several countries and I don't know
hundreds dozens conservatively of major
metropolitan areas are gonna be
underwater yeah okay Bend me I guess you
want to stipulate been might not be an
expert on how settlements work unless
they're in Palestine but typically
historically speaking people like to
settle along a near a body of water yes
historically speaking if you look at
like where settlements were in like that
1600s most human beings lived nearby
water so this is gonna cause a problem
yeah living nearby water was not just
having a second home it was also a kind
of important part of the development of
dust industrialization and all modern
society but look it's amazing here's
what I'll say Ben is stipulating
something and he's stipulating maybe
he's actually been willing to stipulate
so far that we could be right the
climate scientists could be right this
could happen and all of these major
coastal areas could be under water and I
got to tell you something if he has a
solution to this that's workable I'm all
ears because it sounds like he's
stipulating everything that we've
already said and I'm open to any new
ideas to dealing with these problems
frankly no matter where they come from
that all of the water levels around the
world rise by let's say five feet over
the next hundred years say ten feet by
the next hundred years and puts all the
low-lying areas on the coast underwater
alright would you let's say all of that
happens you think that people aren't
going to just sell their homes and move
like that once if there's the big
tsunami that comes with wipes out
everybody so human beings have a way of
adjusting okay
Wow things have a way of adjusting so
that is logic and facts kids and
economics and economic they're gonna
sell their increasingly underwater homes
first what you do is you flip your house
that's underwater you believe that I got
a house in Miami yeah hey let me tell
you something I'll give you a deal I
look I don't wanna make a loss on it I
got a beautiful beachfront home it's
underwater don't worry about it could
could swim around the house the
whole thing is a bathtub for a
competition would start kicking in
addition would start kicking in okay so
first the people that have beautiful
beachfront properties will somehow
miraculously be able to flip them and
move even though the houses are
underwater other people will buy them
this is why they want to tech a higher
education because you need dumb people
to sell yes your McMansion too yes
exactly right you need you need to look
good I'll prove it they're just a log
will protect me from the caravan if I
buy your underwater home mr. Shapiro
okay so then that will happen now of
course because all of Ben and his
friends world are just rich people with
second beach homes this is the extent of
his moral imagination but another thing
that will happen is that millions of
people across the world who might even
leak live in like I don't know shacks
even they might not really have like
beautiful beachfront homes that can
easily be flipped into underwater
estates they're gonna need to leave
where they live and that's gonna create
an ecological immigration crisis of
which people like Ben do not like
they're already freaked out by people
fleeing Wars and economic conditions
that the foreign policy they support
coming into Europe and the United States
so let alone possibly not being able to
sell your primo bangladeshi real estate
so guys I know that there will be people
who will see this and of course say that
we've engaged in at homonyms and
appealed to your emotions and in context
of this video and I just want to respond
that was just saying and I think that
that's an earned ad hominem facts don't
care about your feelings dude look it up
there are already climate change
refugees yeah at homonyms can be good
tags to actual logical points and that
just because you tagging ad hominem to
your logical point doesn't mean that the
logical point because facts don't care
about your feelings doesn't mean the
logical point is not valid anymore
indeed and don't tone police comedy
pricks
