[Music]
something's going on apparently in
England right now they I think the
deadline for a brexit October total I
think they want to make sure is that he
will not do a No Deal brexit if they go
to election let me just explain to what
people what what a No Deal brexit is in
is sort of its basic terms as possible
it is basically England leaving the EU
without any type of trade deal or
arrangement as to what will happen and
it is important you know it's I don't
know if the idea is that it gets us more
leverage or less leverage or and by us I
mean the British or if it's like we're
gonna go come hell or high water and
they need us more than we need them or
you know but you need these structures
it's a problem people are worried about
it and it's unclear to me what I just
don't understand it enough to be honest
with what Boris Johnson strategy was but
he seems to have destroyed the
Conservative Party for the most part I
don't know but it remains to be seen but
they they have a thing called the amq
right this is the ask the PM gives Prime
Minister's Questions right and I got am
on my mind and they got the Prime
Minister a.m. quickie me see Prime
Minister that's cheap hello I do you
hate yourself mr. primont anyways I am
the preeminence and being excoriated on
the floor of Parliament let's start with
this one and it's not just in regards to
I think the idea is just that Boris
Johnson
seen as weak now and so that there may
be a little bit more willingness to to
call him out I know they do this all the
time but this seems to be pretty
dramatic this is a member of parliament
in the House of Commons 10 Manjeet Singh
debts
Dessie I don't know if I'm Jesse he's
from Hull and he's Labour and he's a
labor guy from Hull and here he is for
those who are and and this happens to
Sikhs all around the world and there was
there was actually this week I saw a
video of and I'm not sure it was in
Canada and I don't know exactly what the
context was it seems to be some type of
event and there was a sikh lawmaker
there who was being attacked by a
Canadian guy as if the Sikh was Muslim
and he was attacking Muslims and the
Sikh never this lawmaker never said hey
buddy I'm a Sikh I'm not a Muslim he
which he certainly could have done you
know but he basically you know sort of
just defended was very you know
protective of Muslim rights two quick
things that yes lawmaker and a brother
of jag meat Singh was the leader of the
NDP so they're giving it and he's from
Slough not whole apologies
Dessie was from South Slough not whole
but here is here is deci telling Boris
Johnson to apologize for what's going on
in this country mr. speaker if I decide
to wear a turban or you decide to wear a
cross or he decides to wear a kippah or
a skullcap or she decides to wear a
hijab or a burka does that mean that it
is open season for right honourable
members of this house to make derogatory
and divisive remarks about our
parents for those of us who from a young
age have had to endure and face up to
being called names such as or
Taliban or coming from bungo bungo land
we can appreciate full well the hurt and
pain felt by already vulnerable Muslim
women when they are described as looking
like bank robbers and letter boxes
rather than hide behind sham and
whitewash investigations when will the
Prime Minister finally apologized for
his derogatory and racist remark
basic racist remarks mr. speaker which
have led to a spike in hate crime and
given the increasing prevalence of such
incidents within his party when will the
Prime Minister finally order an inquiry
into Islamophobia within the
Conservative Party something which he
and his Chancellor promised on national
television prime minister mr. mr.
speaker
[Applause]
or dare the response from the Prime
Minister will be heard the Prime
Minister Thank You mr. Speaker I just
say to the honourable gentleman that if
he took the trouble to read the article
in question he would see that it was a
strong liberal defense as he began his
question by saying of everybody's right
to wear whatever they want in this
country and I speak as somebody who's
not only proud to have Muslim ancestors
but to be related to Sikhs
such as such as himself and I'm also
proud mr. speaker to say that under this
government we have the most diverse the
most diverse cabinet in the history of
this country
we truly reflect we truly reflect modern
Britain we truly yeah well so I didn't
apologize
No blah-blah-blah-blah-blah here is
another moment from the pmq Corbin
Jeremy Corbyn is there talking about the
the danger of a no deal brexit and that
the brexit negotiations have been
basically a sham now I'm not sure why
Boris Johnson or the Conservatives want
a no deal brexit maybe because it's just
the sort of the safest thing for them
politically I'm not sure I really don't
understand the dynamics here but here is
Jeremy Corbyn I really fail to see how I
can be accused of undermining
negotiations because no negotiations are
taking place
[Applause]
he's been Prime Minister for six weeks
and he promised to get breaks it sorted
in six weeks he's presented nothing to
change the previous Prime Minister's
deal which he twice voted against these
negotiations that he talks about are a
sham all he's doing is running down the
clock at the weekend the Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster said food prices
will go up under No Deal will the Prime
Minister publish will the Prime Minister
publish the yellowhammer documents so
that people can see which food prices
will go up and by how much
through the Duchy of Lancaster said
absolutely no such thing I can tell him
the preparations preparations for No
Deal thanks to his good offices and
thanks to his efforts are very far
advanced but I tell you the surest way
have a turn in two weeks this deal is to
undermine this country's ability to
negotiate well i was listening to glenn
beck on dave rubin throw yesterday and
apparently the conservative line on this
is that corbin is undermining him
because they want to look as if they
really do want a no deal brexit but they
really don't want one but who wants to
look like they do what Boris says like
they'll only give us something if they
think we're crazy enough to do it glenn
beck specifically mentioned like you
want to look like a guy with a twitchy
eye the madman theory a lot of afraid
negotiation that's the whole joke we're
going to we're going to blow ourselves
up it literally is like oh it's
literally one of those things like where
where the the madman is holding the guns
like oh you think I'm crazy
haha you think I'm crazy how's this for
crazy and then shoots themselves in
there I mean the idea that they are
staking out a bargaining position of no
deal like what's the leverage what's the
leverage that England has that they want
to be basically this lone Island without
any trade like avenues or platform with
all the countries that are within close
proximity to them well that was the
amazing thing is that they actually had
the best deal imaginable because they
weren't on the Euro right they had all
of the advantage was without any of the
disadvantages of not being able to set
their own money so it was just not very
bright not good alright lastly we have
one more clip from the am/pm queue here
is a would deprive bittersteel agree
hello
Labour MP Vernon Coker
yes and basically hands it to Boris
Johnson at all
I Minister yesterday boots it out 21 M
please from his own party for voting
against a reckless no deal
break see these included very
well-respected members of this house
including a former Chancellor including
Churchill's grandson and the father of
the house presumably on the orders of
his chief of staff
given that the Prime Minister himself
voted against the former Prime
Minister's deal without losing the win
now is this not show and demonstrate to
the British public his view of life
namely one rule for him and one role for
everyone else is this big I'm not gonna
take the election from anybody in the
Labour Party about how they run their
body look this is a party well MP's good
hard-working bees are daily handed out
by by anti-semitic anti-semitic mobs
let's be absolutely if the right
honorable John is actually interested in
democracy if he's interested in
democracy then I hope I hope he's been
listening to what I've been saying today
in an anti-democratic way the bill
before the House today would hand over
this country's right to decide how long
to remain in the EU and it would hand it
over to the EU itself that's what that
bill involved if he thinks that's a good
idea
they let him submit it let him submit it
to the judgment of the British people in
an election I mean this canard of
anti-semitism is the way that it's been
wielded Republicans are doing it too I
mean to a large extent in this country
to I mean I think there has been some
singularity that has been created in
terms of the right in the world and and
there we see it in Johnson we don't know
what his fate or I mean I I wouldn't
even I can't even begin to guess what's
going on over there frankly you can
barely tell what's going on over here
