[Music]
let's touch on this much more brexit
news to follow both on this show and on
t MBS but um this is important to say
the least
in the united kingdom i don't know if
you're playing you're not playing it yet
right in the united kingdom there is a
leader of the parliamentary opposition
his name is jeremy corbyn if you have
been reading the British tabloids and
listening to hysterical people in the
United States he is some type of globe
defining you know monster now what he is
actually doing is saying that the United
Kingdom's crisis predates brexit it
certainly goes back to DD regulars a
deregulation and neoliberal ization and
making the UK a dangerous financial hub
and an oligarchy it certainly goes back
to New Labour and Tony Blair and Gordon
Brown's alliance with the financial
industry and other corporate interests
and selling out of unions and so on the
classic global Third Way story and that
under the tory governments going back to
the coalition of Cameron in the Lib Dems
than Cameron's second solo Tory
government and now Theresa May the
ruthless sustained austerity campaign
against this country the Kingdom have
increased poverty there's a massive
amount of xenophobia and so on now he's
been trying to run a third way
essentially himself on brexit and I'm
not sure I agree with every single move
he's made but I do agree with the basic
premise that this government clearly is
unable to function and there need to be
elections and that is the bottom line
and when people go out and vote if they
are voting for labour they're voting for
solid moves towards restoring and
creating some sense of social democracy
in a country that has been absolutely
devastated by the right and by the
Tories now that's what's going on here
and also this is someone who has had
critiques of us Empire of UK foreign
policy he wants to know why they're
still forces in Afghanistan that is a
natural same same question for anybody
he wants to you know stop the campaign
in Yemen as an example that we talked
about earlier
now you may disagree with this or that
comment or inclination he has that's
fine but the notion that this is
anything other than frankly democratic
socialism at home and basic herbivorous
human rights orientation abroad is
ridiculous and it's also really
dangerous because it leads to clips and
actions like this we're gonna play this
now silently but this is video footage I
believe these are British troops
deployed in Afghanistan doing target
practice okay this looks normal they're
practicing firing so far so good nothing
particularly distinct about this we're
gonna ask yourself why we must watch for
safe with the Muslim control but let's
super save with the muzzle control
mister fair enough oh they're shooting a
poster of Jeremy Corbyn as their
practice that's what they're doing now
there was a report in the independent
that came out a couple days ago of an
unnamed general saying that they would
consider intervening on any government
that threatened their national security
there were reports in the 70s that a
coup was seriously considered and I
believe in the beginning stages of
planning were acted upon by the UK
military against a Labour government in
the 70s so you know this is really
serious and I think one of the most
extraordinary things about the UK at
least in terms of presentation I mean
some of it is as simple as here's just a
frontline politician who wants to tax
oligarchs and that is a total brain
meltdown
for the entire you know essential order
that's run the world for the last couple
of decades okay so that's 99% of it then
you know what frankly in a in a in a
same discourse and we actually did an
illicit history on this four team yes
there's nuances you can get to around
the left and anti-semitism in the UK and
there's clearly been times where I think
objectively Jeremy Corbyn has misstepped
now then that gets equated though with a
vicious campaign of which people like
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are actively
a part of - as in here as in the United
States equate and in all criticism of
Israel with an act of anti-semitism and
in fact criminalize and try to silence
the speech of those who object to an
apartheid state in Israel so in a sane
world we could make Jeremy Corbyn a
better on this rhetoric and this
sensitivity as almost anybody could be
made to be better on everything but in
the world were in we have a campaign to
delegitimize a solid social democrat
with a plan to save the United Kingdom
from emergency that will benefit
everybody in the United Kingdom
other than the oligarchs and the answer
has been a sustained relentless
propaganda campaign from the
corporations from the tabloids from the
right-wing interest in his own party
from a former prime minister who's a war
criminal and a liar and now we see
intimations from the military that
there's literal coup and insurrection
talk and the only conversation in
response to Corbin is that somehow he
represents a crisis the United Kingdom
is in a crisis and that crisis was
created in pre-set by Margaret Thatcher
and Tony Blair and it has been blown up
by David Cameron and as well as blown up
and extended by Theresa May but also
frankly blown up in her face because
she's completely unable to handle it
waiting in the wings when Theresa May
leaves leadership of the Tory party
which she will sooner or later
is Boris Johnson
a xenophobic sort of Donald Trump esque
but smarter horrific aristocratic
trust-fund baby with far-right populist
tendencies but too much Senate to so
much cynicism to even have that as a
thoroughgoing conviction who will come
who who helped make brexit happen to
essentially help himself with a couple
of news cycles and you will see as Tony
Blair did the other day say that Boris
is a very compelling campaigner and
labor should dump a leader who has
overwhelmingly won the support of this
party again and again and again and
again and actually pulled off an
incredible campaign performance a couple
summers ago with the entirety of the UK
establishment smearing and lying and
attempting to destroy him while he
dogged Lee came out and said things like
no we should we should protect the NHS
and we should actually move into new
incredibly innovative and amazing
proposals that he and John McDonald have
put forward on things like workers
ownership and democratizing the economy
so we need to get Corbin elected Prime
Minister and then we need to be
incredibly watchful of just how far
these forces will go you know I mean
we'll get to Brazil and Lula in a couple
of minutes I mean the obvious example
there but I mean apparently in today's
world these echoes might ring out in
places that people like to talk about as
a sort of fully developed democracy well
I mean read about the Spanish Civil War
read about right
