[Music]
I like this clip I know this is sort of
petty but we'll get to that in a second
I want to play the the other petty quick
clip we have Joy Behar this is not petty
this is amazing so Joy Behar apparently
is is they're talking about Amy
Klobuchar I'm not even sure what the
point that they were making I mean
Klobuchar is out there and what we'll
talk about this a little bit but before
we get there is pretty fun to watch this
because I mean look joy Behar's
obviously she's only on a television
because her dad was a senator and ran
for president and she's on there because
of the sheer nepotism involved in that
and the celebrity she simply traded on
the celebrity that she got from being
now she's a great person in person but
you know it's a way to I'm sorry I'm not
thinking of Joy Behar I'm thinking of
her co-host on the view that is that is
Meghan McCain and here joy has basically
expresses that I've got news for you I'm
tired of you I mean I don't know I mean
me maybe he's met his match I mean she
has a reputation for being a pretty
tough woman for knew having not the best
temperament and he has reputation for
not having the best temperament and
maybe he's met his match that's what the
country needs we just need a way to
slide to the bottom and speak now on Amy
Klobuchar we're all good okay two quick
things number one I have friends who are
at her now all right no no by all means
keep going you know if you're gonna have
a hissy fit we can't continue
let's go to senator Elizabeth Warren joy
behar is a national hero that was that
was so fun because McCain was looking
out at the audience for some type of
approval or she was saying looking at
the producers or whatnot apparently
off-camera we can't see what Joy Behar
is doing but she's just obviously doing
something like this and then McCain was
which is so used to the idea that there
has to be total deference right that
like it's not enough that I have the
microphone it's that you have to be
looking with bated breath
as to what I'm about to say the look on
your face I don't appreciate that and
then joy said okay good next up that's
totally fine let's talk about another
person who's more worthwhile than you
Elizabeth Warren I mean she's just
running a clinic on how we should be
treating all useless trust fund babies
in this country look we don't know if
she has a trust fund we do know that she
probably we don't know that it's in
trust okay right it's true that is a
good nuanced but it's not even that as
much as she's there for one reason only
she traded off the celebrity now she's
the token conservative right well I
don't know isn't that a be Huntsman's
they're two for the exact same reasons
daughter yes we're gonna we're gonna
balance this out by having to folks who
are benefiting from nepotism
but anyway but we're getting to the
substance of that clip the idea that
like somehow Chlo Bashar balances out
Donald Trump because she has a
temperament problem I I don't I don't
know if doing mean things to your
employees should necessarily disqualify
you from the presidency but it certainly
is
a valid complaint do we have that well
do we have that that's that's definitely
one thing but look can I just say I mean
I just want to say quick couple quick
things about Clovis Shar first of all
her behavior if it is true is totally a
pourraient and unacceptable no matter
who did it and anybody's saying
otherwise is just beyond full of it the
second thing is I totally agree the
thing that I've been putting forward
recently nobody is perfect people make
mistakes there should absolutely be room
to grow and change in public life but
she not only has not apologized and
committed to changing her behaviors she
suggested that somehow abusing her staff
is part of the same mentality that means
I believe in America which is one of the
most demented defenses of ever so yeah
and then the third part really and then
just really quickly the third part is
this is all in the service of and again
I'll be really blunt like if amy
klobuchar was some great crusading you
know senator who brought a lot to the
table but it's like first you abused
your staff then you don't take
accountability and change and then third
it's all in the service of like we need
tax credits like no vision no purpose
pure career yes discuss very selling
point that she's pushing as I understand
it is electability but like most people
who vote are not bosses they're workers
and they see you behaving that way
towards their workers and I don't like
you yeah I'm like I say I I don't I I'm
not at this point I'm not weighing in on
whether her behavior because I haven't
quite you know everything that I've
heard is either read or I've heard other
rumors frankly the question isn't
necessarily you know her politics at
this moment or her or whether this is
disqualifying to be president but to
characterize the criticism based on this
is is fascinating and to use the
argument that this is in some way
gendered to not take it seriously
is the most gendered perspective you
could take on this because if if these
accusations were that a man was throwing
things at their staff or if the
accusations were that when a man was
confronted with anything that he fell
apart and started yelling at everybody
which is the other part is that like
look this is a high-pressure job this
would be immediately disqualifying and
it is it's fascinating how and look if
you are in the news business and you
were not aware that these things were
gonna come out when she declared you are
you you must work very hard at not
talking to other news people because I
heard about this and if I'm hearing
about it it seems to me that everyone
should have but here is here is that
this line of arguing and it frankly like
it makes me even more skeptical about
clovers harder to hear her surrogates
saying this stuff listen to this who is
this guy I don't even know who the some
Republican strategist all right let's
listen to and then and they and
Christine Quinn who might as well be a
Republican strategist as far as I'm
concerned on with Stephanie ruhle Mises
and deflects from the misconduct of
others and I think it's wrong can I say
is it really say me I am so sick and
tired of almost every time a woman steps
forward to move up in position whether
it's political or in business or
anywhere she's all of a sudden the
meanest cruelest manager in the world
I'm sure Donald Trump is a peach to work
for cuz every time you turn around he's
told Twitter in the world you're about
to get fired insert everything really
didn't but I've had it I've worked in
the Senate I've talked to many other
people who've worked in the Senate for
men and women and they
they're good bosses when you have to be
taken over and taken aside by the
majority leader for throwing a binder a
staffer and hitting them that's a
problem Matt did Harry Reid confirmed
that he that he that he pulled her aside
now this conversation I don't believe he
did it's been confirmed by sources and
Harry Reid has not been the whole reason
these stories are coming out or because
of X staffers of amy club for example
really an example absolutely you would
not I would absolutely if a man or threw
a binder at a staffer I absolutely would
every time almost every time a woman
steps forward all of a sudden there are
these unnamed sources of Harry Reid is
not confortable well she was first of
all there are I think I don't know if
anybody has been named but it's not I
Got News for you
maybe Christine Quinn is just completely
out of the loop but me sitting here in
this office in Brooklyn heard about the
that there were ex staffers a lot of
them and also the one the Union letter
that came out that's also a name
document of the guy going back years ago
saying we can't endorse her as a Lieber
Union purely based on her staff conduct
that was actually one of the meat of the
first piece and isn't a document that
she has the highest staff turnover and
also the new one coming out is maybe it
was a binder full of women and she was
getting really excited about diversity
but here's the problem here's the
problem like the I think there is in a
not in this context but broadly speaking
what Christine Quinn is talking about is
a legitimate phenomena that is highly
highly problematic and certainly
implicated in I think there's no doubt
in my mind that it was implicated in the
Clinton race and that it's an issue for
all of the women who are running for
president but to use this example to to
talk about that issue in the context of
this example does everybody a huge
disservice
well it's breathtakingly cynical and
also I have to say like I never
I know people who who were in the the
Clinton orbit
I certainly on public record and private
gossip I never heard anything about
Hillary Clinton being in anything other
than good to work for ever
that was never in in orbit and the just
the the way that Christine Quinn is
characterizing the attacks it's not like
it's it's she's like a beaut
the reports are that Klobuchar is
abusive well and the new report I don't
know if you caught this before we went
on but that she called other people to
have them rescind offers from departing
staff obviously if Amanda that I would
say it was strategic and go get her
right but because she's a woman and I'm
a brochure list
I'm gonna object to that hey she's just
trying to get by in a man's world all
right just like what Cersei Lannister
blew up all those people and Game of
Thrones that was actually legit I mean
is that just what let it that's so
that's an unfair comparison I watched
that part of the show it seemed like she
had a valid point the men who just like
being like that like just horrible
bosses and abused their staff like
Christine Quinn just wishes she could
get away with it maybe yeah so I mean I
would now I'm my only takeaway from this
clip is other than how horrific this
argument is I'm very curious to hear
about Christine Quinn staffing and all
of the people defending her along those
lines
