[Music]
let's do this there was a couple of
moments we had Bernie Sanders in Nevada
we had Elizabeth Warren on the view
let's play Elizabeth Warren first here
she is explaining to people the wealth
tax this is an enormous ly popular
policy and one could understand why
because the number of people who are
actually subject to this is
infinitesimally small and the benefit
that we will get from it as a society is
quite large all of her proposals that
she's been talking about a lot of the
basically getting rid of 95% of the
student debt function of the wealth tax
her expansion of child care a generic
drug production all of this funded by
the wealth tax he or she is explaining
the wealth tax on the view unclear if
Meghan McCain is in the room because I
imagine she's in the room she would be
oh she would be have a little bit of a
problem with this here we go puzzle is a
two-cent wealth tax on the top one-tenth
of 1% you're 50 million and first dollar
you got to pitch in two cents in two
cents for every one after that and with
that we can cancel student loan debt for
about 95 percent of the people who have
[Applause]
but we can do so much more two cents we
could not only do that we can also
provide universal tuition free
technical school two-year college and
four-year college for every one of our
kids we can do universal child care for
every baby age zero to five for every
three-year-old and four-year-old in this
country and raise the wages of every
child care worker in preschool plans you
have they use the S word socialism how
do you counteract that type of an
assault
you know 43 million Americans who would
see student loan debt canceled under my
plan I think right there that's where
you cancel it you cancel it by making it
real it's in this country either this is
our values do we think that the two
cents should stay with the top one-tenth
of 1% they can't pitch in two cents on
the 50 millionth and first dollar we're
not saying they're bad people we're just
saying when you do that pitch in two
cents so everybody in this country gets
a chance to
[Applause]
ah what is the question to tell are you
serious I can look it up I've got a
question I don't tell me this is gonna
kill me I mean the the framing of that
is I you know pretty good the idea that
it's two cents on every dollar above 50
million no it's impossible to argue with
on any reasonable level it's impossible
it really is impossible although I think
Megan McCain's gonna try but if she
doesn't ask this I think she moved on to
a different question that oh she did
yeah man yeah too bad I would be like
50% more likely to have kids if
Universal child care goes through uh and
Universal child care universal pre-k I
mean huge expenses but also the idea
that you're going to get pre-k instead
of child care you know in age three and
four is also a is is is hugely important
do they see you have that study the
other day that they had children two
groups of children from the 60s one who
had had pre-k one who had not coming
from the same neighborhood that not only
were in every single category you would
measure higher education money earned
staying out of prison all of those
things the kids with you with pre-k did
better they found like a 25% health
disparity in the age of 55 that kids who
had gone through pre-k we're doing that
much better in terms of their just their
health it's I mean it's it's so
important all this stuff is locked in
that's the good thing about having a 13
year old is you
just like doesn't matter what I do now
it's already baked in the cake doesn't
matter all that stuff happens the first
six years seven years maybe and in in
biologically this case still like you
know who the Saul's eyes have been proof
but apparently after the age of nine
chances are no you can't prove there you
go folks
