I think it's time for us to get educated
on what's going on with the lesbians and
here to help us with that of course is
Alex Jones who gosh I I wonder I get you
know how nervous he's getting with
watching all his friends go down but
here he hears Alex Jones to explain most
of the so-called liberal lesbians and
all these groups they just want to have
the guy with a duck's ass haircut and
the James Dean outfit through this James
Dean ones slapping girls around but they
want to be the ones slapping the girls
around and statistically it shows it I'm
not blaming all lesbians but it shows
that most of these butch lesbians they
want to be the guy smacking the hot
chick around they think that's manly a
lot of the chicks they like it see cuz
the no man will do that to them and I'm
not saying that's good of a man does
that but some women like it and they
can't find a man to smack him around
well they found them a girl gonna do it
real good knock them upside their head
and that Fifty Shades of Grey about the
sexy rich guy that's gonna chain you up
of course you're gonna go get chained up
one time they're gonna put that devil
mask of that piggy mask on they're gonna
say now I'm gonna torture you for about
six weeks
so start begging for your mommy and your
daddy
that's the Liberals they want to get you
in a dungeon they want to strap you down
and take a buzzsaw and cut the top of
your head off like a pumpkin and pull it
off and get a little spoon and go when
you're looking in the mirror this is one
thing I know they like to do they go
home and eat your brain now let's start
let's start at the sad areas here cuz we
don't wanna take away your side at the
back or your thinking on the front I'm
gonna eat your cerebral cortex laugh and
you're gonna follow my liberal orders
and you're gonna talk like I talk and
you're gonna be guilty when I say you're
guilty and you're gonna bow to me and
I'm gonna teach huge hoards of people
that we shovel welfare at to hate you of
you produced to
shew of your gun and to create a total
system of collapse was that part of the
same Harvard research he was citing
before yeah what was the status of his
custody of his children and the case I
mean this guy I mean maybe he he's
writing this stuff up beforehand and
delivering it but wow that was a
suspiciously specific fantasy that Alex
Jones exactly yes this guy Wow and that
he's really done some deep deep research
into this hasn't he that's the Liberals
right he's done us ten thousand hours of
describing how liberals want to eat your
brains very very straight hi folks Sam
cedar here we still need your help on
our patreon page YouTube ABS have come
back but not nearly as much as we had
before so if you can help us out any
little bit helps head over to our
patreon page right at this URL and
you'll help us keep helping you by
making videos
