[Music]
let's start though with something that
is in the past and that was Megan McCain
on this week ABC's this week now I know
you're asking yourself wait a second
this week is supposed to be a network
news show where you would get I mean you
would either interview politicians or
newsmakers
or someone who really has a strong sense
of what's going on in terms of politics
now I understand Megan McHugh and McCain
is on the view because the view is
supposed to be about people who don't
know anything about anything but have
opinions about it and that's fine I mean
everybody has an opinion everybody
mm-hmm and it's interesting to hear
people who are not like experts on stuff
but may read into stuff a little bit
shed their share their opinions it's the
view that's the nature of it the view
that's why they call it the view and so
yeah it makes sense for Megan McCain who
is about is not expert had anything
doesn't seem to be you know I mean I've
had I've had a personal experience with
her she seemed perfectly nice in that
narrow context of which we related but
it was it was a trivia style show have
you have you have I got news for you I'm
a callow you know you know low threshold
and not great at it I don't I don't
judge people that way I'm just saying
that was my assessment pertinent
information for this because she's now
on a network new show pontificating
saying some of the stupidest stuff if it
wasn't so really in many respects
offensive it would be just stupid here
she is
pontificating on the
the shooting that took place in a
synagogue I think around the San Diego
area in California where a woman was
shot to death she was jumping in front
of the rabbi actually who was being
fired upon
rabbi think lost part of his hand there
was a couple other injuries it was a 19
year old with an ar-15 who spends his
time on 8chan which is like I guess you
know the dark web
they don't pretend it's just about
generally about ideas a lot of those
ideas are white supremacists and
anti-semitic and this guy had bragged
about you know he was gonna do something
like this and he had done it timed
within six months to the date of the
Pittsburgh shooting and was inspired by
the Christchurch shooting and here is
Meghan McCain making what is really an
incredibly offensive point about this
really having to make it about somehow
both sides much more quickly than they
could with Christchurch but that is a
real issue yeah and one that I think the
Silicon Valley should have their feet
held to the fire I do think when we're
having conversations about anti-semitism
we should be looking at the most extreme
on both sides and I would bring up
congresswoman Ilhan Omar and some of her
comments that got so much attention and
in my opinion Nancy Pelosi wasn't hard
enough in her response to her you know
trafficking in anti-semitic language
talking about all about the Benjen
Benjamins and how Jewish people had
hypnotized the world so I think when
you're talking about rhetoric and you
want to talk about President Trump and
by the way I agree that he needs to have
his feet holds the fire as well but
we're talking about it on both sides of
the aisle as well okay posit you know
let's just take the low-hanging fruit
here the idea that Elon omar was in any
way inspiring a white supremacist to do
anything
is laughable on its face but Megan
McCain also lied about what Ilan Omar
said and that quote she never said
anything about the Jews said that Israel
had hypnotized the Congress insofar as
their ability to even critique it she
did when she'd said all it was all about
the Benjamins it was about literally
about the the lobbyists who were
impacting the Israeli policy within
Congress but the idea that it's both
sides are inspiring the shooting I want
to see the shooter who was inspired by a
lawn Omar I mean it's pathological it's
pathological her Alon Omar whatever you
would call that obsession existing
fixation and but it's also very I mean
it's also so obviously cynical because
she's using it to advance her career
right like this is what gets her
speaking spot at APEC this is her way of
actually not just being a joke on the
view well so she's actually inciting
again still on Omar in my opinion and
you know actually of course totally
belittling the actual serious issue of
anti-semitism through her disgusting
crusade against her let's let's let's
break this down because we can't know
which is which it's obviously it's our
opinion that she's doing this for any
other reason now one of them could be
because she sees it as a career ticket
it gives her something interesting to
say because she doesn't have a lot of
interesting things to say this is an
interesting thing to say she's that
person who you go to to say both sides
when they white supremacists kills you
know shoots at Jews so you could say
both sides or it could just be she's
really really not bright and really
really feels like she needs to justify
why she carries water for the
conservative element in this country and
it's really more about her wondering if
there is a if she's aligned with people
who may be problematic or it could be
she also has a problem with Muslims I
mean it could be any of those things and
I think we should just to be fair note
that lack of intelligence is not
mutually exclusive to any of these
answers but it really is what is really
reprehensible in my mind and I
understand it's ABC they're trying to
promote the view and this net but like
honestly like can you really look
yourself in the mirror George
Stephanopoulos and say like we had a
great show today we had Megan McCain on
to discuss anti-semitism really Wow like
I mean there are undoubtedly some
offspring of politicians who have savvy
about politics none come to mind frankly
but undoubtedly they exist but hmm she's
just a prominent one
