this was fun frequent guests friend up
show I would think Eddie cloud we could
say Patamon over he's won you know been
on the show I think I probably had at
least yearly yeah once or twice a year
at least but for a decade I think I've
had him on was on Bill Maher's program
and and Bill Maher you know has a real
problem with what's going on at college
campuses incidentally should also note
that studies show that there's a lot
more attack on left-of-center speech on
campus than that of right-of-center it's
just that we hear more about the right
of center because there's entire
industries built up around I'm sure bill
Mora would speak out for professors that
critique is really apartheid right no
doubt I bet does it regularly
I remember when Professor Juan Cole was
denied position I think it was a brown
or yeah yeah because of that and Bill
Maher spent okay no time right okay but
here we go Eddie is free speech on
campus being stifled with students
protesting controversial speakers I mean
what about that part of political
correctness that you can't speak on
campus the home of free speech anymore
I think that's overstated really yeah
you can imagine after Milo spoke today
UCLA he probably went someplace else to
spoke without any any any incident you
think about charles Murray at Middlebury
he probably wound up which he did it in
why you the next day without any
incident so if that pick where you can
speak no no what I'm saying there you
can actually speak wherever you want
it's just that to get paid and to have a
an auditorium there you need to actually
get invited and like when are we talking
about free speech are we really talking
about like whoo so that wasn't even the
I mean compulsory I wasn't right
compulsory respect that wasn't even the
point
he was illustrating the fact that even
these times where a speaker was shouted
over right there speaking 50 other
pieces over the nasal anomaly including
the other places that by the way
actually fit a similar profile which
actually surprises me I thought the
point was like over 90 percent of
colleges are like not like private
liberal arts colleges in the Northeast
but he's saying even like Middlebury was
rough for you well the people that and
why you are nicer rather shockingly go
down that actually surprises me go down
the road and speak at Hamilton great
yeah precisely no no what I'm saying
there's thousands of lectures on college
campuses across the ideological spectrum
that happen every day without these
incidents what you usually write you're
worried a lot about it a lot I know
that's because that's because it's it's
sensational just like you in your
opening monologue you talk about the
weatherman that guy remember that guy on
the weather report where the wind was
blowing and the people were walking
behind him and casually sometimes we
report about what's happening on
campuses in a sensationalized man okay
all right Steve ante sjw Cottage nursery
and because not easy to report because
guys like Bill Maher really that somehow
like completely comports with their
sense that they don't have the respect
in society and that they are not as
welcomed as they feel that they should
be and so when they hear this story it
completely comports with their
perspective college kids are just too
freaky for me these days I mean it's
this is like get off my lawn ISM on some
level for a guy like that have me on
your lawn is right exactly he did his
best little Tucker Carlson in there to
where he was like so we got to choose
where we can speak now we can't just
speak wherever we want yeah whether I
can't just like take what I don't know I
haven't gotten it's so bizarre because
there is I mean you can you can make
that critique without going to all the
dumb places that Margot's but he
wouldn't be making that same critique
but there's just not there's
not enough to really warrant it right up
for the fact that it's just well I think
there's enough actually for people who
are actually on the left and it has
actually only implications for people on
the left everybody outside of the left
it's just a hustle for everybody from
Charlie Kirk to Bill Maher
