[Music]
current affairs great magazine edited by
Nathan Robinson everybody should be
reading current affairs regularly tweets
out
I wonder how at Neera tanden will defend
giving charles maurice think-tank a
giant pile of money and you think
yourself wait what the hell does that
mean you know charles murray works for
the american enterprise institute
far-right think-tank it's housed him and
his work to socially and even
genetically codify class and racial
hierarchies they work diligently on
behalf of the US corporate sector to
stop any ability for even the most
modest environmental or public health
regulations it's a extremist far-right
you know any type of pernicious
corporate oligarch interest so you know
it's just a republican think-tank it's
precisely what you'd expect and Center
for American Progress obviously also
takes a huge amount of corporate funding
as well and is very much in the
corporate mainstream of the Democratic
Party but I don't believe in drawing
false ideological equivalencies they
certainly represent something different
on the ideological spectrum they have
actually some sometimes some very good
content the rank-and-file person now is
not even it's night and day night and
day and they've done definitely done
some very good work on climate on civil
rights on on even on foreign policy at
times so it's a whatever one thinks of
Center for American Progress and
certainly I'm well to the left of them
and I see the inherent contradictions of
a progressive think tank funded by
corporate money they absolutely push a
you know a legitimately center-left ish
agenda versus a far-right extremist
agenda so why the hell would they be
chipping off $200,000 to one of the most
extreme think tanks in DC and of course
one of the most could just mean any
Republican aligned think-tank well near
and you saw up there we had the we had
the info and now let's go to the next
tweet this is near a tendons response
we have a joint program on defending
democracy from the rise of
authoritarianism here's the press
release from cap website I welcome at
current affairs to cover the many papers
we have jointly authored this is a
critical topic more media should focus
on okay sure
I would tend to agree because there
actually is a global far-right
authoritarianism that's rising there's
also a certain very real authoritarian
tendency in fact of the Third Way
politics Emmanuel macron very quickly
going to riot police very quickly going
to violently repressing anti-austerity
protests and also in general rushing
through a whole new slew of legislation
targeting immigrant populations and
opposed to civil liberties also we have
this research that came out last year
that was reported in the New York Times
that say that centrists are actually the
most skeptical of democracy across the
eurozone as well as Australian news and
New Zealand so yes authoritarianism is a
very important and dangerous issue from
the United States to Hungary to Russia
to India to the Philippines to Brazil to
Israel but what exactly do you think
you're doing when you team up with us
think tank like AEI oh of course it
would be filled with literal with people
to descendants of Pinochet defenders and
advisors charles murray and a guy like
charles Murray who's a literally a best
known for making a form of highly
distorted scientific quote/unquote
scientific racism to be socially
acceptable whose entire work both of
social of natural and social science is
an attempt to justify class dominance
and racial hierarchies current affairs
responds when Neera and AEI and charles
murray say democracy they mean quote
unquote they mean lays a fair capitalism
and then we say and when they say
authoritarianism they mean minimum wage
laws the Europe report in your link and
here's the TEL classifies Jeremy Corbyn
among the authoritarian populist s'
there have been certain criticisms of
some of jeremy corbyn's rhetoric which
i've engaged him because I think that
they represent not any type of actual
problem but legitimate stylistic
concerns and questions which are a part
of politics if you could name a single
policy that Jeremy Corbyn is advocating
that could even be remotely construed as
authoritarian you should be paid
millions of dollars because it does not
exist in fact the proposals of the
Corbin and McDonnell would not only a
firm UK democracy they broaden it to
include worker democracy and worker
power in the forms of worker
cooperatives actually probably the
greatest enhancement of democracy being
proposed by a party in modern era so
that shows the cards there Jeremy Corbyn
is an authoritarian is a relentless is a
ridiculous smear now what we have here
and these criticisms aren't just some
sort of like post chapo Bernie bro thing
right like this is a greg sargent post
from january 2015
we're talking about a Center for
American Progress as donors and there's
this alliances perhaps most notably
given see ApS advocacy for an
economically progressive agenda is that
see a piece top donors include Walmart
and Citigroup Eva which has given
between a high a thousand and four
hundred ninety nine thousand that's
about a partnership with a AEI worth
that there two of them um other donors
of to see aap the leading advocate of
health care reform include the
pharmaceutical research and
manufacturers of America which
represents leading biotech and biopharma
firms and Blue Cross Blue Shield
Association both of which gave up to
forty nine thousand and nearest said
we're proud of our donors she's at an
interview we're very
versified we have a very low percentage
of corporate donors we have a wide
panoply of individuals and foundation
supporters given that transparency as a
progressive value we wanted to get our
list out there good for them
I appreciate the transparency but there
is obviously a huge internal
contradiction between advocating again
even a modest center-left agenda and
accepting money from corporate cartels
that are fundamentally opposed to them
can someone print me the story because
we should transition to it about the the
astroturf campaign getting staffed up
with Clinton and Obama people to destroy
Medicare for all we'll go to that in a
second but first I just want to take
this opportunity to point people to the
people's policy project which is Matt
Bruininks project it's a basically a
grassroots bottom-up think tank for the
people that place yeah replace c.a.p
with
PPP the people's policy project actual
policies for medicare for all a carbon
tax which would work in a progressive
way it's a tax and dividend scheme
tackling inequality through social
ownership of capital this is the serious
stuff these are the real policies that
will address serious issues then of
course there's data for progress which
is I think Shawn McHale weighs group and
they're working on the core issues of
Medicare for all abolishing ice and I
think also the green new deal and
they're providing the sort of polling
and political strategy so that people
running on state local municipal and and
and national levels can have a fully
fleshed-out and for real no
progressive agenda so when you're
looking forward for building the future
and that's the context by the way on
which the entire party turns is the
funding and intellectual and strategic
infrastructure of actual progressive
groups with real policy coherence
because they aren't undermined by either
just sort of incestuous networks
and and sort of cognitive capture or
just straight-up raw corporate influence
from I mean guide I mean Walmart in
Citicorp or some of the most damaging
and dangerous corporations on the globe
yeah and I mean it's basically sort of
like the left needs think tanks did a
lot of work for conservatives in the
past 40 years right like this is how
this has this is how the
Overton Window has been stretched it's
by like look at us we're just following
this methodology and actually um you
know maybe we should rethink child labor
laws exactly well we're just we're just
taking the science where it finds us I
mean that that built that built that
gremlin Charles Murray's entire career
remaning lacy is his great piece on him
as a successful policy entrepreneur
