[Music]
and I guess you know as far as this
election goes it's like I don't know man
I take this really seriously and and I
think I think even on ways that really
piss people off like to me I'm sorry I
think in 2016 it would have been better
if Warren was the candidate than Sanders
as a Arden and Sanders supporter I think
she might have had a bit of a better
chance she was positioned to do that I
think in 2020 Sanders is undoubtedly the
progressive leader and I don't care how
many policy proposals come out and I
don't see it look if it changes all
great or not no I mean I won't say great
because I support Sanders but if it
changes that's another story and and
Warren is the only other candidate in a
general election that I would support
with enthusiasm and energy but I don't
know as I see it I don't think that this
is a primary winning candidacy and I
think it's gonna take out of Sanders
vote so I don't appreciate that and I
certainly don't appreciate you know like
that was part of the reason that I was
very critical of Tulsi out of the gate I
don't think Tull sees more than a 1 or 2
percent candidate even though she's
putting forward some very good things
but at that 1 or 2 percent is the
difference between Sanders / Biden I had
a big problem with that and just as I
have a big problem if even you know
Andrew Yang's point 7 percent and you
know Mike revels whatever like I think
we got to do this here I think we need a
president who need gets we need
single-payer I think we need a president
I'm serious about what's happening with
Iran who's saying what he's saying about
climate about the structural corruption
in this country I think we actually need
to do that yeah I don't want calls about
Mike Gravel
the only thing I'm interested in
Gravelle is him as a propaganda agent
right and when you're calling into this
show and we're talking about him and not
Bernie Sanders for instance yeah he's
having the opposite effect that yeah
Gravelle to have so he's having a bad
effect yeah he's having a not good
effect but um but I will you know of
course I mean you know obviously warns
in a different candidate category and
she is running a very you know two
serious candidacy so this clip was great
I mean I think you know she does this so
well of her just you know basically
destroying a Treasury official who was
as you know I mean Wells Fargo engaged
in criminality against their customers
and Treasury did nothing about it
here's Elizabeth Warren talking Treasury
official Joseph adding will you commit
to publicly disclosing the OCC's
evaluation of the quote competence
experience character or integrity
end quote of the next well CEO I will
not why not because it'll be
confidential supervisory in Furman well
it's confidential if you make it come on
financial the point is you have this is
going in party I do not have plans to
release that information publicly and
what is the reason that you don't have
plans why are you keeping this as you
indicated it's my prerogative okay and
our job is oversight here so I'd like to
know why you want to exercise your
prerogative to keeps I even exercise the
oversight the OCC has ducked repeatedly
um senator Warren no one has been more
tougher on Wells Fargo than myself no
one has been more out to me at the OCC
that's a low bar I would disagree that I
find that insulting that you would make
that good that's the energy that is the
energy we need so yeah but you know what
go vote for Joe Biden yeah go go go go
look at you know Pete Buddha jigs I
don't want to talk about gentrifying my
mid-sized Indiana City but I do have
plenty of pablum for you I mean you know
look again I'm you know ardent and
consistent and why I think Sanders is
clearly the best choice but my god there
is another argument where it's just like
these two verse and you gotta be
kidding me
like really beta or orc over that yeah
nine out of ten of the people running
for and that's there's obviously more
than that but nine out of the ten
roughly our complete waste of your
attention and should be treated as such
and
solutely
