[Music]
let's go now and hear from members of
the squad I want to play these in
reverse order let's first hear from she
did Talib cannot allow these hateful
actions by the President to distract us
from the critical work to hold this
administration accountable to the
inhumane conditions at the border that
is separating children from their loved
ones and caging them up in illegal
horrific conditions
I represent the third poorest
congressional district in this country
one that is made of working people who
have been targeted by this
administration and their actions and
words are hurting them today I was
elected to fight for them fight for the
13 congressional district they sent me
here to Congress to fight back against
the corporate assault in the corruption
in our country this means supporting an
impeachment inquiry of this president
and his actions by the administration
and his appointees sadly this is not the
first nor will it be the last time we
hear disgusting bigoted language from
the president we know this is who he is
and we know that he and his
administration are constantly engaged in
actions that harm residents and American
people in our country many members of
Congress have called for his impeachment
because of his utter disregard and
disrespect of the United States
Constitution and despite this and other
many attempts to distract us I remain
focused we remain focused on holding him
accountable to the laws of this land and
accountable to the American people so
congressman Al Green we're sure sure
again where he's from believe he's from
South Carolina South Carolina has will
be introducing articles of impeachment
this month as a function of Trump's
bigotry
you'll recall that part of me Texas
Texas Andrew Johnson's articles of
impeachment was also a non-criminal high
crimes misdemeanors outwardly being
racist towards some Congress people I
think is is up there and it's gonna be
really interesting to see what happens
with Nancy Pelosi on this one but we
will get to Nancy Pelosi in a moment
here is Ilan Omar responding to the
president this is a president who has
openly violated the very value our
country aspires to uphold equality under
the law
religious liberty equal protection and
protection from persecution and to
distract from that he's launching a
blatantly racist attack on four duly
elected members of the United States of
House of Representatives all of whom are
women of color this is the agenda of
white nationalists whether it is
happening in chat rooms or it's
happening on national TV and now it's
reached the White House Garden he would
love nothing more than to divide our
country based on race religion gender
orientation or immigration status
because this is the only way he knows he
can prevent the Solidarity of us working
together across all of our differences
the only way to prevent us confronting
the problems our country's facing
whether it is health care climate change
student debt or our endless wars this is
his plan to pit us against one another
I mean what's add to that nothing to add
to that but let's hear one more member
of the so-called squad and it's
interesting to Sirte see the way that
these four operate together they all
sort of seem to pick up a baton and
continue around here's AOC weak Minds
and leaders challenged loyalty to our
country in order to avoid challenging
and debating the policy this president
does not know how to make the argument
that Americans do not deserve health
care he does not know how to defend his
policies so what he does is attack us
personally and that is what this is all
about he can't look a child in the face
and he can't look all Americans in the
face and justify why this country is
throwing them in cages so instead he
tells us that I should go back to the
great borough of the Bronx and make it
better and that's what I'm here to do I
mean I have to say that when you you
watch these three women respond to
Donald Trump with all due respect they
they may not have the parliamentary
skills the whip counting skills I don't
know about the fundraising skills
because ALC has raised I think more
money than any other member of Congress
except for one or two members of the
leadership but they do this much better
than Nancy Pelosi I'm sorry that's just
the reality I mean no one couldn't look
at they they take Trump's words they
turn around they put their agenda in the
forefront and they put that in the news
they know how to connect their talking
points
they know how to get the media clips I
mean they do this very very well
much better than Nancy Pelosi the the
president is is a is a racist and I had
also welcomed him to text me to work
together immigration I mean just across
the board regardless of like what their
they just do politics in this day and
age they understand it better
