so Mike before we we talked about how
this was litigated give us a sense of
what what just the context in which this
claim moved forward yes
salmon thanks for having me on but this
all related to the Puerto Rico bond
market which in 2013 suffered or began
to suffer a collapse and related
specifically to a couple of types of
products that were sold by firms down in
Puerto Rico and even some firms on the
mainland but specifically in this case
it was UBS who had underwrote bonds
underwrote literally billions and
billions and billions of dollars of
these bonds and encouraged public
entities public corporations down in
Puerto Rico to continuing continue
issuing these bonds at a dangerous rate
and more specifically beyond the bonds a
lot of proprietary products and these
came in the form of closed-end funds
which really served as a wrapper under
which UBS could wrap up the bonds that
had under wrote into a product that then
sold to regular retirees regular
mom-and-pop investors and it sold him by
the boatloads by the truckloads that
backed him up and sold him to anyone and
everyone their retirees people with very
small networks people with large net
worth it was a profit Center for them
and they sold these bonds and these
funds for years and made a lot of money
doing so but then in 2013 and in 2015-16
as Puerto Rico's situation deteriorated
these funds and the bonds suffered
significant losses in folks who had the
retirement assets invested in these
types of risky products suffered huge I
mean just terrible losses okay I need
you to go we're gonna back up just a
little bit here so I mean clearly what
we're talking about is some measure of
you know a fraudulent representation of
the quality of these bonds it appears
and you'll tell me if I'm right but
but but just walk us through what it was
so they're underwriting bonds on behalf
of municipalities and and what is what
is involved with the underwriting just
essentially helping them take them to
market that that's exactly right Sam I
mean we you could you can there's other
things that are involved with it but at
the end of the day underwriting a bond
is really you're just giving them an
avenue to actually take the bonds to the
market and more importantly and perhaps
this is most important in this case
actually sell the bonds because you can
underwrite a bond but if you can't sell
it to somebody if you don't have a
customer to sell it to then it doesn't
do you any good and that's what one of
the big things that UBS brought to the
table in this business was they had
especially in Puerto Rico they had 50%
of the retail customer base on the
entire island so they had access to the
clients and in underwriting these bonds
they did help bring them to market and
then actually distribute these bonds and
you mentioned they wrapped him up in
something but walk us through what that
means and in laypersons terms sure that
was just it gave him a little bucket to
put these things into and it says
specifically was a is a closed-end fund
and closed-in funds operate a little bit
differently
people are probably generally familiar
with say a mutual fund and and these are
like a mutual fund but they're a little
bit different these don't trade on the
new york stock exchange
these aren't regulated in the same way
these can use leverage and leverage is
just a form of thinking that is
borrowing so when you bought one dollar
of one of these funds what they were
able to do by creating it as a
closed-end fund they borrowed against
that and purchased another dollar so
every dollar you put into one of these
products they were able to get rid of
essentially two dollars worth of the
securities that they needed to get rid
of or a dump if you will Wow okay and so
ultimately so they're going out and this
is sounds like one of those situations
where they have the clients and they
create a product and a market
because they have this sort of this
captive audience without really being
too concerned about what the quality of
that product is but just relying on
their ability to sell them because they
have a direct line to them yeah I think
that's actually a pretty fair assessment
of what it is because especially when
you looked at it and you start getting
into some of the quality of these bonds
and certainly there's there's argument
about some of these Sam that can be had
I mean we could have a discussion about
some of the the clawback features or the
priority features on some of these bonds
but some of these bonds were honestly a
joke I mean there were there were
literally moral obligation bonds that
were being sold to folks and and those
those are worse than they even sound
it's like an IOU it has no guarantee no
backing no security interest and and the
way these are able to get passed along
to clients is by having people there who
stand to gain significant money from
underwriting fees from commissions from
management fees really kind of
collecting at every level in the sales
process so what exactly I mean so
they're selling there they're basically
underwriting these loans and they're
taking them to to market as financial
securities what what were these under I
mean you say some were just moral
obligations in other words there was no
legal way of compelling repayment and
for these securities I mean just walk us
through what people normally expect when
you buy a bond I mean it's it and it's
theoretically right it's a safe
investment because well theoretically
and many times depending on on the
quality of the bond but what do people
normally expect when they go and buy a
bond like how does that work you you you
took the word out of my mouth that's
what people think people think I'm not
investing in options I'm not investing
in an IPO of a company or even a stock
you're buying a bond and the word that I
think a lot of people the normal regular
people think well the bond is is safe
that's the thing it's maybe not gonna
give you a 10% return obviously but it's
it's going to give you some security and
that's why it was so easy for them to
sell these products
because that you're selling a bond
you're selling a bond and they they sold
it as a bond that's either backed by
something or it's guaranteed by
something and is easy to sell it as as
secure so someone who's in their 70s or
80s is thinking that they're they're
buying this for their retirement and
that the principal is gonna be safe and
that's what I think the average person
who's going in investing thinks that if
you're going and buying bonds that that
it is something that it's going to be
safe and secure and that you'll make
some income on it for your retirement
but not taking a big risk not not
reaching for the stars or not trying to
hit a grand slam and knock it out of the
park I mean your ear talk and bonds here
which is what again made it so easy for
them and okay so and so there's this
expectation that the they are lending I
guess a municipality money I mean are
these all municipal bonds are they what
kind of bonds are they
yet so primarily municipal bonds there's
sales tax financing bonds there's
pension obligation bonds there's a lot
of different types of bonds some are
general obligation bonds of of the
government of Puerto Rico so it it's
there's quite a few issuers down there
the the essentially the central bank the
government Development Bank in Puerto
Rico also offer bonds so there's a lot
of different ones involved in of course
there was just primarily concentrated in
just a few of these particular issues
issuers which is one of the other
problems which led to even more severe
losses the more you concentrated
portfolio the more risk your exposure
exposing it to okay so UBS underwrites
these bonds from different
municipalities people assume that they
are safe and that the by purchasing this
bonds they are basically locking in a
fairly reliable source of income that
will not necessarily you know make them
Mega Millions winners but will will
provide a safe and secure income for
people who probably need it the most in
terms of that safety and knowing that
this money will be coming in over a
certain period of time
Michael I want to take a break when we
come back I want to hear about who the
clients are and what happened to them
that instigated these lawsuits against
UBS and what it is ultimately UBS was
found to have done that made them liable
for this 20 million dollar arbitration
award over these Puerto Rican
investments we got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back in just a moment
with Michael Bixby
