[Music]
lastly credit in Berg was in front of
Congress they brought in some other kid
to be the anti Greta and he was okay
just sort of defended like we don't want
to ruin our way of life to protect our
way of life the fifteen-year-old that
wants is primarily concerned about the
economy right exactly I'm super worried
about what the where the markets gonna
be in 25 years because yeah so here is
Garret graves he is a congressman from
Louisiana I think he gets a lot of oil
money I would bet a lot of refineries
down there so here's Garret graves
trying to both be sort of like jocular
he realizes he's dealing with a teenage
girl young woman we just want to look
like too much of a jerk but he also gets
it handed to him on a platter I should
say hurry he is returned on a platter by
Thornburg here he is trying to make her
understand like here's a I have an
analogy for you that she basically says
your analogies wrong here's the right
one mr. Dubourg let me ask you a
question
if you're sailing across the ocean and
you're picking up trash along the way
and for every one piece of trash that
you pick up there's a boat right next to
you dumping out five pieces how would
that make you feel first of all we were
going so fast there wasn't alright well
if you were a slow sailor like me okay
how would that make you feel well first
of all if you use that logic than I am
also dumping a lot of trash in the ocean
and then I would I would stop dumping my
trash in the ocean and tell the other
boat to stop dumping their trash in the
ocean as well and and and and that's
that's the important point here is we
need to be focusing on the countries
that are dumping trash in the ocean of
course that's a metaphor right the fact
she answered you metaphor and she said
well if your metaphor is to be accurate
we're both dumping trash in the ocean
there is no boat that is sailing across
the ocean just picking up trash there is
no country in the world that has a net
negative carbon footprint and in fact
when we talk about our boat in his
metaphor we're dumping trash to China
maybe dumping more trash than we are but
as she says I would stop dumping trash
in the ocean and then I would ask them
to stop dumping trash too and then I
would share anti trash dumping
technologies with the other boats indeed
he goes on to he just goes on to claim
that it's basically all China's fault
and we're not gonna doesn't do anything
if we do anything so about five or six
minutes later she addresses him again
not necessarily by name but addresses
this this stupid analogy of his by
saying we have it
Driss is this stupid analogy which is
incorrect and she immediately just picks
it out like oh your I see what your
analogy is that's very clever
except for does not correspond to the
real world there are no boats that are
just picking up trash there are boats
that are dumping less trash and trying
to dump less trash and should be dumping
no trash and then other boats to whom we
should say do the same as we're doing so
late
in that same hearing she gets a little
bit more explicit because he makes a
little more tangible for Garret graves
thing just look at the US they say so
just so you know go back go back she's
gonna make the point here that like you
can say that compared to China the u.s.
is not dumping a lot of trash in the
ocean as it were but I got some bad news
for you there's other countries not just
the US I think I don't need to add
anything but just another perspective I
am from Sweden it's a small country and
there it is the same argument why should
we do anything just look at the US they
say so just so you know that's that is
being used against you as well yeah
she's looking out for him right why
should we do anything cuz china's
dumping more than us and she says well I
Got News for you in Sweden we say the
same thing why should we do anything cuz
US is dumping more trash I've been
exposed to this elementary argument
before yes this is I mean it's fun to
watch a 16 year old run circles around
these Congress people because she just
doesn't have the same sort of like
notion of like am I supposed to be
polite enough to not point out how
stupid they are really is amazing
meanwhile let's just turn to 2020 we got
a couple of clips here's um this was at
the robert kuttner brought up the the
point that there is a nascent nascent
movement among young
