so Heather we've been talking about
impeachment it's obviously the big story
of the week if the Democrats do it
properly if they do it properly it
should be the big story for the next I
don't know 20 weeks 30 weeks I mean I I
would like to see some iteration of what
we saw with Cory Lewandowski and I think
it was Barry Burke one of the the
Judiciary Committee's attorneys and I'd
like to see at least one of those a week
where we can get these people in front
of the committee and and question them
not just on you the Ukraine call and the
the you know the threatening of the
Ukrainian president or the blackmailing
I should say you know you don't get your
money that Congress is appropriated to
you unless you kick some back to me
which in the form of you know you know
some type of a scandal of Joe Biden but
there's obviously a ton of other things
that that should be taken you know taken
up by the Judiciary Committee if they do
that we're gonna be talking about it
over and over again but the other story
that we're gonna be talking about
without question is the Democratic
primary and now that we are in late
September starting to see more people
engage we're starting to see the race
the dynamic of the race change a little
bit Joe Biden trending downward not in
freefall yet but it sure feels like he's
getting close to that there's gonna be
some type of like threshold he passes
where he's going to drop much more
precipitously Elizabeth Warren trending
up Bernie Sanders more or less staying
the same maybe a slight trend up but
more or less staying the same and then
everybody else is basically in the dust
what is your sense of what you're seeing
out there right now well I mean I think
first of all let's make it clear I don't
think Joe Biden if he is slipping it has
anything to do with this Ukraine all
right I don't think that that's been
relevant because this slide has been
happening
for a long time that that's happening on
the merits I think among the Democratic
electorate which has a fondness for him
and believes you know he's very familiar
he was the front runner
because you know he was a VP that's
often true with vice presidents who run
in the beginning they're popular you
know on the heels of a popular
presidency you know people go yeah let's
you know let's have a little more of
that you know whatever but as the
campaign has worn on he has worn less
well for a million reasons which you and
I have discussed at length on the show
in the past few weeks which so that and
that was before this Ukraine scandal
broke so I don't anybody think that
that's actually had the effect that
Donald Trump wanted it to have now it
may affect things going forward a bit
maybe it will propel his slide or maybe
people will even rally around him I
don't know but up to now the dynamic
that you just just talked about of him
slipping warned rising and Sanders
saying more or less the same has been
true without any of this so Donald
Trump's interference in the election so
far has not been perdy is not relevant
to what we've been seeing in the primary
so you know looking at this though
however there are a couple of other
things that I think that pertain to
Donald Trump and the impeachment and
everything else I think Warren is the
one who has come up there one of the
reasons why she's been rising is that
she has come up with sort of a holistic
message about anti-corruption
impeachment and reform
she's packaged this all in a way that
that shows that you know at first of all
an understanding of what she's up
against with the Republicans and a
willingness to sort of meet it head-on
and that's new it's different than Biden
who's kind of following the Obama
playbook of kind of well we can all
can't we all get along
there's no red states and there's no
blue states you know there's just the
United States and all that stuff or
Sanders who has you know much more
revolutionary message hers is kind of
this this entire picture and I think
that may be appealing to people I mean I
don't know this but that's how I see it
and so I think her rise has something to
do with it and has something to do with
the fact that she is
lay and has been from the beginning has
come out reflecting the wishes of a
Democratic base to impeach Donald Trump
she says it she said it the day after
the Mullen report came out she does not
mince words she's not you know circling
around it
and you know she's really those of the
frontrunners she's the one who is the
most no adamant about that and just as
we were talking in the earlier segment
that impeachment has been brewing among
the Democratic base for months now and
the August recess they were coming in
their faces these these representatives
from you know from swing districts and
from you know hardcore blue districts
really pressuring these people to do
something about this and so one reflects
that and I think that that's important I
mean this it you know it works for me I
mean I don't think I'm making any secret
of the fact that I like that that she's
doing that I mean I've been for it from
the beginning but I do think that's had
an effect so to the extent that this
impeachment argument is affecting the
the primary I think that's where we're
seeing it is in her rise I think and
it's not just that of course I mean
she's you know a good campaigner there
are a million reasons why she's doing
well but I do think that that is part of
it yeah I agree I mean if you look at
her first big bump it what it came after
her very vocal call for impeachment it's
you know and it's interesting and I
think like you know broadly I think
impeachment hurts Joe Biden a little bit
and oddly enough because while she's
been calling for impeachment she has a
whole nother set of plans the Bernie
Sanders same thing they both have you
know Sanders is I think arguably more
ambitious and of course has I think from
a left perspective has a little bit more
offer on a foreign policy perspective
but they both have ambitious plans and
Joe Biden has you know his
representation as a guy of real
integrity and gonna bring America back
you know it's make America greater than
great again is sort of Joe Biden slogan
some sorts and so I think that's a
little bit problematic for him it's
gonna be interesting to see because I
think over the next four or five weeks
we're gonna get a real clear picture of
these the durability of Joe Biden's lead
and yeah again I think it is gonna be
one of those situations where he's gonna
cross some threshold I don't know where
it is I don't know if it's a national
number I don't know if it's within a
state or to where his his decline is
gonna be precipitous and you know he has
a big lead in South Carolina that is the
firewall for him but it's you know it's
not out of it's not statistically you
know it's no wouldn't be a shock if he
won New Hampshire in Iowa but I would be
very surprised by it at this point and I
think the one other question in terms of
like the status of the race because I do
think Warren once you know as a function
of impeachment and once she got out of
sort of the the at least within the
context of the Democrats the the the I
guess the the the radiation blast from
her DNA stuff which is you know it's
gonna come back up in the general
election without a doubt but she seems
to at least in the context of the
Democratic primary gotten past that
which is important right because you you
don't want the a sizable segment of the
Democratic Party to have a problem with
you going into a general election I mean
I think part of that happened to to
Hillary Clinton frankly but we're gonna
take a break we're gonna talk more about
this and some other stories in the next
hour I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire
radio
