[Music]
all right this is a heartwarming story
of a of a nine year old girl apparently
well let's listen to this report from
channel 7 NBC the NBC affiliate down
there and we'll then we will discuss new
tonight a family torn apart overnight
now reunited
[Music]
the mother says customs officers
detained her nine-year-old daughter as
she tried to walk across the border with
her 14 year old brother
they are both US citizens with passports
and they both crossed the border daily
to attend school here NBC 7's dannika
macadam joins us from the border with a
closer look at what happened dannika
this never should have happened the
mother says customs Border Patrol
officers told her nine-year-old daughter
that she was lying that her picture did
not match her passport picture so she
was lying about her identification they
were separated for nearly 36 hours and
then finally reunited tonight holding
each other as if they will never let go
again I was scared I was sad because I
didn't have my mom and my brother
I was completely by myself I am very
happy to have my daughter back mother
Thelma Galaxia has not seen her
nine-year-old daughter who Leah and para
medina since early Monday morning when
her friend Michelle Cardenas picked up
willya and her 14 year old brother Oscar
for school they drive across the border
Monday through Friday for school Oscar
attends San Ysidro high and Hulya goes
to Nikolov elementary the problem on
Monday morning they were running late
their family met with NBC 7 Tuesday
evening just before she reunited with
her daughter I got to the border 4 a.m.
their line is very first off I mean
let's just stop right there they cross
the border 4 a.m. every day so that the
the kids can go to school they're
American citizens I'm not sure what the
dynamic is but they go to school just
across the border this end 0 I don't
know how you pronounce it is right right
across the border and they are US
citizens
I guess they live in Mexico I don't know
obviously not far they go up to they
cross the border every day for whatever
reason if
I am it was really busy so she said walk
up there take an uber cross the border
and call you an uber and so the kids
obviously get get held up I mean this is
how sort of like how sick and demented
the mentality is here but just like can
you imagine just the idea of of what all
of these people would say about a white
kid in the suburbs who gets up every
morning at 4:00 a.m. to go to school you
know like I mean you can you know that's
that's that's the stuff that they make
they make documentaries about and
profiles in the local paper and
magazines and this is the this is this
is the American spirit I don't care what
time I have to get up it's completely
dark when he wakes up every morning when
she wakes up every morning she puts on
those skates or she puts on her you know
gets her schoolbooks because she wants
to excel never see that in this context
you know where we the talent pool that
ice draws from four Border Patrol agents
and then you're basically deputizing all
these guys to like go up to a little
girl and tell her she's lying about her
ID right supposedly she gave a different
answer I mean look if you're gonna have
so-called professionals at the border
interrogate nine-year-olds they should
know something about nine-year-olds yeah
they just like oh my god are you kidding
it's disgusting it's disgusting it's
part and parcel of like a whole
mentality that is just it's just
demented super super demented
