with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday February 25th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today we're
back after our typically ill-timed
vacation during which Bernie Sanders
breaking fundraising records
participating more announcements on that
front
soon meanwhile Elizabeth Warren has a
non radical plan for radical impact
Donald Trump heads to Vietnam for a
North Korean summit total
denuclearization and speaking of which
lawsuits filed against Trump's emergency
declaration and as the green New Deal is
debated amongst Democrats the Trump
administration forms a prestigious
climate denial panel and payback for
Mitch McConnell one of his biggest
fundraisers climate denier Kelly craft
now ambassador to the UN
and while the US is edging toward a war
with Venezuela and in New York the
public advocate vote is tomorrow vote if
you're a New York City voter speaking of
Elections there'll be a new one in North
Carolina's ninth I guess the apple fell
just a little too far from the tree that
the kids testimony against dad and
Democrats to investigate Trump finances
and nras financing and introduced
legislation to tighten background checks
and lastly Supreme Court limits state
and local asset seizure all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen what is that noise oh yeah
that's a kettle ill-timed can we turn
that off sounds like an airplane is
taking off we're back ladies and
gentlemen after our break and of course
over the week some one of the best days
in politics I felt like in a while the
day that Bernie Sanders announced and
Elizabeth Warren came out with her
Universal day care proposal I've been
waiting for one of those and we will get
into all of that Bernie Sanders of
course smashed fundraising records I
less than 24 hours had raised 6 million
dollars which was like I think four
times the next biggest amount that's
been raised
Carla Harris I think did 1.5 over the
course of 24 or 48 hours I don't know
what it was but I gave my 27 dollars
there you go so did I miss cloture and I
think we're anticipating another
announcement soon as to you know what
how much they've raised over the course
of one week and just impressive numbers
and at one point he was asked what's
different this time around and he said
we're gonna win and he ended up naming
as a campaign manager
Fosdick or who is a who has been
basically building out the ACL u--'s
political operation and of course some
people might be aware that one of his
senior advisors is a majority report
producer emeritus Josh Gordon Josh also
congratulations I did not know that got
married last weekend that's where I went
off to and there was a little bit
attention again anticipating things that
were happening but Mazel Tov Josh yes
times two and and I think for his
honeymoon he and his wife went to
Washington DC we will get to we'll get
into the the Bernie stuff and the
Elizabeth Warren stuff and also as the
as the green new deal is heating up
amongst the Democrats also and please
remind me to talk about this I wanna
start off this way but when I was in
Wisconsin for the wedding for the big
wedding I stopped by just coffee co-op
and I went with another producer
emeritus of the show from the way back
Steve and Cheryl and good guy to to go
do cuz he's he's very he was very
inquisitive about the coffee production
and it's fascinating what these guys do
and it it's he said to me he goes you
know I would have he said like I was
Cheryl the idea of buying just coffee he
was was sort of sold on beforehand but
he after spending about 20-25 minutes
with a couple of these guys there he's
like I
I can't remember how he phrased it but
he said it would be unconscionable for
me not to buy coffee from them the way
that they we went into the tail let me
tell you a good quick story so and I
tried to do an Instagram live video of
it but then I lost reception and it's
not a huge operation but they were
explaining they have a room where they
taste the coffee right where they have a
professional coffee taster come in and
they were explaining that you know
sometimes they get into some issues
because you know coffee the quality of
coffee is subject to the weather and to
like sometimes there's funguses or stuff
like this and so what most Coffee
Roasters and suppliers do is they go and
buy coffee from one farm and if one year
they had their coffee is you know there
was too much water and it's a little bit
acidic or whatever it is they just wash
their hands of that farm and walk away
and whatever happens that farm happens
to that farm they go you know a couple
of towns over or to a slightly different
region they get a different coffee that
substitutes for you know whatever
they're been selling but just coffee is
it's a co-op but it was also it's also
fair trade but they go further than that
I mean they're these our movement people
and so they were explaining that like
you know what we do is if a farm is
having a tough year or their coffee is
you know coming in at like an 86 instead
of an 88 rating or whatever it is we
stay with the farmers and we figure out
a blend with other coffees that we have
that can bring that coffee that we
package back up to par as to where it is
in terms of the quality and ultimately
like look sometimes I cost us a little
bit more sometimes it may knock a point
or two off of the quality of the coffee
for one batch but we're in this with a
long haul with these small farmers in in
Central and Latin America and they're
just they have a
different calculus as to what is
ultimately the most important thing so I
was terribly impressed by that and also
got to take a picture of myself with the
jury report blend that they have there I
didn't want to say anything at the time
they have poster meirin's like coffee up
but not of the majority report but
that's no big deal
I mean it was big enough for me to
remember it but it wasn't a big deal but
so just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate you know the rest
coupon code majority get 10% off but it
was I don't wanna say it was a highlight
on my trip because I went for a wedding
and the wedding was great but it was the
second highlight of my trip Wow and they
get coffee from this up Batista's is
that correct
um they started out there and they do I
mean I think folks in that area I don't
know specifically but they it's good
it's it's good stuff you can go onto
their site and read more about what's
going on there but the the wedding was
was fun and Madison's fun it was
interesting to be back there because I
hadn't been back there since the
protests in 2011 and so just being on
that square around the Capitol could
still feel the energy I think most
people it's already dissipated because
it's been eight years
but for me it was that's what I remember
that place is so ok let's get into this
first let's start with this though this
is a fascinating stuff apparently over
the week AOC made a decision about the
way she was gonna staff and you know
they're attacking her from all different
sides now and the New York Post is upset
because they don't have she doesn't have
set up her local office yet or something
to that effect but she decided that she
did not want there to be such a steep
hierarchy in her office in in her
congressional office so instead of like
carrying some old you know old hand or
at being chief of staff probably she
went with someone maybe less senior I
think and was going to basically raise
the pay of the entry-level people I mean
a nice a nice gesture it's a different
approach it's not controversial right I
mean who could find issue with this Oh
Fox and Friends it's get a load of this
write a tweet went out yesterday she
said she is leadership begins at home or
whatever however she put in she's
basically announcing that she is going
to redistribute the money appropriated
to her congressional office to make sure
that the entry-level staffers get a fair
share of money now let me show you the
numbers here right oh she puts it she
wants fifty two thousand dollars for the
entry-level staff salary for anyone in
her office here's the problem you've got
to find a way to get money to pay the
entry level people so you're taking
deposit posit so is she gonna rob from a
bank how are you gonna get this money
this is a problem let's go people so
you're taking she's plans to take that
from the chief of staff it's beautiful
senior staffers who would normally make
$80,000 or normally make a hundred fifty
four thousand dollars the chief of staff
probably only gonna make about eighty
three every capitol hill office has a
limited amount of money to pay their
staff right so you have to decide how to
allocate it she said everyone in my
office will pay a living wage so I'm
gonna pay fifteen dollars an hour which
means your entry level intern is making
fifty two grand while your chief adviser
for one second I don't know if this
guy's ever worked anywhere else maybe
they have a weird way of doing things at
Fox but your entry level intern that
there's no such thing as an entry level
intern all interns are not even an entry
level entry level is a term that means
sort of first level in terms of within
an organization or sometimes it can mean
like and
like across the board first level jobs
that people get now an internship is not
a job because you don't get paid for it
or you get paid sub entry-level wages so
she's not paying an intern uh the
entry-level wages she's paying either
the entry-level people or maybe she's
hiring people who are not entry-level I
don't know but but he's got that wrong
but that's a minor point a living wage
so I'm gonna pay $15 an hour which means
your entry-level intern is making 52
grand while you're chief of staff who is
a very important role in a congressional
office now is capped at 80 as opposed to
the the actual market rate at Capitol
Hill which is closer to 150,000 so
everyone's between 52 and 80 it's
actually socialism and communism on
dispatch you see that it's socialism and
communism and we have actually we've
actually done some research and we found
a graph that shows this the chief of
staff pay as you can see 150 for k thats
capitalism 120 when you get down 225 K
that's socialism under 125 K that's
that's communism mmm-hmm story check it
out and then you can't see because it
goes off the paper but if you get
further below its socialism and
communism socialism times communism is
that's the way that you get there yep
communism it's like Karl Marx said
communism is when you pay your interns
more and the more you pay your interns
the more communist it is that's it there
you go
we're taking on the People's Policy
Project nice I graph exactly I would
love to like have a focus group of Fox
and Friends viewers and just sort of
like get like what do they take away
from that like does that this is out
work I suspect it does right like you
know it doesn't have to work on a
hundred percent of the people even if it
works on like 10 or 15 percent the rest
of them are just like yeah she's
socialist communist anyways so I don't
know if that's exactly it
like they don't even think that much
about it right that's the way it worked
well maybe like with every time they try
to make her look bad a small handful of
people early
hey actually that looks pretty good yeah
I feel like it's safer for them just to
do what Glenn Beck doesn't like paint
pictures of her and don't actually do
respond to anything she actually does
but color like Alexandria occasional
cortex right exactly
Oh crazy Oh Cortez folks has your
company outgrown QuickBooks are shared
spreadsheets manual processes and legacy
systems costing you time and money
introducing NetSuite by Oracle the
business management software that
handles every aspect of your business in
an easy-to-use cloud platform with net C
you can save time money and unneeded
headaches by managing sales HR finance
and accounting instantly right from your
desk or even your phone thousands of the
best known and fastest growing companies
use NetSuite to manage their business
and now it's available to you better yet
it's more affordable than you think
because right now NetSuite is offering
you valuable insights to help you
overcome the obstacles that are holding
you back free don't miss out on a
leashing your business's full potential
with this free guide crushing the five
barriers to growth you'll learn how to
acquire new customers increase profits
and finally get real visibility into
your cash flow getnet Suites guide
crushing the five barriers to growth at
NetSuite calm / majority now that's
NetSuite dot-com / majority - download
their free crushing the five barriers to
growth guide today NetSuite comm /
majority also you've heard me talk about
what I did when I had my first kid and
my second kid well I got term life
insurance and you too can protect your
loved ones with a peace of mind of life
insurance think you can't afford it
chances are selectquote can help you get
it for less than a dollar a day
selectquote comparison shops up to 10
highly rated companies including
Prudential banner Life Mutual of Omaha
and others find you the company with the
best rates for example select quote
could find a 35 year old man a $500,000
policy for under 19 bucks a month that's
less than a dollar a day
Coffee add a cost you more than that
select quotes breakthrough technology
allows them to quickly match you with
the best insurance company to find your
best policy plus the quotes are free I
can tell you that I bought the first
amount of term life insurance from a
life insurance salesman I'm not gonna
say his name and at the time I was like
I don't know four years out from
quitting smoking and he was like oh
we'll change my experience it'll change
after five you can go back and ask them
for a rate adjustment and then the guy
disappeared on me and I couldn't get the
rate adjustment let me just put it this
way you would think that you would have
a great experience with an actual agent
and I get news for you not the case my
second term insurance policy I did
online and much happier frankly I got a
second round when Saul was born just
bumped it up a little bit you got two
kids but I'll tell you there's nothing
better than that feeling of I've done it
because as soon as your kids born in
particular maybe you have other people
in your life that it's important that
you you protect them you know you should
be doing it and the earlier the better
cuz the younger you are the cheaper it
is makes sense
selectquote could save you time and
money get your free quote at select
quote dot-com slash majority today
that's select quote dot-com slash
majority for your free quote don't put
off protecting your family for another
day select quote dot-com slash majority
get full details on the example policy
at select quote comm slash commercials
your premium could vary depending on
your health the issuing company and
other factors not available in all
states and lastly I got to tell you that
every two seconds there's a new victim
of identity theft which means a criminal
could be spending your money
applying for loans in your name and even
damaging your credit the good credit
you've worked so hard to build
unfortunately you can miss certain
threats to your identity by just
checking bank statements and monitoring
your credit good thing there's life lock
identity theft protection life lock uses
proprietary technology to detect and
alert you on a wide range of identity
threats like your social security number
for sale on the dark web and if you have
an issue involving identity theft one of
life locks identity restoration
specialists will work to fix it for you
when I was contemplating doing this I
asked people if they had any experience
of the life lock and I got a couple of
emails and they cited particularly the
identity restoration specialists because
that can be a nightmare I guess and they
needed to help of course no one can
prevent all identity theft or monitor
all transactions at all businesses but
with life lock you get identity theft
protection and additional features to
help protect your devices against cyber
threats for as low as ninety nine month
99 $9.99 a month
$9.99 a month don't waste another second
life lock calm slash majority now to
save 10% on your first year that's life
lock calm slash majority for 10% off
life lock calm slash majority
all right let's dig into Bernie's
announcement in addition to saying at
one point this time is going to be
different because we're gonna win and
you know look I am most partial to the
proposals that Bernie Sanders has
proposed and Elizabeth Warren more or
less by far they just they seem to be
putting forward and Bernie is yet to
really I think roll out any new
proposals but certainly the Medicare for
all that many of the other candidates
have signed onto and warned putting out
proposals like
producing generic drugs like the one
that she announcement we'll talk about
in a bit universal daycare these are
important proposals to get out into the
conversation and part of the reason why
and I've spoken to a lot of people about
this who have said in many different
ways that were the campaign two or three
months longer that primary campaign had
Bernie Sanders gotten into the and
decided to run three to six months
earlier and genuinely believed he had a
shot at winning what he entered or even
three just monk you know if he had gone
in three months earlier and he would
have picked up the that awareness
earlier he could have very well want
that that primary in 2016 and this time
he's going in and he's going in to win
it and and that's what he said in his
you know interview and and that is that
is not I think people you know have
interpreted that as like some type of
measure of of confidence and I think the
guy is confidence and and whatnot but I
think what it is is it is a tacit
admission that the last time he entered
the race was because he was running a
message campaign and this time he's
running a race to become the nominee not
to mention the president well and then
ultimately the president
hashtag Bernie would have won well like
I said Bernie will win Martin O'Malley
would have won too I think
but be that as it may that was then this
is now
here is Bernie Sanders talking
specifically about Howard Schultz and he
had been quiet up to this point about
Howard Schultz Howard Schultz has now
said he would not run as an independent
if the Democrats moderate nice
why is Howard Schultz on every
television station in this country why
are you quoting Howard Schultz because
he's a billionaire alright there are a
lot of people I know personally who work
hard for a living to make 40 $50,000 who
know a lot more about politics than all
due respect as mr. Schultz but because
we have a corrupt political system
anybody who is a billionaire who can
throw a lot of TV ads on television
suddenly becomes very very credible
so what mr. Schultz what is he
blackmailing the Democratic Party if you
don't nominate Bernie Sanders he's not
going to run well I don't think we
should succumb to that kind of blackmail
the other reason is that he represents
an argument that some people make which
is if you're worried about Donald Trump
the Democratic Party to win voters in
various parts of the country needs to
pick somebody who is not so radical
that's also what his theory well I think
his deeper theory is hey I'm a
billionaire leave me alone and let me
make as much money as I can without
paying my fair share of taxes he's the
billionaire he's thinking of running for
president something's a very famous guy
that's that is a problem
with our political system I mean they're
you know not terribly different than
what we were saying on the day that
Howard Schultz was like all of a sudden
on every single TV show suddenly because
he built up a coffee shop into a big
business that which other people have
also done yes that he is perfectly
primed to step in and become president
and is treated as if he's a serious guy
as opposed to let's say Donald Trump and
without any sort of prior without any
prior policy work it's just that he went
in and he bought Steve Schmidt and he
bought Bill Burton literally bought them
for millions of dollars and he bought
his credibility and he bought ads and he
bought media time
five five by I Got News for you if I go
by a three-page spread in the New York
Times guess what I'm gonna get
somebody's gonna write a story about the
majority report that's just the fact and
that in and of itself if it's something
as benign as oh they did a profile on
Sam because he maybe it's related to his
you know two million dollar buy of ads
or whatever it is but they did a profile
on him you know what that doesn't have
that great of its corrupt but it's not
that relevant nobody cares so what but
when it's they're doing a profile on
this guy because he's going to try and
run for president that's that's where
you have the corruption of the political
process and that is I mean it says if
Howard Schultz showed up to provide the
subtext for a lot of why Bernie's
running which is that we have a system
that we have people who have amassed so
much money that they now are they have
turned us to you know their their
plutocrats now they're they they had
garnered so much money that they have an
outsized power significantly outside
power politically and socially and
that's the problem
so I don't know Bernie him I hope sent
him a muffin basket
seriously God just to watch that what's
whatever his name is news guy sit there
with a straight face saying Howard
Schultz represents an argument that a
third party billionaire is gonna beat
Trump like god dammit that sucks
well the the and the only the the only
like even sort of like rationale or
rationale I should say for Schultz's and
candidacy is this idea that the
Democrats can't become too economically
laughed because that won't appeal to the
voters who supposedly voted Trump
because they wanted to
screw over the establishment right like
that's the argument and even in
articulating it it makes no sense
yeah how'd that go the last time around
well but I mean put that aside for a
moment just just the argument because
it's always put out there without any
data there's no there's no like this
poll says that it's just an argument
that ostensibly sounds reasonable
but if you genuinely articulate the
argument of course it's absurd yeah and
actually there is data that contradicts
that well of course but they can't get
into data when they talk about it or
that's they won't be able to get the
question out of their mouth because it's
not the data that's leading to the
prominence of the arguments it's the
money behind him yes and this is what is
both so gross and so powerful about
Bernie Sanders ability to raise the kind
of money that he raised in the first 24
hours and in the week subsequent to his
announcement like this is if you tell me
how much money the candidates have on
hand in terms of cash nine months from
now ten months from now after Iowa after
New Hampshire thirteen fourteen months
out after super - well I guess twelve
months out now basically if you tell me
how much money cash on hand the
candidates have on March 10th or March
sixth I can tell you who the top four
candidates are gonna be and maybe three
that's just the reality of this process
when people get out of the race it's
going to be because they don't have cash
Sanders has announced he has over 1
million volunteers that have signed up
oh yeah for the 2020 campaign and
they are in every single congressional
district million volunteers all right
that's nuts
so we'll see you know this is and and
I'll tell you that you look at there was
polls that came out in New Hampshire and
he's got a decent sized lead there
probably bigger than most of the states
that he will have have leads in but 20
to 25 percent is a number that could win
a lot of these primaries Kamala Harris
is going to be has has a structural
advantage on some level because of
California is part of Super Tuesday and
although you know Iowa and New Hampshire
then South Carolina then Super Tuesday
March 3rd I believe it is next year
2019-20 excuse me 2020 and coming out of
those it's not a winner-take-all it's
type of situation coming out of those
Super Tuesday we're gonna have a very
good sense of like who the top five or
six candidates are and money plays a big
part and obviously volunteers do too but
I think Kamala Harris is the one to beat
I think Bernie and her are gonna fight
it out you know it's tough you never
know you never know like somebody could
pop out of Iowa that could be surprising
coming in like a surprising set a second
a Rick Santorum situation and I've been
there who knows I've had those I don't
even want to know geez I know you mean
by that
alright let's talk about Elizabeth
Warren for a bit because she has come
out with two basically well she came out
with a big proposal on the same day that
Bernie announced
which was one of my favorite favorite
days in politics in a long time on today
on Monday today she announced that her
presidential campaign will not have
private fundraisers or one-on-one
meetings with big donors that's a big
deal
and I imagine Bernie Sanders will
probably follow suit I don't know that
he already even hadn't already there but
it's gonna be interesting to see if
that's the case with like a Kamala
Harris or with a Cory Booker or a
Kristin Gillibrand or if Joe Biden jumps
in a Joe Biden it'd be a good thing if
they followed suit it would begin to you
know in some way untether their
decision-making from big donors maybe at
the very least it would give you know
just some indication that you know
they're open to it let's say but here is
Elizabeth Warren who also came out with
a plan like I said last week on a
universal child care and the plan
basically has four elements one it's
free for families who live at 200% or
less of the poverty line so family I
don't know what that is for family for
poverty line somewhere I think in the
20s and double that you get free you
know you get free child care families
above 200 percent of the poverty line
pay a sliding scale between zero and
seven percent of their income on
right now I think the average family
something paid somewhere around like 10%
at least I mean childcare is expensive
super expensive and nobody and nobody
pays over 7% of their income on child
care and this would be financed by the
wealth tax and the cost over the course
of ten years about 700 billion dollars
so seventy billion dollars a year to
invest in a program that has huge
returns ah for the kids and for the
parents and frankly this is before you
start to measure a lot of people are
gonna go uh there women who want to work
men maybe who want to work who are
responsible for their childcare there
are men and women who want to take care
of their their parents but there are
people gonna go back into the workforce
and it's gonna generate revenue there
but but just in terms of the number they
tell you how small seventy billion
dollars is relative to what we're used
to paying for stuff if you go back and
you google seventy billion dollars then
we had a perfect example of like how
dramatic an increase in spending seventy
billion dollars a year is and that is
how much we added to the military budget
last year seventy billion a year and
virtually no one questioned it was seven
hundred seventy billion dollars a year
seven hundred over ten seventy billion
dollars a year they raised it there was
not a there wasn't a moments of debate
there was no debate
they didn't have to did didn't have to
get people on board they didn't have to
prove the efficacy of it they didn't
have to make a case that where our
security national security is
compromised that that nothing nothing
just penciled it in I think it may have
made one or two mentions on the nightly
news and that's it this could be done
literally with a snap of a finger
and it is also something that we have
done before between 1943 and 46 the
Lanham Act provided Universal child care
because obviously we needed women to go
and work in the factories for the war
effort and they they ramp this up in a
matter of months this was not like we
need 15 years to plan for this it was
just boom I mean New York City
within a year got UPK up and running and
frankly that's an even harder thing to
do because you're dealing with you know
people who not only need to know how to
care for children but need to be able to
teach them we came very close to this
type of bill in 1970 something early 70s
both houses of Congress had passed a
bill very similar to Warren's and and
dick Nixon vetoed it i'm pat buchanan
say so so great proposal and i want more
of this i want and the beauty of having
elizabeth warren proposing these things
in this race it's not just that she
might become president and being able to
actually execute them but that others
are going to have to follow suit
that others are going to either adopt
and sign on to her plan or they're gonna
have to beat it
and so this is just the opening salvo
good for her so I just want to say I
think this is a huge step in the right
direction we need childcare we need it
to be affordable preferably free I do
fear that this program will undermine
itself from the beginning if it insists
on means testing and whether or not you
think that the current amount that
people are being asked to pay for
childcare is fair what happens when you
means-test things is a few things right
it becomes vulnerable to attack so
suddenly I don't think this is
means-tested it is no you're eligible
everyone's eligible yeah but the amount
you pay for is based on your income
that's true means-tested but that's
that's a sliding scale it's slightly
different because you test your means
right well they do test your means but
Social Security is also means tested in
that regard too if you're a mean massage
each time you make people jump through
extra hoops to access a program you're
effectively policing the poor whether or
not you intend to you are limiting
access and this is something the
Clintons talked about very explicitly
with means testing in the 90s I'm not
saying that this is identical to that
but it creates it creates resentment on
the part of people who make more and
maybe have to pay more and it leaves
your programs more vulnerable to attack
then if they were a universal program
free child care for everybody no
questions asked I I think there there's
something to the idea that a universal
benefit that is the same for everybody
is is probably more durable politically
but a means test is a determination of
eligibility everyone is eligible for
this the question is not
eligibility which is what means test
means the question is how much of a
subsidy you get yeah it's still not
quite well I mean that's just universal
I'm talking about one gram it is and
there we have the money it is not set it
is not a universal free childcare
program that is true that is true and
like we have the money so why given that
fact would you create any kind of Hoops
for people to jump through or any extra
limitations I think ultimately I think
having Universal childcare is the best
way to go and like I said when I was
talking about it this is the opening
proposal so there gonna be some people
who are going to are going to want to
beat it and they're gonna be others who
are gonna sign on to it so yes I mean I
hope I hope that Bernie comes out with a
universal plan because we really really
need one and it's like even if it's good
at the start I think a universal program
is like building your house of stones
right and a means-tested one or what you
want to call it it's a sliding scale
okay it's like building your house out
of sticks and even if it's the same
house to begin with one is gonna be more
vulnerable to the elements this time
goes on yes I mean I think the
durability of a completely universal
plan that puts everybody on the same
footing I think is is there and I think
probably my guess would be that you're
still gonna have a significant
percentage of people who are going to
want to go to private childcare you're
still gonna have a significant amount of
people who are going to have nannies as
opposed to send their kids to daycare
and in some respects the the quality of
the program may be better if it has
people you know higher on the income
ladder because they will be more tend to
have more political power and the
demand a higher level of quality similar
to public schools now right I mean now
what happens is because it's not public
schools are not funded from from a
federal tax it's a function of the
wealth in that specific locality so this
is funded from the wealth tax
so you see erratically would not have
that type of disparity from in terms of
location and theoretically you wouldn't
have I mean the difference is is that
you're going to have kids who are coming
from areas of less wealth and presumably
you want to send your kid to child care
that's closest to you right and you're
going to have kids who are gonna have
more social issues because they're
living in poverty they may not get the
same nutrition at home they may not get
exposed to the same things at home they
may not maybe both their parents are you
know are working you know two jobs or
one of their parents is working two jobs
I mean etc etc and this I mean the the
the theory is is that and so you know
there may be kids who have more are more
problematic in the context of a daycare
but if you know we're talking about
daycare and so you don't have the same
necessarily you're just you're trying to
socialize kids at most in these
situations and the upshot is is that if
it's completely free for people living
you know with 200% of poverty the
theoretically you're going to have a lot
of parents are gonna have more time to
spend with their children because
they're not going to have to work that
may be that second job or or they're
going to be able to work while their
kids are at daycare as opposed to
working when the other parent comes home
I mean so there's there's a whole host
of benefits and yes I think that it's
there's a decent point to be made that
you know folks living above you know
200% of poverty
should get it as free as you know or you
know completely expense free as those
living below but I I'm not terribly
concerned about the I'm not convinced
about the durability in that situation
this is not a means-tested program this
is not this is available to everyone
everyone's expense is capped on this
everyone's gonna get some measure of
subsidy so it is not that you are ever
in eligible for this that is what means
testing means that's just the definition
and so I don't know if there's as much
data on a sliding scale durability as we
talked about means testing because I
mean Social Security theoretically right
is a sliding scale it caps out at one
point you have a maximum amount of money
that you're gonna get paid out in your
retirement I mean so I don't know that's
a good question and and certainly more
is better but this is pretty good we had
some money but yes more like this we're
definitely on they're on the right track
we need it we have an entrepreneur on
fox business talking about what she
thinks should be the who she thinks
child care should be yeah there is um
this is the thing about child care folks
is that you don't want the safety net to
turn into a hammock yeah I'm probably
gonna get a lot of heat for saying this
but the reality is that the best child
care and the best Early Learning that a
kid can get is from his family whether
that is his mom or his dad or a
grandparent that is the best outcome for
children when it comes to early
education and early care and learning
now I understand that that is not
everybody's choice but at some point
individual responsibility has to come
into play here if you want to make a
different choice you
have to be responsible for the financial
implication of those choices it is not
the government's role to do that it is
not your neighbors role it is not the
millionaire's role to do that if you
want to make a different choice and you
don't want to or feel like you're unable
to care for your children you have to
think through the implications of that
now that's carriage a Roth I hope she
doesn't have a child because I don't
know what she's doing at work now
presumably Carol Roth who was a radio
host and or was and you know writes
columns and goes on TV doesn't have a
child cuz she would have to be at home
working for her presumably her husband
right but that's just a absurd it kind
of reminds me of the guy who doesn't
think we should pay for kids school
lunches remember that guy Paul Watson
well I guess it's a lot of guys but the
one the particular one that we talked to
and then I asked him you know what would
happen if people just stopped having
kids and it was like oh well you know
the human race would end whatever well
the the amazing thing is is that this
argument that she's making is not going
to appeal to anybody outside of that
bubble I mean that's the thing is that
this is not and there's undoubtedly
people who who don't think that the
women should stay at home because that's
what this is right this is this is just
a a women should be in the kitchen
argument sort of dressed up with a
little bit of like it's about the kids
though yeah you kind of have to make it
economically possible for women to be at
home with their kids though that's right
you got a she calls herself a recovering
investment banker mm oh geez Oh Tucker
Carlson had a bit about this too where
he said that um it's going to you know
go along with this like neoliberal
globalist feminism right so like all of
the why
are not gonna be home with their kids
like they should be while their husbands
are you know earning a family wage with
the jobs that Trump brought back they're
gonna be at work while their kids are
taken care of by illegal immigrants well
how would illegal immigrants get jobs in
child care that is subsidized by the
federal government the Liberals are
gonna give them jobs job guarantee for
illegal immigrant members are gonna be
number one plank in Bernie's platform I
mean this is the you know what's
interesting though about this about this
critique of this here it is dream is
outsourcing their upbringing to
government caretakers while their
parents scurry back to work as good
little servants of globalized market
capitalism the need for my government
daycare specialists will no doubt be
justified be used to justify more
immigration and so the cycle as you can
see is complete the Democratic Party
started by outsourcing manufacturing you
remember that then the out sourced farm
labor and yard work and now they decided
to outsource parenting raising your own
kids Elizabeth Warren is telling us is
it job Americans just won't - well no
this is just unbelievable
obviously Tucker's wife must be raising
his kids I would imagine all their wives
work at like Goldman Sachs these dudes
well but but even even you know putting
that aside what it really does is also
show you the and our guest is going to
talk about this I think on some level
tomorrow it also shows you the economic
foundations of sexism and misogyny right
like this just makes it completely
obvious and naked that the the idea why
you want to make it too expensive for
women to go to work now of course this
is completely ignoring the reality of a
huge swath of men and women right where
it's not a question of you know can I
get to work it's just a question of will
I
ever see the kid right because many of
these people are working these couples
are working two jobs even if they have
the kid at home it's just that they're
leaving at night or maybe the one of the
parents is working two jobs and never
sees the kids but he's gonna ignore
those because he wants to talk about the
real Americans but even when in the
context of his real Americans it shows
that how economic deprivation or the
concept of economic coercion reinforces
these social structures that folks like
Tucker Carlson who apparently believes
very strongly in the the the notion of a
patriarchy although I'm sure he would
say like no I'm perfectly fine with the
the husband staying at home and the the
wife going out to work despite the fact
that she would make significantly you
know ten fifteen percent less than the
husband in the job force but nonetheless
they know what the number where the
numbers land on this and this is the way
that they use economic coercion to
subjugate women because it fits their
religiously formed code of how the
family should look and act yeah and he
uses his disingenuous critique of
capitalism once more to try to advance a
different version of capitalism that he
thinks is better and he's not gonna say
it but whiter whiter and more he did say
it right about immigrants and more
religious I should probably say it's
like yeah it does suck that a lot of
couples don't really have a choice
everyone has to work all the time and
not spend time with their kids and
everyone's tired of feels like but
the answer to that is not a more
economic coercion
generally speaking indeed all right we
got to take a break here and go to the
fun half
before we do what's that oh yeah before
we do that though well I I think we
should do the Bregman thing because I
want everybody to see this
I mean we're gonna in in the fun half
we'll talk about the die fie meeting
with young people from same organization
Rhys I think it was the same
organization that occupied Nancy
Pelosi's office and is currently I think
at this moment occupying Mitch
McConnell's office we'll talk about that
in the fun half but you'll recall I
don't know about a week or two ago three
weeks ago we played a clip of this guy
Redman Rutger Bregman Rutger Bregman he
is a Danish history professor and he was
at Davos and he didn't get the same
coverage as what was it who's the first
get one injured artist yeah I'm sorry
he's actually Dutch Oh Dutch okay
and the didn't get the same coverage but
I think we even included in the clip but
he made a very similar point where he
was like you know we're out here at
Davos and they're talking about these
different things and the the one thing
that nobody's paying attention is taxes
rich needs to pay more taxes period and
so that caused quite a stir and this is
where Tucker Carlson's venire a Jamie
was just alluding to gets ripped off
where he pretends like you know Tucker
wants to have this is projecting is
trying to develop an image that makes it
look like he's taking on the
establishment because he knows no matter
what happens to Trump there's gonna be a
bunch of Trump voters out there who are
gonna be disaffected and these are the
guys that he's applying you know he's
and and make no mistake about it
Tucker's playing a role and he is it's
not completely distant
because he's also at the heart of this
role is sort of the same thing that I
think Pat Buchanan was running on thirty
years ago which is a fundamentalist a a
religious fundamentalist worldview that
sees some elements of capitalism as
profane because they undercut the
religious worldview that they want and
so he's able to talk a good game about
this stuff unless it starts to dig and
cut a little bit too close to the bone
yeah and so he brings on this guy
Bregman Rutger Bregman after Bregman I
guess his his moment at Davos and
Bregman does something that maybe he
could do it because he I think he was
was actually he was in Europe I believe
when he was doing this he wasn't in
studio I don't know where he was but he
had access to the feed in a way that
most people don't
somebody was recording it with his phone
and we had noticed this before we left
for vacation that Bregman had had
tweeted at Tucker Carlson how come
you're not gonna play the interview that
we did and we're wondering what it was
well now this obtained this footage and
shows how the full segment between
Bregman and and Tucker Carlson went and
we're gonna we're gonna play it sorry
now this but this is stuff isn't more
important than just the accruing the
hits
[Music]
it makes me wonder are you the first
person ever to note that people are
flying private to talk about global
warming and that none of them mentioned
tax avoidance is anyone ever said that
before it does it for one second so now
on this you cannot see Tucker on it all
he is is in the studio looking at the
feed that's going so you just hear
Tucker sure I'm not an expert on Davos
history but it is a bit hypocritical
isn't it just like you can hear like I
can see Tucker there's obviously there's
a picture here of him but I could see
Tucker really enjoying this and thinking
like oh my god this is COO for me I
found this guy and I'm totally on top of
this it always been this much as the
speed freak I mean they were not very
happy with me but I'm just just I think
an random Dutch historian who's
basically saying whatever I'm around the
globe is thinking you know the vast
majority of Americans for years and
years now according to the polls
including Fox News viewers and including
Republicans are in favor of higher taxes
on the rich you know higher inheritance
taxes higher top marginal tax rates
higher wealth taxes it's all really
mainstream but no one's saying that I'd
vote just as no one saying it on fox
news right and I think the explanation
you that is quite simple is that most of
the people in Davos but also here on
this channel have been bought by the
billionaire class you know you're not
meant to say these things so I just went
there and I thought you know what I'm
just gonna say it
just as I'm saying it right here on this
channel almost all the pundits on this
channels for years have been against
higher taxes right even though the vast
majority of Americans is in favor
I mean I went idle I don't know it would
be interesting so how many hours of
foxing you've watched but I'm interested
in when you said posit hold on now it's
a Tucker realize it's like if first he
tries to ignore where he was going and
then he realizes like okay and then you
can hear him like
i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i and he as he as
it's as he's starting to realize like
this is going sideways and how am I
gonna bring this back I'm just gonna
have like a little bit of like shot
across the bow because most of the the
guests that they have on the Tucker like
push them back in line and apparently
it's about multiple things so we should
really crackdown on tax paradises and on
tax avoidance that's a major issue but
it's also about having higher taxes so
in the 1950s for example in the 1960s in
the Golden Age of capitalism as
historians called it we had top marginal
tax rate for the very rich of about you
know 70 80 90 percent actually under
under Eisenhower the Republican
president and this was also you know one
of the best periods in American history
the same same is true for the UK and the
rest of Europe
so as a historian for me it's old you
know it's it's really not rocket science
we should go but just go back to to
simple and straightforward solutions
from the pound from the past needs by an
industrial economy at the time that was
broad and deep they created a middle
class that doesn't exist anymore
different non-combat wasn't it exist but
that's not that's a really an issue well
I think it would I mean America still
pretty much the most powerful country in
the world right so if it if it really
would want to it could easily crack down
on on tax paradises but the thing is I
mean you guys have brought into power a
president that doesn't even want to show
its own texture fair enough I mean who
knows how many billions he is hidden in
the Cayman Islands or in Bermuda and so
I think the issue really is is is one of
corruption and of people being bribed
and of not being you know not talking
about the real issues and what the
family you know what the Murdochs
basically want you to do is to scapegoat
immigrants instead of talking about
executive women so I'm glad you're now
finally raising the issue but that's
what been been happening for the past
couple of years
no I mean it doesn't work that directly
but I mean you've been part of the Cato
Institute right Bernie have been a
senior fellow there for years you've
been you've been takin their dirty money
they're funded by Koch billionaires you
know well it works by you taking their
dirty money it's as easy as that
I mean you are a millionaire funded by
billionaires that's what you are and I'm
glad you now finally jumped a bent leg
and you know of people like Bernie
Sanders and AOC but you're not you're
not part of the solution
mister Mr Coulson you're part of the
problem actually all the anchors all the
anchors of Fox they're all millionaires
how is this possible well it's very easy
you're just gonna talking about certain
things it doesn't play where you are
well have you heard of the internet
things whatever I want I have actually
uh I can't say I'm a great fan of your
show but I do my homework when you
invite me in your show
so I mean you're probably not gonna air
this but I went to Devoe's to speak
truth to power and I'm doing exactly the
same thing right now you might not like
it but you're a millionaire funded by
billionaires and that's the reason why
you're not talking about these issues
yeah only now come on you jumped the
bandwagon you're all like oh I'm against
a globalist elite blah blah blah it's
not very convincing to be honest that's
how you do five oh you have to go on
expecting to never be invited back and
you've done it right the the tricky part
is it's hard to get that type of footage
like I think you need to be like an
American in most American
Stringer's essentially places will you
go in they either do not have that
monitor available or it's conceivable to
me there could be another person and
presumably that was not him video
although it's conceivable to me that he
also videotaped it after the fact that
they ran back the video because you know
it's different in in in in a foreign
country but if you get the right person
but that was pretty sweet and you know
what here's here's what I'm gonna say I
don't think Tucker Carlson hoped that it
get picked up
he said it but I don't I don't actually
believe that that was the case yeah but
he comes off so not owned in that video
and definitely not mad but if that's the
thing - is it got under his skin so
badly he was so because he was so
excited up front like I have circle I
have squared the circle like I have been
able to bring it together I got the guy
who criticized power at Davos and this
is how with my jujitsu I earn it into
some type of like Pro you know women
need to stay in the kitchen type of
white people are great a narrative and
he just got faced that was that was
really a work of art I have to say very
impressive all right we got to take a
break head into the fun half
just a reminder folks you can get this
show commercial free by becoming a
member go to join the majority report
com become a member for only nickels a
day and we give you the first half of
commercial-free we generally don't go
this long but you know first day back
type of situation and then we give you
more content after that another hour
hour and a half sometimes two for God's
sakes
and so your support keeps this show
functioning and working
don't forget Michael will probably be
back from his extended vacation I guess
tomorrow I don't know I think so maybe
four because TPMS is tomorrow right so
we know he'll be back by 7:00 p.m.
tomorrow night you can watch it live on
the TPMS youtube channel also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate don't forget not only is a
delicious coffee but it's also a great
great great company
Jamie the ante father my understanding
is that you actually worked on your
vacation indeed Wow well I was very sick
for most of it but I managed to bookend
that with some very productive recording
sessions so I'm just gonna read a little
blurb about it
so here we go on this week's ant
fada we did something a little bit
different for all of you theory heads
out there Sean was joined by our
comrades at swamp side chats and Brett
from Reve left radio to do a deep dive
on Communist Asian Theory an ultra left
tendency that came out of the France
Post May 68 came out of France post May
68 pretty exciting time in France and is
now a sweater we Tod indeed very good
and is now it sly bein it's now a
Spectre haunting the Anglophone world
get the bong rips ready you're gonna
need them we also recorded yesterday
with Hamilton Nolan from formerly of
Gawker now of Splinter we talked about
union organizing in the media and the
future of the labor movement in the US
so that's coming out on Wednesday of
this week and I also still recommend our
episode with Korey pine that came out
like a week or so ago and didn't really
have a chance to promote it because we
were on break there you go
most recently on literary hangover the
unparalleled Adventures of one hunts
fall by Edgar Allen Poe it's a early
sci-fi may be the first maybe not
probably at the first but early version
of sci-fi where a guy goes into debt and
makes his creditors help him construct a
hot-air balloon and then blows his
creditors up on the launch pad as he
takes a hot-air balloon to the moon nice
play hey folks thanks again to LifeLock
identity theft protection for supporting
today's show of course no one can
prevent all identity theft or monitor
all transactions and all businesses with
LifeLock you get identity theft
protection and additional features to
help protect your device's against cyber
threats for as low as $9.99 a month
don't waste another second visit
LifeLock dot-com slash majority now to
save 10% on your first year that's life
lock calm slash majority for 10% off
life lock dot-com slash majority don't
forget tomorrow go out vote in that
special election Public Advocate no me
Const
needs your vote would be the first time
I think we have someone in that position
who has really owes no one anything in
the developer world and no one owes no
one nothing to anyone in the New York
State democratic apparatus and that I
think is pretty powerful stuff
she can go Rutger Brickman on there she
could totally go Rutger Bregman on them
I mean except for like the you know
weird pronunciation of things like Davos
and that was I kept waiting for him for
Tucker to actually say at one point like
how come you keep mispronouncing it
that's the Tucker show done all right
folks Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whippin like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
you feel like you are a dinosaur I'm
happy now it's alright take quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lastik I'm feeling more
chill already hood
Donald Trump can kiss all of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready it's a
free speech issue if you don't like me
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
we are back let's go right to the phones
calling from a two one zero
area code who's this I think I know
good afternoon town its Jonathan San
Antonio Ron from San Antonio how are you
sir how's things going not gone great
going great yes before II start your
vacation I did write to have you back
it's great to yeah the last okay last
Tuesday was the best day of 2019
Bernie confirmed with so many of us hope
was coming raising six million dollars
in 24 hours was awesome codified how
strong his supporters feel about his
candidate see I'm looking forward to his
Town Hall tonight on CNN at 8:00 p.m.
Eastern I agree with Van Jones when he
says in some ways Bernie Sanders never
stopped running for president Jones also
stated now that the Democratic Party
from top to bottom seems to have taken
on almost all of those ideas now I
definitely disagree with with him on
that assertion and this has been the
greatest problem with the traditional
media coverage a handful of contenders
have superficially adopted some of
Bernie's ideas but the biggest story of
the primary so far is that the
progressive challengers
whoo-hoo the media say share Bernie's
values overall are not pushing is the
ideology and this is personified by
their lack of commitment to
medicare-for-all
in 2016 Super Tuesday which was held on
March 1st was devastating to the Sanders
campaign there were great victories in
Minnesota Colorado Oklahoma and Vermont
but there are also 30-point losses in
southern states like Alabama Arkansas
Georgia Tennessee Texas and Virginia
that put burning the deep hole
mathematically that he never recovered
from even it clinton also won
massachusetts by 2.4 points just throw
that in 2020 s primary schedule is also
a challenge Super Tuesday is being held
on March 3rd in all of the same States I
mentioned previously plus North Carolina
and California which is obviously
Harris's home state are going to take
place then a Colorado doesn't determine
if they're caucus will be held on March
3rd or the 17th in Arkansas all will
move its primary to May 19th so Bernie
said he will be focusing more on winning
black and women voters which is
definitely a smart move but a big
challenges is winning white democratic
voters in the south who are more
conservative now Biden has a 36 to 14
lead over Bernie and a change research
poll of South Carolina then is taken
mostly before Bernie announced the good
news that Bernie has a one-point lead
over Harris and if you look at the
change research poll of california ely
bernie is only down to 6 - Harris and
Biden's at 26% at Bernie's at 20 and in
the latest poll in New Hampshire I think
what you mentioned earlier bernie is up
27 to 25 percent and as much as I admire
Bernie I think he's making a strategic
era by continuing to talk about voting
for the politician who is in the best
position to beat Trump I understand that
Democrats think this is a the biggest
factor in the election but people are
putting their faith in something that's
not concrete issues should drive voter
interest and in most hypotheticals
Bernie what
let me ask you a question about that you
say issues should drive voters what is
it they're they're their votes their
interests yeah their interests now I
think you and I agree with that
but we don't live in the world that John
from San Antonio and Sam from Brooklyn
think should be we live in the world
that is and while I definitely espouse
the notion that I think really I don't
know that we have a candidate yet in
this in the in this race who can't win
frankly the against Trump there are a
lot of voters out there and we know this
right like we've seen the polls in fact
I think the majority of Democrats would
vote for someone who they think can win
over someone whose policies they like
and if it's not the majority than it was
close I can't remember what that I was
like 47% or something like that maybe it
was a plurality and so yeah he he's got
to address those people he's got to
address that Pete those people and
there's one of two ways you do that you
can say everybody can win or you can say
like I'll let other people make the case
for themselves as to whether they can
win I'm just gonna say I can win right
but he keeps saying who's gonna be in
the best position to beat Trump and you
know and his numbers have been very good
against Trump
they've been very similar to Biden's but
Biden's have been slightly better and so
on what I'm saying is you know if he's
gonna use that metric he's already he's
already you know I think that and so
what so what he should be this yeah I
mean Ben gets in the race right just
just talk about just talk about issues
and how he's the business or or just
families I know I can beat Donald Trump
yeah yeah and also you know as he's
trying to you know get more black voters
I mean obviously you know black voters
despise Trump you know in huge numbers
and
that's part of the strategy you know the
more East talked about Trump quite a bit
a lot more than I thought he was going
to and I think that that's he's trying
to - you know cater to the black
audience especially in the south and I
think that's a good strategy
I listen you know the the fact of the
matter is that the the African American
community is more vulnerable than you
know the white male community in the
context of of a Donald Trump presidency
both are subjected to the same economic
deprivation but you know you've got a
record number of hate groups who've
grown up under the Trump administration
and and so you know yes that is that is
a good strategy I also think you know
people should keep in mind this right
that if Joe Biden gets in Joe Biden
could be the best thing that happens to
Bernie Sanders because if Joe Biden gets
in the race , Harris may have a lot of
trouble walking away with California and
the thing is this is a double-edged
sword for her California theoretically
right is a big that California is on
Super Tuesday is a big help to her
campaign but she's also in danger of
underperforming there the expectations
are going to be high right now you're
going to hear the rest of the candidates
say I don't know maybe I shouldn't even
go to California cuz , Harris probably
has this whole thing wrapped up if Joe
Biden enters the race it's quite
possible you're gonna see something like
some of her vote gets split with Joe
Biden and maybe Biden takes a little bit
from Bernie but I don't know I I don't
think so
I don't think there's I don't think
there's a I don't think there's a big
portion of Bernie's vote that is like I
want to vote for like I'm in this to
vote for the old white guy I think
there's a lot of Bernie voters who are
like I'm gonna vote for him this
the fact that he's an old white guy and
with Joe Biden I think some of the
appeal is like I want an old white guy
and so it's kyani Biden Biden will
definitely you know split this interest
and especially if Vado gets in also it's
gonna be even more of a split so that's
going to be that's gonna definitely
benefit Bernie but ya know the better or
less class Tuesday with with all the
Conservatives in the south and how much
of the black vote can he actually get
you know that's that's a big question
and you know in California that's also a
big question so that's that's really an
incredibly important day for Bernie that
Super Tuesday so also on the the 60 vote
cloture rule for legislation I see that
Bernie's kind of walking away from it
you know he he was very strong in his
position in 2013 and do you feel he's
doing that just because he's hedging
politically do to increase scrutiny that
that position would take the the Senate
rule well I mean I think I think
everybody is trying to you know
everybody's trying to sort of in this
race we're going to see he's going to
try and file down some of their sharp
edges and for some people it's going to
be the sharp edges that seem too
aggressive in one way and for some
people it's gonna be sharp edges that
seem too complacent and laid back in
others do you see what I'm saying and so
yeah I think this is probably like look
I think it I would imagine that if I was
sitting around a table with Bernie
Sanders and we were like you know what
are we gonna run on well we're gonna run
on you know medicare-for-all we're gonna
run on and who knows what the other
proposals that he's going to unleash I
said where should we be on the
filibuster and it's like you know what
maybe we don't stick our neck out on the
filibuster right now like maybe that's
not the most important thing to be
running on
like how many votes is that going to get
us the credibility that taking that
position gives us full throated Lee we
don't need because we have that
credibility already you know I don't
know I mean I'm this is all speculation
that that's all I'm I'm saying so
appreciate the call John you must be
very very happy yeah I am very happy
good all right thank you Sam where we
like it around here
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay there we go let's go to a six one
zero phone where you calling from
you know PA
how are you sir what's on your mind
they're just stacking all the boring
horse race calls run one right after the
other
dude I take him away come in I just
wanted to call in and say we missed you
all it was the longest week of my life I
hope you enjoy fodder and literary
hangover well me also horror shows I
mean we had chose not the fun half oh no
I know but but yeah the pre-recorded
this isn't the same no you know what I
mean yeah it's like drinking testing
when you want to cook it's not the same
but the commune it was a couple of very
interesting interviews incidentally I
mean Mike not for nothing well the
community got together and we recorded
like a random scream into the ether
about this Burnie race and he seemingly
have the perfect ability to find when
news is going to happen and that be gone
early well we just follow we have
followed the exact same schedule since
the since this show has launched which
is the New York City Department of
Education calendar cuz I get it yeah the
kids deal with we should really make a
law that nothing is allowed to happen
when Sam's kids are off school there you
go and I just wanted to talk more about
about Bernie you know and organizing for
him and everything but just like the the
election taking a good look at it and
being sane and not letting ourselves
look into some narratives that had
bearing in 2016 but have no bearing in
2020 because we have a totally different
situation going on right like for
example people talk about you know
african-american vote it's very
important of course it is
but Bernie was an unknown against
somebody who had pretty much every
single member of the Democratic
attachment and the elite behind her and
had a huge name recognition advantage
and traditionally african-american
voters tend to cluster around voters or
politicians that have long term
credibility and a name I see and so that
was the case in 2016 now if you actually
look at the polls and the numbers he's
doing very well with african-americans
already there is no missing a drop off I
you know I think people I think people
made the mistake of under estimating the
deep relationships the the Clintons had
with yeah much of the african-american
community leadership in the South
especially in the South especially
especially in the south but but broadly
speaking and you know they had been you
know major forces in the Democratic
Party politics for multiple decades and
Bill Clinton was considered rightly or
wrongly you know was at least branded as
the first african-american president
which you know seems sort of you know
both offensive and ridiculous in
retrospect but that was that was you
know the the the reality of it and they
had gone around and they had done this
multiple times and had developed deep
deep relationships I mean both in his
two campaigns and in her one campaign so
there was deep deep ties and there's no
one who has those relationships in this
field nobody nobody does we're gonna say
something on that point like we got to
remember like when we talk about the
black community so to speak it's it's
not a monolith right black people
in this country are not a monolith in
addition to being you know individuals
there are lots and lots of divisions
along lines of class position of course
long lines of age and when we look at
these polls they are in some ways
encouraging when you see that Oh
black voters actually few Bernie much
more favorable than white voters much
more favorably than white voters do but
if you look at the smaller number of old
southern black people who go to church
and Pho in a lot of primaries then that
number does go down so and part of that
more some well there's some good
arguments it seems to me because I think
particularly that segment of the black
community sees the Democratic Party as a
incredibly important institution in
their lives one that they would have you
know significant anxiety about being
weakened and you know and which makes
complete sense well and like older
people have different politics than
younger people as well like it's
something as simple as criminal justice
reform right I think older people have a
very different view on say Kamala
Harris's record on criminal justice than
younger people do yes for older
Americans the Democratic Party was
ending in a very very important
institution you know I mean like that
what that had incredibly material
implications in their daily lives
particularly from the salad and so what
Bernie has done you know in the
intervening time is he's recognized that
hey you know I really underperformed
with african-american voters especially
in this house and he has moved to
mitigate that and he's largely been
successful because you know we have to
give credit to Hillary Clinton for her
strengths you know her strengths was
along two term institutional trust
but with partisan Democrats so now that
she's not running we have to look at the
actual facts on the ground he's way out
ahead
he's a prohibitive frontrunner at this
point which obviously the you know it
it's probably scary to hear that but
that's what the facts show I mean Joe
and I look at Biden and his support is
incredibly soft
yeah it's amongst people that are the
least likely to vote in the Democratic
primary it is not really backed up by
any kind of like real love for him it's
it's low intensity and best of all the
the number one second choice of Biden
voters is Bernie Sanders so if Biden
were not to run Bernie would probably
gain another 10 or 15 points in the
polls from his current position right
now you're looking at his for not a
ceiling and a lot of people and pundits
in the media look at that Bernie number
and they're trying to make it a ceiling
sort of like they did with Trump it's
actually kind of eerie how somewhere the
arguments are you can go and take
articles from 2015 about Trump because
Trump basically got in the lead in
around April of 2015 and never trailed
yet if you read the pundit riah bout it
it was like a surprise that he won so
there was a there's a real resistance to
looking at the facts the numbers and the
reality and you can't really deny like
it Bernie's fundraising his volunteers
sign up so that's a no one else has come
anywhere close to that and its relative
is it you know we talked about it before
but it's just a fact a fact on the
ground that he has that support yeah and
you know you look at Elizabeth Warren
voters Bernie Sanders is overwhelmingly
her number but number two choice of her
voters so if she were to drop out he
probably gained he gains about like 60%
of her voters which when you have ten
people running that's a significant
argument better going to one candidate
so she's gonna be in her fundraising has
not been great but I have a feeling that
she's going to be in there
they they that her strategy is going to
be to hang in there as long as she can
and and and see if somebody doesn't fall
apart because she well right she she can
fill a couple lanes
it seems to me Elizabeth Warren and you
know if Carla Harris drops out Elizabeth
Warren I think is gonna pick up some of
her votes if Bernie Sanders drops out
Elizabeth Warren's gonna pick up some of
his votes there's not a lot of people
who can say that
do you know what I mean the oh the only
candidate who Bernie Sanders is not the
second choice at four is actually kamal
harris voters they seem to be the most
anti Bernie group yeah it seems like
they're choosing her being against him
rather than choosing her that makes any
sense
and but frankly like if you look at that
I see people talk this is some talking
points that you people should probably
pick up because they're going to hear
the same arguments over and over again
like he is there is no significant
population of democratic voters who are
anti Bernie
his approval rating here is about a
fourteen percent disapprove among
Democratic voters self-identified
Democrats and Joe Biden has about eleven
percent there it's statistically
insignificant and there is no
significant group of people who are like
super anti Bernie it's just kind of a
phenomenon especially among the elite
media circles and a few people on
Twitter who are massively by the anti
Bernie people are overrepresented in our
media and in our social media and within
I think like the yes I I mean I think
that I thought Twitter was a
representative slice of reality
no well right yeah
I well I mean and like this is since I'm
in politics this is one thing I picked
up from one of my mentors was you are
weird if you're listening to this
program
I'm thinking about the 26 2020 election
you weren't unusual you were spending a
lot more time thinking about politics
than the average person and Bernie
Sanders when he ran and in March of 2016
after you know twelve months of running
in two hundred million dollars he had
about 60% name ID with african-americans
at that point it takes a lot of effort
time money to get your name out there
and get your message across and he has
already he's maintained that he's built
that and somebody like Amy Klobuchar
it's a joke she will never compete for
this election
Bernie is and he suggested Leo Bertram
anthem going on right now
yeah it's a charming one not Klobuchar
it's slow Bertram mentum yeah there
aren't enough horrible bosses in this
country to really make a dent in her
numbers yeah I'm god well there's one
thing you kind of touched on and I think
this is my like one thesis of looking at
things is it's what has to happen is
Biden's like when they do the polls of
the race right now they're kind of
forced to pull everyone if they do not
pull Joe Biden Bernie Sanders is winning
by 20 points so they have to quick work
him into the polls otherwise it just
looks like birth the facts are what they
are and I believe that the evidence
shows that Joe Biden would not do well
he actually entered the race I think he
would fall apart rather quickly and
there is really not a strong organic
support for him it's more like in this
out dress we'll find out how long is
that we'll find out how obvious that
information is when he because he's
undoubtedly looking at those numbers and
it's possible he has people around him
or saying you got a run Joe you got a
run for the good of the country but it's
not like I I'm not convinced that
there's enough people and who knows
maybe there are but like you know that
situation would require people who are
just like this is how I'm going to pay
or my kids you know school you know year
at private school this year you know
what I mean where I'm gonna convince Joe
that he could win and he's possibly you
know who knows but I don't know I the
reason why I'm really see up some of
them were um amazing well like you know
the reason why I'm skeptical of it is
there just doesn't seem to be an
institutional desire for him to run
right
the Obama people are not out there
saying how much they love to work for
Joe behind and something for him and
pushing him
it's see it's almost like nobody wants
him to run but they kind of need him
right now for the media argument that
that the race is wide open because if
he's not in the race if you pulled just
the announced candidates Bernie would be
absolutely annihilating field and you
can't have that media narrative
circulating at Bernie's far ahead there
was a poll that was done I think on
Friday that said that asked Democratic
voters who do they think was a nominee
was going to be and 57% of them answered
Bernie Sanders and that that type of
question is the most predictive of
polling is my understanding the question
who do you think is gonna win is more
predictive than who you gonna vote for
in terms of of the way that's generally
my understanding I think I think is that
and I may be wrong about that but my
understanding is from what I've read
that that is supposedly the more
predictive question because people tend
to want to vote with the winner yeah
it's just like they're in a situation
where you know Bernie has both
grassroots and already that baked in
name recognition which is always the
most difficult thing of an insurgent
candidate is actually getting your
message out and having normal people
kind of recognize that you're even
running or you have a plan and he is
kind of part of our culture now like
Bernie is he's he's penetrated and he's
not against the unified Democratic Party
like he was in 2016 yep you
against very fragmented group of people
who are all highly flawed and he's not
running against the Democratic Party in
some ways that he was then like that rat
is you know like that became an obstacle
for him at one point to to win over
certain people and you know he just
announced the other day you know they
leaked an email or something saying you
know show respect for the democratic
institution and again I think that part
of that is also there are there are
communities within the Democratic Party
who who perceive the institution of the
Democratic Party as being crucial to
their well being and and I think he's
sort of he doesn't have to run against
the establishment in the way of the
Democratic Party as explicitly as he did
I think then and and I think in art you
can already suit either the kind of
facts in the armor because like Senator
Leahy his fellow senator from Vermont
and the the representative of Vermont
immediately endorsed him whereas four
years ago Leahy endorsed Clinton you
know Bernie had one senator who endorsed
him of the entire Democratic caucus Ron
why didn't clear unions to like I mean I
wasn't surprised because I know how
these things work but a lot of the major
unions endorsed Hillary Clinton the day
that she announced
well that was basically the conversation
I had with Randi Weingarten is they they
wanted to get in early because they made
the mistake in their minds of not
getting in early with Obama and they
felt they had less influence
particularly the teachers unions and
that's why everything went sideways with
Education calculation right fortunately
we're gonna have a lot of time to talk
about this time thank you guys let's
play this date about John Wayne
apparently over the break
some stuff was revealed about John Wayne
now the eye throughout the past 20 or 30
years there's been a bra like a very
vague I think sort of awareness that
John Wayne was probably pretty
retrograde type of guy and but
apparently a new John Playboy John Wayne
Playboy interview has it's not entirely
new I heard about this before it okay I
believe in white supremacy quote okay so
I mean it's been out there but it's
somehow it's resurfaced that twitter got
to it twitter got to it it's on social
media and Wayne is cancelled I mean in
many in many respects is sort of like
you know mirrors the conversation about
how you know in March of 2016 he still
had Bernie had even trouble with name
recognition at that time you know social
media has changed the dynamic of how you
know what genuine public exposure means
so John Wayne's Novus legacy is being
relitigated but I think like you know we
see this from time to time whether it's
with like classical you know musicians
or authors probably gonna see more of it
from rock musicians I think really I
think there's probably a lot of stories
from the 70s and 80s that are waiting
for memoir but I mean you see this with
you know reassessing you know classical
you know works and you know but so it
comes out the John Wayne had some pretty
racist views that he was holding and Fox
for some I don't know what possible
reasons sometimes you get the feeling
that on fox they're just like let's just
see if we can do this they're out there
trying to defend these views in a really
bizarre and not only is the not only is
there argue
bizarre but the idea that they want to
have this argument is bizarre I'm not
even clear why they're wasting a bad
argument yeah exactly
yeah they're they're hurting it Doradus
says Indians were selfishly trying to
keep this land and he's glad we took it
from them and then he says this positive
a lot of it I like how they just sort of
skates over like the Indian like the
Indians they're trying to get us her
taken their land but then he says
something really bad yeah go back to the
beginning again it's really this is from
the laura ingram show and who is this
guy
Raymond Arroyo yeah they had to bring on
a special correspondent to promulgate
this opinion because it was so bad in
order says Indians were selfishly trying
to keep this land and he's glad we took
it from them and then he says this with
a lot of blacks there's quite a bit of
resentment along with their dissent and
possibly rightfully so but we can't all
all of a sudden get down on our knees
and turn everything over to the
leadership of the blacks I believe in
white supremacy Duke said until the
blacks are educated to the point of
responsibility now Laura what I don't
like about both of these stories is
we're judging the past in light of
shifting moral ethic and cultural codes
of today we can't do that is it for one
second now some of you may think like
wow when did he say this in 1925 did he
say this in in the late 1800s
instruction era did he say this did he
say this like what what what far-off
distant temporal plane did he say this
1971 I was as old as my son I could do
addition at that time my son is starting
to read I am not that old
in 1971 I Got News for You it was a
fairly backwards racist position to say
like we have to educate the blacks
before we give them any too
of leadership role we're not gonna get
on our knees and those Indians they just
they were so selfish for keeping all
that lay is that like five years after
the Voting Rights Act this is six years
after the Voting Rights Act so this is
the argument this is the defense that
it's the past you're judging the past
based upon the standards of night 1971
it's like there was it now there was no
cars at that time there was no means of
communication other than the Pony
Express it's absurd but here they go
this is and this is what we mean by
they're ruining a good argument I don't
think it's a great argument but it's at
least an argument right like I mean yeah
it's hard to judge maybe the actions of
like you know bigotry in you know 1800s
1700s but can't do that either defacing
statues or pulling them down so and I've
said this before I'm gonna keep saying
this this is what the Taliban does the
Taliban used to rip down historical
markers destroy churches Isis do the
same thing does the same thing they
don't want any vestige of what was well
it's even if it's bad they don't want
any vestige even if it's good they don't
want it but these are two iconic right
majors of America my own way on wassail
at least through them their left their
impugning America and if you want to
settle a racist score it probably said
before we go into this next point what
are they talking about tearing down
statues like John Wayne no one's trying
to get John Wayne fired from a job
because John Wayne is dead and it's not
like and there is a material difference
between being loud 'add because of your
work in trying to maintain slavery
versus someone being criticized because
in their personal life they are racist
there's no bringing down the statue of
his reputation well that's the thing is
that there's nobody's tearing down two
statue anyway I mean I'm there I'm sure
there's a couple of John Wayne statues I
think the Burbank
port and I don't know if I would be like
you got an unnamed abhar bein at Burbank
Airport because not the reasons why he
was you know deemed worthy of an airport
name really were not founded on his
personal bigotry maybe on the structural
bigotry but not his personal bigotry but
there to somehow squeeze this in to like
this is like tearing down the statue of
a general who fought and it led an
insurrection so that they could keep
humans as basically pets I'm like Isis
destroying statues like I found problem
at it like this mosque is problematic so
he gets a super problematic well they're
running on empty you know all they have
is this culture work that's
true
but here is and this this is the way
they call it's the pathetic culture war
it's their culture war and here is this
guy trying to say that like you're
judging on the past and here he is gonna
walk into if you listen carefully he is
going to be guilty of essentially like
the same type of of racism that we heard
from in some respects from John Wayne
these are two iconic images of America
John Wayne was a laugh at least freedom
there Mary left there impugning America
and if you want to settle a racist score
if you want to go settle scores talk to
Jesse Smollett go talk to the governor
and and lieutenant governor of Virginia
they got plenty of scores to settle
there pause it now now here's what's
interesting about that if you want to
settle a racist score and I'm not a
hundred percent sure I know what that
means but he he cites that Jesse
Smollett now and I will be honest I had
no idea who this dude was I hadn't even
heard the story and granted we were on
vacation
I didn't even heard the story until it
was debunked and I'm not even sure I
know what the story is now except for he
claims that he was attacked by some
Trump supporters and they made that it
was a racist hate crime and it turns out
that it was not and he wanted to fight
them and maybe had monk house and
syndrome or whatever
I get the like if you want to settle a
race to score go talk to the guy who
fabricated it but then he says the
lieutenant governor of Virginia and race
is not a part at all of that guy's
controversy he is accused by at least
two women of sexual unwanted sexual
advances in one case sexual assault and
the other I think rape but has nothing
to do with race it just so happens that
he's black and so this guy just
immediately sits like well if you want
to talk about you know settling racial
racial scores let me just pick two black
guys one who has a sort of on point but
just another guy who's just certainly in
the news possibly a rapist yeah be
afraid about that but that is their
pathetic culture war as it were
yeah they named it very accurately so
thanks guys
they were super accurate yes but on
ironically what else do we should we do
the yeah let's do Warren on the she
talks about this is on what this is on
the filibuster yeah this is a question
this is I gotta say pot save America's
doing a good job with this and
unfortunately we can see the clips of
the good things they do so you don't
actually have to go watch the whole show
but we do I want to say like we listen
to them so that you don't have to but
that's not even true mmm we skim their
social media it's we skim their social
media feeds so that you don't have to
listen that is our service that we're
providing yep my walk by Shawn has a
high very high tolerance for hate
consumption of media he consumes more
media and a hateful way than anyone I
know he tried to listen to pod save
America to make fun of it and he could
not get through an episode alright fair
enough but credit where credit's due
they asked a good question of
Gillibrand asked this question over and
they asked this question of Warren and
this is an important question and we you
know we had a John from San Antonio said
the Bernie seems to be sort of like not
as leaning into and the the question has
implications for different people
different implication of different
people because some people there's a
narrative of like they're you know
they're institutionalist they want to
make sure that they don't have the power
to impact you know major or radical
change some people actually don't want
that ability because then they don't
have to be the one who rejects that
radical change case in point I give you
Andrew Cuomo as to why he wanted a
runaway Democratic sub caucus that would
vote with the Republicans so that he
didn't have to sign legislation that was
too progressive in his mind and so some
people want the filibuster so that there
cannot be changed that isn't more
dramatic other people we know they want
dramatic change they're criticized for
how dramatic of change that they want
and so they may answer that question
differently that's why I'm curious as to
you know how Elizabeth Warren answers
this question because well Christian
Gillibrand probably does not want to
move as fast as she might want to
project and Bernie Sanders might want to
project that he wants to move a little
bit more deliberately then he may want
to actually move Elizabeth Warren let's
say somebody who believed very very
strongly in filibuster reform I'm on the
record on this I fought for it for a
long time because the Republicans
completely blocked us right they weren't
letting us put anybody in the courts but
it was worse than that not worse equally
bad they also weren't letting us but
anybody in the consumer agency said the
agency couldn't get its legal full legal
authority NLRB they're about to shut
down the NLRB
and the answer to that and I think it
was the right answer was just to say
we're done on the filibuster and I voted
for it I strongly supported it harry
blew it up harry blew it up and I think
Harry was right to blew it I strongly
supported him when he did that now the
Republicans turn around and they took
the filibuster and blew it up even more
so they said even on a Supreme Court
nominee and we didn't even done anything
right right so first they steal a
Supreme Court seat then they turn around
and change the rules on filibuster on a
Supreme Court seat and so when it swings
back around to us what are we going to
do and my answer on that is all the
options are on the table
that that's how we got to do this if the
Republicans are going to try to block us
on key pieces that we're trying to move
forward then you better believe we got
to keep all the options on the table and
I think that's the way we should be
describing it right now on everything
that the Republicans are doing that
nobody's going to forget what happened
here and all of the options are on the
table so I mean folks can assess that
answer as they may but I do think that's
probably the best way to do it
right do you there is no value
strategically to saying we're definitely
going to do it but the the point is are
you open to it considering a lot of
things yeah I mean that is I think the
answer to give and that is a you know
that's distinct from Gillibrand who has
shut the door to getting rid of the
filibuster and be clear here this is
getting rid of the filibuster when it
comes to the legislation and this scares
a lot of people scares a lot of people
from and to be fair for both reasons one
is what if the Republicans control the
Senate if Elizabeth Warren and if every
member let's say of the the Democrats
running particularly the senators say
we're going to get rid of the filibuster
Mitch McConnell is gonna stand up and
say like we're gonna get rid of the
filibuster and if they lose they don't
win the Senate and it's no guarantee
you're going to win the Senate anybody
win the presidency in 2020 you don't
necessarily want to give the Republicans
that quiver I mean that arrow and their
quiver even though the Republicans
probably would do that anyway maybe I
mean I think if they had had the
Congress right now they would do it but
if they don't have the Congress they
won't do it and if the Democrats were
wielding it effectively the filibuster
well like how many times President Lee
filibustered anything uh
I mean there's been times but not not
too often it's many civil rights
Democrats but the you know the I think
that's the best answer that you can get
right now there's really two answers and
that is one no I won't do it to
definitely open to it and speaking of
being open to things you know and I'm
hearing a lot of like good sort of
things from about Peter Buddha gay and
I'm definitely of the mind that a mayor
of a decent-sized city from which he
comes deep red state blue state doesn't
doesn't that that is secondary in my
mind in terms of like the mayor their
skillset is as an executive is in many
respects far more suited for the
presidency than say let's say a
congressperson or senator the problem is
they don't have nearly the name
recognition and but here he is talking
about core packing now there's new paper
coming out that suggests that our
understanding of the history of core
packing was different then it is and is
expressed today
and I'm waiting for the hands on that
paper but in the meantime here is Peter
Buddha gay at an event in Philadelphia
asked about the Supreme Court Merapi
thank you for being here tonight really
appreciate being able to hear from you I
have a question about judicial reform
you know many progressives myself
included feel like the Supreme Court has
been stolen from the Gorsuch seat that
should have been ours to the
controversial Cavanaugh confirmation and
my question is if you're elected to the
presidency and you get into office and
you see your agenda being thwarted by a
court that has been skewed drastically
to the right for many different reasons
would you support a packing of the
courts to expand the Supreme Court by
four members and restorative or compete
[Applause]
I've not reached a considered position
on the question at court packing all the
way I don't think I don't think we
should be laughing at it because in some
ways it's no more a shattering of norms
than what's already been done to get the
judiciary to where it is today there you
go
and I should say it the you know the I'm
going to look a little bit more into
that core packing a thing but part of
this was FDR apparently his gambit was
to reform the court and there was I
think there was a bigger consensus about
Reformation and that one of the things
about reformation of the court at that
time had to do with pensions and there
have been different times where there
have been very generous pensions for
judges and that was one way that and I
think this is I think this is one way
that Democrats got Supreme Court
justices to leave the office and then
the Republicans understood this and so
they took the pensions away and that's
what what FDR was looking at
and but I'll read that paper before I
speak more about it but that's an
interesting dynamic it's nice to know
that even back then you could be lured
into hugely consequential decisions that
will impact millions of people based
upon how much money you're gonna get
it's an American tradition there you go
there you go let's go to the items we'll
take a couple Iams a square welcome back
mr thanks Matt for linking deep archives
to the good set of interviews well to be
honest but that was a Brendan Brendan
what did you choose oh you know we'll
talk about that on the she talked about
that on free show the members know in
the end this Fox position against
federal government support child care is
aligned with the anti reproductive
rights position yes it's all about
getting white women subjugated having
babies because you know the brown people
even if we can effectively marginalize
them are still having more babies and
one day can revolt ah race sexism or
both always subtext Noah from commie
fornia by the way Sam Burbank Airport is
the Bob Hope Airport not the John Wayne
Airport sorry Bob oh it's a John Wayne
Airport is in like Orange County that's
what it is I'm pretty sure that's what
it's not for long Jonathan Armstead yes
Santa Anna Santana have you ever had any
interactions of Michael Eric Dyson just
read his book what truth sounds like
after hearing it advertised in your
podcast last year Dyson has a weird rant
against Bernie in it he says quote
senator Bernie Sanders despite his
dramatically different politics and
ideology is in many ways the mirror
image of Donald Trump a brash older
white male with professed sympathies for
the white working-class and little
knowledge of black folk he also slams
Bernie for focusing on class instead of
race Dyson also gets bizarre later
saying celebrities support Parkland over
black lives matter because the Parkland
victims were white just get a chance to
check the book out before the ad last
summer I know I did not
I did not but I you know he was quite
caught up in that at that time I think
that book was very of that time I loved
Sarah Palin I think that Tucker video
sheds a little more light on what
truckers Tucker's trying to do
capitalism is under crisis specifically
free market fundamentalism
I think Trump's success in the
Republican primary confirms it besides
the demagoguery he ranted against trade
deals and said he would bully companies
that outsource jobs obviously his
solutions were capitalist but Americans
wanted someone to at least identify
problems I think we agree these problems
faced today market concentration and
worker stagnation are natural outgrowth
of capitalism but Tucker's diagnosis is
a term people like the like the cokes
like cuz it term people like the cokes
like crony capitalism indeed the
culprits are liberal Manhattan elite
Silicon Valley of skew liberal by virtue
of business is restrained by capitalist
forces and Hollywood who I guess is
brainwashing people if you want to beat
Trump by retaking the rest Rust Belt you
probably need the candidate who got
called a racist for doing so well with
rural white people water board from
Kashmir
welcome back mr the idiot from Fox said
AOC is paying a minimum $15 which
according to the Fox idiot it's fifty
two thousand dollars a year yeah he
actually said the two numbers in the
same sentence even if you are anti math
but happened to work hard to survive in
a place like New York City you know $15
an hour doesn't feel like fifty two
thousand dollars I met many people I'm a
driver who are upper-middle class with
the same line of thinking but somehow
$15 an hour is around fifty thousand
dollars they feel they want to feel that
minimum wage it's close to fifty
thousand because they want to feel like
their server or driver the lady the
checkout counter is living it quite
large fifteen dollars an hour is thirty
one thousand two hundred bucks a holic
look Feinstein's been doing this for 50
years and it's just now expressing the
importance of fighting climate change by
promoting a diluted and stripped-down
version the green New Deal which people
have been taking seriously about talking
seriously about for at least twenty
years
trust the old guard to make slow
ineffective policy yeah we didn't even
get to we're not going
get to this dive I stuffed it maybe well
Bernie and bus whatever happened to
attacking the left for being morally a
relativistic it's almost as if the right
is morally relativistic in defending
moral relativism Doh 5:00 p.m. hearing
today on Donald Trump emergency
declaration c-span's visa ban radio and
want to hear you talk about social
democracies after you've seen Michael
Moore's where to invade next it's all
about European social democracies versus
the US why there's so much better why
it's economically and socially feasible
not overwhelming as naysayers claim
Theodore's a muji not sure if you knew
him but I just want to give a shout out
to Brody Stevens he meant a lot to me I
did not know him I obviously have a lot
of friends who did and it's a really sad
story really sad story how he struggled
with a lot of emotional issues and it's
just terribly sad to have someone kill
themselves
so yes rest in peace kentucky fried
comrade regarding the California primary
moving up I'd like to remind people that
in 2008 California primary was February
5th and Clinton beat Barack Obama it's
an important state but due to its
proportional allocation of Delegates not
a definitive win for a nomination that's
right and I would say in many respects
it represents more danger for Harris
because the opportunity for her to
underperform there is there and she
can't crush it in California against
Bernie it's gonna be a bit of a problem
or maybe not just Bernie but against
anybody
let's go to the phones count from a six
one zero
it's next up I don't know what to tell
you folks who's this hello hello Steve
can you hear me
I can Steve where you calling from
outside okay ba-ba-ba-ba I think I want
uh I wanted to talk to you about the
green new deal I don't know if you saw
the footage of Diane Feinstein talking
those kids you have reprehensible how
she acted but more importantly I'm I'm
hearing more and more that this the
green a deal isn't going to go far
enough in dealing with the problems that
we're going to come come across like um
there are people talking about how we're
gonna see it get sabotage by people in
the oil industry who have you know have
a vested interest in trying to derail it
right so I wanted to know if if if you
think that we can what what that acts
what it's actually going to take to me
it looks like we're going to need to
mobilize on the level of something like
our production in World War two to
actually face the problem and and
something to aside to Jaime do you think
we can actually address these issues
under capitalism do you think that that
we're going to is it going to need a
much more radical revolutionary solution
I'll take my answer offline thank you
guys for everything you do appreciate
the call
i it's I'm not sure if there are two
separate questions is it sufficient and
will it get derailed those are two
separate questions I don't know if this
plan in and of itself is sufficient I
would if I had to just get
yes I would say probably not I mean but
it's not I don't know that there's
anything that the United States in and
of itself can do that's going to be
sufficient that doesn't mean that it's
not necessary it can very well be
necessary and not fully sufficient it
also can be necessary insofar as that we
may not be able to take a sufficient
first step I think we can take steps
that are first steps that are
insufficient that can lead to a more
sufficient second step and we can take
in sufficient first steps that will not
lead to a more sufficient second step so
mcc's sense in other words dianne
feinstein was when she met with these
kids was being very condescending and i
understand there was a an edited tape
and there was the full tape and I
watched both tapes and she was
condescending in both tapes was she rude
to them as rude as comes off in the
greatest hits no but so what at the end
of the day she was still condescending
and here's the part where we're what's
really relevant in terms of what what
would the with the exchange would Dianne
Feinstein I guess we're gonna play this
now can I answer the question well I
know what your answer is no it's not
gonna capitalism is not gonna do it well
they're smart nuanced than that we will
get there but let's go over this this
Diane Feinstein thing because at this
juncture in terms of legislation there's
potentially two pieces of legislation
there's the one that Dianne Feinstein
drafted in response to the green new
deal coming out of the house and then
there's the green new deal and there
will not be anybody sponsoring the
demise of capitalism and
meantime and it's quite possible that
that under our capitalist under
capitalism we're not going to be able to
address this and and if that's the case
you know it's really more about planning
for the day after or or you know when
there's a broader understanding of how
devastating this the global climate
change will or may will cap and will be
majority report in 2060 will be will Ken
capitalism help us recover from climate
change
yeah exactly ken capitalism get my house
out from under water but here is these
these kids most of them are kids there's
some moms of the kids and maybe dad or
two activists as Glenn Beck would call
them yes they're activists and they're
from the group I would which would
sunrise sunrise movement and like I said
earlier these are the people who
occupied Nancy Pelosi's office they
occupied Mitch McConnell's office today
but they know and this is very
reasonable there's only one party that
has the potential to address this that
party may not address it but there's
only one party that has even the
potential to address it and there's only
one party where these people may have
some leverage with that's why they're
protesting Democrats that's why when
people wanted to protest about daca
years ago they did it with Barack Obama
who didn't want to move anywhere on daca
but those protests that were considered
rude at that time trying to make Barack
Obama look bad we're we're highly
effective in the end I would say the
same thing with marriage equality but
here are these kids from the sunrise
movement and they're talking about
they're about to go see Dianne Feinstein
[Music]
we're trying to ask you to vote YES on
the green new day please okay I'll tell
you what we have our own green New Deal
scientists have said that we have 12
years to turn this around well it's not
gonna get turned around in ten years
what we can do in ten years you're
looking at the faces of the people who
are gonna be living with one of the
people and by the people and you know
what's interesting about this group it's
I've been doing this for thirty years I
know what I'm doing you come in here and
you say it has to be my way or the
highway I don't respond to that I've
gotten elected I just ran
I was elected by almost a million vote
plurality and I know what I'm doing so
you know maybe people should listen a
little bit I posit now I just want to be
clear I just want to be clear that
segment there was not edited she said
all that now granted as the as the video
goes on later we'll play a little moment
of that she softens a little bit but
make no mistake about what this
conversation is and in addition to being
condescending and dismissive and relying
on her Authority and the fact that she
got elected which are completely
irrelevant to this I mean I I could see
her saying like look I've been at this a
long time and I know what you know how
we can take the first steps in this but
I watched the whole video there was none
of that she does argue that this is the
one thing that we could get past but
they made the point we know nothing's
going to pass we know nothing's going to
pass as long as Republicans have power
because even if you could pass it in the
Senate it's not going to pass
Donald Trump is gonna veto it they say
you can vote for both you could vote YES
for both and she keeps brushing that off
because that's the thing she doesn't
want to answer she doesn't wanna answer
why you won't vote for both she tries to
make it about you got to be practical
and then she tries to make it about you
got to trust me and she tries to make it
about you got to respect me but she will
not answer why she won't vote for both
even the people I mean look at someone
like her other the other senator from
California Carla Harris she signed on to
all three different versions of
potential health care reform in the
Senate that's co-sponsor so you could
shoot for the moon she could argue shoot
for the moon but I want to be there too
for the possible practical solutions but
Dianne Feinstein doesn't want to even
open the door to that she is not making
the argument to these kids I know how to
build this this takes some skill and I
have this skill and you can trust me to
have this skill because I'm going to
pass this and then we're gonna pass that
she doesn't have the respect for these
kids or the fortitude to say that that's
too radical that's too dramatic she
doesn't do that instead she shames them
she this and that and when it doesn't
work and she realized she got to go she
starts good she gets starts warming up a
little bit but continue here I hear what
you're saying but where are the people
who voted you you're supposed to listen
to us that's your how old are you I'm 16
I didn't vote for me
understand that I have seven
grandchildren I understand it very well
posit I can't be a misogynist I have a
mom I have a daughter I have a cousin
who's a woman ask the moms senator the
cost of not taking this action is far
higher than the cost of what the green
new deal will be and there is an
enormous popularity for this bill around
the whole country here and we're asking
you to be brave and do this for us and
for your grandchildren I'm trying to do
the best I can which was to write a
responsible resolution a plan that
doesn't take full transformative action
is not going to be what we need well you
know better than I do so I think one day
you should run for the Senate she won a
big election now for all fairness a lot
of people like oh you're just talking
about that you're putting out the edited
version of the 15 minute exchange or 20
minute exchange I watched the unedited
version and yes there are moments where
towards the end like I say in fact let's
play that the denia mall here where they
start to usher the kids out of the thing
and one of the staffers even said like
I'm for conservation
I like the backpack which is not in any
way condescending or missing at the
point at all I'm reassured about the
future of them yes I'm for conservation
like conservation what what the f are
you talking about guess what buddy
you'll be able to backpack a lot of
people will be backpacking a lot of
people are gonna be backpacking you
won't be able to be backpacking because
you're gonna be dead you're gonna be old
or dead like me but when people come in
to talk about climate change and you say
I'm with you
I like the backpack you might be giving
away
a little bit too much of the narrative
but put that aside I'm not gonna hold
Diane Feinstein responsible for one of
her staffers I mean I imagine she hired
him but whatever but here's the moment
that redeems everything for Diane
Feinstein according to those who said
you're being too mean by passing around
an edited video here she is talking
about we need to focus on what can pass
with the Republicans in the Senate but
this is absurd because we know that
Donald Trump's not going to sign off on
this and so what she's doing is just as
futile in terms of the ultimate goal as
promoting the green New Deal and I would
argue it's even more futile because if
you're going to lose lose big win the
principle set it up for the next time
when you do have more votes nobody your
pre negotiating against yourself and
looking at these kids and saying you
don't get it you idiots
no I'm not saying it it I'd actually
even give you an internship how can I
wait sorry how can I start an internship
you
Clark will do enter no gym all right
okay okay thank you everybody
Jim ain't too happy I can a man I can
assure you that there it is there was
the big magnanimous think she she
basically said you kids don't get it
I've been here for thirty I don't know I
don't get in a million years frankly
what whether her victory was by one vote
or ten million votes why that has I mean
so she's did she doesn't have to listen
to them or they automatically are wrong
because she won by so many votes I don't
understand why that's brought up yeah
popular people's opinions hold more
weight than unpopular people's it's like
a law of nature I wonder if she says
that to the to the fight the industry
folks it can we look which is actually
probably more relevant I would let me
say it to those people
that's how much I won by California gas
company exactly I wonder if those words
I mean I suppose it I mean maybe it was
but yeah stuff like that just reminds me
that despite my left critiques of the
green new deal as necessary but
insufficient solution we still got to do
it and it's pissing off a lot of the
right people it's not yeah I mean
newsflash you don't have to be seven or
ten to understand that Donald Trump is
going to veto anything that in any way
he's they are assembling a team of
basically paid scientists who will say
that there's no climate change but we're
gonna if we're gonna find a happy medium
that what
that what but you have better luck doing
psyops on like Ivanka and try to get her
to make her dad do something
all right I'm gonna go or get the final
call of the day I'm gonna go pull this
out of Colin from a 501 area code who's
this where you come from
hey fam there's a Blake from Arkansas
Blake from Arkansas yes sir you guys are
talking a lot about climate change and I
definitely wanted to do that with you
this afternoon what do you guys have in
plans like what did you say that you
could immediately do a sense time is of
the essence to to offset co2 emissions I
mean what what in that group of minds
they're in your office what would you do
immediately I I would I would heavily
subsidize the production and the
development of alternative energy
sources I would maybe nationalize some
of the refining capacity and then
ultimately increase the fee I mean the
like the easiest things to mention the
refining capacity of what what would how
would that how would that affect to co2
well because I'd be able to regulate how
much fossil fuel we we we refine and
therefore we burn ultimately I would
also then probably I mean narrow the use
of federal lands maybe basically say no
federal lands can be used I would pull
those licenses I mean things that would
be the quickest in terms of you know I'm
gonna imagine you'd get a lot of court
cases and fall involved in nationalizing
but those would be some of the biggest
the first things that I would do mm-hmm
you guys come out from kind of a
governmental level a policy level yeah
exactly that's why the refineries for
instance right so what do you what do
you think about our existing train
infrastructure I would increase our
train infrastructure yes I would I would
add four more mass transit yes okay
moving freight my trains is that that
that would be a a better option than you
know millions upon millions of semis
driving millions miles over here right I
mean I I think yes I mean I averaged
average truck driver trip ride rise like
nine hundred thousand million miles a
year and they're I mean they're
everywhere I don't I don't necessarily
know about you could do Mama's short but
short-run stuff yes I would raise well
not even short-run not even short one
with semis but but utilize our trains
and and you know you can you can have
one engine move tens hundreds of
thousands of tons sure you know that
would be something that I would think I
thought about localized farming rather
than importing things from around the
world you know on barges with waste you
know that kind of thing then trucking
them from you know borders and in the
desert in California where we seem to be
able to grow avocados what do you think
about that localized farming like Iowa
for instance where I grew up there's
there's miles and miles and miles of
corn and we export that stuff overseas
well and I think also part of the
problem is frankly is that we I mean if
we're gonna get this deep into it we
subsidize a lot of that corn we
subsidize a lot of soy and I think right
we I would really see because it
promotes factory farming which i think
is also problematic I mean I think you
know the idea of the idea of making food
cheaper which is which was what the
intent was and subsidizing corn and soy
back in the early 70s so there was more
disposable income for consumers was a
little bit short-sighted it we've
created all these factory farms I mean I
think yeah I mean I would put all of
that on the table oh I have an idea and
I promise it's more incremental than
abolishing capitalism okay shorten the
workweek this is Adam
and that is very popular in various
leftist movements throughout history and
I think we need to bring it back the
amount of emissions they will be saved
from people commuting one less day a
week would be astronomical and also
people get to work less for the same
amount of money which is also great and
you could actually do my yeah on a
personal level run your errands one or
two days a week rather than you know a
couple hours every day after work yeah
that's people that commute from the the
suburbs into the cities and back out
again installed traffic and you know
idling engines and people losing their
minds and yeah yeah I I'm with you
that's definitely something that we
could change I'm an unaccompanied or a
personal level I was talking about you
know kind of broadly speaking you know
big changes you know since the time was
you know of the essence
correct I'm what do you think about for
instance the third world so what I
mentioned about corn and soy and sending
them as aid to other countries I take
like Ethiopia and Somalia for instance
their climate let's say is not able to
sustain their current populations and so
we spend a lot of food there in times of
famine and drought and we feed the
population and their population grows
and they're still in the same area
subject to the same climate
circumstances or even worsening in the
future now you know it costs a cost
fossil fuels to send that stuff per
annually over and over again to feed the
population I would say I mean like their
economy lazy listen and overinflated I I
would probably put sending food to
countries for to to countries that are
suffering from famine pretty low on my
list of priorities to cut I mean there's
I think once we were to achieve you know
sort of our optimal you know in the
context of what we're capable of doing
levels of
of clean energy and I would try and
export these technologies and I would
also you know try and make it such that
these technologies were available to
even our exposed rivals you know like I
would say China it's probably more of an
issue and even Europe is more of an
issue and Russia is even more of an
issue than Ethiopia and Somalia that
we're propping up with emergency food
well those were just two examples it
started kind of maybe back in the late
seventies early eighties but I mean the
barges go down the Mississippi River and
they go no I mean I get you it's not
it's not just those countries okay so
what what then do you think about the
fact that the United States is lowering
its co2 emissions despite not
implementing like the new Green Deal
that you go it's it's necessary and
insufficient I mean the cafe standards
were fought against I mean we you know
the loans to the solar companies fought
against unfortunately China
I guess fortunately or unfortunately
depending on your perspective you know
saw an opening when there was pushback
on the subsidies to US companies that
were subsidized loans to US companies
that were making you know solar and you
know energy panels and whatnot I mean so
yeah I think it's good I don't know I
don't know the particular history of the
loans I mean I think if they were fought
again well you know were you not here
during the Obama era yeah okay well I
mean I can't say that I was paying 100%
attention but I mean Solyndra right yeah
yeah that didn't that didn't go very
well indeed and of yeah that was kind of
charter right some hid services I mean
Tesla was a pretty big success for a man
yeah that era of spending yeah I mean
I'm sure you're familiar with the idea
of venture capital right right now
venture capital you know what they do
right you know what their business model
is right venture capitalists yeah they
invest in a bunch of different things
they all don't come in correct kind of
long so it's kind of kind of mid-major
penny stocks kind of thing sometimes
yeah so so if you don't get a hundred
percent if you don't get a hundred
percent success rate you think that it's
not worth what worth a while well not
necessarily it depends on do you think
that it's feasible - yes 100 percent off
fossil fuels in ten years
I think it's I in this country I don't
know if we can get 100 percent off but I
do know that there is absolutely no
downside in trying
relative to what we face I mean will it
go easy of course exerting the effort
it's gonna be difficult and there may be
instances where it's like oh we have
this inconvenience in our life or we
have this thing but you know faced with
the potential downside of something yeah
I would say let's throw the kitchen sink
at it and it's aim for 100 percent and
if we hit 80 percent in 10 years that's
much better than hitting 25 percent so
since the United States is kind of on
the downturn of co2 emissions and our
population is at least somewhat stable I
mean it's not growing as much as other
parts of the world for instance
Bangladesh or India or China I agree and
they're becoming more and they're
becoming more dependent on fossil fuels
contrast the change that we could
theoretically or practically make versus
their usage rates increasing probably
exponentially over the same time period
so okay so I I if I if I understand you
correctly what you're advocating is do
nothing because you can't control the
other I know I'm trying to figure out
what your point is what is your point
cut contrast the world change that we
could possibly make by completely
tipping over our economy and hoping that
it lands on its head Brooks's what do
you probably gonna do nothing if not
make their usage worse in relation to
co2 emissions what do you think we
should do I have a whole lot of things
that I could list if you'd like we can
come back and talk at length about it
I would ask you what what you guys had
in mind
personally immediately there within your
own studio right the the the idea of the
idea of refineries and and nationalizing
them in control you the United States is
not required to import any fuel anymore
or fossil fuel independent so there's no
need for tankers to be coming across the
oceans and lying on Saudi oil and all
this kind of stuff now that's a positive
as far as co2 emissions go I don't
understand what the point of of
nationalizing refineries is well sure
people are still going there you know
that immediately what's that yeah I want
to do that immediately people are people
are still gonna have to drive cars well
I understand death but if I if I control
the refineries I can throttle it in such
a way that simultaneously subsidizing
the the renewable energy public transit
just said that right yeah Laurentiis
laryngeal or whatever it is times fifty
yeah I don't think any of us are arguing
for a regressive carbon tax like the
thing that caused the yellow vest riots
in France right right I just don't there
was something that I considered there
was something that considered several
years ago I thought I'd see what you
guys thought about it there's
there's some holes in it so where your
where your workplace is the zip code and
then where you live the zip code
what about taxing people based on how
far away they commute
that's a regressive tax or a gas tax I
mean don't put this on the working class
it's not gonna end well if I put in a
sufficient public service I mean public
transit then I would I would contemplate
what you're talking about but if if the
majority of this country is working
class who is it that you are hoping to
affect to make the changes that you
would like within if there was if there
if we provide sufficient public transit
then I would have less of a problem with
it but yeah I'm totally with that okay
great
appreciate the call that was really
helpful okay
I'm gonna do ten more Iams folks I'm
sorry we just didn't have time for all
the calls that we had stacked up there
and I apologize I'll just say I think
everybody even working class is gonna
have to make some sacrifice half as long
as the top end makes the most sacrifices
and that's evident to people I don't
think it's going to matter right well
yeah actual shirts Accra Feist as
opposed to the shared sacrifice that
we've we have we often see in crisis
ease which is not shared sacrifice I
mean it depends how you define sacrifice
to like I personally not driving as much
I would love it if there were trains
everywhere I wanted to go and I didn't
have to drive as much like that would
not be a hardship for me to like sit on
a train and listen to a podcast but
that's how you're looking at it some
people will will experience the decline
of the automobile as absolute problem
without a doubt yeah I mean nothing we
are you folks who live out of borrow you
know who wealthy erratically have to try
and get into the city who even if you
had a you know a high-speed bus
or you know light-rail out in front of
their house would be like I want to take
my car and this is BS and yeah yeah it's
gonna require a whole paradigm shift
right because if you just impose some
kind of progressive carbon tax that
primarily hits working-class people who
can't afford to live in the city center
and have to commute and don't replace it
with anything leave all the same power
structures in place where all of these
fossil fuel companies have tons and tons
of lobbying money to like keep trains
better trains from happening nobody's
that's really bad right
but it's gonna require you could call it
a paradigm you can call a paradigm shift
and other people will call it a
sacrifice true I also think the things
that we do on an individual consumer
level they don't really matter so on the
level of selling the sacrifice to people
I think it would have to go hand-in-hand
with democratizing more control over the
economy and over production so like we
know that we can't solve the problem the
way things are right now like I I don't
know if people would vote if they had a
vote over what gets produced to you know
produce less meat less gasoline blah
blah blah etc but I think we'd have a
better chance I I don't know about that
I don't know I think you could cutting
subsidies for might be might be easier
way to easier to do but maybe you're
right maybe a large club a site on some
I had a whole long thing about this but
I sense that we're out of time we are
out of time perhaps I will come in early
tomorrow okay all right so let's do five
more six more of these and then we'll
get gone
Jay Jay cool do you guys think American
military intervention in Venezuela is
likely and would Trump have enough
support to do so I don't know how much
support he needs to do you know a
limited thing but I do think that some
form of our intervention or maybe our
backing I don't know if likely I don't
know what percentage likely is but I
don't think it's certainly plausible
covert likely and over possible Jeffy if
we keep the filibuster everyone should
stand up and speak Ted Cruz green eggs
and ham style PDX tony jeff merkley no
yeah right I'm sorry it's not ron wyden
it was Jeff Merkley Merkley is a hero
for Oregon in the country widens it
weirdo libertarian that's true yes
snowflake agree with Jamie about
means-testing child care but Warren's
proposals of a good first step also
health insurance detach from
unemployment may lower demand for child
care especially in higher income
families that's true
contagious chameleon do you think having
all these Democratic presidential
candidates will help get more Democrats
elected I do a pathetic steamroller
reminder that according to the
Department of Housing and Urban
Development homelessness in the US could
effectively be eliminated for only
twenty billion dollars a year I know
that's unbelievable Adam Koch head is
there going to be a public a bad bunny
cedar sex tape just kidding no
disrespect to either of you I got to do
a little more research left is European
hope you guys had a great vacation can
you ask Jamie if she knows how DSA in
general and her specific branch will
relate to the primaries we're gonna have
to say that for another day but put that
down on the list hanger alpha DRG last
week biggest week of the new election
run biggest event on Sam's Twitter
thirsting over a hot twitch streamer
community is weird and the final I am of
the day
[Music]
[Applause]
producer Lauren welcome back just a
heads up that Google Adsense is placing
ads from the NRCC asking for donations
to the Trump campaign on our YouTube
channel
sometimes even interrupting the longer
videos also with Canada holding
by-elections today for its Parliament
which determine which party captures the
prime minister's office have you noticed
that Marc Maron looks like one of Justin
Trudeau's advisers I mean Marc Maron is
a Quebec oy named ya hash the fash see
you tomorrow
[Music]
No
I'm gonna get
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no ticket
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
