[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program the executive
director of the economic hardship
reporting project and the author of
squeezed why our families can't afford
America Alissa court Alissa welcome to
the program
oh it's a pleasure to be here sense so
all right let's start with the the the
notion of and you have corn this term
the middle precariat what tell us what
what that means so the middle precariat
describes middle-class workers people
who earn for between forty two thousand
dollars we'll say in 115,000 who are
contingent who are increasingly don't
have pensions they don't have job
security there they thought they did
everything right they got college
degrees graduate degrees now they're
working as librarians lawyers teachers
professors even people in IT that I
suppose who and yet it doesn't quite add
up they're just not a secure class we
think of the middle class as humdrum as
you know man in the gray flannel suit
these people would love to be that and
instead they're kind of unstable and and
this I mean Minh many respects this this
work that you did here came out of your
own situation just briefly tell us about
about that yeah so well I was pregnant
with my daughter like eight years ago
and I was a freelance writer and I want
to be clear we had a lot better than a
lot of people we had savings we were
already older parents so we had a
certain kind of reputation as
journalists that we could rely on for
work but you know we were buying our own
health insurance it was really expensive
I was sick when I was pregnant and so we
started to go spend down our savings and
that just threw me I call it the like
the Vorta middle class vortex where I
just
like oh shoot this is excuse me a portal
into the lives of so many people in this
country who would unlike us we were
finally able to get jobs at nonprofits
as it turned out we're not able to make
it work journalists you know newspaper
reporters 50 percent have lost their
work since 2005 and those people you
know are not finding it work necessarily
or jobs that help them you know make a
make a decent living so that's that was
we were lucky and and so when you set
out to to write about this what did you
have tell me what your sort of your
process was and did you set out to look
at because you ended up looking at a
series of different professions I mean
how did you just tell us about how you
you you you settled on that approach and
and and who you wanted to look at yeah
so I'm drawn to very emotionally intense
stories so I get kind of sucked in by
individuals I'd be interviewing people
some people in the business of
journalism call it auditioning but I'd
be interviewing people and I sort of be
drawn to a particular person because for
the quality of their story the quality
of the way they talked about their life
that's be my first interest and then you
know I was particularly interested in
things like the teachers who drove uber
and so there's a chapter called uber
dads that's about schoolteachers in San
Francisco and in other parts of
California we're now driving uber after
school and on weekends and that was just
a shocking story to me
and the fact that uber had a whole
campaign to recruit teachers and nurses
and the fact that they made not enough
money to live comfortably in these
places and they these teachers were
grading at stop signs
grading at stop signs indeed and they
were thinking about their curriculum
when the you know lights are changing
that's what you know they were telling
me these stories and and that for me
again again it's like the emotional
piece but also like the gist of sheer
dystopic qualities of some of these what
has happened to some of these
that was part of my selection process
like if it was a very dramatic finding I
felt I had to include it and we should
say you know I spoke to some of the
teachers involved I guess it was a week
or two ago uh in the strikes that took
place in Oklahoma and in Arizona and in
and in West Virginia and that that
concept of people having to drive uber
was like a shorthand for people as to
when they wanted to sort of say how how
how how squeezed I guess they were so
let's mean let's go through some of
these some of these specific stories and
then we'll move on to sort of what I
really find fascinating about your book
was the the perspective that people had
on this in in relation to sort of the
systemic problems that we're facing but
but tell us a little bit about are there
specific stories that stick out for you
I know the you know you talk about
adjunct professors I have some some
family members who adjunct professors
and so I have a pretty good sense of of
of the challenges they face but tell us
about some of the stories that stick out
in your mind well you know I profiled
one woman in Chicago with the disabled
son who was a literature professor it
got a graduate school was teaching in a
really good College Columbia College in
Chicago in art school and she was you
know making 20 something thousand per
year was variable from year to year she
was teaching all the time and you went
with her to shop for food at Trader
Joe's and she was using food stamps and
you know just the whole experience of
having had these dreams do what you love
I you know we talked about doing what
you love and then it just didn't it
didn't help her her family you know and
they were they were pretty desperate at
a certain point or her colleague Justin
Thomas who was making $1700 a class
he wanted to pay for ice-cream and music
lessons for his kid you know after he
taught whatever six or seven classes a
semester or year I'm sorry baby was pre
year per semesters a lot and he you know
couldn't do that and his daughter it was
like I want ice cream and the just a
sheer number of people I spoke to who
had this kind of experience who were
adjuncts I talked to someone who was
homeless like living in her car and was
an adjunct and it was not and I had been
an adjunct so I was particularly
passionate and I guess identified with
their plight I know you you you touched
on the school teachers but but tell us
the story of Matt berry just to sort of
get like a notion of how you break down
sort of some of these numbers and you
know so that people get a sense of what
we're talking about here because and I
also well we can talk about that but but
also this notion of the the context in
which you're living right I mean there's
some numbers that we throw around that I
think for some places in the country
people would be like that would be great
if I made that well yeah I mean I don't
know if you saw you must have seen there
was that recent thing that in the San
Francisco area a hundred and seventeen
thousand dollars for a family counted as
lower income yeah they would be that
that that this is the kind of
environment we're talking about Matt
berry was teaching in San Jose he was in
his early 30s
each he and his wife were both teachers
they earn sixty nine thousand each which
is you know getting up there sounds good
but then you know a starter home 1500
square feet is six hundred eighty
thousand and the town where he taught
they houses were 1.5 million some of
them and you know they were each paying
additional money in health insurance so
that was they're paying an additional
six thousand dollars so it just started
to kind of creep up on them and that was
when Barry started driving uber when his
wife got pregnant and she realized that
they'd have these like untoward expenses
and he wound up driving the parents of
some of the children at the school he
taught
that's nuts and what was like what was
the reaction of the parents who would
see their kids teachers or would they
would they were they conscious of that I
mean what how did they respond you know
it was he wasn't of him other people had
described the their to be driving the
parents and I think I can't I think they
were surprised I'm a definitely think
students are surprised too one of the
adjuncts I spoke to made it part of her
lesson plan to explain to the kids
exactly how much the professor's that
we're teaching them were actually making
and I think it's it's it's not a bad
exercise to start having this kind of
stuff part of our curriculum so the
people in the communities that are
especially these wealthy communities are
starting to realize they're depending on
these workers to shape their kids minds
but it their wages it no matter they
might seem high in Iowa but in San Jose
they're not keeping up with the cost of
living and so let's talk a little bit
about the sort of the I guess the the
the perspective that people have about
their situations because you know I
guess it was a couple years ago now I
interviewed a British writer author who
had traveled the country and talking to
people who'd lost their homes after the
2008 foreclosure for a crisis and he
said at that time that one of the things
he noticed was the sort of the isolation
and the shame that people felt and the
sense that they had really somehow
screwed up even though we know that this
financial crisis was a systemic problem
and he said that was yet to be any sort
of like shared sense that they were
their predicament was a function of
something systemic as opposed to their
own decisions and you I mean you you are
of the mind that that people should not
perceive it that way but I'm curious is
like well what did you come across
in terms of the way that people perceive
their situation and how much they were
responsible for it and how much it was a
change in society and I should just add
that even today I'm reading a piece in
Axios of all places that looks at being
30 years old today versus you know the
late the mid to late 20th century and
how a 30 year old is making much less
today than they did 40 years ago in this
country relative good yeah sorry there's
this amazing status from some study that
Raj schecky did that was showing that
someone born in the 1940s was 92 percent
more likely by the time they were 30 to
make more money than their parents and
someone born in the 80s was 50/50 it was
had a half chance of making as much or
having a successful as their parents
when they were 30
so it's diminished kind of mobility and
an aspiration as well but but yeah to
get to the blame the blame an emotional
question you just asked I mean I I think
I I did see a lot of self limit I saw a
lot I mean to be fair a lot of the
people I wrote about I even coined this
term to describe them the hyper educated
poor they were really self-aware so they
weren't necessarily the average Joe
let's say some of my subjects I mean not
all of them but some of them but they
toggles back and forth between being
aware of a system error that had gotten
them here like a bad tax reform you know
tarek housing that prices that have
risen astronomically and had been you
know affected by development just a
system just geared against them they
knew that but you can't help it you know
when you're in that moment and that was
the moment where I was in that middle
class vortex when I was pregnant you're
sort of like what did I do wrong
how did I get here and why didn't I plan
ahead or there are things that you think
yourself you don't have to be a
bootstrapper to to feel that way you can
just simply feel like I under
and blame yourself and the hope with
this book for me was just to question
that stigma and get people to be aware
that they had internalized the stigma
around it
I mean the the the point is is that for
an earlier generation the idea of making
a couple of mistakes would not inhibit
your success right I mean that's the I
mean that's what it comes down to yes
you may have made a couple of mistakes
but the fact is is that if you were born
30 or 40 years later those mistakes
would have been forgiven and you'd still
be in a much less stressful position
than you are now
yeah and I mean even when you're looking
at me I did include people who were not
as affluent in the book like care
workers and so forth and I looked at
some of the possibilities open to new
immigrants in the earlier part of the
20th century there was free nursing
there is let you know adult education
for people like my grandparents who were
immigrants that was even either free or
nominally priced right and now for the
woman I profiled who was a care worker
you know she wouldn't you know she
wouldn't be able to get evening classes
to be a nurse as she had been a nurse
back in Paraguay she wouldn't be able to
get that here for a reasonable amount so
she then was working as a caregiver so
there are these obstacles now it's not
just doing things wrong but obstacles
there's entry of the middle class as
well that didn't used to be there I
talked about the the rise of 1%
television I mean I think I feel like
we've we've touched on this on this
program just sort of a vaguely in many
respects but what's the impact of that
well I was really interested because I
found myself watching these shows like
zillions and O's arc and even you know
and Empire Downton Abbey right the crown
all these shows in which we're aspiring
on some level or being asked to aspire
to these inexplicably well born
characters who later
morally lacks their twisted hedge fund
guys their murderous their you know
decadent aristocrats and yet the shows
are sort of created so we we want to be
them or they're you know they're evil
hip-hop moguls and I was interested in
that because I thought about I looked at
earlier shows that were about the upper
class like Upstairs Downstairs in the
70s and the we were supposed to identify
with the maids in that show and I when I
spoke to people for the over the course
of the book who were having trouble say
getting new jobs they said they'd binge
watch and then they get really depressed
they'd watch these shows
they'd be like even Mad Men and they'd
like lose themselves in the day core and
then they'd be like hurtled down to
earth where they're struggling to stay
in the middle class so I sort of see it
as like a new kind of I look I love
these programs but they're a new opiate
of the masses
I mean but they I mean but they're
depressing I mean like what like well
I'm curious about the psychology of it
because like you know we do have stuff
like you know I think they're rolling
out a you know relieve your debt like a
literally a game show where they're
gonna put about that okay well there you
go interview that guy yes please do
because I mean also this like and there
was I think another one about there was
like you know if you're a foreclosure
under water they would fix your debt
we've had we've had things like
Undercover Boss which again is sort of
like we're gonna show you that your boss
is actually a great guy and you know
this type of I mean that all of this
seems to be you know creating some type
of dynamic right like the king is going
to come down and say I relieve you of
your student debt oh the king is so
benevolent because they've you know that
one person got a feast you know someone
got the turkey this year here's a little
different a little different and I
actually write about it yeah maybe I'll
send it to you and you guys can link to
it but because just was published but
Michael twerpy who is the host he had
his wife had been in had student debt
and he came up with this idea yeah I
like this miraculous you give away money
to the winner of the the winning
contestant route gets are their deaths
partially relieved or
what are you told yeah only target yeah
exactly well they'd have to well that's
a good point they'd have to really win
which is a complicated thing like you
have to anyway I've been watching I've
been watching this thing um obviously I
love my 1% TV so but uh you know so he
did have a personal story and he's
really for debt forgiveness and it's
almost like the debt debt collective the
TV show you know but there is also that
oddness about it has this manic tone
it's comic its main inspiration seems to
be that john oliver show a debt relief
do you remember that vaguely yes it has
this kind of met yeah exactly this manic
kind of comedic thing and I talked to
this scholar who's been studying these
kind of TV shows and she calls it
there's debt TV and then there's credit
TV and that was what used to exist it
was much more realist and now there's
debt TV is like either her or weird
manic comedy because debt doesn't really
exist right it's a it's a you know
imaginary category so that that's what
this show is like and so I mean what do
you what do you make of these thing I
mean like what are we are these things a
reflection of aspirations that we know
can't be met or is it there there's
something we're being trained to accept
yeah I think they're I think they're
training training us to accept this but
oh I think it's it actually within the
television universe I feel like it comes
out of this complicated TV to start with
The Sopranos so there are these morally
complicated characters but then now it's
moving on to these you know 1% you know
very very rich characters who are
morally complicated and that starts to
do something else like no one who
watches The Sopranos like God I mean
maybe some people I really want to be
Tony but I think you know you watch
billions you really kind of want to be
acts and you're like wow this person is
potentially you know harming half of
this employees everyday you know and
that that is strange
and you know I would love people to
start questioning it even as they enjoy
it or reading it critically so that's
part of what I was hoping this chapter
would accomplish I want to talk also a
little bit about what you came across in
terms of it there's really two sets of
policy ideas right that that that to
address this situation one is I think
you know I would categorize as a good
set of policy ideas the others are sort
of like makeshift you know what people
are doing like you like that like the
crowdfunding of various things I mean we
see this now pops up where I don't know
I guess a couple of weeks ago we saw a
news piece on you know a heartwarming
story of a of an 11 year old boy
starting a lemonade stand to raise money
for his parents who are having to pay
for their you know three-year-old who
has some type of disease and it's like
what this is not a heartwarming story
this is a horrible story that we're
living in a society where an 11 year old
has to start a lemonade stand to pay for
his three-year-old brother to get health
care exactly I mean I spoke to people
who were using GoFundMe to pay for
daycare to pay for diapers to pay for
maternity leave to pay for school lunch
there's even a school lunch section of
GoFundMe so I spoke to like teachers who
are raising money for like poorer
students so they could actually pay for
their school lunch I mean this is these
are these makeshift solutions you know
some of them are like I talk to people
who are doing barter and trade you know
my daycare for your you know housing or
my daycare for your food or whatever and
yeah these are totally makeshift this is
what we're doing because as I put in the
book like our leaders are neglecting us
we're being our wealth is going to the
corporate sector we're not we're not
seeing this we're not getting our
universal pre-k universally you know or
but right now we have paid family leave
for only 14% of the population so I mean
of the workers so we need we need more
what would
when you when you when you look at some
policy prescriptions for the these folks
that you had spoken with what which ones
seemed like they would have the most
impact well I definitely think I mean so
many of them were struggling to pay for
day care that I even wrote about
something called extreme daycare where
people are now nine percent of the
population if named nine percent of the
daycares are now in off hours so they're
at late at night or on weekends and why
did I know you'd written about I have no
idea that existed yes yes 24-hour day
care and it's as I said it's a big sweep
now of the daycare that exists so how
can pay for this if we're being asked to
work all these different hours and this
is when you have fallen close to full
employment right does that mean that
people are working hours that help them
no they may be working strange hours
they may be working irregularly to
different jobs right so we need better
subsidized daycare for the middle class
too we need as I said maternity leave
pregnancy leave better protection
against pregnancy discrimination there's
laws on the books but the norms norms
and offices are not great right you know
we need things like as I said universal
pre-k and I was even talking about
universal basic income which I know can
be controversial but I feel like now
it's becoming more and more accepted you
know if some of those adjuncts had had
twenty thousand dollars a year for their
disabled kid their or their daughters
you know so she could have ice cream
there's the kid would have ice cream uh
you know I'm struck by how you know we
have in New York now upk and I'm struck
by how little attention it gets in the
media I know it's so weird I feel like
it's by far the best thing de Blasio's
Donna I you know very impressed at how
quickly they rolled it out I think they
went from 20,000 to 60,000 seats or
something in like two years
it was amazing how quickly they rolled
it efficiently it seems to be running
and the massive difference it makes in
people's lives and I feel like this
needs to be spread it's like people are
constantly talking about these
disruptive ideas and this is a simple
idea and you know I talked to one of the
architects of it and the thing that
stuck with me was they were willing to
have these pre caves in unusual places
like synagogues and churches and on you
know buildings that hadn't been
traditionally used as schools and I was
like that's the kind of thinking that's
the kind of good makeshift thinking that
we can do locally you know so we're not
just asking each other to do this for
each other but like local governments
can be thinking more imaginatively like
this
elissa court the book is squeezed why
our families can't afford America we'll
put a link to that and to your latest
piece on the the get out of your student
debt show majority dot F M thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it oh it's a pleasure Sam
thank you all right
