Bernie Sanders didn't come yeah I'm
quite sure that Bernie Sanders
understood this dynamic before then and
so I saw Bernie Sanders speak in college
he made precisely the same writing he
spent most of his speech to a media
monopoly here's the other part of why
what we talked about earlier is BS
because all those journalists right
there making it like he's being
conspiratorial and he's being Trump like
what Bernie Sanders is doing is he is
he's not discovering the truth of what
is problematic with the media this is
political campaigning and the other
conversation that Brian Williams could
have had and we played that stuff
earlier but the other conversation of
Brian Williams had if he didn't choose
Bob Kosta from the Washington Post or
the other reporter from The Wall Street
Journal Costas I mean he's a good
reporter started out covering right-wing
stuff let's say Brian Williams had a
different MSNBC contributor on to talk
about this let's say he had me on my
perspective wouldn't be you know he's
frustrated about the campaign this is
coming out of frustration in the way
that like you know a child when you get
frustrated because you won't give them a
you know you won't give them a they
can't watch a second episode of
television or something like this
they're kind of they're complaining he's
complaining know what I say like look
this is a reality that Bernie Sanders
knows to be the case we used to talk
about media concentration in this
country and the power of wealthy people
owning the press as being problematic it
still is even in the era of Donald Trump
when we have more reliance on the press
than we may have wanted to you know
admit in the past and Bernie Sanders is
using this as an example of how
corporate interests are aligned and how
they own this network that we're talking
on the other networks that we could be
talking on and all the papers
and that we need to rebalance stuff and
from a political perspective this is a
very smart move this is a very smart
move like Brian Williams and his guests
are not above taking a cynical look and
looking at the political value of these
machinations and that's what they do for
virtually every other single candidate
but they don't do that for Bernie
Sanders
they don't say with his brand of
politics this actually makes a lot of
sense because it's ink it's perfectly
consistent with everything he's saying
and he's saying that there is people at
the 1% let's call it have aligned
interests they don't necessarily have to
meet at Davos to plan out their year's
agenda they have aligned interests and
they work in those interests and they
have out size power and that's what you
get but even the way that they frame
that segment was indicative of the
problems and even though Jeff Bezos
doesn't work at you know doesn't own
MSNBC Comcast does GE does and they're
more comfortable and Brian Williams
certainly understands this with stuff
that is a little bit more to the right
than where they've been in the past you
don't need to give Jake Tapper questions
or talking points but if we did a really
easy a thought experiment
if the CNN ad lineup was filled
primarily with Teamsters unions and UAW
ads it's very unlikely that he would say
john delaney you say that Bernie's
health care plan is gonna ruin American
Society would you like to elaborate that
I disagree with that friend I think oh
well then I think they'd use me maybe
maybe the question to delaney but the
entire frame of the question now would
be massaged and influenced know by the
concept airs not sensitive to what ads
are on there
Jake Tapper wouldn't be hired if this
was I'm not giving you a Linea I'm not
saying linearly he watches it it is
arranged broader atmosphere the
filtering the chumps I mean III don't
even think it's that that that's
sensitive because certainly I know that
unions used to advertise on MSNBC I
don't know if they still do but unions
used to advertise on MSNBC because they
thought they could aggregate the the the
the biggest audience at the left there
BP used to advertise on MSNBC because
they thought they could actor sells us
green they could aggregate the biggest
group of most outspoken critics of them
they're the advertising thing is just is
absent flows the bottom line is these
are owned by major corporations they
will hire people who are corporate
friendly period end of story
there is no specific pressure that comes
in these in these news organizations but
the the the general flow of things is
what leads you down these certain paths
what you get rewarded with leads you
down these paths and they're not even
specific it's not if you do this you'll
get that it's just broad principles that
you see and you see them more and that's
how you got through the door in the
first place yep
I co-signed everything that you said can
I just add two things real quick please
um I agree with Chad vigorous or pretty
bad lefties take on Twitter which is
that Bernie stands to pick up more votes
from Joe Rogan fans and cardi B fans
than he does from people who stand MSNBC
so maybe this won't be so bad for him
and - can we just appreciate the
terminally basic mean-girl shade on
display in that first clip like you are
only talking about me for attention
because your campaign is car crashing
and burning sad like if anyone is using
a trump eonline i think it's that right
I think that's true and frankly I think
that unbalanced I'm not quite sure that
even the MSNBC discussion doesn't help
Burnie I mean a file to the extent that
there were people out there who do have
issues with corporate control who watch
MSNBC there's some I think it also
raises his you know him out there I
don't think that I don't think this in
its totality actually hurts Burnie at
all I think Bernie wants to be in the
news and I don't think it necessarily
hurts Bernie to be criticized by Brian
Williams or by someone from The Wall
Street Journal in fact like let's recall
what the sort of one of the biggest you
know sort of like piercing things that
pierced through the noise in terms of
Bernie's ad campaigns was here are the
people who don't endorse me and having
them all line up to not endorse him and
to criticize him I think is probably not
a bad thing it's just people should be
aware of what the dynamics are and how
this how this works because there's more
to be gleaned from this than just how it
impacts Bernie Sanders I mean we should
be watching the news always with this
perspective and this understanding these
are broad they're very the sort of like
long broad strokes in terms of what
impacts the media in this way and
