I'm cokehead Sam I went through Dave
Rubin subreddit dude person after person
said the Sam cedar video showed them the
light and they realized how dumb or
hollow this whole thing is can you guys
please say something super mean about
Dave look but okay after Sam does could
I just say after Sam does what he's
about to do yes I will
well can we play that yeah oh I'm not
gonna say anything super mean about Dave
well can I just say that we spent so
much time talking about how stupid Davis
we don't spend enough time talking about
what an is no look I don't know
I I'm not in charge of writing the code
of ethics for people who do political
talk shows okay
I'm not a columnist for The New York
Times who would you know make someone
famous regardless of what they spew into
the the atmosphere the intellectual
atmosphere the intellectual ether or eat
web yes or the darkness of the web
whatever but look plenty of times on
this program I say you know I don't know
so I'm not gonna comment all right
I don't know international politics that
well I don't when I don't know something
and there's plenty of other things
domestically I don't know and I'm not
afraid to say that because that in my
mind that's the most honest thing for me
to say and it it's a function of my
integrity and what I feel like I owed
the audience and not just what I owe my
audience what I just generally owe
society don't pontificate about
something that I have no idea about that
is serious
so when a guy gets elected to what what
is it the fifth biggest the biggest
democracy in the fifth biggest democracy
in the world I wasn't 100% sure so you
notice like I turned to Michael because
I wouldn't say it and and I have a list
of just with Elizabeth largest economy
as well yeah I have a list here of what
he did on day one I think it was where
is that is that the pogey tweet yeah I
can't remember day one he eliminate I
could tell you off the top of my head
you he took out protections for LGBT
people which I've heard something about
they've Ruben being gay he overturned
lowered the minimum wage he put the
amazon protections for the amazon as
well as all of the indigenous
communities inside the amazon he put
them inside the hands of someone who's
an agribusiness lobbyist a third of his
part of his government is military and
there was actually one other really
terrible thing which i'm totally free it
was like the boys will wear blue and
girls wear wear pink stuff and the sjw's
which is right well he promised an end
to socialism and political correctness
in his convention speech but I'm trying
to think of just like straight up policy
and he's oh he's promising to gut labor
protections yeah and this is on day one
look you could also you know it's been
going around you know people have been a
little bit talking about maybe this
guy's a fascist or maybe not this guy's
definitely a fascist like if you if you
check out like any of the news at all
it's hard to imagine that you wouldn't
come across you know at least some
notion about this guy he said stuff like
he told a woman like he referred to
black activists as like animals
he said something there was a woman that
she wasn't ugly and she wasn't
attractive enough to be raising him in
Congress he'd prefer to have his son die
in a car accident than be gay right I
mean the military regime
made its biggest mistake was it didn't
kill enough people now the flipside of
this let me just also say there's an out
for you in this situation you could say
you know what I haven't really done
anything on this so I can't I can't
really make a comment about that guy
like this happens all the trouble is
though is he did do something about it
because he as we did on this show
he appeared on a pro-ball scenario
YouTube propaganda channel to take a bit
eight years so untroubled so the problem
is typical Reuben fashion clearly he
knows nothing but he did propagandize
Weller I'm not gonna let my ignorance
get in the way of a couple of clicks
that I can bring over some audience but
putting that aside here's exactly what
you should not do when you accidentally
like oops I just supported a fascist who
incidentally if Dave Rubin takes a trip
down there we'll see in two three years
if he could travel with his husband
there continue is your opinion on
Brazilian Prime Minister both are both
are in a row I am NOT going to this is
the one thing where I'm gonna give him a
little bit of a break because I
mispronounced things all the time you do
but not that badly
both Bolsheviks a lot let me just let me
just say this really quick but listen if
you because I don't think it's just
mispronunciation I don't think he
recognizes so much this guy I don't
think he said it no this is he's never
said the name is a guy who is like the
center of global news right now in the
last couple of days that's like you're
not looking at your notifications news
notifications on your phone but but all
that is fine it's just that you know
what you do in that situation I don't
know I don't know
but dave has got a project that he
actually knows what he's talking about
Wow is your opinion on Brazilian Prime
Minister Boas our bowls are narrow
regarding
there's a lot of things moving here
deforestation of the rainforest PS I'm a
Christian I baked you a cake though you
know I don't know enough about him but
it sounds like he really hates Marxism
and he's and he's really pushing Brazil
to become more of a world leader and
that he actually is for capitalism and
he's trying to get some of the SJW stuff
out of the schools I just saw a tweet by
him a day or two ago so on that front
and as again I don't know a ton about
him that all sounds good to me he's
trying to get some of the SJW stuff out
of the schools like like like the things
that say like you shouldn't be raping
people or I mean that's well no this is
right on top of this guy actually walked
it back because it was like an
international slight international
embarrassment for a second and it's all
the other things they're doing but his
minister said boys will wear blue girls
will wear pink and actually had to say
Oh actually everybody can wear whatever
they want right because even that was
sjw's have got to them well no because
well duh because the economists in the
Wall Street Journal that have no problem
with fascism are like we certainly
support the like murdering of all the
indigenous peoples to help our petrol
companies but we feel slightly uneasy
like awkward when we have pictures of
your students that they're all wearing
Horcher and gay kids in school isn't
really great brands know what tell me
about this though Michael
so Brazil seems to be like becoming big
like they're they're back in the new
what do you say that they're like he
wants to make Brazil what did he say
like how did he put that he's like more
respected again or or great again trying
to be a leader like a goal a global
player these guys been sitting on the
sidelines yeah they were totally totally
irrelevant under like there was this
thing that did happen from like 2003 to
2010 at least or 12:00 or like they had
stipulating the criticisms these things
but they had the Olympics the World Cup
Lula was the most popular president in
the world with an over eighty percent
approval rating the economy grew by
leaps and bounds
they took 30 million people out of
poverty and Obama met
and said he's the most popular
politician on earth and they set up a
new brick trade agreement and alliance
with Russia China and South Africa so
which still exists to this day so some
people think that that period actually
was really good for Brazil
internationally yeah but now they're
starting to call it kick it into high
gear now they're kicking into high gear
forgetting the sjw's out of schools
because now they're right because now
several months following the gunning
down of Mariela Franco who was an
afro-brazilian lesbian who fought
against police violence as a city
councilor and they haven't arrested
anybody they're taking it up a notch by
saying we're gonna actually formally
discriminate against and terrorized gay
transgender and lesbian people which
actually another thing incidentally
Brazil actually kicked it into high gear
by having a woman president Dilma
Rousseff and by being ahead of a lot of
Western countries in gay right - SGA w/e
very ncwe this is one of those things
like you know you know that that old
threat like I'm gonna punch you so hard
like you're you know your mom that's
gonna you know get a black eye or
something like this is one of those
situations like where Barry Weiss should
be fired because yeah yes mash takes
fire Barry hashtag fire Barry and just
and by the way I'm and there's just for
pure incompetence in stupidity I did it
for being bad intellectual dumb yeah for
being a
is the closest equivalent I could think
of as if somebody flew me to go to North
Korea or I just did like a North Korean
YouTube propaganda video and I was just
like you people really interested in
ideas and collectivizing the means of
production and then somebody I get a
letter and I think Kim Jong Sheen well I
don't really do much after humor
research but I've heard that he's taking
a lot of land away for the rich people
which I like he was really good about
stepping over the net did you know like
this really I walk the line there he
stepped over which I think it's pretty
cool he's really kicking it into gear
with the peace in the weapons so I don't
know enough but a great public
transportation got great public
transportation pursue I think he's
actually doing a really good job but I
don't know but I don't know I don't know
Kim Chi wheel
