[Music]
okay let's just do this what could be
more peak 2019
then a multi-billion dollar trust fund
baby lying about and smearing people to
support Bernie Sanders I don't want to
just be really clear about things or
2016 to me I think it's I think you know
history just goes and goes and goes it's
a flat circle the flat circle folks flat
circle folks I mean the fact that you
know the MSNBC Booker's didn't even feel
the need to like hey you know what maybe
instead of in 2016 instead of will still
have people lie about and say crow test
things about Sanders but they'll at
least be like I don't know some you know
you could find any number of random
mediocre pundits that will do this you
know it's it's like really like like no
no no it absolutely has to be a good
aren't you and Trust Fund baby to do
this so um three quick points before we
play this clip and then we'll elaborate
them but I want to just keep three
things in mind one is a campaign point
yeah this does matter because two two
are actually campaign related points the
third is more general one yes it matters
because you know if if some guy names
like you know birdie bro you know Big D
32 with 45 followers says hey WFP are
jerks this will lead to days of
recriminations and press coverage and
smears and lies and exaggeration and a
demand that the actual presidential
campaign condemned this stuff right this
is a nationally televised performance by
the way and not an abnormality we
remember the cringe comment from a
couple of milk skin crawl comment from a
couple of months ago so it needs to be
dealt with and called out because the
structural bias against standards is
astounding now the second point I would
say is if we're gonna play the game and
I think there needs to be limits on the
game as I've said I've heard people
who've you know opposed Sanders of
support Warren certainly supported
Clinton who've said things that if I
wanted to
being that sort of like you know a
certain kind of mindset I could
definitely say we're definitely
anti-semitic and and it's certainly a
gist and all of this other stuff I don't
think it's the responsibility of you
know the warran or any campaign to
condemn what random people on Twitter
say but I will say this if a prominent
supporter or at least sympathetic
analysts to Sanders went on national
television and said Bernie Sanders is a
great candidate he's putting the most
progressive politics on the table of any
presidential candidate in the modern era
which are both objectively true
statements and if you don't support him
you're showing your anti-jewish bias by
the way that might be true and I am
actually gonna be talking about more of
that frankly because that is definitely
true in some cases but if that was just
your general comment that would be a
obviously a huge overstatement and a
smear of some people and the FIR and
Bernie Sanders campaign again and this
person could be you know they would have
no title they would have already had to
condemn this statement you know 50 times
so I just want to say if that's the game
we're playing uh senator Warren's
campaign should condemn and reject all
this stuff a hundred percent and three
I'll be really short the bias against
Sanders is bigger than a bias against
him because you have the most overtly
working-class candidate in modern
politics who represents a multiracial
coalition so what you do when you do
that and what you do when you say that
you know Nina Turner is getting paid to
have sex with Bernie as somebody with a
platform said okay so or you call Anna
guaranted this is a you know this is now
we're getting one level of lower-level
people but you know some of the things
that have been said about Cornel West
Brianna joy grade Nina Turner and others
um not only are people revealing
obviously all of their hypocrisy and
contradictions in some cases just overt
racism and sexism Bernie is a stand-in
for a profound contempt for working
people in this country that's why
someone could still
say someone's bringing now we're going
back to he's promising pony lines and I
could tell you that as someone who's not
had health care and knows people who
still are under cared calling that a
pony is it's sociopathic if I'm desk
it's absolutely grotesque and the very
functionality and look I'm sorry I don't
care her gender in this instance this is
eight hundreds of milk this is a
multi-millionaire is a family that owns
buildings at NYU we're talking to a
representative of the Borg here this is
a woman per se and we're just talking
about oligarch that's it I mean what's
ha there was investing money before he
was a teenager because he got it from
his father
exactly these are billionaire
billionaire they're worth one point six
billion those this is defense this is
the daughter from succession and she's
on MSNBC using the cheapest most you
know weaponized identity trash in the
book upshot of which in reality whether
she even knows it or not is I don't want
to pay more and you can die and by the
way not only can you die advocating for
yourself is sexist this is this is one
of the most grotesque things I've ever
seen on television and I know that
Warren has a wealth tax it ain't as big
as Bernie's and I'm quite confident now
and this is where look Warren is not
Hillary Clinton she's not as far from
Hillary Clinton as I'd like her to be
particularly on foreign policy but she's
not Hillary Clinton but because now she
is absorbing and benefiting from the
professional middle-class right-wing
corporatist disingenuous caucus like
Tishman um she's gonna also in that
sense have to take responsibility for
her supporters anyways I'm sorry I had a
lot to get off my chest there let's play
this clip there's there's a ceiling
there is nowhere to go but there is no
up to go and all of those I actually
heard overheard someone saying that I
thought was an interesting point sorry
but remember when Tom Scavo was talking
about ventriloquism of other people but
pundits online this is just another
instant
on smart good as they read it overheard
someone saying that I thought was an
interesting point that basically at this
point if you are still supporting
standards as opposed to Warren it's kind
of showing your sexism because she has
more detailed plans and her plans have
evolved I thought it was an interesting
point and I think there may be something
to it yeah I agree with all that okay
right that's a good answer you're just
completely smeared a whole the lecture
to people Oh wah wah by the way you know
and again I am over the performance of
plans and this is another area where the
end no I mean look I'm annoyed you know
whatever the warren campaign did their
brand thing that's fine I don't hold it
against them but the fetishization that
people have these so-called plans first
of all they're bought their blog posts
their blog posts and you're not
convinced I have yet to meet a single
person who gives me that spiel like oh
that sounds cool what plans are you
talking about oh well the duh Oh could
you tell me some detail I actually have
read a couple of these plans I've never
met anyone who comes to me bragging
about them and tells me that that's a
reason to support her over Sanders who's
read them I literally have not met that
person I'm sure they exist I've never
met them and now Bernie has quite
detailed plans as well so that's a moot
point but I mean look the the bigger
point here is just the disgusting
grotesque disingenuous nough so we
talked about before but please guys have
I mean I have a few thoughts on this I
mean first of all when I talked before
about how we need to be civil to the
good faith Warren supporters this is not
who I was talking about um this woman
should know better but even if she
doesn't right like maybe it's not at the
forefront of her mind her fealty to her
own class her not wanting to pay more in
taxes wanting to block some sort of
progressive ideology blah blah blah it
might not be at the forefront of her
mind she might just be thinking they're
not that different it's time for woman
and she has the privilege to not have to
think about anything else because when
you do come from a wealthy family as a
woman like yes her only experience of
any kind of oppression is probably a
long lines of gender and it's probably
less like oh my boss is sexually
harassing me but if I quit I won't be
able to feed my kids more along the
lines of like longing to see yourself
represented at the highest elite levels
of government you know so that's not who
I'm talking about but like yeah it's a
privilege not to think about these
things also like I gotta give Warren a
bit of a shout-out here because I feel
like she's better than supporters like
this and I've seen a lot of the energy
of the j-rock Hillary people going 100%
behind Warren this time around and like
you said they are very different and I
think what it reflects about these
people is not necessarily that their
ideology has changed substantially since
2016 but it's that they don't really
care about ideology that much they don't
really care about politics it's 100
percent right and I would just add
though one if Warren on a campaign basis
wants to keep getting credit for it she
needs to disavow it and the same demand
is made of Sanders and the second thing
is is that yes but she is not Sanders in
terms of progressive and left and she is
turning into the new proxy for
destroying the left and it's starting to
remind me I'm not saying it's the same
thing but it's starting to remind me of
Tom Perez versus keith Ellison in the
sense that like Tom Perez was the
establishment saying because you people
forget because he's been such a disaster
but he was known as like a real liberal
inside that context and he did some good
things in his position in cabinet but he
was put up because they did not want an
actual left presence in keith Ellison so
she needs to and look I get the
calculation of triangulating it but then
again that actually leads back to the
conversations that all of us are having
the left ecosystem which is that's the
lane fine but let's not gas late and
play games and pretend and lie and
obfuscate about a center-left
triangulate er versus a crusading social
democrat with a movement those are
different things and you can be honest
about what you pick but you can't lie
about the distinction one final note and
this is less to do with the candidates
and more
to do it sort of the media and how
inheritance is a subsidy I'm
reading Emily tear Sussman's bio Emily
Tish Sussman has been at the forefront
of the progressive movement in America
for more than a decade and I mean she
has less followers than all three of us
of course like she has a third like she
has 5,000 followers of course you've
been doing this for a decade and yet
that's the following you've built and I
just said that's the most important
metric but and when I just said mic drop
mic drop and I just want to say when I
said like the daughter in succession
that isn't I don't actually just mean
generically billionaire daughter though
I could and I make no bones about it but
actually specifically if you watch that
show part of her sort of cultivation of
her being something different than her
family is being involved as like a
liberal political consultant so she's
completely the same as the rest of her
family but she has like a self brand
concept of being different and you know
whatever I don't know the psychodrama of
that family but I do know that a
billionaire is on television lying about
people who are fighting for their very
foundational existence that's absolutely
disgusting but they laughed at it and
it's normal programming on MSNBC and
that's grotesque and I oppose it I mean
look if I were a billionaire with a
vested interest in maintaining some form
of market capitalism in this country and
in this world and I you know didn't want
something worse to happen I didn't want
the pitchforks to come for me during the
revolution I would make a big show of
supporting Bernie Sanders because he is
the one who's gonna reform
who's gonna create the reforms that will
keep capitalism going because guess what
if that doesn't happen it's not like
it's just gonna go back to normal
would you like a really good expansive
New Deal or do you want to fall you know
fully into Barbara's fascism and I think
you know honestly I think some of these
people who like to have the morality
credits of posing at the end of day
don't care they'll be in gated
communities I think anybody who comes
from a couple of generations of wealth
on both sides and isn't basically taking
the maximalist class antagonist position
should keep their mouth shut
100% completely well but to be fair
there were there are a lot of people who
share this belief about Bernie Sanders
and maybe us we just talked about why
may be a billionaire oligarchs should
probably not be making that message on
trust fund baby should probably not be
talking about that at MSNBC but how
about a really prominent film producer
this is from mm I yes this is well how
about back in the day when it was a
really prominent film producer making
that same point she said to me there
that when when Bernie said Hillary
wasn't qualified they took that a little
like a little sexist you know just like
how could the Secretary of State 103
countries that she visited two times
Senator Rhino first lady civil rights
lawyer not be quality yeah so just to
remind people what that whole thing was
about speaking of disingenuous smears is
that it was floated that Hillary said
Bernie that that was the attack on
Bernie and Bernie said well let me let
me just say in response to Secretary
Clinton I don't believe that she is I
don't believe that she is qualified if
she is if she is through her super PAC
taking tens of millions of dollars in
special interest funds I don't think you
are qualified if you get fifty million
dollars from Wall Street through your
super PAC so it was a return for the
young qualify think apparently only
Hillary's allowed to call Bernie a
senator unqualified well that's what all
and that's another reason why I'm just
being really clear about this stuff
because it's like we know that like if
they ever have a debate moment where he
says you know my friend and colleague
senator Warren who I respect a great
deal and in which case in this one like
that would actually be true he would say
you know but we have a fundamentally
different belief about medical diet or
rent control you know he do that and
then all of these people are gonna say
did you see the leering sexism in his
eyes condescend yeah so it's just like
you know we just can't we can't play all
that and just one final note for me on
the whole Washington Generals
conversation we're having earlier Tish
Sussman was a former vice president of
something at Center for American
Progress
I believe that I gotta say like I really
do understand the desire to have a woman
be president and not everybody who has
that desire is as privileged as this
class enemy that we were just watching
here but you got to think about the
other stuff too you got to think about
the big picture you have to think about
America's role in the world you have to
think about the people who are dying
because they don't have health care and
all of those things are super super
important and there's no there's no
contest material consequences for
consequences folks well here's I I don't
