[Music]
the Sudan where there are major
movements taking place across the
country the security forces are aiming
guns and tear gas on people in the
military is in some cases actually um
protecting people now this movement
started a couple of months ago
fundamentally an anti-austerity movement
as in some ways you could look at
actually the uprisings in Egypt and
Tunisia that way as well
Alexandria the second city in Egypt is a
very high concentration of labor power
and there was a huge impetus for that
movement um coming from labor and I
think one of the very interesting things
about how Sudan has gotten so little
press is that several years ago when
there's a you know huge amount of focus
on the crimes that the Omar al-bashir
was committing in Darfur as an example
Sudan was on a lot of the sort of
top-line media and liberal concern group
focuses in the last couple of years not
only has a Sudan fallen out of focus
even as abuses and atrocities and
continued this austerity uprising has
barely been noticed until really quite
recently and I think it should be noted
that Omar al-bashir is sort of in some
ways worked his way it back into a
global good standing by of course
actually helping eurozone nations with
vicious vicious anti-migrant policies so
this is empowered by students and some
powered by labor unions it doesn't rely
on the traditional opposition parties as
much at the same time I think anytime
you sort of you know practically they
should be appealing to the military but
we also saw what happened in Egypt and
that was a tragedy
essentially it wasn't a revolution it
was essentially a military enabled a
head of state change but let's but
regardless of that sort of cautionary
note this is also just people with
incredible courage risking their lives
to fight a regime that's ran
Omar al-bashir I think has been in power
since the late 80s and this is just
incredible courage and correct demands
that we should be in solidarity with so
let's just play some of these clips this
is this one is iconic this woman singing
here we could play this doing this for
months and this is another of the tweet
from nesrin malik this is a soldier
calling on the rest of his rank to join
the people and he's make sure he's being
recorded before he starts this clip and
absolutely he and others could
absolutely face execution for doing this
this is an incredible courage here let's
play some of that yeah he's making sure
that he's being recorded while he does
this and he's calling on his fellow
soldiers to join in the army to
basically protect the revolution and in
some cases there have been barracks that
have been opened for revolutionaries to
protect themselves
and this is interesting though this is
very different because you know in Egypt
there was this sort of like I wonder
like the extent to which the difference
but this is revolutionary bottom-up
activity right here these are like
ground level soldiers responding and
wanting the change to I don't know what
the leadership of the military is in
this position but this is incredibly
inspiring and I think you know very
revealing that Sudan was at the top of
the agenda when it was you know a
absolutely a story of atrocities and
abuse but it's not at the top of the
agenda when it's people with actually I
think some similarities in terms of
austerity and wealth concentration and
authoritarian politics of the right-wing
variety that you might find in many
other parts of the world including
obviously the United States right now or
Brazil in some respects this is also a
cross religious and cross ethnic a
movement which is really important Omar
al-bashir has been a master of using
these types of things to divide his
populous and it might be I might be
running out for him we could only hope
so it's amazing to watch this sort of
scene which has happened like in so many
different places across the globe and so
many different types of revolutions
except this time it's covered with the
you know he's got like the megaphone and
they get a cell phones around him it's
like it's it's a different kind of world
it's a very different world also like
people are displaying agency right now I
feel like the mainstream press is more
interested in the Sudanese people or
whoever when they're just these like
suffering masses and when they are
joining together and taking action
they're like yeah what's what you doubt
by it it's much easier for the media to
take like sort of like a NGO report and
make that into a news peg then like try
to figure out what's actually happening
independent of that those sorts of data
gathering organizations right
