oh so that dude I talked about the other
night yesterday which one who I walked
away
oh yeah the healthcare guy well yeah
he's sort of stalking me right now
ooh as we speak bring em on the show
could be go to ambush him do you want me
to do that Jesse Watters I'm head bring
your yeah microphone Jesse water and on
the street why and he said hi but I also
let's see after you sit down period
should we do this we see here you wanna
die you have a mission Sam he's walking
around he's getting schwag that's what a
lot of people do to him did they get
these wagons alright here he is hold on
slow down hey excuse me so I'm doing my
show did I tell you I did do a show do
you wanna I want to come on good because
I was talking in general that I was a
mixture the mimosa the show having have
a seat seat here you're on you're on
camera just let you know now now we were
you know I been referencing that I've
been having political conversations with
people here yes and you and I had a
conversation the other night quite a
good conversation actually the other
night yeah now so let's we were talking
about health care yes right and you were
making the argument that Medicare for
all not good I was saying it was it was
a not good overall solution I think
unfortunately you need to keep the
private entities in the game as well is
that unfortunate
well simply Medicare for all if it would
work and provide still the best level of
service would be a great thing
unfortunately the government when you
leave it to a single entity
almost never does anything as well as
private sector in my part in my opinion
so if you have a number of competing
companies you have a level of service a
level of care and you reduce the amount
of cost involved in the insurance
companies yes now why is that not
actually happened
why is insurance gone up every single
year that it has been in existence well
if you look at the law the highest most
recent increases was actually because of
the demand placed on it by the
Affordable Care Act how so well you when
you're requiring a minimum level of care
that is significantly higher than what
was provided their lowest level entry
product before of course if you have to
pay for you know two wellness visits to
your which by the way is not a bad thing
I mean it's I'm not saying that
providing a service is bad but when you
force it on them of course the cost is
gonna go up okay and and how do you
explain the cost going up at such a
rapid rate even a greater rate then
since the Affordable Care Act was
imposed you say even before that yeah
before the Apothecary if you look at
like 2002 2014 the rate of increase in
the cost of health insurance is greater
than it's been since the advent of
Obamacare that's not true it's it's gone
this notice it's absolutely the two
steepest increases were directly after
Obamacare that being said it has been
going up significantly you're right okay
so how do you reconcile that if it's if
it's because of Obamacare you have not
say it's because of Obamacare I said it
was contributing factor over the past
couple okay he said I'm not saying this
is the way I'm just I'm just asking you
because you said that the the more
insurance companies you have as opposed
to a single-payer system the price goes
down but there's no example that you can
cite in the history of us having
multiple insurance companies in this
field that that there's that prices have
gone down this is actually a relatively
decent except that's not true at all the
level of coverage and the cost literally
was going down year over year over year
now the complaint was that it was going
up which is a complete and utter fallacy
you're telling me that insurance pricing
okay give me give me
anytime anytime over an eight-year
period where it didn't go up it's
outside of the last ten years part of
that any five to eight year period where
it didn't go up more than 20% over the
entire period I'm not sure I know what
you're talking about
okay give me but when were the last
significant increases over ten percent
per year in health care and mark them
out and if you go out you will not find
you will find nearly no example of that
prior to the end of the 90s okay let's
see if I can cost of health insurance
let's see if I can do this in get some
historical health insurance price
history from 2005 to 2010 out in the
market and when you had the market
crashed effective raids of all while if
you look at the overall generation of
costs as it relates to health care prior
to this becoming a big deal prior to
this becoming was dealing that we had
great prices it was covered by comma and
everybody was doing well then all of a
sudden it try it became an issue and all
of a sudden prices went up because
everybody when you put that level of
distrust in the industry and you start
to attack the industry I mean you wind
up with you know I mean so you're saying
that costs went up health insurance
costs went up because people didn't
trust health insurance no it's because
health insurance didn't trust the
government I mean it's the same thing
look at all Obama ruin the economy it's
very simple Obama ruined the economy
absolutely I mean come on ask any
economist ever well okay all right how
did he not how ruined it let's let's
let's get let's figure this out who
ruined the economy well you know that
the economy crashed before he was
president yes
but you know that he had he oversaw the
worst recovery ever in this country's
history and it was purposely done he
purposefully made a
I'd work covered so he didn't ruin the
economy he just didn't recover it
well everything he could to make sure
that it did not recover quickly but why
why did he do that
have you read have you read the Cloward
Pippin Jesus excuse me have you read
Cloward Piven I have not read cloud okay
well then you're not journalists because
I mean that is the Democratic strategy
it is the underlying document and if you
actually read it
anybody that leans left actually father
do some research you you so Obama came
in and was executing the Cloward Priven
yes and if you read it I mean it's
literally it outlines and all the people
around him all these bankers from a
Citibank and in this they they subscribe
to the same Cloward Priven see here's
their you keep looking at it you're
trying to blame everybody else but you
want it you want to completely just give
him this god complex where he could do
nothing wrong but he said the government
is the biggest impact of the economy
which is garbage but if you if you
subscribe to that theory then you can't
not blame Obama for the stale recovery
you can't sit there and say he had
nothing to do with it and then also say
that I didn't say that he had nothing to
do with it if the stimulus should have
been bigger
why does the stimulus ever worked every
time it's been implemented short term
never long term it's never had any
long-term benefit whatsoever what the
economy is recovered it was slowest
recovery in this country's history well
it was the second largest why is it that
US corporations had the largest cash
reserves in US history throughout the
beginning the Obama presidency okay
didn't invest because they were
concerned about the direction of the
company of the country and because there
was very limited actual knowledge given
as to what the changes in taxes were
going to be therefore they could not
invest this was every top economist came
out and said this in and begged with our
own top economist
we need any any economic I mean
literally from Bloomberg who came out
friggin saying it who you would not
expect to litter I mean every top seat
you always saying we want to invest we
want to grow as Koppel Telos yes yes
economist as well the CEOs of the
company their their head CFOs we're
coming out saying listen we want to
invest the natural officers yes who
we're talking about the amount you dive
you've done any research as a question
okay so you you have absolutely no
knowledge of the subject but you have no
knowledge of the subject okay so so why
are you arguing subject I'm actually
being facetious I mean I have not read
the Cloward Priven thing I've got it
I've got to do more research but what
about all the spending and stimulus that
we had during the Great Depression okay
what there was a need for it and I would
have no problem putting money into you
know redoing bridges things like that
these are valid things bombers by
shovel-ready jobs and then a year and a
half later says oh yeah there is no such
thing as a shovel-ready job and eight
hundred billion dollars somehow
disappeared
well how much of that eight hundred
billion dollars were tax cuts not that
much I mean the spending no he's spent
eight hundred billion dollars that you
could not find I mean it was money spent
we're not talking tax cuts this is money
spent okay so you say was eight hundred
hold on for one second because as you
say it's very important to do research
right right and we're gonna talk about
the the stimulus and we're gonna we're
gonna look it up together here how much
was the stimulus of 2009
oh now you're talking to stalking was
bending versus distinguish yes well
known that we're talking about the list
I asked you hold on for one second okay
I asked you how much of the stimulus was
tax cuts you say it's eight hundred
billion dollar stimulus I think it's
closer to seven seventy but let's not be
picky and the question is how much of
that was simple was was tax cuts and how
much of it was actual spending from the
New York Post as you know not a liberal
newspaper right more than half of the
package was tax cuts was tax was in tax
cuts okay what is half of eight hundred
billion four hundred billion so four
hundred billion of that was tax cuts now
I'm surprised you didn't know that
because that's not what we were talking
about spending we move past that it's
not cut it did nothing what did stimulus
do where did it get us well it kept us
from going over to a deeper recession we
didn't do anything good but we stopped
this catastrophic thing that we can
never ever actually quantify that's why
is it from the left it's always millions
on the left you have never actually done
anything it's always just if you hadn't
done what you did it would have been
worse I've never actually heard a
Democrat go we actually did something
good and we had a positive benefit we
did some would have worse if we didn't
do expanded Medicaid under the ACA and
there's a child versus the it is
increased was the health of really okay
now show me any marginal increase yes I
can actually just there was new studies
that just came out impact of Medicaid
expansion so just look at that
on health and Google that and it was
just a reports and where's I mean let's
increase like I said the wellness things
in a couple but again that's not the
Medicaid expansion that's that's the
forcing of insurance companies to
provide so it's no I and you're looking
at two different variants of no you're
looking at two different variants I
didn't bring that up that was what you
just said I didn't on health but is it
just the Medicaid expansion if you are
narrowing it down just to the Medicaid
expansion yes yeah I'm going to I've
just find it right here this is the
University of Michigan health
I don't do you consider that like a left
wing okay right anyways it says benefits
for mind body and work ability seen in
Medicaid expansion new findings about
low-income adults with behavioral health
conditions mental health and substance
abuse disorders suggest importance of
continuous coverage expanding Medicaid
to more low-income adults help them feel
healthier do a better job at work or job
search in just one year after they got
their new health coverage a Michigan
University of Michigan study finds I can
find more stuff that was is there any
number in there that gives any level
well yeah I mean I guess we could look
through the actual study I mean but I'm
telling you there's a paper it says in a
new paper in the journal psychiatric
services okay so offering addiction
services to people 100% behind that
right okay
Medicaid we were just saying okay I
don't think it has had a drastic
increase and honestly are these people
that would not have had health care
before probably not not a large not
Medicaid is only available to people who
can't afford health care that's a load
of crap
what that's a load of crap what do you
mean who's eligible for Medicaid in the
expansion
well they do said low-income people now
if you know no let me ask you because
you have done a lot of research on this
and so I'm asking you who's eligible for
Medicaid do you know what level of
poverty for the expansion of Medicaid
133 percent of poverty a hundred and
thirty three percent percent of poverty
not that far off I guess
well look I think this has been
interesting but I'm actually we're going
to wrap up the show all right take it
easy yeah don't forget you drink there
you go oh I didn't realize there was
nothing left okay
Wow yep so my gun was talking about with
all those new perspectives you're
bringing in I'm sorry folks but that
that one stuck out for me of the various
with the Piven Cloward strategy is Jesus
I didn't was he talking about Francis
yes that was Glenn's been the Obama
administration I know I was like I was
relieved he wasn't into the whole left
versus right thing though that was cool
though you didn't really subscribe to
that
