AOC was on Anderson Cooper you're not
going to play the video because CBS very
uptight about that but we will play the
audio and it's interesting like this is
just an example because Brenda and I
were listening to this beforehand and it
struck me there was two options that
that AOC had in answering this question
and both are worthwhile but it's
interesting construction but you know
let's just listen this is Anderson
Cooper giving her they like hot deal
what planet are you from type of
questioning because there they are
they get very nervous with anything that
is left of left-of-center is it his mom
like Gloria Vanderbilt right yeah yeah
well makes sense yeah or just I mean he
doesn't even need I mean like you know
Anderson Cooper's got a nice chunk of
change himself I mean it is the the fear
is not that they're gonna they're there
their wealth is going to be ex
appropriated the fear is just of like
there's just an uncomfortability like I
think an inherent uncomfortability with
with any type of genuine leftist
proposal and this isn't even that
radical but that's the issue here you're
talking your own carbon emissions no use
of fossil fuels within 12 years that is
the goal its ambitious yeah how was that
possibility of everybody happening to
drive an electric car it's going to
require a lot how's it no justice I
really think about this like the idea
first of all we are inundated with
stories about self-driving cars right
like like you know like the idea that
Anderson Cooper would say to someone
like every like self-driving cars in 12
years he would never say that like you
know technology
like but the idea that we all have
electric cars in 12 years is that really
that crazy I think we also can't get out
of the paradigm where everyone drives
around in cars all the time require
major change to our infrastructure
you're totally right Jamie but that even
undermines even more how ludicrous that
is like more people being in electric
cars is like the easiest part by far
event like the part that all business is
on board with the part that there's R&D
on the part that we valorize in every
form of media what Tesla like it's just
bizarre right that is like the most like
ya know I could say like well maybe did
certainly by 20 years really does
anybody think that there's gonna be that
we're not gonna be driving all-electric
cars in 20 years
maybe an urban planning is gonna be
completely different I mean what does he
think when Jerry Brown just signed all
California's renewable I think in 20
years of the target what do you think
that means and Jerry Brown's like an
agust respected centrist you know
governor that that's such a bizarre pull
now if she had said we're all gonna be
driving electric jetpacks
that would be crazy no but guns yeah how
was that possible you talk about
everybody happening to drive an electric
car it's going to require a lot of rapid
change that we don't even conceive as
possible right now what is the problem
with trying to push our technological
capacities to the farthest extent
possible this would require them raising
taxes there's an element where yeah
they're people are gonna have to start
paying their fair share in taxes you
have a specific on the tax rate you know
you look at our tax rates back in the
60s and when you have a progressive tax
rate system your tax rate you know let's
say from zero to $75,000 maybe 10% or
15% etc but once you get to like the
tippy tops on your 10 millionth dollar
sometimes you see tax rates as high as
60 or 70% it doesn't mean all 10 million
dollars or taxed at an extremely high
rate but it means that as you climb up
this ladder you should be contributing
more what you are talking about now I
just want to say something I get I want
to be overly critical but she's under
selling it the tax rate changed in 1963
I think under Kennedy Kennedy and it was
dropped the top marginal tax rate was
90% and it was dropped to 75 percent or
so under Kennedy and that 90 percent was
not on the ten million dollar in in
1950s in 1919 sixties dollars that would
have been the top that would have been
three million you get three million and
then every dollar after three million
this is in today's dollars you pay 90
cents in taxes so she was soft-pedaling
it yeah but of course to Anderson Cooper
who has been a news person for 20-some
odd years and I get it we're all busy
okay but you could just google
historical tax rates just for the heck
of it and realize like what she's saying
is a mainstream proposition or it lit
the very least likely to know this like
astound like the astonishment that he
registers like either he is acting
pretending or just like completely
ignorant of like some of the more basic
questions like if you get there and
you're gonna ask for a specific tax rate
from a congressperson which you never
ask anybody like you know you never if
you never asked that question but if you
but if you're going to you owe it to
your viewers and frankly to your own
self-respect to get a sense of what
she's saying means in the context of
American history right and he doesn't
but he responds like this like flying
cars and well by the way do you know
what FDR's threat was for the top
marginal rate can anybody guess 100
percent under percent
it'll revolution yes and
and so alright but but but continuing
because he's just his mind is alone she
she might as well have said to him like
alright here's the plan
everybody's gonna walk on stilts
everybody including pets including pets
and we can train them we can train the
pets to walk on stilts in extremely high
rate but it means that as you climb up
this ladder
you should be contributing more what you
are talking about this big picture is a
radical agenda compared to the way
politics is done right now well I think
that it only has ever been radicals that
have changed this country Abraham
Lincoln made the radical decision to
sign the the Emancipation Proclamation
Franklin Delano Roosevelt made the
radical decision to embark on
establishing programs like Social
Security that is radical do you call
yourself a radical yeah you know if
that's what radical means call me a
radical now here's the here here you
know that was the part that Brenda and I
were listening to and I was like yeah I
don't know if I would have taken that
tack because she could say like well you
know it's not radical in the context of
American politics beyond like the past
25 years 30 years this country you know
we're talking about 10% of the history
of this country that I can understand
why she took that tact but I can tell
you that an hour later
CBS headline was Alexandria Acacio
cortes dot dot quote call me a radical
you know they're not going to like you
know it's not that big of a deal but
this is this is you know like there is a
tremendous amount of of forces that are
arrayed to make her seem like she's some
type of alien some type of like of
dancing on roofs alien it's funny
because I you know I proposed this this
morning at 11:20 a.m. whoever runs
Bernie's account I think you know was
kind of indirectly responding to that
said is it quote unquote radical to
demand all Americans have health care
that billionaires pay their fair share
of taxes and workers are in at least 15
hour and that we transform our energy
system in order to combat climate change
I don't think so and I I I don't shy
away at all from the word radical but I
actually think it's effective especially
if you are a radical to really keep
pointing out that single-payer health
care and a slight bump in the minimum
wage and doing the bare minimum of
what's scientifically necessary to deal
with climate is moderate obvious
shouldn't be controversial remotely of
course I think it was a similar
construction to what she said in the
interview like I don't think she was
literally saying I'm a radical no no no
no I agree there's two different
constructions one is like you know the
classic if you know defining down what
radical means or the other is defining
down what you know what is one is
defining down what the term of radical
is and the other is attacking the
concept that what she's proposing is
radical and so you know it's just a
choice it doesn't really it probably
didn't matter which one she chose one
way or another they were going to try
and make it seem like she's proposing
you know everybody we're just
everybody's gonna be on stilts that's
just the way it's gonna work and if not
then you're up against the wall
but red-state caught on a little bit
this is briefly that we should have done
this after the huh
you don't say yes afternoon they're like
attacks on Acacio cortes are reaching
self-defeating levels let me suggest
this one of the features of 2018 was the
ascension of the rights favorite young
upstart socialist defeating a longtime
Democratic member house and it goes on
but what was justified criticism over
her early mistakes of showing off her
ignorant is crossing into self-defeating
pointlessness and gaining her defense
from fair-minded conservatives I would
say not reaching self-defeating levels I
would say surpassing self-defeating
levels but I would say keep up keep up
the good work
