[Music]
bullfrog what do you think of the
population control question to Bernie
because CNN's replies are filled with
gross insinuations that Bernie supports
the idea is like a China's one-child
policy or even Nazi experiments I did
not see that this is the one the right
wing is running with I'll pull it up
here in a second okay just YouTube here
so I would say sight unseen that I am
extremely confident that CNN let a gross
weird question get through their system
there's actually a serious point to be
made about this all right let of Jesus
I mean if yeah if Steve Scalise is
promoting it then you know that you
don't need to trust David Duke without
the David Duke without the baggage his
own words human population growth has
more than doubled in the past 50 years
the planet cannot sustain this growth I
realize this is a poisonous topic for
politicians but it's crucial to face
empowering women and educating everyone
on the need to curb population growth
seems a reasonable campaign to enact
would you be courageous enough to
discuss this issue and make it a key
feature of a plan to address climate
catastrophe well most of the answer is
yes
and the answer has everything to do with
the fact that women in the United States
of America by the way have a right to
control their own bodies
and the Mexico City agreement which
denies American aid to those
organizations around the world that are
that allow women to have abortions or
even get involved in birth control to me
is totally absurd so I think especially
in poor countries around the world where
women do not necessarily want to have
large numbers of babies and where they
can have the opportunity through birth
control to control the number of kids
they have something I very very strongly
support okay so this is really clear
what's going on so one we can dismiss
the Scalise all the nonsense about
Bernie supporting one-child policy
that's Alex Jones stuff but I'll take
the two serious parts of this he heard
that question as a question about
reproductive justice and birth control
and he's right the insinuations of that
question and I don't know where that
woman's coming from maybe I'm being
unfair to her but the insinuations of
that question are very sinister and I
remember there was somebody who was I am
in the show that was trying to get me to
get obsessed with population rates and
my answer continues to be a hundred
percent no one because it's a disastrous
way of framing it and the reality is is
that we all know that if you put in
place programs that Bernie's talking
about which we all support birth control
decision-making about a woman's own body
poverty reduction health care all of
these types of things that does reduce
population growth if you're worried
about that but the broader point here
and something that I was actually just
talking with Liz forensic about on my
show you have to question the relentless
obsession in Western academia and
Western NGO sector with the population
growth of profoundly poor societies and
I mean this goes back to the 1970s
counter critiques from places like the
ecologist magazine and indigenous rights
organizations why is the Gates
Foundation
so concerned about a population growth
in Malawi I mean
look again I've already taken a sincere
concern about public health and women's
rights off the table that's fine we
don't and that was what Bernie thought
he was responding to but if you're
talking about simply population growth
it's that's absurd absurd I mean these
places where people have this obsessive
focus you're talking about individual
average greenhouse gas contributions and
and climate impact a fraction of the
individual impact of people in the
United States it's absurd and then
blowing it up even broader broader and
thinking of it in actually intelligent
way these things are not about
individual consumption they are about
structural questions they are about
capitalism they are about the limits to
growth they are not about an individual
footprint this is a this is Vox and in
this is a this is a very odd exchange
with Bill Gates and Ezra Klein on global
progress oh there's no video basically
progress in the fight against poverty
may be about to stall why the poorest
parts of the world are growing faster
than anywhere else particularly
especially in Africa listen to Bill
Gates and Ezra Klein discuss global
progress in 2018
poverty is not a natural phenomenon in
Africa or anywhere yes there's
ecological factors maybe a place has a
drought maybe a commodity price gets hit
sure but the reality has natural
resource Africa has a ton of natural
resources you're talking about a place
that one and I'm I apologized to people
who don't like history one never got
compensated for being systemically
robbed and destroyed for hundreds of
years and this applies across the
colonial map and in most and a lot of
African is say okay so you have systemic
theft then in the modern iteration you
still have trade agreements that are
profoundly unfavorable as
well as us and otherwise back
kleptocracy x' and then if you want to
pull up the you know example of like oh
well how come Singapore Singapore was
colonized well Singapore is a tiny
island nation state that exercised any
narrow advantage in the global
marketplace and still by the way is
simply like places like Hong Kong Dubai
and Singapore poor people just don't
exist in a structural in these places
and to the extent they do and they do
they're in really bad positions whether
they're getting priced out of a housing
market or there's insufficient services
in a place like Hong Kong or in a place
like Dubai yes there's a small group of
Emiratis who incidentally have a
socialized system in the sense that they
get property they get health care they
have incredible benefits and then the
rest of the system is running on
feudalism on literal indentured
servitude I mean this is an as well as
you know I'll just say liquid capital
will be the way all euphemistically put
it so if Bill Gates was interested in
dealing with African poverty he would
demand complete debt relief and he would
suggest that we have some type of global
investment fund to support ecological
preservation infrastructure and
empowering African movements and
institutions that would be a genuine
interest how you could look at a whole
system's problem and get focused down to
the rate of birth in a country that has
barely an ecological footprint to begin
with is to put it mildly going to the
wrong source of focus and to put it less
mildly is a very very disturbing
up point of focus which should make
people go back to some of our most
darkest times in history and I'll
specifically like read up on the history
of eugenics and I'm not saying that
that's the intention I'm saying that
that is the intellectual infrastructure
that people might not even know they'd
be enacting any
in order to even have such a ludicrous
question about how places that have been
colonized and then subjected to World
Bank and IMF austerity programs and
which would not allow them to do the
type of public investment that allowed a
place like China to grow and a variety
of other geopolitical questions and and
factors to go down to the rate of well
they haven't sort of opened their
markets up enough yet actually some
places have Kenya has been growing
really fast and there is some poverty
reduction there's some not poverty
reduction because the the questions are
systemic is my point
that type of thing really irritates me
and that's a very you know
Bernie's answer to that is totally fine
I think though that he didn't you know
and a lot of people wouldn't catch the
darker implications of what she was
saying there's a really disturbing
implication there and then yes is bernie
suggesting a one-child policy no we can
move on from the nonsense yeah Margaret
Sanger's eugenics aren't exactly helpful
for the abortion thing in 2019 most
profoundly not and you know right
exactly I mean that's a good example of
sort of like you know don't is when some
right-wing conspiracy theorist brings
that up are they doing it in a
disingenuous reactionary way absolutely
and is it also true and not particularly
helpful for putting across a serious
vision of integrated reproductive
justice at Till's with structural racism
and colonialism yeah it's not focus on
better models and a better thought
process
