so Erika in the last segment you
basically tell us a little bit about the
12th district of New York it encompasses
three different boroughs of New York
City part of Manhattan part of Queens
part of North Brooklyn and you are
looking to unseat a Democratic incumbent
and and what is it about your issue set
that when you are trying to convince
Democrats in New York too that your
challenge is relevant what what what it
what are the issue sets that you're
going to champion that you think are
being underrepresented at this time sure
so I think first and foremost is that
I'm going to practice what I preach so
it's it's one thing to sign on to the
Green Deal right it's another thing when
you sign on to the green New Deal and
yet you still continue to take corporate
PAC money from corporations like
Blackrock which have serious investments
in other companies that are burning down
the Amazon and who we take money from as
candidates as elected officials is going
to impact the way that we are
representing our district and I'm sorry
but any elected official who says that
the money that they receive for campaign
donations isn't going to affect the way
that they are representing their
district is lying is it there's no way
that it can't be and so I think just you
know having that a different value
system is is going to separate my type
of representation which is a grassroots
representation from our current Congress
member and I'm going to be looking at
different policies that really affect
you know my generation and and also the
you know the baby boomers and one of the
things I really like talk about is kage
family leave you know this is not just
about keeper n de lis which is so
incredibly important but according to
the US Census Bureau by 2030 all the
indeed boomers are going to be older
than the age of 65 and that means about
20% of
US residents are going to be of the
retirement age we need to have a paid
family leave program that allows people
to take the time to take care of their
parents just as much as we want them to
have that time to take care of you know
their children and that also includes
taking care of our our siblings but I
have a twin sister if I need to shake
off time to be able to care for her I
would you know want access to a pH
family leave program and I think another
thing is really making sure that any
policies they advance have that green
New Deal framework so it's one thing to
start calling for you know affordable
housing and making changes and upgrades
to you know New York City Housing
Authority complexes it's another thing
to you know fight to forget T's safe
affordable housing and making sure that
the investment that we're putting in
them also mean that we're retrofitting
apartments that currently exist and ones
that we are going to build in the future
so they have glazed windows so that we
don't have to use so much energy and
that we have energy-efficient appliances
that the insulation is also you know
green focused we need to make sure that
any type of policy is going to be
connected all of them are very
intersectional and so we have to have a
representative who's going to look at
these things together and not just this
silo
give us your take on Medicare for all
that's obviously a big issue in the
presidential election in the event that
there is a Democratic president
certainly hopefully there would also be
a democratic house potentially a
Democratic Senate where are you on this
question of of health care I fully
support Medicare for all I personally
know what it's like to have to wait for
health insurance to kick in through my
employer so I could address
insurmountable debilitating pain of a
disease and in my case it's
endometriosis and nobody should have to
decide between more money in their
paycheck in order to put food on the tee
and better health insurance which means
you know possibly a lower paycheck
amount and I was also a sick child I
battled a lot of health issues and I was
a growing up and I was really fortunate
my family was really fortunate that my
parents had comprehensive health
insurance through my mother's employment
no parent should ever have to be
calculating the cost of a hospital stay
or a visit to a specialist an MRI or
blood tests in the back of their head
well they are also holding the hand of
their child telling them it's going to
be okay you also call for a forgiving of
the over 1 trillion dollar in student
loan debt yes so I you know I myself
have about 60 oh yes I have a over six a
year or six figures of student loan debt
probably close the cost of a house you
know I went to college at a time where
it wasn't the American Dream anymore it
was actually the American expectation
and not just by our parents but by our
guidance counselor's our teachers and
even our government that made it really
easy to secure a student loan making us
believe that we were going to have
access to jobs and a career ladder that
would allow us to pay these loans back
but that's not true now then and it's
not true now which is why we have to not
only have a loan forgiveness you know
program for graduate but we should also
be looking at making public universities
colleges and trade schools tuition free
the the other question I have for you
and obviously in the event that you you
do win it may not be an issue by the
time that you sworn in but certainly
other challenges too Democrats have
taken positions on the question of
impeachment I mean where are you in
terms of of impeachment whoa if you were
sitting in Congress today how would you
where would you be on that question
I would be voting in favor for
impeachment and I would be speaking out
publicly about the fact that we have not
you know started impeachment proceedings
yet impeachment has unfortunately become
a political conversation when in reality
it is a constitutional responsibility on
the house of representatives and just
because it was you know political back
in nineteen you know thank you with Bill
Clinton does not mean that should be
political today and because we've waited
so long has now become a political
conversation and frankly I think that
the House of Representatives right now
is really shirking its constitutional
responsibilities because they've been
waiting so long to move forward with
impeachment Erica Vladimir you're
running for Congress in the 12th
district of New York what at this point
we just got about 20 seconds left like
what what's your primary golf for the
moment anyways in terms of what you need
to to win I you know this is a capable
people powered campaign and grassroots
movement so I want you know everybody
who wants to bring a new voice to our
district you join me and they can go on
my website at Erica for and why calm and
join our movement
Erica Vladimir thanks so much view time
today I really appreciate him
