[Music]
in the beginning of the Kohen hearing I
was you know we were doing the
livestream and there was this woman who
was standing it was like I couldn't you
can't really tell cuz you're watching it
on TV but she wasn't on the dais yet
which is where this clip starts it was
before she was actually standing behind
congressman Meadows but she was kind of
somewhere in between the table where
Cohen was testifying and where the
Congress people were and it was like it
first show like is that a journalist and
it's like well maybe but that Majer 'no
'list wouldn't be able to just sort of
like hover around there and then it was
like maybe it's one of his counsel but
it looks like his counsels were both
sitting behind him who is this person
and then it's like I don't you know who
knows maybe it's some maybe it's a
presumably they have like a stenographer
for the transcript or something but it
was it definitely distracted me because
I didn't understand why this person was
sort of hovering and what appeared to be
like you know a place you don't usually
see people standing around the
congressional hearings cut forward to
she's standing behind congressman mark
meadows who it doesn't tell me what
state he's from but I believe is from I
think he's from North Carolina yes he's
from North Carolina and Mark Meadows was
what I mean this guy's from one of those
highly gerrymandered to the point where
I think the Supreme Court was even like
these are clearly racist Jeremy yes this
is a racially gerrymandered district and
he had the countenance and manner of
like a drunk on first class
who's been like cut off from scotch
because he's like starting to yell and I
mean just all of the Republicans were
just amazing failures yesterday at this
hearing and made Michael Cohen looked
enormous ly sympathetic just on a pure
human level because they're all being
such sort of either totally bizarre or
weirdly ineffective or mostly just
massive and Mark Meadows was
the leader of that
and then you realized with this woman
standing behind him oh my god
that's what she's there for and we use
phrases like props in ways that make
sense but maybe aren't literal
translations this would be if you were
teaching somebody the language and they
put a sentence together and they said
this woman Lynne Patton was used as a
prop in a congressional hearing that
would be a literal sentence let's check
this out do you know Lynne Patton yes I
do
I asked today in her personal capacity
to actually shed some light how long
have you known this patent I'm
responsible for Lynne Patton joining the
Trump Organization and the job that she
currently holds well that's I'm glad you
acknowledge that because you made some
very demeaning comments about the the
president that miss Patton doesn't agree
with in fact it has to do with your
claim of racism
she says that as a daughter of a man
born in Birmingham Alabama that there is
no way that she would work for it for an
individual who was racist how do you
reconcile the two of those as neither
should i as the son of a Holocaust
survivor but I guess what was a I do
have to say I mean you could see there
this is the kind of reason why I mean it
was responses like that that you know
look I'm giving them a sympathetic read
that is a perfect that is a clinic
response to that question go ahead but I
guess what I'm saying is I've talked to
the president over 300 times I've not
heard one time a racist comment out of
out of his mouth in private so how do
you reconcile it do you have proof of
those conversations do you have proof
yes or no
I do Oh where's the proof yes miss
Patton how many people
or black our executives at the Trump
Organization India no is Israel oh there
you go but I mean so and you know
obviously let's not leave to the
judgment a guy who would use a woman as
a literal prop to gauge racist comments
like I could imagine him saying like
when the president made that comment
about swimming and an extra bone in your
ankle that was science mr. Cohen
so that was embarrassing and bizarre and
you know let's let's actually we maybe
we'll get to Brenda Lawrence later
because she was very good but there is a
through-line here because congresswoman
Rasheeda to Lib pointed out and you know
this person
congresswoman to live already freaks
these guys out and they're constantly
using the fear and bigotry around her
and L on Elm are both you know the
misogyny and also the fear of them as
Muslims to try to deal agenda Mize them
and even draw equivalencies between them
and of course the you know essentially
you know the the crypto Nazi in their
own house ranks this is Rashidah to live
and she's gonna point out that um you
know Donald Trump is maybe not the only
person displaying racist behavior around
here just to make a note mr. chairman
just because someone has a person of
color a black person working for them
does not mean they aren't racist and it
is insensitive that some would even say
it's the fact that someone would
actually use a prop a black woman in
this chamber in this committee is a lone
racist in itself
Donald Trump is a chairman I am
president I reclaim my time mr. chairman
mr. chairman the rules are clear cover
up and hold on to business assets to
break campaign finance laws and
constitutional clauses what we have here
mr. chairman is criminal conduct and the
pursuit of the highest public office by
mr. Cole
an individual one I hope that the
gravity of this situation hits everyone
in this body and in Congress and across
this country Thank You mr. chairman I
yield the rest of my time it's mr.
chairman I asked there her words when
she's referring to an individual member
of this body be taken down and stricken
from the record I'm sure she didn't
intend to do this but if anyone knows my
record as it relates it should be you
mr. chairman pause it
what is Mark Meadows record he serves in
a racially gerrymandered district has he
brought forward has he co-sponsored the
Democrats bill he's gonna go on and talk
about his great friendship with Elijah
Cummings which Elijah Cummings confirms
good for them and I think I will just
say as a side note I think Elijah
Cummings I have very high respect for I
think his leadership of the committee
was hugely admirable and a lot of people
all of us could actually learn from his
is his discipline of the committee his
surveying his leadership and his empathy
mark Meadows has co-sponsored the
Democrats bill on voting rights mark
Meadows has condemned leaders of his own
party by for violating the Civil Rights
Act and suppressing african-american
votes as Mark meadows done this stuff
what's his record oh I get it I think I
have an eye you know what I'm not even
gonna say it let's check out what his
record might have been is him well this
is what I'm saying this is this is him
talking about his quote unquote record
mr. chairman there's nothing more
personal to me than my relationship my
nieces and nephews are people of color
not many people know that you know that
we're tell everybody and to indicate
that I asked someone who is a personal
friend of the the Trump family who is
work for him who knows this particular
individual that she's coming in to be a
prop it's racist to suggest that I asked
her to come in here for that reason
[Laughter]
mr. president the positive logic own
person she's a family member as she she
loves this family she came in because
she felt like that and his black face
was getting falsely accused and mr.
chairman you are you and I have a
personal relationship that's not based
on color and and to even go down this
direction is wrong okay so there's a I'm
getting informed over I am from JB that
there and we were remiss and not finding
this but apparently there's a 2012 clip
of them
okay so mmm here's JB I just weigh a JB
we got you so I just want to say this
while his friendship with Elijah
Cummings might not be based on color and
I got to tell you I don't even know what
the that even means one way or
another
honestly like I definitely would say
that my relationships friendships and
otherwise are not based on color but I
would say that this comment that Mark
Meadows made in 2012 Barack Obama was at
least partially or maybe okay you know
it was based on geography you know it's
interesting when the more we find out
the more we realize how wrong the
direction we're going and so what we're
going to do is take back our country
2012 is the time and we're going to send
mr. Obama home to Kenya or wherever it
is we're going to do it that was mark
meadows and then what was amazing and
actually yeah I mean after that you
basically have a situation and part of
it is just like niceties of the house
and there there is procedure and I think
actually Elijah Cummings is somebody who
genuinely cares about some of this stuff
and he's not talking about civility in
the nonsense kind of green room
way that we dismiss and rightfully mock
all the time but he is saying like look
the reality is is that on some level
politics is not debate it's a real
actual conflict
but it's also not like street fighting
there is a middle point here and there
is some level that even though you're
gonna fight and you're gonna win and
you're gonna battle and you don't have
to be friends you know what the
bipartisan all is but if you're
gonna sit together and work you do
actually need to recognize some kind of
shared humanity and I think that Elijah
becomings was a proponent of that and I
just I found it incredibly admirable and
just his sort of quality he brought the
things clearly at a higher level and
then there's just the niceties of like
oh well you know even though of course
he is absolutely being a racist you know
you can't say that because it's uncivil
and all that so then you had
this really like bizarre couple of
minutes where this brat is having a
conniption because his racist stunt was
accurately called out by congresswoman
to live and he's doing the classic you
know the classic white guy like the
white move you know what's in my heart
or that the good that the greatest sin
is the accusation of races family
members and all this and then even
though until it did not I mean she
handled it very adroitly she did not
back down from the merits but made clear
like look I'm not saying you're blah
blah blah and Elijah Cummings affirmed
their friendship which okay but you had
basically you did you basically had a
couple minutes there where two people of
color had to just like feel like I we're
saying you didn't they just had you
literally had to like it was like a
 mark Meadows was literally and I
where I'm gonna come and I'm gonna use
this analogy he was like a out of
control animal that they literally
needed to like soothe and pacify and
then he kind of got into like one of the
sort of like sulkily kind of like well
thank you
I sense Cummings isn't here to gävle us
down I'll say I think Mark Meadows
actually is a race oh I will I will
definitely I will also take advantage of
the non gavel as well another video is
surf it surface this looks like he's at
a Blue Ridge Tea Party round yes I see
it as if we do our job from a grassroots
standpoint we won't have to worry about
you know we will send me back home to
Kenya or wherever it is you know will
send me back home and so we're doing
that oh wow you know I wonder what his
nieces and nephews think of those
comments yeah let's put them on I know
definitely I put them on yell it's not
feel bad for them let's feel bad for
them I mean look we're gonna maybe we'll
get to Paul Lapage you know who's the
another you know a pioneer of
Republicans mainstreaming white
supremacy and in the modern iteration
and I mean he always would talk about
how he adopted a son from Jamaica and
other than like should we be calling the
Department of Human Services on him and
checking out how that you know this kid
and maybe all the other kids with it
because that guy's you know obviously in
addition to being a immense racist is
just profoundly ill I mean you know
they're always gonna go to that and the
only thought I couldn't sort of bring up
in one's mind is like Jesus what the
 going on in that family Lapage by
no no other news is back in the news
cycle saying that well it's yeah go
ahead go ahead
yeah it's just that the Electoral
College it's the only way we're gonna
maintain a white majority in this
country right seventy percent uh oh okay
and just adding to really full up the
circle here dave rubin and i and i
actually think i think dave rubin
obviously is mostly just the total empty
void who has no you know to say he's an
empty suit would be to like is is
actually not true cuz suits insult
immense where it is an insult to men's
wearhouse you're gonna love the way you
look we guarantee it but i actually I do
think his anima
towards Muslims is actually insofar as
there's any ability for him to kind of
form anything
cognitively is probably pretty sincere
and he writes and he's quoting a tweet
but from some idiot named Jim Hansen who
was agreeing with saying Rashid it's
live as the real racist okay yeah this
is the this is the written is this week
or she delivers a disgrace
she called mark bears racist for having
a personal friend Trump family blah blah
blah she's the real racist yeah
paraphrase email Dave Rubin Bingu to
leave his disgrace than the racist here
else is the day she was torn in she said
she was gonna quit unquote impeach the
so how is she even on this panel well
she was disappointing too but in order
to catch somebody you need to be a
congress person actually so that's one
of the main qualification yeah that was
right she has your outcome you care
she has her outcome regardless affects
any Democrats want to chime Internet
well one I don't know if Sam is
officially a Democrat I'm sure he's
registered as a Democrat so he can vote
in primaries in New York State why it's
for him he does hits for them on MSNBC
you know the wise and well so I think
Sam cedar qualifies as a Democrat and
here you go he quotes we did Dave in it
and by the way unlike me cuz don't
forget that a lot of this goes back to
my free speech being silenced by Sam
because I call Dave a boo-boo word
although I insist
stupid is just a descriptive word when
it comes to Dave Sam cedar wrote tweeted
I'd be happy to discuss it with you Dave
sounds right I mean look look forward to
that I don't know it sounds like a good
starting point of an open and free
exchange of ideas and let's just let's
just top it I do want to just play
Brenda Lawrence because I thought you
know I Anna Presley also of course you
know had you know there was a lot of
articulation of the affirmation of the
fact that this guy the significance of
of a president with these beliefs saying
this stuff this is a congresswoman
Brenda Lawrence from Michigan Thank You
mr. chairman I just want to put on the
record as being a black American
and having endured the public comments
of racism from the sitting president as
being a black person I can only imagine
what's being said in private and to prop
up one member of our entire race of
black people and say that that nullifies
that is totally insulting and in in in
this environment of expecting a
president to be inclusive and to look at
his administration speaks volume then
Patton was my friend I mean we make her
use the back door but I guess I
shouldn't said that all right let's take
a call your calling
