[Music]
there was a lot of people yesterday who
took it on the chin do we have that
judge Jeanine clip so Michael Flynn goes
into his sentencing hearing yesterday he
has a deal with the Muller prosecutors
the Muller team says we are recommending
no jail time we've had 19 different
interviews with this guy hours and hours
of testimony has helped them three
different investigations and then on the
way to the judge not literally but in
the wind up to the to the to the
sentencing Flynn starts to leak a little
bit about stuff to make it look like hey
you know cuz he wants to maintain his
his well who knows what's in his mind
possible scenarios he's out of his of
his gourd other possible scenario is
she's trying to signal to a president
Trump that he got forced to do this I'm
still pardon ready another one is I need
to be cool with the conservative
movement so I can go on tour and make
some cash afterwards there's a whole
host of things right and so much so that
he leaks you get people like judge
Jeanine well okay before we get there
and so he leaks part of of what
supposedly happened in that room when he
gets interviewed by the by the FBI so
much so that the judge says I need to
see the full 302 the 302 is basically
the after event report that is often
classified
I don't think FBI is allowed to have
recording devices when they go in
interview it so it's all in this after a
report and the idea is this after report
is gonna show what a sham all this is
they went in there they entrapped him
and if they didn't trap him they trap
them and if they didn't trap him they
ambushed him he didn't know he didn't
know the FBI where they were so friendly
he didn't realize this was on the
occurred they sprung it out of my Kevin
they sprung it on him they totally did
and in the wind up to this meeting with
the judge boy oh oh these fret federal
prosecutors are about to get their
comeuppance right judge Jeanine
based on his record of 33 years as a
decorated military man is an honorable
man who may have realized when he saw
the transcript that what he said was not
consistent with the transcript or maybe
he wasn't looking because he pause it no
so she's saying they should have come in
and told him what he said before so that
he could be consistent instead they
didn't and then he realized like oh he
did something wrong pled guilty because
he ran out of money to defend himself
even having to sell his house to survive
or maybe to save his son also in the
crosshairs of these people and for those
of you who think the FBI was just trying
to get to the truth you're wrong if they
wanted information if they wanted the
truth they could have shown Flynn his
transcript of his conversation to
refresh his recollection to get at the
truth but no they didn't want the truth
they wanted to take down a bit player to
get to the big player on Tuesdays the
parties will appear again before Judge
Emmett Sullivan a jurist unafraid of the
swamp a judge who has a track record of
calling out prosecutorial misconduct a
man who does not tolerate injustice or
abuse judge Sullivan can throw out this
guilty plea if he concludes the FBI
intentionally interfered with their
target
Flynn's constitutional right to counsel
there you go and that judge heard it and
instead what he said was you know what
what I'm looking through these documents
now what you did was actually far worse
I ever anticipated and I can't believe
you're not going to serve jail time in
fact I don't like your attitude about
this that you're hedging on this you're
pretending you didn't know it was a lie
do you really want to submit this plea
right now because if you do I'm gonna
send you to jail I'm gonna give you 90
days to rethink this and do something
much much more relevant because what you
did and we have no idea what this is
what you did was rows two rises to the
level of like maybe not legally but
colloquially treason so get out of my
courtroom piece of garbage that's
basically what happened it's nice to see
all these people have the realization
that the FBI if it wants to get somebody
has tools that they could make that
happen well it's also it seems like the
FBI if anything they this judge had a
criticism was like why you letting this
guy off the hook why is the DOJ let him
off the hook raises some interesting
questions as to what what was really
gone
