a good weekend in so far as Donald Trump
caved we were on the air Friday when
that happened and I just want to you
know make this clear I I think the
Democrats did a good job and not
screwing this up
I think Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer
Pelosi obviously was a positive force
and Chuck Schumer was smart enough to
sort of recede and and you know and a
lot of this was successful because Chuck
goaded him into saying I'll own the the
shutdown and I think that would those
were that was a moment that Donald Trump
would like to take back and I think
Chuck Schumer was very proud of himself
about that and good for him but largely
understand this what the Democrats did
was they managed not to screw it up and
good for them they deserve credit for
that but on Friday five minutes into the
show there were reports that LaGuardia
that Miami and I think Philadelphia
airports had to suspend flights for an
hour or something and it was obviously a
work action by some of the air traffic
controllers simultaneously the flight
attendant Union put out a statement
saying in response to the FAA staffing
shortages Sarah Nelson the president of
the flight attendants union said this is
exactly what AFA and other aviation
unions have been warning about what
happened the aviation system depends on
the safety of the professionals who run
it they've been doing unbelievably
heroic work even as they are betrayed by
the government that employs them they're
fatigued worried and distracted but they
won't risk our safety so the planes will
stay on the ground this is anything but
it's sick out it's only about our safety
and the air traffic controllers absolute
commitment to it do we have your
attention now leader McConnell all
lawmakers open the government and get
back to business and democracy to
discuss whatever issue you so choose
shutdown must end immediately this is
the unions associated with the airports
basically threatening we're gonna go all
in on this we are there solidarity and
this is a veiled threat there and it was
not you know it was not a glib one and
it was certainly substantiated by you
know with with the reality but it was a
I mean it was goes beyond a threat it's
a promise like look you know you drop a
hammer off of a building it's gonna fall
to the ground that's what's gonna happen
gravity is gonna work here and and then
you know and we said at the the first
ten minutes into the show on Friday I
was like this is what this is probably
going to end by the weekend because this
is the beginning of the end of those
people work at airports we're gonna
gonna continue to take this and and once
the airports go forget it within three
hours the government shutdown was over
so and and from day one on the shutdown
I think we said literally from day one
it's the airports because that's the
that's the moment where you start to
shut down a the government functioning
for the wealthy people in a really
explicit way and be because it is such
an easily digestible and it's a national
story it has not you can see it if
you're in New York City you can see it
when Atlanta shuts down their Airport
and so make sure that you the credit is
where credit is due on this it was this
was a labor victory this was about labor
power and it just bookmarked this in
your minds folks because this is
indicative of of what labor can do
meanwhile Mick Mulvaney trying to make
the best out of a really bad situation
for the administration I mean this is
they really lost this one in a big big
way I didn't even come out of this
studying the spin you know lost or
unmitigated l yes but here's how they're
going to salvage it I mean this is the
most anemic thing I've ever heard and I
can just imagine like the idea that any
think anybody takes his threat seriously
look Donald Trump may go out there and
declare a national emergency - to fund
the wall but it'll set an interesting
precedent because I don't think he has
any other emergencies you're gonna see
outside of maybe you know Venezuela but
certainly there's some emergencies I
think on the left that people envision
in a wall street's worried right now
about an Elizabeth Warren or Bernie
Sanders coming into office
wait till they have the emergency powers
that Donald Trump is going to provide
for them that should be rather
interesting all right here is Mick
Mulvaney let's just keep the the picture
up right we're just gonna keep the
picture up okay are you gonna keep it on
me all right yeah this is CBS so we're
just gonna listen to the audio because
they get very uptight about people
seeing the images of Mick Mulvaney and
who was the host Margaret as anything
but here at the pictures though is the
president really prepared to shut down
the government again in three weeks yeah
I think he actually is I know he's mind
no he's willing to do whatever it takes
to secure the border he does take this
very seriously this is a serious
humanitarian and security crisis and as
I mean if we were to believe this why
did they why why did he start the
government back up if he's willing to do
anything that takes what wait what just
sip on this questions David fury
president of the United States he takes
the security of the nation as his
highest priority he doesn't want to shut
the government down let's make that very
clear he doesn't want to declare a
national emergency what he wants to do
is fix this the way that things are
to get fixed with our government which
is through legislation one of the
reasons he he agreed to open the
government this week was to essentially
take the democrats at their word while
their leadership had been telling us
they were not interested in negotiating
and then we're sort of taking this
do-nothing and hope the president gives
up approach there were many many
Democrats both rank-and-file and some
lower levels of leadership would come to
us and say look we we happen to agree
with you on border security yeah good
luck with that
good luck with that I think that that
that that's the most anemic thing I've
ever seen that's also I mean even a
Maggie Haberman at this piece and the
times I think had dropped yesterday
about how Jared Kushner actually thought
because he was able to move this small
and you know I guess credit where credit
is due justice reform bill through the
House and Senate and have Trump sign it
that all of a sudden he was now like the
deal maker and the Democrat whisperer
and she and she just you know and very
like polite times language was like he
really underestimated the extent to
which rank-and-file democrats backed
their leadership in their position
seemed to be seem to kind of catch him
off guard well it's only been two years
right since they've been in office right
still neophytes yeah they have figured
out how deep washington works right
