[Music]
meanwhile when we've mentioned the words
abolish it's unbelievable we're gonna do
this story tomorrow but apparently the
Border Patrol has a problem and this is
not I mean is anybody surprised about
this no the Border Patrol and we'll talk
more about it tomorrow but the Border
Patrol has a problem there are internal
groups of people within the Border
Patrol who are incredible I don't know
what would you call them white
nationalist neo-nazis some bags fascists
I mean is anybody surprised I mean if
anything the surprise would be like that
there's not there's like non those in
that patrol based upon what they're
asked to do no one thinks they're woke
exactly but we'll talk more about that
tomorrow in the meantime yesterday I
guess this was it was this today or
yesterday in New Jersey
yesterday a Jewish group I'm not sure
what they were called is it if not now
the protest was Jews against Isis will
check out if it was if not now there
isn't a basically a concentration camp
in Elizabeth New Jersey and apparently
36 Jewish protesters were arrested in
staging the protest and calling
attention to this thing here it is
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
so I'd say never again action and
they're there holding a sign that says
never again means never again and it
really is calling Chuck Todd very
offensive comparison very offensive
comparison I mean again we've talked
about this but the question is at what
point do you say we're gonna we're going
to protest this at what point do you say
like okay I mean do you wait now
obviously people have died in custody
and obviously the treatment is bad
enough to have inspectors and judges
recoil so what at what point do you say
this is on a path doesn't mean it's
going to get there where you're gassing
people or killing people in these camps
but it's on a path that could under
certain circumstances lead to it what
are you going to do and so good for
these folks I don't know if we have any
information on how you can join up with
them we will let you know meanwhile
apparently a Canadian cartoonist
I don't know if he was working for a
paper or or what but political cartoon
here it is it's an image of Donald Trump
getting out of having just gotten out of
his golf cart looking down at the bodies
of the two immigrants who died recently
trying to cross the Rio Grande this is a
25 year old man and his 23 month old
daughter he apparently brought her
across the river went to go back in to
help his wife the daughter wanted to be
with him so she came out into the water
with him it appears maybe he was trying
to keep her on his back as he was going
through the water and so put her under
his shirt and whatever happened they
both drowned and the image is horrific
but the idea of Donald Trump getting out
of his golf cart and saying do you mind
if I play through to them I think
captures exactly the the sentiment he
has through this I don't die if anything
you could say it is too sympathetic to
Trump that he's asking even if he's
doing it just paying lip service because
yeah I don't even think he paid lip
service to this so the cartoonist
Michael de adder was let go from all the
newspapers in New Brunswick Canada by
his I guess his distributor or
publishing company
and you went on a long sort of tweet
thread about it I think maybe the nub is
here says in past two weeks I drew three
Trump cartoons two went viral the third
one supernova a day later I was let go
and not only let go the cartoons they
had already had in the can were not used
overnight it was like I never worked for
the paper make your own conclusions with
this said I've been giving the NBP
newspapers what they wanted for several
months Trump wasn't on my radar I work
for Canadian newspapers so there's no
need to cover Trump 24/7 Canadian
politics is quite interesting right now
the Premier of New Brunswick Blaine
Higgs is a former Irving oil executive
and any cartoon I drew was slightly
critical of was systematically axed you
know I always let go I wanted to do my
job as an editorial cartoonist and they
wanted me to do their job
it's distracts from the big picture it
says Donald Trump it gets to the point
where I didn't submit any Trump cartoons
for fear that I might be fired does it
matter if I was fired over one Donald
Trump cartoon went to every Donald Trump
cartoon I submit in the past year was
axed I do this reluctantly and only
because I'm cornered I don't know how it
happened but I feel my credibility's
online all I did was lose my job but I
will defend myself and I will talk about
why I think is let go it was per my
perspective and clearly they have their
perspective misspelled there I could
write a thesis on my experience at the
newspaper that would be captivating do
you know what I'm not going to they gave
me 17 years of employment a job when the
Daily News folded and what would that
say about me anyways he's going on this
uh this rant I mean obviously look this
cartoon it captures a real dynamic
captures a real dynamic eloquent in its
simplicity I don't know if the guy has a
gofundme thing or he's gonna set up some
tab patreon or something like that I
hope they realize that he realizes that
he can do this happy thing I should also
say the nib is being let go from first
look media and you can google that and
support the nib which also does some
really great cartooning political
cartooning in fact when they reached
this cartoon they pay a dealer for it
oh they did yep so check out the nib as
well they could use your support all
right we don't have too much time we'll
get to some of the other stuff tomorrow
we just got time for oh it's 248 all
right one phone call
