[Music]
do we have this Candace on things now we
do where was this from Brandon this is
okay this is at the revolt summit I
don't know what the I don't know what
that even means really but it and he's
on and she and Candace Owens they're on
stage with the reference he uh the
rapper Ti and apparently you know she's
getting questioned about her statements
regarding slavery and yeah this is fun
to watch what happens when when when a
conservative is out of her element okay
safe space exactly but it's also gives
us an opportunity to debunk something
since I've been so heavily invested in
the civil war for the past couple of
weeks been listening to this this
podcast thing to debunk Candace Owens
one of our favorite claims and this is
all one of the favorite claims are the
right but here let's take it from the
beginning here there's the rapper ti
with Candace Owens was America great
that we're trying to replicate rich ever
was
posit now we should just be clear here
that he's asking as a black person in
America which era is Donald Trump trying
to replicate from the perspective of a
black person that we want to replicate
as opposed to I guess move forward and
go into a better era which ever was so
great you hear something that you guys
are forgetting America was actually one
of the front slavery was all over the
world all over the world I'm not saying
it's okay so why are you saying Oh
questioning you're just going to boo and
I say I'm a slavery was all over the
world which is a fact why are you booing
affect other people that look like us
you can't make light of it that ain't
nothing III don't finish the sentence
how am I making experiment with some
I think that is accurate but had he and
I don't know what happens after that
clip but she was going on to make an
argument that somehow America was
uniquely progressive in getting rid of
slavery and just ii-i've heard
conservatives say this now first of all
I do not think there was I imagine
perhaps maybe when we talk about we talk
about like sort of Late Antiquity and
maybe some other eras that you can find
societies that were so driven
economically by slavery but IIIi think
America was fairly unrivaled yes in
world history in terms of building
economic might I'm not talking just
about domestic I'm talking about like
like internationally the slavery as a
and it was not even just a a feature of
society like society in for a large part
of this country was built around slavery
now aside from that being fairly unique
American phenomena I'm sure in history
like there may have been like you know
when we talk about the the Roman Empire
hundreds of years eras where slavery
existed existed in this country for over
200 years
slavery did and it was a new kind of
slavery to I mean it was unique probably
in terms of you know world history not
buy your freedom the same way you could
as a Roman slave as an example very big
functional different let's just address
the specific claim that America is one
of the first countries to get rid of
slavery
1792 Denmark bans the import of slaves
to its West Indian colonies now this
this is the what this is the pattern for
a lot of like these so you know the
abolition movements it will start first
with you can't trade
you can continue to own your property
I'm using quotations because we're
talking about human beings here and and
certainly in the context of our country
you know the first thing
well it's good let's not get to our
country yet 1807 Britain passes the
abolition of saved receive Trade Act
outlying the British Atlantic slave
trade the United States passes the
legislation banning the slave trade
starting at 1808 but you still have an
enormous number of slaves in this
country Spain in 1811 abolish slavery
including its colonies 1813 Sweden bans
slave trading 1814 Netherlands bans
slave trading 1817 fan of France banned
slave trading Britain passes the
abolition of slavery Act in 1833 poor
during a gradual abolition of slavery in
all British colonies Portugal abolish is
the slave trade in 1819 1846 Danish
governor proclaims emancipation of
slaves in the Danish West End's this the
abolishing slavery 1848 France
abolishing slavery 1851 Brazil abolish
his slave trading 1858 Portugal
abolishing slavery in his colonies 1861
Netherland abolishing slavery in Dutch
Caribbean colonies in the United States
slavery was abolished in 1865 via the
13th of member the US Constitution
between the time that the Netherlands
abolish slavery and the time that we
passed the Thirteenth Amendment 700,000
Americans died this was not a casual
process in which the slave slaves were
emancipated in fact it wasn't until
halfway through the war that it was
about the war was about emancipating all
slaves prior to that it was too limiting
the slave trade
prior to that was to say the western
frontier was going to be slave free
prior to that it was just about we're
gonna contain in this area and yes
President Lincoln tried to buy the
slaves freedom from the South they had
no interest and so the idea that somehow
you America was uniquely
good in the context of slavery is just
completely a historical between and
diluted between 1836 and 1844 it was
against the house rules to discuss
slavery at all
you couldn't even bring it up you
couldn't even bring it up through speech
and then I will say this to that very
quickly in the context of reconstruction
you had what amounted to slavery with
basically tenant farmers they were not
as a freed man you had no access to
capital you couldn't go there was no
there was an attempt by there was an
attempt to uh to start a bank that would
loan to freedmen but well that's in that
small period of time where the Norwegian
soldiers right and reconstruction we're
actually though it's important
underlying and my killer Mike does later
in that clip that black people actually
accumulated a lot of economic and
political power in a very short period
of time in that period it was taken away
and it was all taken away it was looking
away by political and and there's a new
Sidney Blumenthal book actually where he
talks about I mean not only could you
not have an idea conversation in the
1850s Charles Sumner was obtaining yeah
on the floor of the Senate for talking
about slavery yes
physically well even if we ignore all of
that history and say mmm the US was no
worse than any other other country in
terms of slavery that doesn't answer his
question right right it was a complete
deflection of like where you're going it
was good for black people well all the
other countries were bad for black
people
- there was there was like there was a
brief moment in reconstruction it was
very it was very short
there also was and we did an interview
on the Northwest Territories which at
that time were Minnesota Ohio Michigan I
think in the 1840s where there were
where there were free black folk who had
very profitable farms all that was taken
away by these states they started to
legislate I mean against property
ownership for black people etc etc I
didn't know early elicit history wasn't
Matt was Wilmington North Carolina yeah
and it was a it was listen some ways a
positive example it was a multiracial
coalition there was building between you
know blacks and reconstruction and poor
whites to sort of generate you know some
version of kind of development for the
whole city and a white terrorists Klan
group but was funded by oligarchs
because they didn't like the labor
protections so it actually fits all of
the modules that we talked about all the
time there's a Marxist angle there's a
white supremacy angle there's a
astroturf angle and everybody knew this
at the time like I have this thing I
discussed in the first episode of
literary hangover a essay by Sydney
Smith at a Scotland Scottish guy called
who reads an American book basically
saying like Americans are big on
themselves now but they haven't really
produced anything and it ends with this
statement finally under which of the old
tyrannical governments of Europe is
every sixth man a slave whom his
fellow-creatures may buy and sell and
torture and when these questions are
favorably answer you can have a lot of
trÃªpa
like everybody knew this all literature
at the time is like justifying even if
it was apologetic it at least had to
deal with the fact that they say they're
an empire of Liberty while having
enslaved people more even more than the
rest of Europe was at the time well the
the the argument was that the South
needs to have freedom to
have its slaves and economically like
the the northern states relied on that
economy of like the sugar and later
cotton plantations as much as the
southern ones that they were just a
further down on the leg of the trade
which is also how even in Europe it
worked like I ever write of course in
Leopold's ghost because it's a brilliant
piece about how like the campaign that
you needed to have against the
atrocities that they committed in the
Belgian Congo was also some version of
like some people in Britain being like
well there's these new pamphleteers for
human rights in Africa Belgium's messed
up focus on that exactly where do you
think the cotton came from in all of
those new garment factories other
England no they're good another good
parallel to today actually that's an
amazing book I just have to say King
Leopold's ghost people always ask for
book recommendations that's one of the
best books I've ever read alright folks
