here is Donald Trump he is in Wisconsin
Wisconsin reportedly has purged their
rolls of hundreds of thousands of voters
certainly know in the run up to the 2016
election they had practiced a
finely-tuned form of voter suppression
they have a strict voter ID which
targets African Americans and students
at least at the top of the list
Donald Trump is there campaigning for
Scott Walker who is in big trouble he
predicted at the beginning of this year
he would be in big trouble
hopefully he loses badly but Donald
Trump here lays out what Republicans and
we're gonna play other clips from people
who are pundits to people who are
candidates and Donald Trump here is just
laying the groundwork you will hear this
is obviously the message that
Republicans are running on which is be
afraid of brown people and let me come
up with multiple different ways of
trying to express it so if you're not
afraid of brown people because of this
small anecdote you're gonna be afraid of
brown people for that anecdote and then
of course Trump adds his own sort of I
want to say hyperbole but it's really
just complete lying in in presenting
this case itself and you know where I
grew up near Long Island we have like
these great communities and they were
infiltrated with ms-13 and we got him he
says get him the hell out we are
actually
we actually are but we are getting them
out of this country by the thousands you
can believe it but you know it's like a
liberating like a war like there's a
foreign invasion and they occupy your
country and then you get them out
through whatever and they call it
liberation you're liberated ice goes in
and they're much tougher much stronger
and much water they go in and they in a
relatively nice way I want to say that
relatively guys they get them out they
put them in the paddy wagons and they
get them out of the country they bring
them back home or worse or worse the
percentage of members of ms-13 that ice
has arrested in the two years of the
Trump administration we don't know
exactly because I don't know if they
released this type of data but it can't
be anything just by sheer numbers unless
there were hundreds of thousands of
members of ms-13 in this country it
can't be more than a couple of
percentage points ice is far more adept
under the trump administration of
rounding up and deporting moms and dads
of middle-class families people have
been here for an extended period of time
I mean this is all obviously alive but
that is just you got to start like you
know you got to think about this is like
steps right you can't get to the top
step in terms of like incredible eyes
unless you go through these subsidiaries
steps and so and now he's taking us to
stuff that like honestly the idea that
grown people
I understand motivated reasoning but the
idea that grown people don't get up and
walk out and go like this is just too
much what if somebody sees me here at
this point after this lie is
blows my mind I called for worse and
these towns have being liberated and the
people at slapping they're looking I'm
telling you it's like like watching
World War 2 movies
it's like watching documentaries on
World War 1 and World War 2 the
occupations they get them they take them
out and the people are in their windows
they're clapping and screaming and
they're happy
this is ice and the Democrats want to
terminate us they want to get rid of her
my posit has a I mean is there anybody
in the audience is she's gonna like me
maybe he's exaggerating maybe there
aren't people wouldn't we be the people
that would have seen that footage but
you know what I think partially what's
going on though and this doesn't in any
way undermine your point is that is that
I forget who first came up with the
phrase but taking Trump seriously but
not literally and I think there's a lot
of like for all intents and purposes if
you're this xenophobic and bigoted in
your voting in it might as well be right
like ms-13 is the way they do that in
their windows because there's too much
peace eNOS but inside they close the
drapes and then they're cheering out
there so I think he's actually so it's a
funny way I think he's actually saying
like they're basically saying like it's
all the same to me
and here's like a touch of ridiculous
non-violence conspiracy I know it's the
exact same sort of lie but just flipped
as he said when when he said Muslims
were celebrating 9/11 yes yeah I think
that's exactly in a sad day where inside
literally I think that's exactly what's
going on yes they want to get rid of her
so if you want to uphold our laws our
borders and our way of life you need to
vote for Scott Walker and glia bar she's
so funny I'm so impressed that I got her
name right Vick MA that is that is you
know why he said that right cuz
phonetically that's the way it's spelled
out on his on his on his teleprompter
how is he job right how is he not like a
professional Liberace impersonator is we
kind of is is basically a profession I'm
a really racist professional Liberace in
person with the maturity of a teenager
less than
