[Music]
here is Mitch McConnell is at about 36
percent approval rate in in Kentucky
which is low for an incumbent senator
and that's among likely voters right yes
he's got yes indeed and he's got but
understand that because Kentucky is so
pro Trump that a Democrat would have to
sort of like outperform the top of the
ticket by something like 15 points or
something with that said I think there's
got to be as much of an opportunity as
ever and protestors in Kentucky
activists have decided that they're
going to pick the one nickname that
seems to get at shouldn't showed
weakness that's right
cocaine Mitch he seemed to love it
Moscow Mitch not so much
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
is bleeding away
[Applause]
history
[Applause]
Wow Wow
I'll tell you something that looks a lot
a lot more than if if 56 percent or I
should say if 56 percent I think
disapprove of him
maybe it's 64 percent it looks closer to
like 80 85 15% in that outdoor venue
yeah I normally think like the whole
Russia angle is just like a palliative
for people to sit on their couch and
like watch Matt oh but if it gets people
into like a I don't know whatever that
contraption is that they're in um that
is hilarious
for anything that gets people yelling at
Mitch McConnell to his face is good I
mean it's you know it could have been
anywhere it could have been Moldavia
Mitch but just that Moscow Mitch works
works better the works been done on that
yep that's pretty good and I love how
Mitch McConnell is sitting there going
like I'm gonna power through this but
I'm never ever ever going to do another
event like this again why does he need
to guess the 33% yeah I believe in the
people of Appalachia I really do I get
him
