meanwhile speaking of the police
apparently the police in South Bend
Indiana have a very bad relationship
with the black community there and this
has been ongoing and many of the black
residents of South Bend say that their
mayor mayor Pete Buda judge has done a
bad job with the police department there
and in fact in many respects has made
the police department more hostile to
black people in the community but a
judge had to leave the campaign trail to
deal with the latest shooting of a black
man by a white officer and here he is
trying to deal with some protesters who
are sick of it I do not have evidence
that there has been this place
there you go cosign he's horrible
he is absolutely horrible the more he's
out there the more he goes to the bottom
of that list of a lot of room in the
bottom you can't handle currently he is
inviting the DOJ to come in and look at
civil rights violations the first thing
that Jeff Sessions did at the DOJ was
basically call off every investigation
in terms of civil rights and police
departments all around the country and
basically said you have free license we
will never ever come and investigate you
so calling for a DOJ investigation at
this point is is literally like saying
I've decided to allow the Tooth Fairy to
come in fix climate change its Minnie
Bloomberg ISM I mean that's what he's
doing in a small city that fusion of
racism and brutal policing with
gentrification I mean that's all I can
tell maybe it's because he's hapless and
doesn't actually know how to manage the
department but that's what the upshot is
and I also like Ryan Grimm has a line
about him in his book where he's like
basically people who judges out selling
to a national audience of people who
that he has some type of like mystical
understanding of the Midwest and he's
running for president from the
third-largest city in Indiana because he
knows that nobody in the Midwest will
elect him to the house or to the Senate
right just something to keep in mind
about this whole branding exercise right
right well you know who else did
something like that who indeed Mike
Pence right who knew that he was not
gonna get reelected in Indiana it's so
time for me to go national stop
exporting your trash politicians to us
Indiana
