[Music]
speaking of horrible people let's tune
in to Fox News in their response to the
the terror attacks in New Zealand and
good for them for you know at the very
least now they reported this as at two
moths and it was a coordinated shootings
but wasn't it when one person maybe this
is when the early early reports but
here's a Fox talking about the the New
Zealand mosque attack reporting we're
getting out of New Zealand that he wants
to stand trial there's only one reason
for that he wants to make sure his views
get expressed publicly how sick is that
and well bill you're absolutely right
normally these types of shootings have
you seen the United States the shooter
takes their life within five to ten
minutes of the activity so this
individual is is sick he posted these
rantings online beforehand and also you
know to take this military action that's
really what this is you know you're
going to get this military style weapon
and you go into a mosque what people are
praying unarmed and just to slaughter
them you know it becomes such a question
of insanity that someone would want to
do this but you know the question that
has also been circulating whether or not
this was an attack that was based upon
religion or based upon immigration the
New Zealand community has really been
kind of struggling a little bit over the
time in terms of how to deal with the
immigrants there's been the laws there
was a law passed in nineteen in 2017
that restricted the ability of
foreigners to buy land within New
Zealand because the the housing prices
were being inflated and citizens of New
Zealand we're feeling like they were
being forced out that could have played
into so we don't know but necessarily
the motivation was against immigrants or
against the Muslims and specifically
this is just bizarre to me maybe they're
just looking for stuff to talk about but
the you know the the idea that these
white supremacists have such a
specific narrow set of of hatred they
don't they hate people who are not like
them and so they don't they're not
splitting hairs here in that manner
it is hatred of the other it is in the
air folks amongst the white world in
particular that societies that are
supposed to be more multicultural are
the those people who are afraid of
somehow the the dilution of white
culture they promote these things and
you know I can't remember in what
context but there is obviously a
difference between a Donald Trump and
the guy who pulls the weapon from the
back of his car in New Zealand and goes
in and shoots up and apparently there
were two other guys it's unclear whether
they were involved but apparently they
had weapons which is why that report did
the first report may have seen it as
coordinated attacks but there's a
difference but they're on a spectrum and
it's very hard to get to the shooter
without first laying the groundwork that
is being laid by those people who don't
nearly go as far as the shooter not just
in terms of actions but maybe they don't
go quite as far as in terms of rhetoric
he releases a a manifesto than the form
of a question answer here is one of his
questions were / are you a supporter of
Donald Trump as a symbol of renewed
white identity and common purpose sure
as a policymaker and leader dear god no
so sort of fascinating right like what
Matt said in the beginning not to
interject what Matt said before when
there's like that's it's in many ways
how we perceive not like when we talk
about it how
obviously there's the policy areas but
there's also just the cultural
representation of overt white supremacy
in the white house yeah he gets it right
he may say like yeah no I get he's
incompetent I don't have to support him
for that but we've got one of our own in
the white house who is you know at the
within the context of where society is
today this is very helpful for us he's
pushing the envelope and that's good
from the perspective of a white
nationalist of white supremacist that's
that's what they want that's helpful and
in the same way that we talk about you
know Donald Trump pushing the envelope
as it were for white supremacy and white
nationalism in the context in which he
does he's asked himself these questions
too from where did you receive and
research and develop your beliefs and he
goes the Internet of course you will not
find the truth anywhere else I mean
maybe some of this is tongue and you
know I think some of this is
tongue-in-cheek because he had in
another part of the manifesto clearly
sites Brevik as his main inspiration I
think this Candis Owens thing might be
like a little bit but Candis Owens
reaction is interesting yeah so this guy
you know like I say has a manifesto
where he asks himself questions it
answers it we don't know a lot of what
these guys do is sort of you know
somewhat ironic in the way that they
present on online that they attempt to
that they they are are trolls in many
respects so when he's asked himself is
there a particular person that
radicalized you the most he says yes the
person that influenced me above all was
Candis Owens now he may or may not that
may or may not be a legitimate answer on
some level he may see in his twisted
mind like oh this is going to be good
this will a lien aid her or she'll
become problematic and we can get a
non-white person out of like look I
don't know that he's sincere about
saying the Candis Owens either Candis
Owens did
because you know she has been quite
explicit and in talking about you know
if France wants to build an army to
defend itself against anything it ought
to be declining birthrate of its own
people I mean this this sort of all
signs indicate that it would be a Muslim
majority country in 40 years maybe she
hasn't probably you know maybe he's
being sincere she goes on at one point
to say on Twitter remind Sadiq Khan that
according to the and that's the Mayor of
London that according to the birthrate
Europe will fall and become a Muslim
majority continent by 2050 there's never
been a Muslim majority country where
Sharia law was not implemented I don't
even know what but when we're forced to
save you guys again we'll forgive the
balloon I mean Candice Owens says we
have 50 million Muslims in Europe these
are signs that Allah will grant Islam a
victory in europe she's talking she's
quoting Megara Muammar Gaddafi in 1975
Muammar Gaddafi is obviously dead we
killed him but she says a trump balloon
won't save the UK well the question is
what will then Candice right exactly
like I don't understand she's dealing
her response to protests against Donald
Trump is to talk about the all the
Muslims that are invading Europe so
maybe the guy who went and just killed
49 Muslims was genuinely inspired by
Candace Owens and her writing on Muslims
he did cite the birth rate stuff in his
manifesto I mean maybe he legitimately
was or maybe he just feels that she
shouldn't be in the white supremacy
perceives her to be in the white
supremacy movement and just wanted to
sort of like cause her grief right but
why would he want that why would he
either answer does not put Candace Owens
in a context that she should be very
proud about one context is that he
literally took her words about Muslims
to heart and was genuinely inspired or
the other reason why he does it because
we are this guy's obviously fairly
deliberate with what he's doing here
he's not just picking random name
out of a hat he could be doing it
because he wishes her ill will and why
would he wish her ill will well he's a
white supremacist maybe he wishes her it
will because she's black but there are a
lot of other black people that he might
wish ill will to probably some that are
certainly less aligned who are not out
there saying things like about this with
Muslims well maybe he wants her out of
the movement that she's in because it
contaminates the movement this is this
is the generous view as to why he would
mention her in this and so he wants to
cause her problems and this he knows
will be problematic to credit her with
being and to get her out to get her out
of what like what is she in now that he
feels that she's painting this is this
is the generous perspective super
generous so here is Candace Owen trying
to defend herself today and her response
to I guess the tweet was deleted a tweet
that what indicated you know that she
had been mentioned manifesto yeah yeah
lol she writes laughing very hard fact
way to start it I've never created a
content espousing my views on the Second
Amendment or Islam well well we just
read three tweets that went out to how
many followers does she have also what
is this how many thought she had been a
hundred thousand two hundred thousand
maybe how many she has load in here oh
she's got one point one three million
followers that's a maybe one point one
three million followers who saw those
tweets about Muslims maybe that maybe
that Aikens is content but she never
says I've never created content
espousing my views on the Second
Amendment or Islam I well the Islam is
true I mean it's obviously false rather
we've we've read those the left is
pretending I inspired a mosque massacre
in New Zealand in dot dot dot as if the
internet doesn't work in New Zealand I
mean I've never been in the same locales
can do so
I think in my life apparently she
doesn't realize in New Zealand that
there's an internet because I believe
black America can do it without
government handouts is the reaches reach
of all reaches lol very funny
um it's super funny of course the left
is not pretending that I inspired that
she inspired the mosque massacre if
anybody's pretending it is the maus
massacre and maybe he's pretending maybe
he's not but the left isn't pretending
left is just reading the guy's manifesto
and you know who else is reading the
guy's manifesto the right everybody's
reading the manifesto it says the exact
same word regardless of your political
ideology I mean so this is Candace Owens
doing her best to deflect now there's
two options you have when you're Candace
Owens I regret that my name was in this
guy's manifesto I have nothing to do
with this I find it a Horan I I find
violence I find violence against
immigrants I find violence against
people because of their religion
horrible I it is not my fault I am in
his you know a lunatic can't be you know
I can't be held responsible for a
lunatic who cites me but it's it's
disgusting
so instead her response is to like this
is hilarious look at those crazy leftist
look at those craziest like crazy
lefties reading something and then
talking about what the fact is and the
fact is she was cited as his inspiration
by him that's a fact and she should come
up with a you would think that the
millions of dollars that they have to
deal with the public relations which is
basically their job in the TP USA you
can come up with somebody who has a
better response than that it's pretty
gross forty nine people were slaughtered
by a man who said you were the
inspiration take a couple minutes think
about what you're gonna say really I
mean
it's disgusting
