[Music]
let's take a quick in light of the fact
that Donald Trump is going to be
declaring a national emergency and you
should understand too that the term
national emergency is a legal term and
it is not even though I think it's quite
obvious to all of us that it is not time
sensitive the there's a a legal
definition that does not include
necessarily would not be necessarily
contradicted by the fact that Donald
Trump has not has not found this
emergency to exist in a timely fashion
there will be there will be court cases
testing whether he can do this in fact
let's play that clip Donald Trump
previewed it Brenda did you send him
that one yeah in the in his announcement
today now some people have pointed out
that Trump said I didn't have to declare
a national emergency I just want to get
it done quickly that is gonna be that's
gonna come up in the court cases that's
gonna come up in the court cases little
bit of a bread crumb for the other
side's counsel the real issue here
affair is the the reappropriation of
money that Congress has appropriated for
other things that's gonna that's what
all this is going to turn on Donald
Trump both gives a preview of where this
is gonna go in the courts and an
argument that he probably should be
subject to the 25th amendment in this
clip here it is we will have a national
emergency and we will then be sued and
they will sue us in the Ninth Circuit
even though it shouldn't be there and we
will possibly get a bad ruling and then
we'll get another bed ruling and then
we'll end up in the Supreme Court and
hopefully we'll get a fair share
and will win in the Supreme Court just
like the ban they sued us in the ninth
circuit and we lost and then we lost in
the Appellate Division and then we went
to the Supreme Court and we won that it
was very interesting because yesterday
they were talking about the ban because
we have a band it's very helpful yeah he
doesn't talk about it you notice how he
doesn't say what it is the ban because
he wants to say the Muslim ban but he
knows he's not allowed to say that
anymore you can't remember what we're
calling it now right exactly and so it
will ultimately end up in the Supreme
Court it probably will end up there
either after Donald Trump is gone or in
his second term
the interesting thing will be I mean I
can I can tell you if there's a Democrat
in the presidency when it reaches the
Supreme Court I can tell you how it's
going to go but if not if Donald Trump
if it reaches the Supreme Court and it's
conceivable right that they expedite
this in some fashion and it gets to the
Supreme Court and I would be very
surprised if they okayed this but it's
conceivable they would this is really
going to open up the door I mean the the
when you hear Democratic politicians now
say stuff like we're gonna use that we
could use this for climate change we
could use this for providing health care
we could use this for I don't know
high-speed rail courts through the other
glands and pipes but let in pipes I mean
there's no there's a whole there's a
whole myriad of things that they could
use this for when you hear Democratic
politicians say that now those are empty
threats
in my estimation however if the Supreme
Court actually validates this those
those threats may end up
getting to be a little bit less empty
because the base of the party
nevermind the base I mean frankly I mean
huge swaths of the country will then
expect the president at that time to
address these things that are clearly
more of an emergency then what's going
on at the border and so it's gonna be
interesting to see where this goes and
but you know for now it's just something
for Donald Trump to well what did
coulter say to give to his idiots or
something to that effect serious
question though couldn't the Supreme
Court just decide that they don't
respect that precedent like Kavanagh has
already shown he has no respect for
precedent so you're saying that they
would okay it in Trump's case in Trump's
case and then two years later not okay
yeah I mean theoretically but no I think
at that point you know some of these
guys John Roberts in particular at least
perceives this the deal with their
legacy but if you're someone who doesn't
care about the legacy of the Supreme
Court like make them do that
right like make that if they like make
them put their money where their mouth
is if you know I'm saying no like who's
they the Supreme Court like let's say
you wanted to make the supreme like
reform the Supreme Court having them do
something like allow Trump's national
emergency and not allow in the future
Democrats national emergency would be a
really good way of dealing in amazing it
well yeah but there's nobody who can say
do this I just think they've you know no
one's gonna make the Supreme Court do
anything in that respect I think but my
guess would be no it would be even
beyond their capacity to to rule that
way and then two years later rule a
different way I hope you're right
if Bader Ginsburg goes we're gonna get
another Kavanagh
if Ruth Bader Ginsburg goes while Donald
Trump is in office then
it may be a very different calculation
because I think you know John Robert
showed in the gay case right this one
from Louisiana when he voted with the
four liberals as a where to tional that
he yeah that that there was no way that
he could have voted one way on the trap
law in Texas and then voted the other
way on the exact same law and so but yes
if Ruth Bader Ginsburg is gone
there's a hole there it's a completely
different calculation if it becomes six
to three and John Roberts is the fourth
vote out of five you know I yeah I mean
if anything it would be a very good
justification for packing the courts
well of course of course of course but
these are all that's like those are
we're now we're out like for
hypotheticals I don't know senator do
you like beer
that's Ruth Bader Ginsburg on that show
we got to take a quick break lively back
Isabel gillies
