while I do not think most Americans are
reactionaries I think that is a
Republican phenomenon I do think that
they're probably more socially to the
right than someone like me and I think
that you know we can get into the
details of what that even means I don't
but I think it's a fair assumption
especially actually less so in arguments
about like things with marriage equality
but maybe conversations about like
immigration as an example so I'm totally
willing to have the intellectual honesty
and stipulate that I think that there's
a lot of areas in this country like
medicare-for-all where my views actually
totally exemplify the mainstream and an
emerging mainstream and there's other
areas where I have work to do to
reconfigure politics in the direction I
want but if we looked at most mainstream
and there's a lot of polling that
actually validates this there was a 2016
research that was done on I think it was
released in the Washington Post I don't
remember which consortium did it but
basically like it's four grids and
there's a cluster of numbers in each of
these grids that represent people on
these social and economic spectrums
which is the usual dichotomy that they
split people up doing these things and
on every part three out of four parts of
the grid socially liberal and
economically liberal right-wing
economically and right-wing socially I
might question what people actually mean
by that when they answer in a poll but
whatever I'll nitpick about it later all
of these areas have a huge amount of
yeah we have it right here people and
this is bipartisan are overwhelmingly in
these grids a Amenia Bowl amenable to a
economic left argument though I don't
really this isn't great though because
we don't even know what these grids
represent they they represent social
identity dimension
liberals deserve it okay say you know
Mike the y-axis is your social and your
x-axis is your economics okay
conservative of to the right and
conservative up okay so as you can see
like normal people who identify as
conservative it's clustered in the
social that's why non Oleg arcs vote for
Republicans it's white identity politics
we all know this if you go into the
lower right which is the cluster that
represents the you know you might have
never heard this before but I'm a fiscal
conservative an social liberal nobody is
there okay like this is a political dead
zone this is an abandoned strip mall
this is this is the pretenders the Ohio
song about everything is gone which Rush
Limbaugh's scumbag Lee used for his
bumper music nobody is there except for
the most credentialed overcompensated
socially and financially capitalized
people in the country which is why every
time you turn on Morning Joe every time
you turn on some idiot cable news panel
every time you hear somebody trying to
sound smart at some function they go to
I'm socially liberal fiscally
conservative which actually like all
these other things in the poll doesn't
mean anything and sometimes you might
meet a normal person on the street who
says this and then you drill it down and
they're gonna be actually on to the left
of economics cuz some people just mean
think it means like don't waste money
but when the elites say it what they
mean is I think gay people are fine I
don't have a problem with abortion as
long as I don't have to pay for it and I
want tax cuts now yeah and I want
austerity yeah that's what they mean and
there is no political constituency among
lawn elites for this in the country none
and while we shall heed but yet who I
was you know and and and yet this is
still like this is the premise of Howard
Schultz's candidacy this is the premise
of every single lazy you know middlebrow
pundit hackery it's still the easiest
line to write in the world
there's even echoes of it in um the new
versions of this stuff like if Barry
Weiss in the IDW it's the easiest
pseudo-intellectual hack line on the
planet and it's so and it is it's it's
Maggie McCain Meghan McCain exactly it's
religious I mean it has cuz it's it's it
it literally it it's max data in the
face I'm like a dad is disputable I'm
you know especially with politics I'm
not a quant guy because I I just don't
think you can really measure politics
that way by and large you can measure
technical things but not politics but
that being said I mean the fact that
there is no constituency for this is as
close to a sky is blue statement that
you can make about political attitudes
in the country across the board finally
someone is on cable news to say it and
that is well lead shaheed he is on Chris
Hayes with Michelle Goldberg and he
explains why the billionaire centrists
are the actual fringe group of American
politics Howard Schultz Michael will
bring in others when they refer to the
wealth tax and when they talked about
Alexander Acacio Cortes is seventy
percent marginal tax rate it's like they
don't even know how to argue against it
because they their view is that it's
self-evidently preposterous but they
clearly think it's good politics for
them are they wrong waleed I mean it's
great for the progressive movement the
populist movement in the Democratic
Party to have people like Shelton
Bloomberg be the face of the anti wealth
tax campaign
I mean honestly what's happening is that
centrism typically refers to itself as
the rational middle really it's a fringe
movement trying to defend the economic
preferences of the 1% but right now what
we're seeing is that these corporate
friendly centrist politicians are
incredibly out of touch with the
Democratic Party electorate you see
people on the Left particularly talk
about you know Medicare for all polls so
well or a wealth tax pulls a well which
is true but that's also in like the
untested chamber of combat combat right
like those ideas are gonna get flexed
and they're gonna get frisked and
they're gonna get worked over and it's
possible that they're not as popular
after they have to be fought over as
they are when their abstractions I mean
look right now in the
they are very popular but there was a
time when repealing Obamacare was very
popular they want to be clear there was
there's also been a time where Medicare
was attacked by Ronald Reagan Barry
Goldwater and George HW Bush as being
Soviet style socialized medicine as
socialism there's a time from the
Affordable Care Act was also expect for
pink Soviets we'll see the exact same
attacks this time around we're already
seeing them and I think we've overcome
those challenges ok so just just to say
her I mean look I'm not gonna you know I
think is actually a good example of like
don't freak out about Chris Hayes asking
a question that's a totally fine cable
news question but the Obama care analogy
is a ridiculous because the reason that
the numbers flipped on Obama care it's
basically like you live in a bad
apartment but it's 10 degrees outside
the heat kind of works and the landlord
sort of makes repairs occasionally and
the apartment sucks and it should and
can be a lot better then somebody comes
along and says I have a solution to your
apartment problem you're homeless
tomorrow your perception of your
apartment is gonna increase radically
and again I'll I'll make this kind of
visceral I experienced evictions growing
up and i lived in playing in places that
weren't the worst place in the world but
they were very much nothing to write
home about and when you saw that letter
on the door you got to be gone and the
terrorist shoots through your body your
home became a lot more welcoming to you
so the pulse which on obamacare is
simply that republicans came along and
said we're ready to repeal it no more
health care you die add to which
particularly trump when he was running
and lying when he talked about replacing
Obamacare and again with no specifics
blah blah blah blah blah but his talking
points were to the left he said you keep
your care it gets better nobody's
uninsured so obviously which you're
gonna prefer that to getting forced into
a subsidy system
for bad private health plans add to wit
if you actually follow the Obamacare
numbers through logical conclusion it's
another argument for the popularity of
left proposals I would like to see a
similar chart for not just voters but
like constituencies that can influence
the Democratic primary because I think
they would look a bit different and you
know probably unfortunately for the left
wing of the Democratic Party wealthy
suburban moderates did play a role in
the midterms might not be the biggest
role but they played a role and it makes
me a little bit concerned that it's
gonna be a whole lot harder for a
candidate like Bernie to win a
Democratic primary than to win a general
election I think that's true though I
actually even think with support so my
experience is anecdotal but I mean first
of all the numbers are there I would be
interesting if they expanded it to
people who don't vote but would be
potential Democratic voters but even
with the way they do it now there's
nobody in that grid as we saw from the
numbers and I would also say anecdotally
when I've talked to people that are more
like in that suburban Democratic mold
who might respond rhetorically to that
line when you get specific they do
support things like Medicare for all the
again I really do think that the
constituency of gay marriage is cool and
we need to gut Medicare is really like
Howard Schultz and Michael Bloomberg and
actually honestly people like Paul Ryan
there's another point was made like yeah
Paul Ryan if you got him off the record
he doesn't care about banning abortion
he doesn't care about harassing gay
people he cares about destroying what
little is of a social safety net and
increasing poverty and inequality in
this country that's what he's doing well
I mean one potentially good thing that
Trump may have done is to destroy the
alliance between the religious right and
the free-market
neo liberals whose market capitalists
right he's at least showing how naked
this and sort of opportunistic that
Alliance is right
like yeah you guys are right like guys
like Howard Schultz are and and how much
the right like Dave Rubin yesterday
talking about this abortion stuff like
like their then and then that is their
that's their tack right like the
Democrats they want to get rid of
private insurance and they want to let
you aboard a baby right before it's born
and that's gonna be their play for the
next couple years yeah I'm just
concerned that the Republican Party is
going to realign into this kind of
national Bolshevism that people like
Tucker Carlson and Ann Coulter are like
all in for now right they're like
they're making some not still like you
didn't send the welfare state and I
don't know how sincere they are but like
well you're not powerful rhetoric and
it's already worked as rhetoric for
Trump but where's my yeah where's the
power
that's not there's no one's gonna fund
that that's why you see media
personalities do it and also why when
Trump gets into office he doesn't do any
of it well no he has no intention of
doing it but I think they are trying to
put some kind of policy or intellectual
heft behind it and if the Republican
Party at large picks up that kind of
realignment and it's a choice between
like this national Bolshevism social
democracy in one country for white
people strong borders on the one hand
versus this like totally bankrupt a
socially liberal fiscally neoliberal
Democratic Party even if there's not a
real constituency for that like they've
still got a whole lot of heft behind
them right they've got Hollywood they've
got the mainstream media they've got a
ton of different moneyed interests in
the political class it just it seems
like two very bad choices it's like the
Penn versus McCrone all over again I
think they can make rhetorical moves
toward it but is a lot when they have to
actually sign checks I just don't think
they're gonna do it yeah I think that's
the real like the difference between I
mean I think rhetorically it's super
potent and dangerous and it already does
have a terrible effect on this country
even but yeah that the checks won't ever
be cut and the difference between like
lepen can have that position in France
because France already does have a
actual social democracy that exists and
you don't need to rely on oligarchs to
fund you in the same
there so it's like to me you know and
it's also just evidenced by could you
name again
not media figures but another any
national Republican with a profile who's
talking about income inequality and
giving nods to labor unions I mean not
counting prom day I mean Trump talks
about that stuff so Trump right but
besides Trump who again again it because
it has nothing to do with his policy
except for his his NAFTA negotiator as
we heard he and you could really could
think of him just as another media
figure so who else yeah I mean nobody
yellow this is MIT Romney Jared
someone's gonna come on who knows maybe
MIT Romney will have some kind of
political awakening and he'll be free
markets I just don't think I don't see
it any any like any other material
reasons right exactly that's why I'm
saying like oligarchy the especially the
oligarchy that's aligned with the
Republicans they they're gonna hear that
and they're gonna be like well who's
gonna get to put the toll who's gonna
own the tolls on the eldest
infrastructure right and it's possible
that the same political and economic
forces preventing the Democrats from
realigning are also going to prevent the
Republicans that's they're even worse
and also I don't know that the Democrats
are realigning I don't know if they are
but I don't know if they aren't it's
like the thing is like you early to tell
right but there's actually a contest
inside the Democratic Party right now
inside the Republican Party they're all
double down on corporatism and white
nationalism and then you have a couple
of media pundits that are exploiting the
lane that you're talking about but have
no political power so yeah I I think
like the action is in the Democratic
Party right now and I agree with you
that there's no guarantee that goes the
right way at all but it's it's it's in
play I mean there's a reason that I mean
contrary to what a lot of people who are
you know weird on Twitter want to think
Bernie Sanders is still the most popular
politician in the country
AOC is by far the most promising and
dynamic politician in the country so
like and that's it like that is
a signal of what works nationally and
also the the fighting line in the
Democratic Party and the last thing I'll
add really quick before I get to you
Matt is it I think it is actually really
interesting that you know the
establishment wing for lack of a better
word they've got in common law Harris
they have an incredibly formidable
serious you know opponent and politician
but it's interesting to me that in the
Millennial cohort there's no analog like
all of the Elan Omar gets more and more
progressive Rashidah to live as a
community organizer AOC is the is the
most prominent young politician in the
country could you I mean I guess you
could say I don't know Connor lamb
litigate attention who Buddha geek from
but he's cuz he like wrote a
dissertation on Bernie Sanders in 2002
yeah I was gonna say I don't even know
if Boudicca I think Budig is probably
and also I don't I don't even know if
he's Third Way and he's obviously the
only reason he's trying to get national
we said it the other day is because well
if he listened to Kamala Harris I think
he's in that in that Lane is he you know
policy was I think so I don't know I
neurons will see you I think I think
it's unclear which way he's going to
bend I think if he's smart he would
endorse green to deal with Medicare for
what it's her and for what it's worth he
isn't I mean who's not having those
policies though right now but there's a
way you can endorse him and you can and
I mean bed oh sure but you can always
like there's he even even that being
said he's not a fraction as important as
AOC is whatever way he goes that's what
I'm saying right well there is no analog
just in terms of like talent and
importance Third Way likes to quote
these stats that there was as many
moderates elected in 2018 as there were
you know left-wing progressives right
but guess what
nobody can name a single one of them and
again also some of them like at least
the way Conor lamb campaigned and of
course I have strong disagreements with
this but Connor Lin campaigned as I'm
pro-gun anti-abortion and was like Union
made Union Hall Union Union Union Union
Union so it was like okay there's your
moderate he's the opposite of every
you're shilling for corporations every
day in Washington you know I just I mean
I don't want to be a doomsayer and I
don't pretend to know what's going to
happen in the future but I do think just
like Carlton Tucker Carlson's really
smart and we shouldn't underestimate his
ilk well this is how Republican politics
operates right they have no ideas of
their own and then they come in wait to
 on Democrat ideas and then roll
things back what's fascist opportunism
oh yeah that's what's so scary about
them their total chameleons yeah they're
lying in wait right no value see what
happens
