i senator thank you so much for doing
this well thank you papa me so let's
jump right in I I saw your speech this
afternoon I enjoyed it I got to say I
was struck by the disparity between your
speech and comments that I saw senator
excuse me former Vice President Biden
make this week you spoke quite a bit
about movements that are endangering
America and the vice president said that
it was basically one man he also said
that he was the solution for that one
man problem well what is your solution
tell us what the movement that you think
is threatening America and what is your
solution I'm curious as to the disparity
there well it's not only sadly enough an
American effort it is it is global and
that is we are looking at a merger of
oligarchy which insists systems around
the world which are controlled by
extraordinarily wealthy billionaires and
what's our Terenas I mean that's kind of
what's going on in this country and what
people like Trump and other people
around the world do is to retain power
is they try to divide their people up or
by appealing to the most basic basest
instincts and focus the anger of the
people on an RD is where they are
religious minorities whether they are
our immigrants whether they are a part
of the LGBT community
or people who have a different religion
than the majority but the points that I
made today is that as a nation we have
got to recognize that the best way to
defeat a legacy and the best way to
defeat authoritarianism is to bring
people together around a progressive
agenda an agenda which guarantees
economic rights as human rights
the point that I made is that way back
in 1944 in a not well publicized State
of the Union speech Roosevelt Franklin
Roosevelt said something very profound
he said you know what we have no rights
in this country that protects our
political rights freedom of religion
freedom of speech freedom of assembly
etc but we do not have anything that
protects our economical and human rights
so you can you know you can March you
can protest but it is both guarantee
that you can have a job that pays you a
living wage you can have any religion
you want but there is no guarantee that
when you get sick you're gonna have the
resources to go to a doctor or if you're
an elderly person afford the
prescription drugs that you need to stay
alive so the theme of today is that
economic rights must be considered as
human rights and that is the need to
continue what also well began some 80
years ago and so I'm curious as to how
it could be that there is this type of
disparity and perception of the problem
I mean that having gone through the past
eight years prior to Donald Trump and
and frankly the the decades before that
as well that people have such radically
different vision of what the problem is
the scale of it the structure of it
right well you know I think that has a
lot to do with media frankly in this
country which is owned by large
corporations and you know I'm not one
like Donald Trump who believes that
there's fake news out there meteor is
the enemy of the people
that's nonsense of course and dangerous
but what I think is that for a variety
of reasons our media does not recognize
the reality of what's going on in this
country today and we've got to do that
and that means it's not just 40 million
people living in poverty it's not just
but half a million people tonight
sleeping out on the streets that's the
worst case scenario it is half of this
country living paycheck to paycheck
it is tens of millions of people who
cannot afford to go to the doctor when
they are sick it is
one out of five people not being able
not being able to afford the
prescription drugs that their doctors
prescribed it kids not being able to
afford to go to college or leaving
school without raises levels of student
that it is the crisis of climate change
and what it will do to our country in
the rest of the world unless we deal
with it so you know I think what I am
trying to do is to say look these are
the real real problems facing ordinary
Americans and unless we have the courage
the courage to take on Wall Street to
take on the insurance companies and the
drug companies in the
military-industrial complex of a fossil
fuel industry unless we have the courage
to do that we are not going to make the
kind of progress that we need to so in
your speech you enumerated the 21st
century economic Bill of Rights like it
mentioned earlier and so you you have
these and you'll be rolling out these
proposals you'll have these plans that
that go towards establishing these
rights and these material benefits for
people what happens if if say Joe Biden
is wrong that the Republicans do not
revert to some type of mean as it were
I'm not sure what what that mean was but
what happens if we have a president
Sanders and you have these these plans
and these proposals which sound great
what is there a meta plan a strategy how
do these things go forward yeah if they
work are good sound that's you know
that's a absolutely right question look
this is what I believe and this is I
think what the French hate should be a
bit from other candidates and this is
what I believe you know I think if you
look at the history of real change in
this country take a deep breath and
think about art what are they and I'm
not talking about superficial changes
modest changes about real change think
about we're talking about a hundred and
twenty hundred and thirty years ago
where workers had to engage in enormous
struggle for the right to
have collective bargaining and to form
trade unions and end child labor massive
amounts of grassroots organizing and
struggle to make that happen you look at
the civil rights movement and understand
that real change
never takes place from the top on down
it wasn't just Lyndon Johnson signing
the Civil Rights Act or the Voting
Rights Act it was millions of people
African Americans and their allies who
said you know what we're going to end
segregation in this country all people
have the right to vote regardless of the
color of their skin
or you look at the women's movement you
know as we talked a hundred years ago
today women did not have the right to
vote how did that change come about come
about because she had some great guys
men in the Congress well there was some
but that struggle basically was one
because women and their male allies took
to the streets some of them died and
gave up their lives in the struggle if
you look at the gay rights revolution
that's taking place in this country of
the last 3040 years think about
Stonewall 50 years ago it is people with
incredible courage who took you know
again took to the streets uh who with
humiliation and and physical attacks to
say you know what in this country people
should have the right to love whoever
they want regardless of their gender
environmental movement the same so here
is the point every idea that I am
talking about and that is the need for
health care for all they need to have
jobs that pay people a living wage and
raising that minimum wage to at least 15
bucks an hour the need to cut
prescription drug costs and 1/2 the need
for affordable housing the need for a
clean environment the need to make sure
that companies like Amazon which made 11
billion in profits last year don't get
away with not paying a nickel in federal
income tax all of these ideas are
supported by the American people but
they are not going to be we're not going
to see the changes that we need unless
there is a political revolution
unless ordinary people get involved in
the political process in a way that we
have never seen before and the way we
defeat
the way we defeat was our Terry anism
the way we defeat oligarchy is when
working people and young people and all
of us begin to stand up and to fight
back Center you know as I hear you say
that like you know what I think I've
probably the first time I interviewed
you was maybe close to 15 years ago on
an air America and I I can't help but
think as you as you as you list those
things of the different movements that
have taken place in this country to make
change I wonder because you know for
years I I think I perceived you as being
very much sort of a conscience of the
country and I wonder if there you have
felt that your role has changed in some
way because as you make that list of
things that you're talking about it just
strikes me that I know that you were
involved in those in those fights you
don't reference yourself in those and I
wonder if in some way the past several
years that during the course of the
2015-2016 election you perceived your
role as not just being someone who could
remind the country of these things but
in in some more active way and in a way
sort of returning to your roots well
look I don't see the separation Sam what
I see is that if we're going to defeat
what's our adhering that's one of the
points that I made this happen it's not
just that what FDR did was good public
policy and standing up improving the
lives of working people you know what
else he did all over Europe countries
weren't fascists or in Germany you know
Nazi and what he was able to do is tell
the working people of this country in a
very difficult moment that government
was there for them and in America the
President of the United States would
stand for them so we're looking at not
just good public policy we're looking at
good politics we're saying the working
people today are working two or three
jobs you know what that doesn't have to
be the case people who have no health
care get involved in the political
process
a government that can elect that's going
to represent working people and we can
bring about change and in doing that we
can fend off the authoritarianism the
oligarchy the Trump represent so what
I'm talking about here is my belief and
recent polling has suggested that that I
can be Trump are in this country some of
the polls out there happy beating them
by a double-digit number are and
especially in battleground states like
Michigan Wisconsin and Pennsylvania so I
think in this case to answer your
question good policy standing up with
working people is good politics as well
do you do you think that with your your
sort of I guess the more recognition and
more in many respects political power
that you've developed that has led you
to to more opportunities to put that to
use I mean I'm thinking about things
like your your work with getting Amazon
to raise their wages going to the
Walmart meeting the the frankly the the
War Powers Act with with Yemen I mean
these are all things
these were intractable issues in some
respects and you have been able to pry
them loose and in you know at least well
that's right I mean I I think that that
is correct and you know I think in in
the case of Disney for example we heard
from Disney workers who are marching
around Donna Haim a Disneyland Anaheim
California you know a Mickey Mouse and
Donald Duck outfits and they were making
10 11 bucks an hour and we stood with
those workers and we forced visiting
frankly to pay their workers 15 bucks an
hour and Amazon the same thing they were
paying workers 10 11 12 bucks now we
heard from these Amazon markets we used
our social media we did everything we
could and Jeff Bezos and Amazon said
okay we'll pay their workers 15 bucks an
hour and as you indicated you know I've
been working with the fight for 15
people at McDonald's from just in Iowa
the other day
there's some incredibly great people who
just went on strike they left their job
said it McDonald's and they said you
know what we can't make it on ten eleven
bucks now we need a living wage and I
went to the Walmart order directives
we'll see what happens there but you
know we're going to continue our effort
to tell the wealthiest family in this
country the walton family who owns
Walmart but if they cannot pay their
workers starvation wages how much of
your work on the War Powers Act and in
regards to Yemen and and frankly calling
with representative roe Kahana for the
the freedom of lula from imprisonment is
is tied into this sort of a movement
that you see that is rising across the
the globe right i mean you know look one
of the things that we have managed to do
for example is to raise the issue of
yemen which is an unbelievable and
horrific human tragedy the UN estimates
that if we don't stop this war and get
humanitarian aid in there hundreds of
thousands of people will be dead by the
end of this year and that millions could
die of famine if we do not end war in
years to come and I was very proud to
work with ROH to work with some
conservative Republicans frankly in the
Senate to say that the President does
not have the authority does not have the
constitutional right to get the United
States involved in that war and we want
it for the first time in forty five
years we use the War Powers Act for a
majority vote in the House and Senate
not surprisingly of course Trombetta
that we aren't able to overcome the veto
but that was a major step forward in
getting the Congress to reclaim its
constitutional responsibilities over war
making which has essentially - taken
over by presidents for many years
lastly senator I know you're busy here
well what do you think is the the the
greatest challenge that your campaign is
facing right now I mean what what do
feel that that you need to achieve
particularly leading up over the next
couple of months before Iowa but but
into the campaign well you know we have
I think in an unprecedented way Sam we
have over 1 million people in everything
rational district in the United States
of America signed up to volunteer and
work on this campaign and it ain't easy
and I think the answer your question the
challenge that we face is how we helped
build this unprecedented grassroots
movement which not only will we need to
win the election and to defeat Trump but
also to transform this country and
that's what we're wrestling with right
now and it ain't easy it really is not
but making that million-plus people into
an effective fighting machine is I think
be a cute challenge that we face right
now and that's one that I mean are you
contemplating - like how you keep that
machine to function in the event that
you win or frankly even in the event the
answer is absolutely yes
I mean that ties in to what I believe is
the political revolution all right I
think I got to get all right now oh
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it well thank you
thank you bye-bye bye
