[Music]
couple clips you know someone said to me
regular listener of the program texted
me and said did you ever notice that
whenever there is a mass shooting one
that has like permeated the media I
guess threshold because we have mass
shootings you know technically probably
every day in this country sometimes more
than one but it usually takes like eight
or nine people to be killed before you
start to hear about it like for you
don't hear three you don't hear five six
seven depending on where it is you hear
about it and he said do you ever notice
that there's always a phone call that
you get that is like that one that you
got where it's just like the talking
points are very similar like none of
this is gonna work
why are you doing it which is odd it
does strike me as odd like that call
yesterday was odd right I mean it's odd
and I do know for a fact that back in
the day different organizations would
pay people to call talk radio shows hey
I'm not saying that's the case in this
instance but I do know that that
phenomena exists so if you're one of
those callers and you're getting paid to
call into the program good on you you're
very very fortunate because you're
getting to listen to one of the better
programs and getting paid for it that's
pretty good
sounds like a win-win it is a total
win-win for everybody involved
so dominant listening is very
conversation but let's go through caller
but let me do the reason why I preface
it
ways because I just want to say like
you're not gonna have to do that because
we're gonna let your conservative uber
Lords call into the show today with
their arguments about why gun control
should work or more effective things
like I want you to think of a proposal
as outlandish as the idea of let's say
closing the private sale loophole or you
know universal background checks which I
will argue necessary but definitely
insufficient should get far more
aggressive but but think of the most
outlandish proposal you could imagine
what's gonna be so expensive and so
impossible and then Sean Hannity will
say hold my beer I don't think it's
because I thought of it but let's stop
school shootings we'll start there let's
stop mall shooters we'll start there I'd
like to see the perimeter of every
school in America surrounded secured by
retired police which you are retired
Secret Service which you are military
and I want guys to donate 15 hours is he
just trying to get Bungie into a job
exactly his damn budget well he's asking
him to donate 15 hours that's why Bungie
no gets thrown off there he's like wait
a second am I gonna get paid I'm not
gonna get paid for all of it so the idea
is it's an all-volunteer force of
military Secret Service and police
veterans who go out with their service
pistols Tier one operators and will form
this all-volunteer army now apparently
would you get the managers I guess would
also be volunteers like I just wonder
how many billions of dollars it would
cost to fully militarize and fortress
eyes every school and every mall in the
country Grimm and presumably you also
want to do that with every sporting
event and any busy intersection right I
mean
forget the movie theatres the movie
theaters of course roller rinks ice
skating rinks I guess that's it I mean
it would just be great Rocky or excuse
me great Rambo vehicle
I could see yeah right Rambo gets pulled
out of retirement again to guard the
perimeter for an elementary right
exactly exact match Sean Hannity somehow
knows him and he's just like I know that
you just wanted to retire it to your
farm but we need like we need you to
there's absolutely nothing that we could
do to stop school shootings we need you
to guard PS 84 down on Anderson Street
it's literally a force of nature there's
absolutely nothing we could do that
movie would ameliorate these things we
would have to have a big Arsenal scene
like in tremors where you look at all
the guns you could also have the gun
companies subsidize it because you'd
sell them all the guns here is or would
you just let them bring whatever gun you
have you bring down there so if you have
a service pistol great if you don't you
just have a shotgun bring that down
here's let Hannity explain now Dan bond
Giano is going to or whatever his name
is is going to add how he's gonna do it
like a triple negative here but he's
basically saying like I agree but he
doesn't quite say it that way to see the
perimeter of every school in America
surrounded secured by retired police
which you are retired Secret Service
which you are military and I want guys
to donate 15 hours I think we could
cover every school every hour every day
at a metal detector I think we're gonna
have save for schools have one armed
guard on every floor of every school all
over every mall the perimeter and inside
every hall of every mall now that gives
us an instant response opportunity now
just in terms of instant response
opportunity remind you instant response
now he doesn't actually mean like half a
second response right again I will
reiterate the shooter in Dayton Ohio was
dead within 30 seconds of shooting his
first shot
within those 30 seconds he had the
ability to kill nine people and injure
20 some-odd I love every mall now that
gives us an instant response opportunity
that we normally wouldn't have would
that save lives and your humble well
your expert opinion I find that
interesting Shawn that when it comes to
protecting the people that matter the
president the United States obviously
regardless of party the leader of the
free world did you notice when I was in
the Secret Service when we took
President Obama back to Chicago a
violent City Sean nobody said hey guys
you know disarmed don't worry it's
Chicago they have very strict gun laws
here yeah it's not a joke I say that
because that's the proposal they want to
propose for your kids in school public
plaza weep there is no proposal to not
have armed guards at schools because
they already don't have armed guards
there so no one is like floating this
idea what if we pull back all the armed
guards on every floor or the Secret
Service who surround I mean honestly if
these guys are using that as an example
then let's take them out their face how
many Secret Service protect the
president at any given time from any
party easy love doesn't a couple of
dozens a couple of dozen so what we're
looking at is a couple of dozen that's
right per his child's perfect brought
over students here we got a couple of
dozen george zimmerman's right child
come on to propose for your kids in
school public places
we protect our politicians with armed
guards hollywood before that's my
priority right my point is exactly that
that when it comes to protecting people
that matter
elites political leaders what is the
Secret Service and others do obviously
they have trained men and women with
firearms out there to protect them they
don't say oh don't worry Donald Trump is
going to Washington DC today they have
good gun control laws everybody in this
Secret Service take your weapons out
leave them
here you'd be openly mocked yeah well
same suggestion is made for your kids
people go oh yeah that makes sense no it
doesn't make sense no it doesn't make
sense I can't imagine why damn bond Jia
know is not working in some other
communications business right now also
your dog to have semi-autos for your
kids no it doesn't make sense yes just
the comma that buttons to be repeated
right babe I just stupid voice well I'm
sorry but listen I don't want damn bond
Gino's inability to articulate an idea
to get in the way of our assessment of
Sean Hannity's idea which is completely
bat crap volunteer hours for unemployed
police officers to arm card to balls and
malls you mean that really really sure
which by the way but now just a
perimeter on every floor I love how all
of these guys like they're like spit
ball Solutions make a big government
socialist like me dude secret sir I
believe it a little bit it's a little
thing called freedom Sean guess what the
Secret Service budget is what is the
Secret Service well what what do you
think it might need to be if we're gonna
make this feasible to cover 35 million
school children well we have I would say
the Secret Service budget is what five
hundred million dollars it's two point
two three billion dollars Wow so but
think about it what about if it was all
done is valen it tried to do the math
that you don't believe in the spirit of
america you try and do the math so 35
million i don't know what this what this
number is 16 I think it's like seven
point eight oh five billion to the 16th
power I didn't know numbers went up that
high what if we just do it can can you
what if we do it in gift cards is there
a way to figure that out and gift cards
because we're not gonna we're just
getting they're gonna volunteer for 15
hours we just give them a like a bonus
on a gift card or something I don't know
if that has a name went to the city
that's a much more rash
no idea then perhaps banning certain
classes of weapons and then I would also
I'm happy to subscribe to the idea of a
licensing regime where only people who
go through various thresholds are
allowed to own these weapons and can own
as many as they want so you value the
president's life more than your children
that's basically what an incredible beta
 yeah unbelievable even your
children you will sacrifice will say I
have altered of being a people say
i have donald trump derangement syndrome
but yeah I vowed their life so Donald
Trump was supposedly so terrible you
value his life long ago 15 zeroes is a
quadrillion right and and
18 is a quintillion a quintillion so
we're somewhere between a quadrillion
and a quintillion it's just called a
quadrillion dollars how much is that in
chicken salad sandwiches yeah you'll get
it you'll get it you'll get a volume
discount so let's call it a quadrillion
let's not have to worry about what it is
with 16 trillion maybe about 10
quadrillion all right well
