[Music]
Bernie Sanders is everybody no knows was
at the Walmart Board of Directors
meeting yesterday and before he even set
foot in the building if I understand or
maybe when he arrives certainly before
he spoke the CEO of Walmart already
endorsed a increase in the federal
minimum wage now of course it wasn't it
I don't think there was a dollar number
assigned to it it was a we should look
at sort of thing and of course the CEO
knows that with the Republicans
controlling the Senate and Donald Trump
in the White House a move to help people
live better is obviously not going to
happen but this is the power of Bernie
Sanders and this is the power of any
frontline top level national politician
who is willing to not only advocate
important and great policies but
literally function as a labor and
community organizer it's an incredibly
powerful thing
could you imagine when this man is
president the I mean it's one thing to
talk about bully pulpit power this is
literal organizing power here he is
after coming out of the shareholder
meeting and he is gonna explain to this
reporter I believe his name is Ryan
Nobles that the Walton family has still
not heard the message do you feel that
the wealthiest family
seventy-five billion dollars surely they
can afford to pay their employees a
living wage now he did say that they too
believe the federal minimum wage we are
working on but I led the effort in the
Senate to raise the federal minimum wage
to fifteen bucks an hour strong
Republican opposition there in the house
I hope they will do it but with
Republicans controlling the Senate there
is no guarantee we will succeed
what we need is Walmart the largest
private sector employer in this country
to take a bold step forward and say that
all of their employees should live with
dignity and how would you respond to
some of the the things they said they've
done for their employees you think it's
enough look I'm not you know criticize
everything that they have done all that
I'm saying is that if you work 40 hours
a week in the United States especially
in a company owned by the wealthiest
family in America a company which has
apparently enough resources to pay its
CEO over 20 million dollars a year in
compensation a thousand times more than
what the average worker makes you know
if you can do all of that you can pay
your workers look there's no doubt about
that I just want to really emphasize the
nothing radical about $15 minimum wage
okay so let's take this in a couple of
different steps a broader argument is an
institution like Walmart should be
broken up decentralized that even in a
much better economy in society there's
certain forms of frictionless production
in a place like Amazon which are
fundamentally incompatible with
ecological sustainability and UMaine
worker practices even in a much more
democratized environment so one is break
up these companies democratize these
companies have democracy at the
workplace as Professor Richard wolf
talks about that's the long term goal I
would say the short term goal in the
next rise to push and one way is
breaking this up geographically because
$15 an hour is not going to get you
where you need to be in the Bay Area or
New York City or Seattle or Chicago but
the other way frankly and you know again
you can always have caveats carved out
and subsidies in fact Walmart can pay
the subsidies in taxes that subsidize
the bodega that literally can't afford
to pay somebody $15 an hour so these are
all solvable and the question of how to
solve them is always about taking
resource
that are concentrated up here and
breaking them up and bringing them down
so they flow out the answer is actually
always quite simple but I would say that
you know if you are a target and Amazon
a Walmart any of these major
monopolistic or monopolistic tendency
conglomerates we should set a baseline
that you pay your workers $35 an hour
period whether you're in the middle of
the Ozarks or whether you're in the
center of Manhattan you have to pay what
would translate to some form of a
legitimate at least lower middle-class
wage period yeah and if there are places
like New York City where unions are
stronger and can organize for more than
that absolutely pay people more than
that in New York City but you're right
the floor should be like at least $30 an
hour at least 30 35 bucks an hour no
doubt for any company like that with
that type of profits and speaking of you
know what Walmart has done and Bernie
politely saying obviously not remotely
enough let's go to Sound number 13 where
a worker at this same rally she's gonna
explain her experience as a human being
working for this company
whirring if I want to be able to take my
kids to the doctor if they meet them cuz
I don't have the money to fix my car
they've never lived in our shoes they
don't know what we're talking and this
is America what is wrong with us we're
supposed to take care of our people and
we're not and these companies make all
this money and we're struggling why we
don't have to struggle that's why we
have people like senator Sanders on our
side because he believes that too and
really just my final question and
looking around you are not alone today
[Applause]
now it's a tough tough question how is
it to know that you have others who are
here also in support of everything
that's going on it's amazing because I
have people nationwide they're my family
thank you buddy
that's organizing that solidarity that's
uh I believe Cornel West he says that
justice is love in public oh that's it
that touched my cold communist heart
that's the reason you have a communist
heart indeed so let's just my warm
communist warm communist heart and
there's nothing wrong with having a
heart in fact my heart doesn't care
about your libertarian nonsense
corporate ideology we're gonna take
a brief break and we will be back with
Brian mayor of
