Roka hana thing is that yeah let's play
that this is good I mean I you know like
again this is the other part of that
right we're going to see some there
seems to be a genuine commitment by the
Democrats across the board to to make
drug prices lower and to impose more
restrictions on it
the problem is that this is already
becoming a trade-off for Medicare for
all
but here is Roca Hana making the same
argument we heard this last week I feel
like - right who's arguing Jose OC made
the same argument like you have
socialized the cost of development and
privatize the profits and basically
we're all sitting here and we're all
like angel investors except for you're
not giving us any returns my colleague
representative comer said earlier today
that he's concerned the government would
have more of a role in medicine and his
concern is that if government has more
of a role in medicine it may hurt as he
put it or innovation my colleague if he
cares about innovation should actually
be cheering for government to have a
bigger role I know you're familiar with
the study that shows that between 2010
and 2016 of every drug all 210 drugs
that were approved by the FDA were
funded by the NIH or public money would
it be fair to say that most of the
foundational research is being done with
public dollars and that I mean this is
just sort of common sense if you know
the people who go do their MD PhDs and
want to win Nobel prizes they tend to go
to universities not becoming general
councils or vice presidents at
pharmaceutical companies I mean it's
that not your experience yes and
actually I think that's happening more
and more it used to be the case that a
lot of large pharmaceutical companies
had really big research arms but in
recent years a lot of those companies
have divested from those Reese
charms and instead are looking for the
research that's coming out of of the
academic settings and I want to also
bring back to what other people have
said earlier in this hearing about the
need for a financial incentive and
actually a lot of these people at
Harvard and Johns Hopkins you know a lot
of these scientists go to work every day
and their incentive is to try to cure
disease and to make people better and to
enter progress and to you know develop
the progress of science and you know
they're not thinking about whether or
not they can become a billionaire or
whether that's the incentive what an odd
concept right I mean like members of
Congress we don't you think here most
people would think they don't want to
make just a billion dollars they're in
it for the public good what an odd
concept that someone else may have a
similar view yeah I got some questions
about a lot of those Congress people but
in general I agree with that that
concept that he's talking about and you
know that came out of that same hearing
that al Sousa and it's this is the
benefit of having the Democrats control
the house and having some genuine
lefties in the the Democratic caucus
ones that attract media attention
because these narratives are going to
keep getting out there in a way that we
haven't seen in decades all right I get
time for one more
