[Music]
Ian's ism of the United States
this footage happened this happened in
just a couple just yesterday I believe
these are protesters in New Jersey
protesting uh an AI facility there wait
I thought it was in Rhode Island uh well
I see it they both say in New Jersey so
where is it I guess I mean I just talked
to someone who right this is it okay so
this is a ice detention center we're
gonna double-check whether it's in Rhode
Island or New Jersey people are
protesting holding a vigil outside of
this Center and someone an Isis an ice
detention guard drives through the crowd
[Applause]
so you know of course a couple years ago
Heather hire was murdered by a white
supremists in Charlottesville the echoes
and the parallels are quite obvious no
sir during the Dakota access pipeline
case North Dakota Republicans wanted to
pass a law that said that cleared
drivers of liability in the case they
hit protesters in their roadway
yes that was a major legislative push
yeah so we have more of it
this is subsequently when they come in
with pepper spray to clear the crowd
okay they come in with pepper spray
after this guy is driven through to
clear it up with pepper spray and if we
confirmed where this is in Rhode Island
okay go ahead
[Applause]
oh and it wasn't the cops who
pepper-sprayed those protesters either
it was guards from the ice facility
right right so there's you should watch
your history on the coup and the
subsequent right-wing regimes that the
United States is black-backed in
Honduras directly correlates with people
putting their bodies on the line to stop
the kidnapping of children the
detainment of human beings
