[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday May 21st 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
about casting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today David
Wallace wells on the inhabited earth
life after warming meanwhile Trump
attorney Don McGann blows off the House
Judiciary Committee hearing as
impeachment demands Rock the Democratic
caucus and speaking of which a federal
judge upholds the congressional subpoena
issued to Deutsche Bank appeal is on the
way to the DC Circuit Court
which is chaired by Merrick garland that
guy speaking of chairing Ken Cuccinelli
he of the vaginal fetal probe has been
appointed immigrations are in the wake
of a report that a 16 year old
Guatemalan boy died in DHS custody we
have dual hearings in Congress over the
Iran policy Intelligence Liars in one
hearing non intelligence liars
I guess specifically about the Iran
situation in another and low local
Georgia da say they will not prosecute
under the newly passed Georgian
anti-abortion law EPA announces they're
ending funding into environmental
threats to children and Fox News's Pete
hexxit turns out to have been the main
pusher of pardons for accused war
criminals meanwhile Italian unions
refused to load a Saudi ship in a Yemen
war protest hell yeah
and Bernie will be showing up at the
Walmart shareholders meeting
representing the Walmart workers good
morning everyone and lastly the
heartwarming story of the Alabaman
public television station that refuses
to run a cartoon because it mentions gay
marriage
all this and more on today's program we
forgot to listen we forgot to look up
the the call I did back in the day to
the American Family Association I don't
know if they're still around anymore I
think they are but they had a culture
desk there that did a report on I think
it was Finding Nemo or a shark's tail
and blowing the lid off of a shark's
tail how it was pushing cross-dressing
where you have you know I think a shark
pretending to be a dolphin or something
and this was sending the wrong message
to kids we have that audio somewhere I
was gonna gonna introduce that another
element of that movie was pretending
sharks could speak that was also yeah
that was there's a lot of dangerous
message but that was inspired by this
story out of Alabama Alabama public
television has chosen not to air the
PBS's Arthur episode this is of course
the episode which aired nationally on
may 13th Arthur who is a see a lovable
mole or something like that I think he's
an anteater anteater sorry
aardvark aardvark sir yeah Arthur the
aardvark and his friends attend their
beloved teacher mr. ratburn's nuptials
to his partner which turns out to be a
male whatever species mr. Ratburn is and
Alabama Public Television was on it very
quickly they preempted the episode by
showing a rerun of a different Arthur
our raqi's bias leo yes Mike McKenzie
the director of programming at the
Alabama and Public Television say they
were notified by WGBH and PBS in
mid-april about the episode in title
mr. Ratburn and the special someone and
decided to show rerun they have no plans
to air the thing later McKenzie said in
an email saying that parents have
trusted Alabaman public television for
more than 50 years to provide children's
programs that entertain educate and
inspire more importantly although we
strongly encourage parents to watch
television with their children and talk
about what they have learned parents
trust that their children can watch a PT
without their supervision we also know
that children who are younger than the
target audience for Arthur also watched
the program no explanation as to why
that would be a problem to watch a
wedding but I mean it's you know I'll
tell you this after they're done with
abortion they've just I mean the you
have state after state now shown that
they are aggressively looking to revisit
a decision that was made in 1973 so if
you are under the impression that states
like Alabama Mississippi probably
Missouri maybe Georgia Tennessee
conceivably I don't know Missouri yeah I
don't I just want to say - and don't
forget that the whole context for this
even in a place like Alabama but
certainly Georgia is that this stuff is
print is paved by voter suppression you
know in to a significant extent and that
was already made possible by Roberts
Supreme Court several years ago well yes
and but my point being that if you don't
think that they're gonna re-engage
Kentucky maybe even if they're gonna
re-engage in the battle to fight against
marriage equality and and not get help
from the Supreme Court
I've got a bridge to sell you or really
just about anything cuz I'm gonna make
it up I'm gonna make up the thing that
I'm gonna sell you and you're gonna sell
it to me because you are naive I mean
you're gonna buy it for me because
you're naive yeah our buddy a steven
crowder who used to voice a character on
arthur has since gone to twitter and he
takes censorship very seriously so he
said oh wait that he hasn't said
anything about censorship this is do I
see his reaction
oh yeah no I mean he's uh he's very
concerned about censorship here it is
BBS is Arthur
mr. Ratburn the teacher came out as gay
and got married on the season 22
premiere yes comes from TV line the news
comes out an episode titled mr. Ratburn
and the special someone hmm this comes a
little surprise to most with longtime
fans and they're setting miss Redman's
obsession with cleanliness fashion in
episode 246 mr. Ratburn gets AIDS oh
that one was in which think he also
controversially joined Isis which seems
as though it was kind of a giveaway oh I
get it
being gay is like joining Isis Goodsell
arias good stuff very funny stuff I am
so glad that I am so glad because you
know there's a lot of people out there
who'd want to chill that kind of speech
and we wouldn't get the insights that
come from that caliber of comedy the old
I'm an adult and being gays like being
in Isis for a long time pretty close to
home for him because it's the only real
thing he's ever done yeah it's true it's
true must be tough to see that who's
saying you know YouTube isn't real see
them move from strength to strength
without him
folks are you trying to drink more water
you should be every I at the amount of
people I know who need to drink a
tremendous amount of water to avoid like
getting headaches or getting sick by the
end of the day and specifically the
other day milah is one of those person
my daughter she had a headache she needs
to drink a lot of water to stay hydrated
I'm not exactly sure what the deal is
with that but when she came to me I
haven't drank enough water today I got a
headache first thing I do grab from my
stash a liquid IV it hydrates you two to
three times faster and more efficiently
than water alone with an added bonus of
vitamin C b3 b5 b6 and b12 she should be
drinking this one of these every morning
it's the fastest-growing wellness brand
liquid IV and you can find them
everywhere even Costco liquid IV to fuel
tough workouts help prevent muscle
fatigue promote healthy post-workout
recovery great alternative to
traditional sugary sports drinks because
there's no artificial flavors or
preservatives in fact it's non-gmo vegan
free gluten free dairy free soy Betty
yet comes in a convenient ts a friendly
powder packets that are perfect for
travel that's when I use it the most
well travel because I tend to drink a
little bit more I don't know why that is
but also you get on a plane it's like it
completely dehydrates you prevents jet
lag altitude sickness try and keep some
in the office we have like one or two
packets left
I love liquid IV I know you will too
right now my listeners get 25% off at
liquid IV comm when you use my code
majority a check out it's 25% off
anything you order on liquid IVs website
just go to liquid IV comm and to my
promo code majority that's liquid IV
dot-com promo code majority don't wait
start properly hydrating today also
you'll notice today that I am
clean-shaven usually that only happens
when I'm gonna go on television but I
just got a little bit itchy because of
the heat yes
I think and but when I shave that should
have like a label on me when I go on
like on Chris Hayes program like a patch
like like I was like a racecar driver
with Harry's you know what I love about
Harry's I've told you this before the
the narrower razor head that's part of
it
somebody actually the other day notice a
friend of mine noticed that I do have an
asymmetry in my nostrils and well I mean
it's just yeah and it's not people
people don't generally notice but I was
like that's why I need the trimmer
uh-huh uh-huh
good observation yeah that is why I talk
about the trimmer blade on Harry's like
coming to America joke yep
Harry's founders were tired of paying up
for razors that were overpriced and over
designed they knew that a great shave
doesn't come from gimmicks like
vibrating heads flex balls or handles
that look like spaceships so they bought
a world-class Blade Factory in Germany
started making razors that combine
simple clean design quality durable
blades at a fair price
Harry's replacement cartridges just two
bucks each and all Harry's blades come
with a hundred percent quality guarantee
it's no surprise they've received over
twenty thousand five star reviews on
Trustpilot and Google you can get a 13
dollar value trial set that comes with
everything you need for a close
comfortable shave weighted organ amah
candle that's also one of my favorite
things the five blade razor with a
lubricating strip and trimmer blade rich
lathering shave gel travel blade cover
and lizards my show can redeem their
trial set at harrys.com slash majority
report make sure you go to harrys.com
slash majority report to redeem your
offer let him know I sent you to help
support the show so a story today in
Politico apparently there was a big
meeting Democratic caucus in the wake of
Justin Amash this Michigan Republican
congressman libertarian outlier
definitely but he is called for
impeachment says the thresholds been met
and so you have members according to
this Politico piece of the Democratic
caucus leadership Jamie Laskin a couple
others Raskin I should say who he is a
constitutional law professor they want
to start proceedings largely because
this is all about the obstruction now is
really the the sort of the straw that's
broken the camel's back for a mosh and
for others when you start impeachment
hearings I've said this in the past the
weight of a congressional subpoena under
the auspices of impeachment inquiry is
simply heavier and as as judged by the
courts and from a political standpoint
and this Amash thing and yesterday I
said it made it bipartisan I was being a
little bit troll ish with that because I
sort of hate that construction that one
member of a party can make it bipartisan
but particularly when you're talking
about the Republicans who simply it's a
fact march in lockstep far more often
than the Democrats but but just even
broadly speaking there is something
between bipartisanship and partisanship
right that it's not necessarily
bipartisan the call for impeachment now
although there's members of both parties
but what it does is the knee-jerk
reaction that Republican voters have
that the only reason why the Democrats
are pursuing this is because of
partisanship that no longer works in the
same way it creates pressure on
Republicans because if it was just
partisanship it would be a no-brainer
for every Republican to say I'm not
signing on to it I was talking to
Brandon about this before in the analogy
he made was you know it's the difference
between like it's a crack in the ice the
ice hasn't broken up but the ice is not
rock
solid and that crack has relevance it
creates pressure and apparently though
Nancy Pelosi still being adamant that
the play here for Democrats is to just
pursue serious bipartisan legislation
like things like enhanced the Do Not
Call Registry and you know look for an
infrastructure bill that will never
happen maybe we could do a fraudulent
bill with Donald Trump on infrastructure
privatized solve oaths hey God maybe
you'd appreciate a few less calls a
night Samuel I bet you are
here's Mika one-on-one with speaker
Pelosi right after that meeting I
believe Justin Amash is position on
impeachment he's tweeted more today he's
come right back at the president does it
it doesn't fit the bar for bipartisan
support for impeachment
well my person support from Pietschmann
has to be in the Senate yeah in terms of
congressman Madden his voice speaks to
the silence of so many other all the
other Republicans not to hold this
president accountable for the oath of
office that he takes to protect and
defend the Constitution respecting the
co-equal branches of government so much
may be one voice but the fact that is in
the absence of other voices it speaks
very loudly so doesn't it pour more
pressure on you that a conservative
Republican says the threshold for
impeachment has been met no no
why but we have to we're not this isn't
about politics it's not about passion
it's not about prejudice it's not about
politics it's about patriotism and it's
about the presentation of the facts so
that the American people can see why
we're going down a certain path I I that
is one of the most incoherent responses
the only thing that strikes me about
this she says it's not about politics
not about passion it's about patriotism
and presenting the facts the only thing
that strikes me about that that makes
any sense whatsoever is that it's all
Peas and she's she's for some reason I
think I feel like there's some type of
code there like we're only gonna speak
in alliterations and therefore I just
don't know what the therefore part is
but it's clear that she has a plan and
it's just to speak in alliteration but
but here's the bottom line the first
half of her response that Amash
understands that the president is
completely obstructing the job of
Congress we just heard this from from a
federal judge it makes absolutely no
sense that Congress has an impeachment
power and that they have oversight
authority if they don't have authority
to investigate it is a complete under
undermining of our constitutional
structure what the White House is doing
in terms of like keeping Don McGann from
testifying
keeping Muller from testifying bill Barr
not showing up this is I mean I think
there are other reasons to impeach
Donald Trump again read the report read
the Muller report it's pretty stunning
you had Michael Cohen apparently told
lawmakers right this would be part of an
impeachment hearing that Donald Trump's
personal lawyer
told him to lie to Congress basically
said perjure yourself this is all
impeachable and the idea that Pelosi can
say at least Amash has principles and is
showing up the rest of the Republican
Party the bottom line is if you don't
pursue impeachment in this instance for
the obvious obstruction you're basically
saying that's it Congress loses the
power this is a use-it-or-lose-it type
of situation you won't remove Donald
Trump from office but what you will do
is lay down a marker and say there is a
thing called accountability we may not
be able to remove you from office but we
can impeach you we can put it on record
that you've been impeached and from a
political standpoint it seems impossible
to me now that this is tenable like that
this is some type of recipe for winning
I mean I guess maybe there's some type
of 14 dimensional chess where Nancy
Pelosi wants to be you know lead from
way behind but I just don't think that
happens in this scenario
can I just add two really quick things
one it it's incredibly frustrating also
because when she speaks like that she
makes it sound as if Hamas is doing a
like a Jeff Flake thing which is exactly
the opposite of what he's doing right to
be really clear if you read his Twitter
thread this is not a you know I'm a
Republican but I'm a little bit fed up
that Donald Trump is such a jerk he is
giving the most clear and cogent
breakdown of and again we can I mean
part of the reason I don't put much
energy into this is because it's to me
it just seems demonstrable that they're
not taking their functionality seriously
but he's just saying look this dude has
clearly obstructed justice this has
happened it's documented it's clear he's
doing it right now and therefore as a
good and libertarian constitutional nerd
our job kicks in to do X it's the
opposite of the type of posture
that she's talking about it's a clear
clinical case and she's failing on both
counts because she's not connecting with
the grassroots Rashidah to live let's
just impeach the mf'er because of course
f him or the this is actually a thing
this is actually a job that we actually
theoretically do this yeah if it's
really about like patriotism and
preserving norms and doing it the right
way or whatever they should be doing
these proceedings as the information
comes to light without regard to
politics or when the election is or or
if she's doing some like twenty
dimensional political chess she should
tell people that like we're going to
impeach this guy it'll be easier to do
it after the election all right gotta
take a break in a second but I should
tell you this with more than seventy
sizes including their signature half cup
sizes third love designs bras with
breast size and shape and mind for a
perfect fit in a premium field just
answer a few simple questions via third
loves fit finder quiz find your perfect
fit in sixty Seconds
then thanks third loves 100% fit
guarantee you can wear wash and put your
bra to the test for sixty days and if
you don't love it you can return it and
third love will wash it and donate it to
a woman in need this is hands-down the
most comfortable bra you'll own with
straps that won't slip tagless labels
and lightweight super thin memory foam
cups how do I know
I don't know personally but we have out
sourced this to our official majority
report bra tester and this is the
response that we got they don't have a
zillion options so it's easy to choose
something quickly the fit is great I
usually have to return most bras i order
online even though they're in my size i
ordered two and they both fit that
almost never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic there you have it third love knows
there's a perfect bra for everyone so
right now they're offering my listeners
15% off your first order go to third
love spell it just like it sounds
dot-com / majority to find your perfect
fitting bra and get 15% off your first
purchase
that's third love.com / majority for 15%
off today
all right we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back I'll be talking to
David Wallace wells
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report remember you can support this
program by going to join the majority of
report.com on the phone it is a pleasure
to welcome back to the program David
Wallace wells he is deputy editor at New
York magazine and author of the
uninhabitable earth life after warming
David welcome back to the program we
spoke to you I guess maybe it was around
October of last year or so based on a
piece that you had written that was the
that makes up in some respects you know
I guess almost one section of this book
and it was pretty harrowing I wanted you
to back with the completion of this book
and I have to say like I want to start
here because literally yesterday maybe
it was two days ago my daughter I was
telling my daughter she's got to eat a
little more responsibly you know like a
little less sugar and eat a little more
protein she's like it doesn't matter
12 years we're all gonna be dead anyways
cuz it climate change and stormed off
she's a teenager but I also I you know
I'm not gonna die is basically what I
yelled after her but um I mean to a
certain extent she's right about how
dire it's gonna be relatively soon and
that is what you outline in the section
on the elements of chaos right we like
we really haven't come to grips with the
sort of practical implications of what
is all but guaranteed to happen at this
point well I would say that both of you
are sort of right I think that it's
inevitable that we get some additional
amount of warming past where we are
already and we are already living on a
planet that is hotter than it has ever
been in the entire history of humanity
and so everything that we know of as
human biology as human civilization as
history as culture all of those things
are dependent on climate
conditions and evolved and developed
under climate conditions that no longer
hold and it's as though we've landed on
an entirely different planet and they're
going to have to figure out just how
many of them will endure in this new
climate situation which is not just
different but it's changing even more
and will change going forward into the
future in some harrowing ways there will
be almost inevitably quite a bit more
suffering from climate change than we've
seen to this point but I also think it's
important personally to keep in mind
that we're very far from the kind of
scenarios that would mean you know the
total extinction of human life on the
planet I think
the likeliest outcome is that we over
the next generation or so produce
significantly more human suffering and
simultaneously find a way to kind of
normalize that suffering so that we look
away from those who are in most pain and
and justify our own lives in part by
considering just how much you know just
how intense the competition for
resources and prosperity has gotten but
I think that it would be an ugly outcome
and I'd really like it I really hope
that we might find our way to a kind of
more empathic situation where for
instance we would be moved by the fact
that by 2050 some of the biggest cities
in South Asia and the Middle East will
be made unlivable
just by direct heat in summer which
means you can't you wouldn't be able to
go outside during the summer months
without risking heatstroke and death
these are cities that today hold 10 or
12 or 15 million people and it's one
reason why the UN thinks that we could
have just by 2050 have 200 million
climate refugees we could have as many
as a billion climate refugees they say
which would be as many people as live
today in North and South America
combined or to be moved by the economic
suffering of countries in the world
around the equator who have already lost
as much as a third of their potential
economic output because of the forces of
climate change and by the end of the
century would have no hope of any
economic growth at all because of the
impacts of climate change speaking
globally pulling back just from those
countries that are being hit hardest
it's expected that the global GDP would
be about a third lower than it would be
without climate change by the year 2100
and that's an impact that's twice as
deep is the Great Depression
and it would be permanent so we have a
situation where no matter where you are
no matter what kind of life you live
your life is going to be impacted which
is to say in almost all cases degraded
and damaged and yet there's also it's
also the case that climate change
punishes us differentially there are
people who suffer most namely those of
us in the global south and those of us
who it will punish more namely people
like you and me who live in the
relatively wealthy West and well I think
you know I think we can get kind of get
too far over our ski is thinking about
climate change as a near-term extinction
level event it's also the case that life
is going to get quite a bit more
difficult and everything that we do on
this planet from our politics to our
culture to our relationship to economics
and technology all of those things will
be transformed by this force as well as
totally as you know modernity shaped
everything that you did in the 19th
century and say financial capitalism
shaped everything you could do in the
late 20th century that's how profound
all encompassing and sort of all shaking
this horse will be all right I there's
there's a there's a lot in there I want
it I want to get to I just I just want
to just I just want to flagpole there's
this one thing that you said at the very
at the very beginning of that because we
often hear and you know I mean this
brings up a lot of other subsidiary
issues but I just that part about the
the planets been war this warm before
but not when humanity has been around
right and yeah and and in fact you right
that we would not have probably evolved
were if we you know sort of if the
timing was off in terms of like the the
warming of the planet yeah I mean you
know if you if you pull back and
contemplate the whole you know the whole
universe everything that we know about
the universe and how few of those
planets which is to say only once dis
planets has developed anything like the
kind of life that we know on earth one
of the major drivers of that one of the
major factors there is that life is
extremely fragile requires
incredibly particular things from its
environment and intelligent life even
more so now I personally think that if
the planet was always as hot as it is
now probably humans would have evolved
and it's also possible that we would
have evolved and developed agriculture
and civilization if it was always as hot
as it is now but you know the place
where we did invent agriculture the
Middle East it's already getting quite a
bit harder to raise crops and so at the
very least it would have been a more
difficult innovation and I think that
that starts to tell you you know just
how just how dramatically everything
that we know of as modern life is
dependent on these climate conditions we
can think we're talking about it an
amount of warming that's one degree
Celsius two degrees Celsius these don't
seem like quite dramatic quite so
dramatic numbers and in certain ways
they aren't but when you realize that we
have entirely left behind the window of
climate conditions that have governed
all of human history it puts that in a
quite different perspective you know the
last time that there was this much
carbon in the air there were palm trees
in the Arctic the the Equator was hot
enough that nothing like mammals could
survive and you know I hear from from I
wouldn't call them climate deniers
something more like climate sceptics
every so often to say you know the earth
has been this hot before we've gone
through cycles of warming and cooling
before we shouldn't freak out and I say
to them you know not just that you know
as you say that when the planet was
warmer than this there were no humans
around but that each of the each time
that we've gone through some of these
climate change cycles in the past has
been attended with what's called a mass
extinction with you know as much as 95
percent of all life on Earth wiped out
by those changes so it's not something
we can really afford to be complacent or
blithe about even if it's also the case
that you know humans being humans were
adaptable we're resilient we probably
will find some way to endure and survive
the question is really transformed in
what ways with civilization and life
changed you know in what directions and
I think that's one of the reasons I
spent so much time in my book you know
just on the on the scientific
understanding of what climate impacts
are likely to bring but really how those
impacts might reshape everything that we
know and take for granted about the way
that we interact as humans on this
planet but you know we can talk a little
bit more about science - since I imagine
that probably something of interest I
want to get to some of that I mean we
you know we covered that you know the
last time around to a certain extent I
want to I want to talk about it in in in
and how you know we how this information
is processed or to the extent that we
are you know in denial in terms of the
implications may be but we I just would
say that you know the the what if the
planet was as warm as it will be when we
were as a species developing we simply
would have developed in a different way
right we would say we would just not be
necessarily on a trajectory to create as
many people we would live in a very
narrow belt of the earth as it were and
we but the fact is is that you know it's
almost like you move you know you you
you you're a band of of nomads and you
stop by a riverbed and you build a
society around that River and then all
of a sudden River dries up all the
reasons why or by that River still
exists except for now there's no water
and so that's that's basically sort of
the the analogy on some level right when
it's so I mean let's let's talk a little
bit about the normalizing suffering
thing because I mean on some level this
is the process which allows us be put
let's put aside a denialist because you
make the point that although the
Republican Party is essentially the only
institution on the planet essentially
that denies what's happening for the
large the rest of us more or less
because the US only contributes to about
15% of the
of the the the co2 that's that's you
know causing this problem for the rest
of us we are in a different type of
denial right like we we know it's bad
we're just not really
it's where there's a lot of
procrastination going on and on some
level you know that like that aren't we
sort of almost like projecting forward
to like we can deal with the other guy
me I just look back to over the past 15
20 years that we were at war in Iraq
depending on whose numbers you want to
believe somewhere between 200,000 to a
million people died because of our
invasion 4 million people displaced to
internally to externally two million and
you could walk around the United States
and have absolutely zero awareness that
any of that has happened was happening
you know at any point and like if our
ability to do that when we were like
literally directly couldn't you know the
cause of that it seems to me that our
capacity to say like what some city in
India a million people I mean that to me
seems like we are we're almost already
doing that it's already is like baked
into the way that we perceive this
problem yeah we have an incredibly deep
ability to formalize suffering I mean
that the example that I often used to
illustrate it is there's a paper that
came out about a year ago that
completely horrified me that was looking
at just the effect of air pollution the
differential between what air pollution
would mean at one point five degrees of
warming and two degrees of warming now
air pollution is not exactly an impact
of climate change but it's produced by
the same thing that climate change that
produces climate change which is to say
the burning of fossil fuels and just
between 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees I'm
worried about one one degree now two
degrees is what the level of warming
that most scientists of the world
consider the threshold of catastrophe
island nations the world called genocide
and we're on track for about four point
three degrees by the end of the century
if we don't change course
but just between 1.5 and 2 degrees these
scientists estimated would mean 153
million additional deaths from air
pollution
it's just remain pollution just from
that 1/2 degree extra of warming and
when I say that to people when I mention
that fact you know their eyes go wide
their faces go ashen and they think 153
million deaths how could we possibly
conscience that amount of suffering and
they're right it is an unconscionable
amount of suffering it's 25 Holocaust
worth of dying and yet 9 million people
are already dying every year from air
pollution which is a Holocaust and a
half right and you and I don't think
about those people every day we probably
rarely think about them and we're two of
the more informed engaged people
thinking you know obsessing over climate
change in general
why would that figure I mean you know
it's not a figure like you know we're
not it's not coming up on this show I
mean on a regular basis and yeah well I
mean I think like I you know this is
what I do as a profession and yeah and
it and you know I've been I've been even
more than you I mean I've been working
on the subject now for several years
really deeply in the research you know
interviewing scientists reading academic
papers every day trying to process you
know all the news from science very
profoundly and yet I myself still live
in compartmentalization and denial and
complacency I think that's a testament
to just how intense and powerful those
impulses are in all of us we really
don't like to contemplate bad news we
really do like to believe that say the
lives of our children will be better
than our own we look outside our windows
every day and we anchor our expectations
for the future based on what we see in
the real world today even though we know
when we think about it that there will
be there will be surely some additional
warming probably considerably additional
warming and yet we really like we base
all of our projections for the future
our emotional projections for the future
on our experience of the present I think
that's really really deeply problematic
but there's also that's a
impulse towards complacency and denial
at the political level and I think maybe
even most problematic at the
geopolitical level you know the Paris
Accords were signed now just three years
ago a little bit less than three years
ago they pledged rhetorically to keep
the world to two degrees of warming
which is this level that the scientists
call thresholds a catastrophe but they
actually only included commitments from
all the nations who signed on that would
bring the earth to about 3.2 degrees of
warming so they only got about halfway
to their stated goal of two degrees and
yet no nation in the world is on track
to meet those commitments not a single
one which puts American bad behavior in
some perspective I mean I think we have
a special obligation for more you know
towards moral leadership on this issue
because historically we've been
responsible for the lion's share of
global emissions even though now we're
only at about 15% but even so no nation
on all of the nations of the world that
have much more progressive leaders than
Donald Trump all the nations of the
world who have much more green politics
much more left politics than Donald
Trump and then America does now none of
none of those countries are behaving
significantly better than the United
States some are behaving a little bit
better the UK has been doing really well
lately but we're all largely in the same
position of not taking action at all and
that is ultimately a sign of what I
think of as the the problem of
collective action here you know if US
completely eliminated completely zeroed
out its emissions this year it really
wouldn't have a meaningful impact on how
much we suffer at the hands of climate
change unless the rest of the world
followed suit because most of the
emissions that are being put out there
are being put out there by the rest of
the world that calculus is even more the
case for most of the other nations of
the world who haven't even smaller share
of the burden share the responsibility
than the US does and that means that
every individual nation no matter how
committed to the idea of action on
climate change is in a certain way
incentivized to not take action and let
the rest of the world clean up the mess
and I can see away where individuals
through engagement and entertaining you
know education wake up to their own
place in the story and become
considerably more agitated I think we're
seeing that already actually the polling
on climate change has moved dramatically
in the US and all through the West
people are much more concerned than they
used to be in the politics are beginning
to reflect that I think that politics
will move even faster than there than
we've seen over the last six months or
nine months which is a time when out of
nowhere a protest movement called
extinction rebellion in the UK basically
forced Parliament to declare a climate
emergency Ireland is now declared a
climate emergency the government of
Indonesia has put forward a plan to
really rapidly decarbonize I think the
politics is moving in that direction all
over the world what I worry most about
is at the geopolitical level which is
how can we coordinate all of this action
how can we coordinate all of this energy
because you know if you had to imagine a
threat that was big enough intense
enough all-encompassing enough to call
into being a real network of global
cooperation climate change should be it
and yet we're staring down this real
catastrophe at a time when we're
simultaneously so many of us were
treating from those commitments we're
treating from globalization we're
treating from the UN and you know
adopting much more zero some native
istic nationalistic sense of
self-interest and I think that that's in
the end maybe going to be the hardest
part of the puzzle to solve okay so let
me and I should say just so that we can
sort of like get people into some type
of semi optimistic frame here you you
make the point in the book that the the
pace that you know contrary to I think
what is conventional wisdom you know
that it is not the the the problem that
we have created is one that we have
created relatively recently like you
know they talk about the you know the
the hockey stick well that that that
hockey's that the the the part that hits
the puck was only about twenty or thirty
years ago right I mean this is not like
we don't have to go back you make the
point in the book that the problem the
the the problem
has exacerbated much more so since the
time that we've been aware there's a
problem then before then yes
it's really one of the it was probably
the most dramatic awakening moment of
awakening for me in doing all of this
research and reporting this book when I
realized that half of all of the
emissions that we've put into the
atmosphere from the burning of fossil
fuels have come in just the last 30
years that since Al Gore published his
first book on warming it since the UN
established its climate change body the
IPCC I say in the book it since the
premiere of Seinfeld we have done more
damage to the future climate of the
planet since the premiere of Seinfeld
than in all the millennia that came
before all that human history that came
before and that's a kind of an
indictment since we've that means that
we've done that damage knowingly done
more damage knowingly than we ever
managed in ignorance it also means that
it also gives us reason to be skeptical
that we could take action dramatic
action going forward which is one really
concerning fact that I'm trying to look
at it is optimistic to the extent that
like yeah you know I think that there is
an optimistic line which is you know
when we think about just how fast we've
done this damage and we think about all
of the horrors that could be waiting for
us down the line ultimately those are
just a sign of how much power we have
over the climate right which is to say
if we get to four degrees of warming
which will be hellish it would mean
twice as much war it would mean climate
damages globally totaling six hundred
trillion dollars which is twice as much
wealth as exists in the world today
there be parts of the planet that would
be hit by six climate-driven natural
disasters at once but if we get there it
will be because of what we do going
forward
the driver of climate change on this
planet is human action which is to say
how much carbon we put into the
atmosphere and we can decide how much
carbon to put into the atmosphere we
have our hands on those levers so if
it's taken us thirty years to bring the
planet from a stable situation to the
brink of catastrophe which is what we've
done just in the last 30 years we also
have about that much amount of time to
avert those those outcomes those really
horrifying sin
and since I'm 36 years old I think
almost certainly my life will contain
both of those stories both the period of
time when we brought the planet from
state stability to catastrophe and
conceivably the time in which we address
the problem
take took some action at least to avert
some of these worst-case scenarios and
that to me is an incredible story it's
an epic drama I mean really I write in
the book this language makes me a little
bit uncomfortable but it's drama at the
level that we used to only see in
mythology and theology we truly hold the
future of the planet and the future of
humanity in our hands and you and I are
part of that story not just as passive
listeners or Watchers everyone who's
listening to this is a protagonist in
this story and can make a difference
themselves primarily through politics
also through talking about it etc and to
a limited degree through individual
choice in my personal consumption habits
but we are all protagonists in the story
which is a huge huge drama in fact I
think it's honestly like the greatest
drama of all time and there is a way in
which it can be harrowing overwhelming
even paralyzing to think about all of
the changes that we're going to see even
all of the changes that we've already
seen and yet the scale of those impacts
as I said before is ultimately a
reflection of our power ultimately if we
take climate change seriously it tells
us that we are an incredibly powerful
species that can write the future of the
climate of the planet if we choose to so
alright here's what I struggle with okay
because I mean and yet people can make
personal consumption and you know habits
changes but that's that's ultimately not
going to be enough not a bad thing to do
it's nice it may have some political
implications and in fact maybe the
political implications may actually have
more relevance than the actual acts
themselves because you know if someone
sees you stop eating eating meat let's
say that may have like you know
political reverberations that have
actually more impact than you just not
eating meat but it seems to me or
convinced
me of otherwise I guess is what I'm
asking how is in presuming that like
look I don't know me living in Brooklyn
how much direct impact it's going to
have on me and maybe you can you can
inform me you know as so I can tell my
my daughter but it seems to me that the
prospect of me being able to implicate
the politics on this is somewhere around
the same as the prospects of me getting
you know several hundred million early
earning several hundred million dollars
and buying a farm up in northern Canada
to ride this whole thing out like you
know when I'm sitting here and I'm
thinking like I want to you know III
what is the most rational use of my
energies here is it to you know Peter
teal this thing and and go up to Canada
and just ride this thing out or is it
like put those efforts into trying to
change the politics because both you
know frankly seem to be a little bit pie
in the sky at this point like you know
like like I say you and I are the type
of people who should be we should be the
ones who have had this figured out a
while ago and we're just having trouble
convincing other people and I still for
the life me like you know we don't cover
this every day
I have no idea what the recipe is
to impact what we as a species do well I
think you're asking a number of
different questions there so let me try
to get through as many of them as I can
from how I see it and other people see
these things a little bit differently
but my perspective first of all is that
the politics is moving quite fast 73
percent of Americans now believe climate
change is real that's up 15 percent
since 2015
it's up 8% since last year by any
political science standard that is a
dramatic change this the same dynamics
are at play all across Europe with real
dramatic movement on concern about the
environment just over the last few years
mostly I think because of all of the
extreme weather that we've seen over the
last few years which for the first time
has really shown us on the climate
change is happening in real time we had
been taught for a very long time it was
in the distance we're seeing it now on
our TV screens especially in the summer
every summer there is policy action
being taken in many parts of the world
that is quite exciting I mentioned
earlier this plan put forward by the
government of Indonesia which is really
exciting because Indonesia to Indonesia
is a developing country and for a long
time those nations were understood to
have a face a choice they could grow
faster pull more of their people out of
poverty or they could grow more
responsibly and subject more of their
people to more suffering and it was
understood that facing that dilemma
usually they would take the dirty
industrialization route give more wealth
to their citizens but at the cost of
some significant environmental cost in
fact that's what Indonesia has done over
the last two decades as they've have
their poverty rate doubled their per
capita income but double their carbon
emissions now they say that they can
have their carbon emissions by 2030 and
do so at while growing at 6% per year
which is in fact faster than they've
grown over the last two decades when
they made all this progress there is a
kind of global new conventional wisdom
emerging among economists who used to
think that it was going to be costly and
expensive to take action on climate so
costly it might not even be worth it in
economic terms even though there was a
kind of humanitarian imperative but now
that that logic has really reversed in
part because there are estimates for how
much economic suffering climate change
could bring have grown so much higher
and now it really is the conventional
wisdom that faster action will be better
for us all there was a major study in
2018 saying that we could add twenty six
trillion dollars to the global economy
by just 2030 through rapid
decarbonisation so I see a lot of hope
in the political the movement on
politics here I think we were trained
over the last couple of decades to
believe that politics was really inert
on climate but I think that actually is
changing and the problem is you know the
UN
says that in order to avert this
catastrophic level of warming to degrees
we need to have our global emissions by
2030 which they say would require a
global mobilization at the scale of
world war ii the secretary-general says
it should start this year would need to
start this year so even though politics
is moving quite rapidly it's still not
moving rapidly enough that said when I
look at all of the alternative avenues
ahead of us
politics still seems to me to be by far
the most important path and by that my
logic is this I start from the
understanding that in order to stabilize
the climate at any temperature level not
just one point five degrees not just two
degrees even if we're at four degrees
five degrees if we wanted to stabilize
it at those horrible levels it would
require not just reducing our carbon
emissions but completely zeroing them
out because any additional carbon that
we put into the atmosphere will cause
additional warming so if in order to
stabilize the climate at any point we
will need to completely eliminate carbon
now how can we do that is it possible
that the entire planet to take the
agriculture sector just for a second
that the entire planet would voluntarily
as a result of fears about climate
change go entirely vegan and entirely
eliminate red meat from their diets is
it conceivable that the entire planet
would give up air travel out of fear for
for climate change I think very much no
and to me that what that means is that
we need policies in place to make that
those sectors carbon neutral even in
ways that we will continue to use them
to rely on them to appreciate them so
for instance there are small-scale
research that shows if you feed cows
seaweed there methane emissions fall by
95 or 99 percent that's the main reason
that cows our carbon problem is methane
emissions and if we legislated that all
cattle farmers had to feed their cows
seaweed we could basically eliminate
that problem entirely the development
the Rd on electric plans and zero carbon
planes is really preliminary they've
flown
one plane over the ocean over the
Pacific I think it was but it was a
really small plane and we're very far
from engineering planes that could carry
hundreds of people which are the kind of
planes that we use today but we need
massive rd spending in that area and we
probably also need legislation that
requires airplane manufacturers to
develop those technologies and requires
airlines themselves to put them into
their fleets and and retire the old the
old planes we simply won't eliminate air
travel without policy we simply won't
eliminate the carbon footprint of
agriculture without policy there are
some areas where the private the market
and and sort of collective action and
individual action can make a difference
you know it's already the case that from
in much of the world renewable energy is
cheaper than dirty energy so especially
if we eliminate all of the subsidies
that we're giving the fossil fuel
business today which the IMF recently
estimated was five point two trillion
dollars a year those subsidies I think
we would see quite rapid movement away
from dirty energy towards green energy
but energy is really only I think 35
percent of the problem and there are all
these other sectors infrastructure
industry agriculture transportation that
are going to be much more complicated
and which can only be solved through
policy especially when you remember that
we do need to eliminate zero out those
carbon footprints rather than just
reduce them you and I could eat a few
less hamburgers every year but
ultimately that's going to have a very
trivial
impact and if we need to zero out the
carbon footprint of hamburger beef
hamburger meat we're gonna need to
implement policy that requires it
alright so damn it so and and forgive me
I'm gonna I guess a little bit of a a
pessimistic jag here but when we say
well yes but but but I'm talking about
when we say we and we talk about bread
for Policy right that is that that is
the it seems to me a second-order
solution or at least in in the process
in which to get to that policy we need
to first get to a we right because on
some level
all then I mean we you know because for
instance brexit right I mean and there
was there's this polling that shows that
most people in Europe think that the EU
is is gonna go by the wayside put aside
for a second the policy prescriptions of
the EU but the idea that you do not have
that you have less you have more
disaggregation rather than aggregation
that you have decentralization means
that the possibility to implement a
policy we need to you know develop these
type of airplanes or we need to do this
and that is less like I me on some level
from a structural standpoint don't we
need we need a an even bigger change
that goes away from the market to to to
build an apparatus to have that kind of
policy I mean how does how can we do
this without also addressing sort of
broadly capitalism in some form well I
think it I mean I think you're
absolutely right that we need a major
transformation of our cultural political
and economic priorities that we need to
put climate change at the absolute
center of our of our sort of view of the
world and what needs doing at the level
of the individual at the level of the
community at the level of the nation at
the level of the planet at every level
we need a complete reorganization of our
priorities that's absolutely true and I
do think actually that climate change
will cooperate with us in that respect
because the impacts will be getting more
intense we will start to see their
fingerprints in more and more places and
I do think that we will evolve a sense
of the future of the world that is
really centered around this issue in the
same way that you know we used to Center
our view of the world around the this
sort of story of say neoliberalism or
globalization and you know I often say I
think we will have a legal order that
evolves over the next couple of
generations that puts climate change
very much at the center of our
understanding of our responsibilities
towards one another as individuals and
as nations in much the same way that you
know the post-world War two order really
emphasized human rights and peace and
prosperity now we know that those values
were often used as alibis for bad
behavior absolutely I imagine probably
the same thing will happen with climate
change but nominally the West was
committed to those values so intensely
that they you know they went as far as
you know fighting wars on in their name
they went as you know they impose
sanctions on one another and in other
nations of the world if those countries
were not behaving properly when it comes
to human rights and I think actually
we're likely to see some of the same
dynamics play out in relatively short
order on climate change you can see the
story already unfolding in the fact that
MBS the sort of putative and awful
leader of Saudi Arabia has said that his
country needs to get entirely off oil by
2050 and mostly off oil by 2030 I think
he understands that as soon as 2030 it
won't be possible to be a country
producing fossil fuels in the same way
that Saudi Arabia has and still expect a
seat at the community of nations so I
think we will the world will be
transformed our politics will be
transformed by climate change the
question is will it happen fast enough
and will it push us in a more kind of
collectivist humanitarian Universalist
view of our fate as humans on this
planet or will it push us deeper into a
sense of nativism and self-interest
which is where we are now and I do think
that you're right that's a very much an
open question and there's a lot of
reason for skepticism I do think
personally that the experiences that
we've had just over the last few years
dealing with extreme weather have taught
a lot of people that this is a this is a
force that is close at hand in time and
in place in which you may not be able to
escape no matter where you live I think
that the California wildfires in
particular we're really powerful
teaching tool they're people who even
who lived very far from any forest that
was ever going to catch on fire saw
those images and imagined their own
homes burning and really freaked out and
now it's there's also some perverse and
grotesque elements of that as a teaching
tool because I think it was also the
case that many wealthy people suffered
many
as people suffered and that made us
respond to those images but again that's
that's useful too because it shows us
again that there's no escaping these
forces and the more that we as a as a
species understand climate change in
those terms that it is all-encompassing
that it is everywhere that is
inescapable I hope that it will teach us
to respond in a more Universalist spirit
on the other hand you only look around
the world you go the other direction too
right like I mean because we it could be
the election in Australia was was lost
by a Labour candidate who was pushing an
aggressive climate action he was widely
expected to win he had the the polling
in Australia was very dramatic on
climate change and that's a country that
is you know generally speaking it's the
poorest nations of the world we're
already suffering most intensely from
climate change and will continue to
suffer most intensely Australia is a
little bit of an outlier there because
of where they are geographically there
happened to be a rich country but
they're suffering already quite
intensely from climate change and the
public there seemed to be waking up to
that this candidate was leading all in
every single poll for like a year and a
half and yet the coal friendly
Conservative candidate was actually the
one who won I'm really concerned about
the political situation in Brazil where
Jerry Belson are oh it was a kind of
Trump of the Amazon has pledged to
dramatically cut down on the rainforest
there to cut back the Amazon open it to
development in a way that on his own
country scientists say would have the
same carbon impact as adding an entire
second China to the planet and China is
the world's biggest emitter that's
because I'm promised most of your
listeners probably know but you know
trees suck carbon out of the atmosphere
and they produce oxygen so the more that
we devastate our natural woodlands our
what natural forests are natural
rainforests the more the less our planet
is going to be capable of extracting
carbon out of the atmosphere and the
more carbon will be up there as a result
that's another reason that those
wildfires I mentioned earlier are so
scary you know California is way ahead
of the rest of the US on green energy
they're an incredibly impressive record
I think still not moving fast enough but
much faster than anyone else in the
country
and yet every single year now so much
carbon is released in those wildfires
when those trees burn that it completely
counteracts the progress that is made by
those green energy initiatives and that
is just one of many many many horrible
dynamics around the world where it's not
just that we're not we're not doing
better it's not just that we're not
doing good enough it's that we're
triggering these they're called feedback
loops that make the problem much much
bigger at the moment it is the case that
the overwhelming driver of climate
change is how much carbon humans put
into the atmosphere mostly through
energy and infrastructure agriculture
and industry but say in 30 years 40
years if we could continue on the pace
that we're on it is possible that some
of these systems could sort of get
outside of our control and become much
harder for us to make a difference with
because the natural systems at that
point will have sort of you know started
running away with a story so to speak
and we should also say that there is
another scenario to where like you know
as as a nation or as you know that
nations take that sort of peter thiel
route right which is like this is
inevitable
so a our solution is going to be more of
a fortress then and and that that could
have some very very ugly implications
but let me just because we run out I
want to I want to just sort of like you
know leave people with some type of like
vague game plan and sort of I will say
this if if Tom Styer is listening I
think a good investment would be take
five six seven hundred million dollars
create some type of hoax where it's like
an alien invasion is I just feel like if
we had something like that to focus on
like if it was like Independence Day
that movie maybe you know it would be
harder for the world community to be so
disparate in its reactions like and if
we had some massive UFO like hovering
over a couple of the world's capitals
maybe you know we could do it under
under that type of threat but short of
that it sounds like
the things that people can do on a daily
basis aside from altering their
consumption or maybe in addition to is
to help build the narrative of what of
local phenomena being a function of
climate change you know to the extent
that one can make that that connection
whether it's the forest fires in
California or you know hurricane sandy
in New York or a drought somewhere or
extreme weather that is the you know
make that connection and also it seems
to me to support you know international
multinational structures I mean is that
right is there something else that we
can be doing on a daily basis to you
know to the extent that we can you know
butterfly wing this thing in terms of
like helping you know toward a solution
well I think the most important thing
anyone can do is vote and to vote for
people who prioritize climate change and
and then once those people are in office
hold them to account to those
commitments that's not an everyday thing
but it happens pretty regularly that
there's some election in your community
at some level and I think in general you
have them beyond that the more that you
can do to just spread the word make
connections and make sure as many people
are as concerned about this as is
possible I think that's all extremely
valuable in terms of motivating action
you know the way I see it is the world
is going to be transformed by climate
change dramatically now I think probably
we're heading for a world in which most
of that transformation is means more
suffering it's going to you know the
hundreds of millions of climate refugees
I mentioned the unlivable cities you
know the agriculture that could be half
as bountiful as the agriculture we have
today public health issues that arise
when mosquitoes that used to fly only in
the tropics are now flying up in the
Arctic Circle which will be happening in
short order all the rest of it the world
will be transformed but the world will
also be transformed if we take action to
avert it it's the transformation is
inevitable it's a question
of which transformation we want to
choose now do we want to continue
subsidizing fossil fuels at five
trillion dollars a year that is propping
up businesses that would otherwise be
failing and which are poisoning our
planet or do we want to take that money
and invest it dramatically in research
and development and technology
innovations that could help us address
this problem now I think it's important
to understand this is not something that
can be solved with a single silver
bullet innovation it's way too big a
problem for that but we do need
technological help in every aspect of
the problem we need it to make
renewables cheaper we need better
electricity so that the intermittency of
renewables is not a problem we need
different concrete because at the moment
if concrete were a country it would be
the world's third biggest emitter and
China is now pouring as much concrete
every three years as the u.s. poured in
the entire 20th century we need new
kinds of agriculture which are could be
largely technologically driven or you
know with genetic technology in
particular and we need these innovations
and we need to we need them quite
quickly which means that we need to put
an enormous amount of money and energy
and attention on bringing them into
fruition now the choice before us is
like do we want to live in a degraded
world where climate change has beaten us
and sucked out our ability to produce
economic growth and to live happily with
one another or do we want to live in a
world where we've met that challenge
head-on innovated as dramatically as
we've ever innovated and found ourselves
in a situation where let human life
looks in most ways the same I think that
there's too much warming already baked
in and some of this innovation is going
to be too slow to really avert some of
these scary scenarios I don't think that
we're going to avoid 2 degrees warming I
don't think probably don't think we're
going to avoid two and a half degrees of
warming but you know when I get asked if
I'm optimistic about this I often say
it's really a matter of perspective
because if what you base your
expectations are is the world as it is
today you're going to be disappointed
there is going to be considerably more
suffering brought about by climate
change considerably more but I think of
it as being much more reasonable much
more rational to base my expectations on
where the world is headed which is to
say like the path that we're on the path
that we're on
is for 4.3 degrees of warming by the end
of the century and as I mentioned
earlier that would mean double the war
that we have today it was mean 30%
smaller GDP than we would have without
climate change I think that we are
almost certain to avert that level of
warming and how much we can avert is
entirely up to us so I think that we can
you know if you base your expectations
on a 4.3 degree level personally I'm
quite optimistic I think we'll probably
avoid at least one degree of that
warming and maybe more but how much more
is up to us because ultimately at U is a
really good point earlier when you said
who is we to really you know in certain
ways the critical question about climate
change who are the political actors who
has power who is making decisions
especially when you see polling that
shows so much concern for climate change
and yet you see politics that is
relatively speaking a nerd although it
is moving much faster than it used to it
raises the same question but when you do
pull back and take and take stock of the
story as a species as a planet I think
you have to say we we probably will do a
lot over the coming decades to change
the course of this story and to make the
planet a relatively speaking happier
more prosperous more fulfilling in more
just place the problem is we're almost
certainly not doing it fast enough to
avoid outcomes that we today looking
forward would consider catastrophic and
devastating but that gets us back to
where we started which is I think the
likeliest outcome is that we do that we
produced those catastrophic outcomes and
we find a way to live with them and
define them as normal rather than
unconscionable and that maybe is the
biggest tragedy of the whole story
indeed David Wallace wells the
uninhabitable earth life after warming
thanks for your time today thanks for
having me
all right folks there you have it and oh
my god and like the number of deaths
that he cited that happened it will
happen every year because of climate
change is just an immense immense thing
to think about well this is what I'm
always saying
like I talked about how we need a
revolution to progress past capitalism
and impose some sort of central planning
that would actually solve the problem
maybe I mean like a high percentage of
the oil that's still in the ground needs
to be left there in order to solve the
problem
does anybody trust corporations under
the current paradigm to do that I don't
think so
I don't trust them to do it under
capitalism at all and people say oh you
say you want a revolution all
revolutions involve at least some
violence but look at the violence of the
status quo look at the violence that's
happening now double the wars he said
like that's something to weigh yeah I
mean I I mean I think the question is is
like you know what is the quickest route
what is the most direct the most direct
route to to mitigating the trajectory
we're on now there's also and you know
that what that it that is ultimately the
question if there was a you know and is
it is it quicker to simply say like
let's raise taxes and buy or nationalize
you know oil production or cut subsidies
and make it just not profitable you know
one of the things that happen with
TransCanada for instance was the the
pipeline the thing that really slowed
the pipeline was the fact that oil
prices had dropped so much that he
simply did not become profitable to take
those tar sands I mean that is the in
and that had nothing to do with any sort
of major structural problems that was
just became unprofitable and there's a
there's a multitude of ways in which you
can do that policy can do that policy
can do that that doesn't necessarily
need structural change you definitely
need an apparatus some way in which to
have
policy that encompasses as much of the
world as possible I just want to say two
quick things I mean III I tend to agree
with with Jamie on this in terms of like
structural like I do think you need to
not only it's not only a question of
nationalizing these companies you need
to reassert that there are certain
resources in this world even in some
type of social democratic whatever
paradigm that our Commons that are not
privatized assets particularly things
that both as a you know I think Norway's
got in the equation right in terms of
public distribution you know something
that's just in the ground shouldn't be
profited on slowly by private companies
but then on the other hand obviously we
literally need to stop drilling and I
think that you know one axis you there's
climate but there is also justice so
somebody like Jerry Brown made some real
strides on certain aspects of climate
innovation but not on the justice
dividends right and then the second
thing I would like to say maybe I'm
contradicting myself a little bit here
but I do you mean on the Justice
dividend well climate is one area and
there is definitely a path where at the
very least I don't I think I think on
the drilling and supply side I think
it's very hard to deal with that under
capitalism I do but I certainly think
that you could generate new markets and
technological innovation and that's what
Jerry Brown was very good at doing but
when it came to hey I'm in a poor area
and I don't want my town to be you know
fracked you know other area other or you
know pollution is distributed in
different ways global warming is gonna
have disproportionate effect on like
indigenous communities in Fiji as an
example there are these other quote
unquote justice dimensions of this which
frankly you can skip over in a Davos
Bloomberg Brown kind of paradigm right
like you can cut admissions you can
upgrade the grid you can change these
things and still have a pretty systemic
disregard for a fair amount of the
population so I think that that's one
thing but I on a completely different
end of the equation and it might be
contracting myself but I just want to be
intellectually honest here I think
adidas as a company has done
a lot in terms of cutting emissions in
terms of what they do at their factories
it's just very innovative and I just
want to recognize what they're doing as
a company and as an organizational
culture
thank you check it out it the people in
the discord notice that you're wearing
all branded adidas stuff and make a
comment I think a lot of people might or
might not notice it but it's really just
something that I'm passionate about it
really is like odd yeah that's decided
just something I believe in
it's really odd like sometimes yeah I
know that Saul gets on a jag where he's
like he only will wear a certain type of
clothing right he's six yep well
hopefully he won't hopefully he will
have a greater fashion sense than his
father and also the sense to recognize
when a company really is doing something
for the most important issues that were
facing as a as really a globe but I
think you know getting back to Jamie's
point I think the you know what what
David Wallace Welles was the point he
was making is that the impetus for that
revolution to the extent that it happens
or not is probably going to be less
people deciding we need a revolution and
more the functional equivalent of that
UFO coming and pointing a laser beam and
blowing up a major city well in the
context of I mean it's just a question
of whether we as human beings have the
mental capacity to see these disparate
things that are happening around the
globe and be able to synthesize that and
see it as coming emanating from one
problem I mean it's almost like it's
almost like when the government shut
down that dynamic where nobody felt the
impact until it was about plane travel
right because plane travel is like a
sort of a networked thing and there was
a you know one or two elements
that could shut down a network
essentially and I don't know if humans
perceive our the like the planet's
ecology as networked in the way that it
like obviously can with I think that's
talking about the ways in which climate
change is going to ramp up global
conflict right so it might not be a UFO
that does it but the next world war will
probably be a nuclear one but so well no
I don't like and then when that happens
it's going to cause massive unrest and
it is the job of the left to give a
shape and a voice to that I make those
connect with them but I don't think it's
necessarily gonna be more conflict is
not necessarily gonna be a world war and
it's not necessarily gonna be nuclear I
mean right now can you I mean can you
can can your average person tell you
where there are Wars going on in the
world well how do you want I think we're
I think this is part of the problem
though thank you that is both being
identified in just in how we're framing
this whole conversation I think one of
the limits of you know because it there
isn't just like a world and a planet and
a climate that affects all of us equally
obviously so when it comes to like as an
example you know I'm thinking of Fiji a
lot because my friend Joshua Kahn has
worked specifically with that community
it's here like this crisis is totally
here for them yeah so they experienced
it as a non abstraction but they don't
have any power and so they're fighting
against something that you know they're
experiencing it's totally real for them
but they don't have political capital
and it's gonna hit us in the same way so
I think it's like the difficulty to me
is is that the conflicts will accelerate
they might continue to be on this low
quote/unquote low-grade simmer that
you're talking about for quite some time
and as long as you keep a certain amount
of people with a certain degree of
affluence and a certain degree of
insulation you can disconnect that's the
dynamic the analogy is the same young
people who are wealthier you're talking
about business travelers you're talking
about you know media people I mean that
that's right back to you now that's
enough you don't checked justice that's
why I think it is important as a frame
to at the outset frame it as both a
scientific existential and global but
also a very nitty-gritty justice and
power thing because if you at least
start putting that on the table in the
same way that you're right about the
government shutdown but what if should
have kicked it off immediately it was
when it started jeopardizing well
people's food right no no but we're
fighting for the that's why we do
this show right now yeah we're fighting
for it you could be totally right you
could be totally right and if you're
right there's a scenario where you know
Peter Thiel is in a bunker and the but
but here's just use the analogy of the
world are the u.s. in that analogy right
well no I wouldn't usually well no and
it's going to come the ruling not
regular people well here's here's my
point is that the the the should let's
just use the government shutdown as an
analogy because in many ways I think
it's a very similar dynamic the the
question is if that's the analogy how do
you get like okay
the should would be great if we could
convince everybody like hey you should
care about the fact that there are
community health centers that are losing
their support for victims of domestic
violence which is one of those early
things that happen right in the
government shutdown but and we would
report on it and we would talk about it
and it was fairly disparate and people
weren't didn't feel it on a daily basis
and it didn't impact the most powerful
of people in the country if there was a
mechanism where we could jump ahead or
flatten the time to when the the flight
attendants essentially said we're gonna
strike and we're gonna shut down the
airline well that's what I do I've it
even that's what the climate extinction
but no butter extinction rubella well I
understand but if we if there was a way
because it didn't happen right the
planes did not all ground there was some
but basically the system did not
collapse because it was averted we made
a political choice as a government I
mean Trump did essentially made
political choice was forced because it
was imminent if there was a way to have
shortened that tunnel well I'm trying to
wait let me finish if there was a way to
have shorten that time you would have
helped those victims of domestic
violence not because people were
interested to helping them in terms of
like that Donald Trump didn't care about
those people but because of the fear of
this other imminent thing that happened
to hit them in their in their locality
so that's the question why I agree is
how do you create that sense I
understand the idea that you know
justice and I understand all those you
get Morse but how do you make that sense
that this is going to implicate the
people with power sooner than they think
it was so I'll say I mean to that one
obviously it's really hard because I
think partially though is I think
there's a lot of people in power who
already do anticipate that and that is
why there's like a bunker industry but
the other way of saying it which is more
specific to your point is in the other
way of framing like the Fiji example or
more close to home examples even
hurricane sandy right is to actually
flip it and be like these are examples
of the fact that this is already here
and it's immediate and it's pressing and
you can't dodge it so even if you don't
have like you know like and if you
wanted to extend the the government
shutdown analogy then maybe like okay
you don't care about these centers being
shut down but that's a signal that in a
week your plane is gonna be messed up
well maybe yeah plane yeah that's fine
I'm no problem with that but you I do
think you needs but I also do think you
need to at least whatever way you're
doing it whether out of self-interest or
empathy you need to frame it in a
different way than these sort of like
overarching like it's this planetary
crisis and it's really bad and what are
we gonna do because in some ways like I
at least have been reading books like
that since I'm like 15 years old they
always make the same point they oh is
the science is clear the crisis is he
it's somewhere and it's really bad and
we gotta to have a world war ii type
effort to do something about it that's
my don't sometimes but the thing i mean
the fact is is that i think it would be
more convincing to say to someone like
the flight attendants are going on
stress
as opposed to there are domestic like
the argument you the argument that this
is the the domestic violence victims are
the canary in the coal mine I don't
think is as compelling as saying like
that thing that's holding up the coal
mine is shaking and so like that and so
the question is like what is that in
this context and to a certain extent
like you know like so I think the idea
of like Miami's gone is gonna have more
import at least in the context of the
United States then Fiji is soft no no
Miami is gone and even and I think even
on a visceral level I actually we
interviewed him years ago I thought that
guy the Explorer no Lee that was on
Miami but there was a guy who just did
documentary films where he hiked the
glaciers right and he literally just
showed you like it wasn't all these
charts and all these arguments he's just
like three years ago this was here right
now it's here and Miami will eventually
be gone like I don't know 10 years that
hard for signs of climate change
damaging regular people's lives here in
the Imperial core where people have you
know massively more political power per
person than they do in the developing
world I do have to say though I am NOT
here to plan for the post nuclear war
revolution like I think when in terms of
like climate change I think one the
policy is really important I think
that's why it Dave was well stressed
like how much we subsidize fossil fuel
and destroyers and it's also sort of
things like like just like the Dakota
access pipeline how much of that f like
those protests affect the bottom lines
of those companies and their plans going
forward and how that they their actual
nuts and bolts of how they basically
poison the earth we need to throw a
wrench and all that stuff and that
includes policy it also includes the
people at Dakota access pipeline that
might have like cut a hydraulic hose
here there's yeah but if you think that
progressive government is going to save
us like those protests were violently
repressed by the Obama government yeah I
mean I think ultimately those government
in Dakota and Obama was flippable
he ultimately flipped and the problem
with the exes pipeline is most of the
land that they were put in the pipeline
on was private land the only time that
fed the the state had any power of that
was when they were going over rivers and
I think they should have had way more a
role in that
in Lane pipelines like the entire
pipeline that should be the government's
doing there shouldn't be private but
it's insane that is where I and I don't
and again I think framing that as like a
radical position we need to get as
quickly as possible we need to make the
public ownership of things like
pipelines and oil companies like we do
but medicare for all because that
shouldn't be a radical notion at all all
right in the meantime we got to take a
break we are in desperate need of going
to the fun half various reasons the fun
half that was not the fun half I think
if you look at the way it deeds are
going to the fun I can't tell this is
like an inside joke with one person
there's no I mean I'm talking about as
well I mean there's a lot of work or are
you literally getting money for product
placement and the joke that's what I
already all right go ahead
Jesus Jesus is really scraping the
bottom of the barrel though if they're
looking to no no I'm insulting you it's
an athletic brand you just don't come
off is the most athletes ertainly in
this office okay well no Matt sighs I
think we're gonna be I mean I think the
boxing thing is gonna come up look at
Brendan's okay well that's good maybe do
basketball yeah let's do a basketball
thing I don't want you to get injured
wasn't you I'll be blue I'll be
fine
basking in the victory will will will
take care of all the pain
believe me feel like you're how
are you I'm playing basketball are you
getting my stomach I I was good when I
played I haven't played for years yeah
well what was the last time you played
it doesn't matter
it was last time you play if you're good
you're good okay
then I'm good yeah I write is either
nice fadeaway jumper an IDE was good I
did I was you know what put it this way
and I'm sure that I would I would have
done very well at your Jewish YMCA games
that you were playing in Sam well first
of all why whatever you were playing
yeah yeah Savage it's like all right
Shelley young male Christian JCA
whatever that's great I was done there I
would have done do I would have done
incredibly well let's save this for the
fun we've actually thought about
softball softball let's do basketball
have you seen Bernie making those back
we all can play basketball Jews are good
because because basketball favors a
certain sort of witty dishonesty it's in
our genes no actually there was there
was no no this is actually there was a
presentation that I saw once where they
talked about how basketball was
racialized and they went back to the
first like racist commentaries on
basketball and it was actually on Jews
and there was lines like very Jews the
Jews are good at basketball don't rush
it requires a certain degree of
deception Ameristar this is RIT this is
a this is real stuff I'm going left no
I'm not yeah all right I had a fatal
week oh just a reminder see Dad this
program relies on your support you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report calm when you do for
just pennies a day we give you extra
content we give you commercial free and
you support the free show also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate using coupon code which
already get 10% off today is Tuesday
that means tonight is Tuesday night
Michael what is happening on the Michael
Brooks show
well first we are going to have it what
does it called Matt again
mukbang mukbang we're gonna be eating
our survival food bucket to celebrate
2,000 patrons which were already pretty
well over now when we get to 3,000
patrons we will do something pleasant
have beers yeah if we're gonna have some
beers
live stream that it's pretty bad lefty
chat vigorous BJ Sutton is with us
tonight we're talking about nerdery nate
silver elizabeth warren why it's a
problem I met a guy last week at the
Katie Albert show he's pretty cool he's
a very very cool guy and we're also
going to be talking about the
distinction within foreign and military
policy between Sanders and Warren and
also some pretty except some pretty
important on a Wong curry level
loopholes that are in her green military
plan which could sort of if if you give
the mill if you give a government a
military officer a waiver if some type
of green requirement might quote-unquote
threaten national security that might
disincentivize the whole process so
we're gonna talk about that plenty of
other things patreon.com slash TMDs
michael brooks show on youtube will
probably do they will probably be
feasting at around 6:00 Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah what are you guys
eating I've come up with something funny
for that
milkshakes we're having milkshakes nice
the official food of anti Phi yes of
course I don't do well with dairy and e
AP and E our producer hath returned from
the first ever Trotskyism conference in
Cuba and he did some interviews with
some people while he was there he's got
an interview with Isabel Diaz Taurus
from anarchists library abre in Havana
and Simon Rodriguez from Venezuela
voices so Isabel Isabel Diaz Taurus was
arrested last week for organizing a
parade against homophobia in Cuba the
government still does not like you to do
your own protests there so she's going
to talk about that and Simon Rodriguez
is part of the partido socio is mo e
Libertad that is part of the left
opposition to Maduro in Venezuela so
that is coming out tomorrow and I'm
excited to listen to it I haven't
listened to it yet
Matt
yeah literary hangover the song of
hiawatha is the most recent episode
that's just been put onto YouTube later
this week actually maybe Thursday night
patrons will get the Margaret Fuller
episode she's sort of the leading
feminist and socialists of the
transcendental movement and the first
female foreign correspondent she was a
correspondent during the 1848
revolutions in Europe where she became
more of a socialist
they'll be out on Saturday for everybody
literary hangover check it out
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty fun half comin
up all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
who sent us this alpha males and the
alpha males are back back back back back
back back and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
are back back I take all of the bank
fraud alpha males are back back back
almost as one
the alpha males I am a total
can we bring back the eg theatre yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation these
you're dead well the problem with those
is they're like 45 seconds long so I
don't know if they're enough we will
break that's Hawkinson and the alpha
males
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blast blocked back
alpha males are back
Oh
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
happy birthday to me I have a
thought expand it to foil and the alpha
males of alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price of class
we around here I am a total
we are back fun half just saw this piece
here in the University of Chicago news
I'm not sure why I have access to this
or why I'm getting this or what not but
a study of landmark 1960s pre-k program
finds gains in education health and
employment intergenerational the papers
expand on work originally done from 1962
to 1967 when there was a the late
psychologist David White Hart designed
the high scope Perry preschool in hip
Salani Michigan that's fascinating that
is where my former wife I was I think
born there right around that time
working with a sample of 123 low-income
african-american children White Hart and
his colleagues randomly assigned 58
individuals to enter in the rich
preschool environment one that
incorporated two and a half hour weekday
sessions in weekly one and a half hour
home visits with the certified public
school teachers so presumably you have a
half the kids are going to just a
classic daycare center where basically
the kids are just I don't want to say
warehouse that's unfair but the the
people watching the kids were not
instructed in pedagogical processes
versus you pre-k where you have trained
educators who work with the kids and do
stuff that is consistent with where they
are in a developmental process in
helping them hit or work on stuff that
is developmentally appropriate and just
giving them the the the level of
attention and apparently when compared
with children of non-participants the
children of the Perry preschool were
more likely to complete high school
without suspension sixty-seven to forty
percent
are likely to be employed full-time or
be self-employed 59 to 42 percent they
were also less likely to have ever been
arrested they also showed better health
according to biomechanical tests
administered around age 55 and were also
more likely to report that their own
children were healthy I mean that's a
stunning return on investment for pre-k
in this city bill de blasio again all
his flaws instituted universal pre-k it
went off with out a hitch I mean it was
sort of shocking how there was not a
barrage of stories saying that like I
mean to go from basically zero to 60
like that in I think it was in the
course of like 18 months I mean it's
pretty stunning and we will see I mean
they are they are seeing benefits to
health 50 years later in these people
just as a function of having that early
intervention I mean and and when you
think about it just from a common sense
it makes it makes sense when you think
about your most some of your more vivid
memories your childhood even when you're
in your 30s or 40s those early years
have far more weight in terms of your
life trajectory than you know any other
seven five three year period
intermittent throughout your life you
can see it in the context of I mean if
you you know grow stuff like trees you
know you can see you could you have the
ability to shape literally shape a tree
at when it's a small sapling and you
know forty years later you see the
implications oh yeah I I learned in my
intro to psych class in college that
your intelligence as an adult is largely
determined by the number of
words adults say to you that aren't them
yelling at you about stuff when you're
when you're a little kid there's a ton
of research that shows that children
living in poverty enter into
kindergarten with a massive thousands
tens of thousands of listening word
vocabulary deficit simply be based upon
how much time they're spending with
adults on a one-on-one situation
depending on the the opportunities that
you have as a kid that age to access
they take a trip you go to a foreign
country you go to a different city you
go into the country as opposed to just
being in the city or vice versa
just being exposed to different things
having different toys being read to
having parents that are not you know so
exhausted at the end of the day that
they can't they don't have time to read
to the kid or or have the ability to get
like you know a babysitter so that they
can spend some time with a kid or you
know someone to clean the apartment or
the house once a week or something I
mean all of those advantages that you
know some measure of wealth brings you
ends up impacting the children at that
age so interesting in that respect let's
go to the phones calling from a to10
area code who's this where are you
calling from good afternoon Sam it's
John from San Antonio
John from San Antonio now John let me
guess what you're going to be talking
about you want to raise the fact that
you were right about impeachment and I
was wrong but you are not you are
ignoring the fact that the the material
difference now between now and what the
situation we were in just even why can't
you just submit you're wrong Sam well
hold on John and I handle this you and I
will take it out on the basketball court
John yeah
well I really wasn't going to talk about
that okay all right well then let's talk
about what you were going to draw again
okay so yeah what what's the status of a
ring of fire
you know because you said that you were
breaking away from your normal radio
format and you had two interviews and
they lasted 53 minutes very good
interviews by the way one with Eric
Alterman instead of an hour and 53
minutes like you usually have this is
like one of those old segments that they
used to have on UHF channels asked the
manager for a half an hour on Fridays
where it's like you could talk about
program we're going to be doing the
normal version of Ring of Fire this week
but we are contemplating leaving
terrestrial radio frankly because it is
the return on investment in terms of the
amount of work that we have to put into
it and you know what's happening with
the radio industry is just not quite
worth it I mean the thing I like about
Ring of Fire is it it it gives me the
opportunity to do interviews that I
wouldn't necessarily do on the majority
report shorter ones may be based on
shorter pieces but that you know the
nature of that could change to I'm not
sure what's your take John well I just
you know enjoy hearing your interviews
and I think it's a really good show and
so I just you know want to see it
continue and and last you know that that
period that time period so if you if
you're gonna do an all internet show is
it gonna be you know like less than two
hours is it going to be less than an
hour I don't know we haven't really
thought about it that much I mean our
plan was to actually do a third
interview on that program but it didn't
it just didn't pan out okay but I know
why we do ok upset if it was less than
two hours John I mean why are you hiding
the ball here why don't you just come
out don't be so I was just very honest I
was giving you a compliment I mean
I'm taking the company I just want to
know like you know this is I just want
you to be a little more straightforward
well I just want to hear as much spam as
I can kick your ass
why do you keep trying to play dumb here
if you find yourself at a loss for stuff
to listen to there's always the intifada
as well as the Michael Brooks show and
literary hangover yeah definitely strike
so more of I was waiting so what else is
that statewide polls are more important
in national polls because we don't have
a national election it's good to see
Bernie tied with Biden in the latest
change poll that came out yesterday in
Iowa when I called him two weeks ago I
talked about a change poll in New
Hampshire they had Bernie up by four
over Biden the new in New Hampshire
Bernie had a decent results in Nevada
Texas in California and Bernie had a
lead which is a Super Tuesday state in
the Massachusetts in 2016 Bernie won
Super Tuesday states in Minnesota
Colorado Oklahoma and Vermont and also
he won in Utah this years as Super
Tuesday stayed also so you each leads
that Biden had mounted and the weeks of
following his announcement have receded
in national polls conducted in the last
11 days a Biden leader shrunk to about
15 points over Bernie nationally the
American Association for public opinion
research Elvis convention last week and
Ryan Schaffner Poli Sci professor Tufts
University tweeted on Friday a poor 2011
I can't believe you're doing polling
online polling that's a crazy aiport
2014 please tell me about online polling
84 in 2019 I can't believe you're doing
foam polling that's crazy
here's a tweet from me in response to
the shaft neurs tweet phone polling was
considered the gold standard and it
hasn't performed well in the Trump air
with relatively different results in
online polls it's hard to get
and millennial voters who didn't answer
calls from numbers they don't know
because there's such a generational
divide between Bernie supporters and
Biden and other centrist candidates this
will be a major factor in evaluating
polls in the future I highly recommend
the documentary knock down the house
featuring AOC and other Justice
Democrats one nugget from the film is it
AOC children one second this is this is
all you did all that in a tweet what was
it a thread I mean did you do that all
in one tweet no I did it was one tweet
that I quoted from I did do a pretty
long thread okay about it was it is more
about the the discrepancies in the
change poll that came out from Iowa
but anyway so so anyway so the nugget
from the a it's from the from the movie
was you know AFC said there was an
internal poll that had heard down by 35
to Crowley Crowley said the same thing
down by 35 she won by 13 points Ayanna
Presley was down by 13 points in a phone
poll conducted by Boston's NPR station
in Indy you are a month before the
election Presley won by 18 points our
revolution endorsed Dana Balter was up
by juanita Parris Williams who was
endorsed by the DNC was up by 13 points
in a sienna foam pole-vaulter ended up
winning by 25 points so we're in an era
where polling drastically underestimates
younger voters that are more progressive
so let's work hard to support Bernie and
other progressive candidates during the
2020 elections so there's another
there's an article in Politico that said
that that came out yesterday called
pollsters rush to patch Frank message
for Trump reelection lace professional
pollsters say the old ways of conducting
surveys are fading fast but new methods
might not mine be trusted for next year
so if you want to comment on any of that
well it sounds to me like you know don't
polls are not as deterministic as we
thought I mean the polling for for
Clinton was pretty accurate in terms of
a national polling right I mean it's
just the problem was we just didn't know
when the votes were coming when you get
this localized though I guess it's a
different story is that it is that what
you're suggesting
no I'm what I'm suggesting is that the
people don't answer their cell phones
young people don't answer the cell
phones and it cost a lot of money to get
access to cell phone numbers and so so
they're being undersampled in there
that's why you know I mean even though
there's no public polling for the AFC
race you know they had internal polls
and they were both way off and the same
thing with the Presley race same thing
with the Balter race and we're just
going to keep seeing that to where
they're under estimating you know the
support for younger voters also you're
going to you're going to be seeing the
split that that's it you know for
younger voters is going to be much more
important than polling than ever before
because they support the younger voter
supports the progressive candidates and
so you're already seeing major you know
arguments about this in various polls
that came out like a this guy Patrick
Murray was talking about who did the
Monmouth poll he's saying that he's
doing polling by email now which is the
newest thing you actually send email to
people and have them pull on that and so
you know it's just there's gonna be a
lot of you know variations and it can be
I just don't want a lot of Bernie
supporters to get down you know because
you know things are improving for him
and if you look at individual state
polls there he's doing much better than
he's doing in national polls and a lot
of that's because of this people in the
south you know he's still doing very
well in the south despite going there
this weekend and having a really you
know some great rallies he's you know he
still feel quite down quite a bit so we
shall see that'll improve off though
appreciate the call John keep calm and
carry on that's what I say I have a
poster of it in my bachelor pad so Ben
Carson secretary ben Carson who
is the chairman of HUD excuse me the
secretary secretary of HUD housing
Housing and Urban Development HUD is in
charge of the of public housing provide
all sorts of well here let me read what
they do okay they do housing in fact you
know what go go to this page here so
that everybody can see this man I'll
send you the link this is the the HUD
page here it is what we do and in the
first column of hud.gov what we do is
housing you'll see that there it's on
the left and right in there is avoiding
foreclosure that's the first thing it's
really the first thing in the first part
of what HUD does there according to them
buying a home home improvements homes
for sale HUD homes senior citizens
homelessness that's and then fairness
they uphold housing law and
anti-discrimination law fair lending
housing discrimination to say persons
rental assistance they provide voucher
program section 8 program searching for
an apartment then they go down to
there's a sustainability programs
researching and working with her various
right so HUD what we do housing avoiding
foreclosure the first thing so now this
was at the what hearing was this that
that porters at talking to a HUD
secretary not sure what the the hearing
is but it's a Congressional subcommittee
and Katie Porter who is a congresswoman
elected in this last class from
California she worked very closely with
the California Attorney General's office
in dealing with foreclosures and real
estate in the the wake of the financial
crisis in 2008 she is a protege of
elizabeth warren's actually took her
class and harvard i believe back in the
day and so she's questioning HUD
secretary again housing Urban
Development Secretary ben Carson who's
been on the job now for about two and a
half years so you know he came in steep
learning curve but he's been on the job
for two and a half years okay good as
you look at also like you to get back to
me if you don't mind to explain the
disparity in REO rates do you know what
an REO is and Oriya are an REO are the
out real estate what's the O stand for
the organization owned real estate owned
that's what happens when a property goes
to foreclosure
we call it an REO and FHA loans have
much higher oreos that is they go to
foreclosure rather than to loss
mitigation or to non foreclosure
alternatives like short sales than
comparable loans at the GSEs so I'd like
to know why we're having more
foreclosures that end in people losing
their homes with stains to their credit
and disruption to their communities and
their neighborhoods and FHA then we are
at the GSEs owned is right now okay so
let me just be good tell you what it is
and why it is so stunning that Ben
Carson thought a Katey Porter was
talking about a cookie and then when she
said no not a cookie are e oh he was
smart enough to go like well I am
chairman of HUD well there's homes and
of course we deal with a lot of what's
going on in terms of loans and
foreclosure in fact that is under the
what we do that is the number one thing
that we deal with foreclosures are e
real estate real estate I got that right
oh well Oh obviously organization but no
it's real estate owned which when
a a property goes into foreclosure if it
is not dispensed if it doesn't come out
of foreclosure if it's not sold as a
short sale in other words basically less
than it's worth or if the bank is not
able to sell it the bank ends up owning
it or could be also theoretically a
government agency she was wondering why
it is that loans that come from the
Federal Housing Authority as opposed to
the GSEs which would be Fannie or a
Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac communism why
is it that the the the homes from the
Federal Housing Authority go into
foreclosure and are not resolved in some
way so that the the the homeowners just
lose their there's something going on
that is creating this disparity in other
words maybe the FHA is not functioning
well with the agenda of making sure that
these foreclosed homes either at least
you know bring some return to its
inhabitants or keep the people in their
homes
give them foreclosure relief Sam do you
see map really perturbed by this would
you like an or yeah but the idea that we
have a secretary of HUD who doesn't know
what that term is
I'll tell you what I do know I know how
to select a $31,000 dining set from our
office and look Flyers house government
now yeah okay mr. Boy Scout Jew scout
Sam let me explain something to you
yes I said because it's like a boy scout
except with your Jewish characteristics
so let me explain something when I was
in college I was trying to study for an
exam and I fell asleep and I wasn't
prepared and I was scared that I would
not pass that exam and then I had a
dream where God gave me the answers to
all the questions on my test so I could
pass with an A now if it was important
for me to know what an EO was or an IO
or whatever else that horrible mean
woman was talking about
do you think it would have been revealed
to me in a dream I'm gonna ask you to
use a little bit of logic I'm interested
in talking about the ideas you're
talking much faster than action talking
about what you want a cookie so you can
say that he's not doing his job here but
his job isn't what it says on the
website the job that he's been hired to
do is to dismantle whatever is left of
public housing assistance in this
country and he's doing it very well I
don't even think I don't even think that
he is tasked with doing that I think
it's just like if we put this guy at the
head of this department it's all going
to collapse and that's basically the
same outcome what we're doing is handing
people copies of the secret and they can
picture the home that they truly that's
that is saying hearing ok that's more
from my hearing where other people were
all they were worried let's go on to
something ok so meanwhile Scouts go
sonic Jesus just f.y.i 10 Carson's got
more anti-semitic since he's gone so on
Monday
part of the Monday a district court
judge Ament Mehta
basically struck down the president's
effort to quash a subpoena that the
House Oversight and Reform Committee had
issued to the accounting firm May's ours
USA looking for Trump's financial
records this is going to impact I think
the attempt by the Trump administration
also quash a Deutsche Bank subpoena as
well from I think it's from the from a
different committee there was a 41 page
opinion and apparently I've yet to read
the opinion but according to Politico
meta systematically dismantled the
trumps legal teams arguments against the
validity
the subpoena pushback on claims from
congressional Republicans that the House
Judiciary Committee must formally launch
an impeachment inquiry before issuing
such subpoenas which is the one of the
most relevant reasons to set up
impeachment inquiries because there is
far less controversy over the whether
the judiciary will uphold subpoenas from
a an impeachment committee
the judge said it's simply not
fathomable that a constitution that
grants Congress the power to remove a
president for reasons including criminal
behavior would deny Congress the power
to investigate him for unlawful conduct
past or present without but even without
formally opening an impeachment inquiry
Madden noted that Congress had twice
investigated alleged illegal activity by
presidents Richard Nixon and Bill
Clinton Congress plainly views itself as
having sweeping authority to investigate
illegal conduct of a president before
and after taking office we could go on
but this case has now been will be if it
hasn't already appealed by Trump's
attorneys and the appeal will be filed
with the DC Circuit Court of Appeals now
just a little reminder about this court
it is the chief judge is Merrick garland
you may remember him for the guy who did
not get a hearing on whether he should
be on his nomination of the Supreme
Court but even more relevant that you
must keep in mind I can't remember how
many years ago now this was five or six
years ago Republicans refused in the
Senate to hold hearings to see three
more judges it's an 11 panel Court 11
judge court they have acts
others that are sort of emeritus that
sit in on on some cases but it's
essentially an 11 judge court there were
only eight it was deadlocked Republicans
kept obstructing via use of the
filibuster and would not seat the other
three they started to make the argument
that you only need eight judges there
and that's when Harry Reid basically
nuked the filibuster so that they could
seat those other three judges and of
course this is the second most powerful
court in the country that deals with
questions like this because it's in
Washington it also deals with the
authority that government agencies have
and that can cut both ways insofar as
people can sue the EPA for not living up
to their statutory obligations which is
happening now back during the Obama
administration you had people like Kris
Kobach who would sue the EPA for
supposedly overstepping their statutory
limitations and so you see that that
changes depending on the administration
where people are using the law as a way
of getting the agencies to do a certain
job and but when a Democrats in the
office Republicans are suing to keep the
agency from doing their job so
interesting turnabout and this process
is not going to go on too far they're
gonna file this with in a timely manner
I'm not sure how many weeks they have
and they will file it and I would
imagine the DC Circuit Court is going to
hear it rather quickly but it is all
this delay tactics that is pushing the
Democratic caucus to push for
impeachment here is Donald Trump
complaining about this ruling by this
federal judge late and Obama appointed
[Applause]
well we disagree with that ruling it's
crazy because you look at it this never
happened to any other president they're
trying to get a redo they're trying to
get what we used to call in school a
deal a do-over
and if you look you know we had no
collusion we had no obstruction we had
no nothing
the Democrats were very upset with the
Muller report as perhaps they should be
but I mean the country is very happy
about it because it was never anything
like that and they're trying to get a
redo or a do-over and you can't do that
as far as the financials are concerned
we think it's the wrong it's totally the
wrong decision by obviously an Obama
appointed judge he was a recent Obama
appointed judge I mean I'm not sure
exactly what he's talking about the redo
or the do the do-over that we used to
call it in school I guess he's talking
about the election but in fact about the
Moller report well yes but the the judge
clearly said there is precedent for
Congress to provide oversight so maybe
he didn't read the maybe he didn't read
the decision but to what extent the fact
that it is an Obama judge I think sadly
has more and more relevance because we
have 1/6 of the judiciary the circuit
court judiciary which actually is where
this this this case is headed 1/6 is now
pointed by Trump it is the most of any
president in this point in their term
and the amount of conservative judges on
the federal courts is extraordinary and
you can almost I mean there are
occasions where you get a George Herbert
Walker judge who will rule against
Donald Trump
occasionally a GWB judge occasionally
less so than his poppy bush the Trump
judges they all rule down the line for
Trump
and and and as you would imagine also
for business and against government uh
Authority and whatnot so one more
example of the relevance of the
judiciary and even as horrific as Joe
Biden is he is not going to appoint
judges from the Federalist Society which
is the exclusive feeder for Trump judges
which is a which has huge import huge
import well when Trump says that he's
hinting it's something that people
already suspect about judges which is
that they rule not based on these like
arcane close readings of the
Constitution or whatever but based on
their politics and their ideology it
just so happens that all of the judge
most of the judges appointed by
Democrats their politics and their
ideology are to preserve norms and you
know justify everything with like a good
faith reading of the Constitution
whereas the ones appointed by
Republicans are just like openly
ideological reactionary activists so
much more so the more recent ones
because that has been the project of the
Federalist Society over the years so
like given that fact it would make sense
maybe for Democrats who are actually
progressive to be more naked ly
political with the judiciary well I
think that's the that's the argument
that people are making in terms of like
of expanding the the Supreme Court and
why not I mean it's not not political
now the way the Democrats do it but I
guess what I really mean is more more
open about it and you know further to
the left from your mouth to Bernie's
ears because he is still I think a
little bit slow on the idea of some type
of Supreme Court reform but here is oh
we didn't have we haven't played this of
Nadler Jared Nadler Jerry Nadler the
chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee was anticipating as of about
48 hours ago Don McGann the White House
lawyer who apparently cooperated
extensively with the mall
report in talking about the various
times that Donald Trump tried or ordered
him essentially to break the law and Don
McGann did not but Jarrell
Jerry Nadler wanted to air this publicly
because of course so few people have
read the Muller report not aware of the
instances of obstruction that Trump is
engaged in and other issues frankly that
are in the report may not rise to the
specific nature of a conspiracy as
defined narrowly by the Justice
Department but certainly stuff that we
wouldn't but that is impeachable
offenses frankly by a president but here
is Nadler announcing that he will be
holding Don McGann in contempt after
McGann just blew off a subpoena this
committee issues a subpoena even to a
senior presidential adviser the witness
must show up our subpoenas are not
optional mr. McGann has a legal
obligation to be here for this scheduled
appearance if he does not immediately
correct his mistake this committee will
have no choice but to enforce the
subpoena against him mr. McGann did not
appear today because the president
prevented it just as the president has
said the that he would quote fight all
subpoenas close quote issued by Congress
as part of his broader efforts to cover
up his misconduct this stonewalling
makes it all the more important to
highlight some of the incidents that mr.
McGann is said to have witnessed let me
recount some of them we know that the
president directed mr. McGann to prevent
then Attorney General Sessions from
accusing himself from overseeing the
investigation into Russian election
interference on March 3rd 2017 shortly
after Attorney General Jeff Sessions did
recuse himself from the Russian
nation the president summoned mr. McGann
to the Oval Office according to the Mali
report quote the president opened the
conversation by saying I don't have a
lawyer unquote the president told mr.
McGann that he wished that Roy Cohn was
his attorney instead or a cone of course
is known principally as the chief
architect of the army McCarthy hearings
that destroyed so many lives back in
1954 an actual political witch-hunt not
the imaginary kind - the president -
cries mr. Cohn served as president
Trump's lawyer for a long time defending
the president against federal
discrimination suits before he that is
mr. McCowan was ultimately disbarred for
unethical practices in 1986 mr. McGann
refused to follow blindly into unethical
behavior mr. McGann told the president
that the Department of Justice ethics
officials had weighed in and that mr.
sessions would not unruhe cues himself
and he advised the president not to have
any contact with mr. sessions on I mean
it goes on and of course Donald Trump
did not have contact with Jeff Sessions
or at least that we know of in this
regard he just went publicly out and
shamed him publicly and which is you
know in some respects sort of parallel
to the whole involvement with Russia
he didn't include he just said hey if
you're wondering what our state of mind
is in the campaign in regards to the
30,000 other emails go for it
that's what Trump means when he says
he's the most transparent president
I'm gonna Rickey's my house I'm gonna
recuse buyer of trumps amazing jeff
sessions have freshened I'm coming on
the heels of denying vehemently that he
called sessions mentally in a
dumb southerner he had tried it out that
Beverly Hillbillies impression of hip
like month later a month later so this
is gonna be interesting to see where
this goes with Don Magan and
particularly in
the wake of this ruling about the
subpoena of Trump's records from his
accounting firm and this is gonna build
I mean there it seems to me an
inevitability at this point that we're
going to get to some type of impeachment
I mean it's gonna take another I think
month or two before the pressure builds
enough but they can't keep avoiding
Congress's constitutional role of
oversight they just can't keep doing it
I mean they can Stonewall but this is
just not it's just not sustainable for
them I'm sorry Sam could you repeat that
again it's inevitable that what might
happen well which one did we want to do
this first what was going on on Fox or
okay yeah so you know the other day we
talked about the story of the the
billionaire who gave somewhere between
10 and 40 million dollars to the
graduating class of 2019 from Morehouse
College to relieve them of their college
debt and Fox and Friends sort of their
brains melted a little bit in
contemplating this it's a bit of a
curveball it was a bit of a curveball
because they had already crapped on the
idea of forgiving college debt when
suggested by Elizabeth Warren they also
sort of like this idea of like well it's
good for billionaires to do this but we
don't want to go too far to the point
where they're compelled to do it
but it's we can see the huge benefits
it's going to have for these people and
then they were so off off kilter that
they you know because they want to
praise a billionaire right and I think
they also because this guy is black they
feel like they definitely need to praise
him
they praise billionaires generally so
much so they there's certain
self-consciousness and they in their
attempt to sort of argue that white
schools are somehow better for some
unknown reason they told the story of
this black billionaire who was bussed as
a child to a white school and it was all
of the benefits that accrued to him
there that he in many respects
attributes his success to so they were
very confused about that but here is Fox
still super super unbalanced about this
they don't know how to praise this and
at the same time avoid endorsing this on
a mass scale generous gift to pay off
the student loan debt for nearly four
hundred graduates may be worth a
whopping forty million dollars but it
raises a bigger question is the student
loan debt crisis so bad that we need to
rely on people like Smith Jesse what do
you say I just like watching the guy's
face in the corner when he heard you got
his debt cleared that's pretty good I
think it's summed it up it's funny to
hear people like politicians that have
driven this country in the twenty two
trillion in debt lecture everybody else
about now they have to solve the problem
of debt usually the government creates
the problem and then they have to come
in and solve it also the positive for
one second that's complete incoherent
gibberish I don't know what he's even
like trying to argue there there's
nobody in government who are saying that
billionaires need to just give money
directly there are some who say we
should tax billionaires so which is the
way that government does things
government government does things by
essentially expending money but God
looked at usually the government creates
the problem and then they have to come
in and solve it also the press all these
journalists they're up to their ears in
credit card debt and they've been saying
it's not a crisis at the border but we
have a student loan credit crisis please
why don't we just
get a bunch of billionaires you know
like Bezos Bill Gates Warren Warren
Buffett maybe they can pony up a few
billion to clear the student loan debt
or how about these universities they
have tons of endowment posit we should
just tell you that the student debt
crisis and I think maybe this makes
jessee's hurts Jessie's case that it's
not a crisis he thinks it's if they can
pony up a few billion we need actually
what is a trillion a thousand billion
and it's actually 1.5 trillion so we
need 1,500 billion which is not pony up
a few billion maybe that's what makes it
a crisis a few billion to clear the
student loan debt or how about these
universities they have tons of endowment
money they can do the same thing top 10
percent of your class graduates they can
get their student debt cleared or all
these great companies Amazon great
company Jeff Bezos he could pony up a
few dollars thank you so why should I
know that's whole thing should he have
to owe more tax write-off go to Michigan
we're out of state and it's a goal of a
lifetime to go to Michigan is 72
thousand dollars my parents really can't
afford it so I take out a loan as a
parent and then the kid takes us alone
and they have a great time and they look
around and they get their first jobs
$50,000 and Knicks you know their
payments five hundred and five hundred
fifty dollars a month and that's after
you've already paid your taxes so if you
make fifty thousand you're probably
taking home thirty two thousand and then
you're paying that much it's hard to pay
for rent utilities phone so maybe it's
in a possible equation there's got to be
some pushback so we don't need the
beanie the billionaire commencement
speakers I mean I feel like Brian
Kilmeade it's another one of those
situations where yesterday he was
praising busing and now he seems to be
working his way to like we need to do
something like on a policy level so that
we're not like hoping for the largesse
my theory is billionaires we need to do
something concerted because this is
really a crisis for people nice oh my
god
niece or nephew niece or nephew right is
that what you saying definitely he's got
a family member you got there's some
young person in his family somebody's
just graduated from college and all of a
sudden he's on that
the numbers just don't work yeah
Kilmeade does not have the ability to
throw off a hypothetical like that that
has to be basically I've changed the
names to protect my niece I mean the
innocent yeah say there's somebody by
the name of Lisa goddamnit Brenda Brenda
kill me I'm not killing me - can Kenzie
Kensington read the kids he can't read
the credit but it could also be
Catherine Donegan yeah it could be could
be anybody could be Melissa stranger
look it doesn't matter I think we've hit
on one of the contradictions in
right-wing populism here right because
populism is about hating elites and
blame us and the way that right pops
- finally it's is often extremely
nebulous and based more on culture and
values than like who's actually got some
money and the power you know but like
sometimes you blame elites too much and
you start getting bumping up against
some redistributed solutions and you're
like wait no nevermind
right exactly let's cut to a commercial
what's going on with Fox by the way
what's going on there well no but you
can tell that that kilmeade it's sincere
because he wears like what Tucker would
have done a whole segment where he had
maybe even really put together the
student debt crisis really well and then
he would have just been like well no I
think it would Sachi and Sachi hire
Somalis for their PR job it's impossible
for for college students to get those
jobs that we all had when we were in
school by we I mean not me and that we
had when we were in college to pay their
way through college but now they have to
take loans because of immigrants Jessie
water still seems to be under the
impression that when he says take Jeff
Bezos his money the left is upset about
that right it's weird
well he you know Jesse Watters of course
he's trying to talk to Trump so he
doesn't he's not
there's nothing coherent in what he's
saying he just knows a movie which is
why be Zoe's came up twice in that rant
of his he got lost I guess presumably
what he was talking about
but so that's going on at Fox now like I
say Donald Trump is listening he is very
very concerned about what's going on at
Fox in fact so much so that during his
speech last night in Pennsylvania
been to Pennsylvania something like 40
times um
because apparently he's a little bit
nervous that his numbers are not good in
Pennsylvania right now but here he is
talking about how I mean it's just weird
this is sort of like it just feels like
it's like a like a like a barroom and
he's just sort of like occasionally
piping up and occasionally people are
paying attention to what he's saying
it's sort of it's weird but here it is
where Trump is boo moaning what's going
on with Fox with a Peabody Judge is
showing up there and people are talking
about the meltdown he had about Sanders
a couple weeks it's so well he was just
like where why'd you ask me to those
hosted this is you're supposed to be my
network not give time to the image of
Town Hall now you saw that last night I
watched Alfred E Newman
what's going on with Fox by the way
what's going on they're putting more
Democrats on then you have Republicans
and something strange is going on at Fox
Oh something very strange did you see
this guy last night I did want to watch
I always have to watch the competition
if you call it that and he was knocking
the hell out of Fox and foxes but him if
somebody's gonna have to explain the
whole Fox deal to me damn it
something strange going on a fox I'm so
I love you know what we talked about
yeah I think when we first played this
Matt said it was something like fascist
disciplining reminding like the
network's like hey that's not your job
and what's so great is that Trump is
such a baby with such a horrific
emotional state that it doesn't even
require the like hey you know maybe you
should send a little bit of a shot
across the bow at Fox because he's doing
it during executive time he's sitting
there getting himself worked into a
lather I think I think he is genuinely
worried I mean I think I think that it's
partly just disciplining but I think
it's not I think it's it's born out of
fear on his level it's all emotional
right it's always a lot of fear it's
always fear and insecurities I mean now
alfrid he knew was awesome one no the
fact that he is afraid that what has
operated as essentially a a rear guard
and of I mean in many respects as the
front a propaganda arm perhaps well I
would say a prop a full-bodied
propaganda like it's almost like
propaganda arm implies that it's sort of
like fulfilling one role but half of his
administration came from there right
like it's it's it's and I like the shop
I think he's afraid that there is like a
there sepsis in the blood system that
there is some type of infection I'm
gonna wake up and feel me it's gonna be
wearing a dashiki yeah with Obama's get
it replaced Tucker what's gonna go on
there I'm gonna go on again a tough I'm
gonna get some type of question was it
Chris Wallace going on I don't like
what's going on
be Shep Smith like Trump's worst
nightmare is Obama on outnumbered yeah
what you ladies might be before or if
one of them yeah joining us and
outnumbered say we have Barack Obama
well you know for the week
okay had any Kennedy that works in
theory maybe if you do it uh top ten
countdown now the real world oh my god I
think it's smugly advocating for Brooke
II can we get to is gonna get Tom
Styer to basically just just buy an
equity stake in flocks thirty million
dollars just to put Obama in there that
would be that dude Tom Steyer could
almost literally would be anything would
be a better use of money than hi I'm
well you know what Tom Styer once again
is proving and yet another version of
the lesson that just because you're
wealthy does not mean you're politically
sophisticated well that is the only use
but I will also say this it also is it
reinforces what I've said about the the
center-left in terms of the way they
spend money like there's no way the Koch
brothers if they were looking for
impeachment would be like hi I'm David
Koch you should be doing it sit there is
it is a function of people of the left
and I mean Center to the left that when
they expend their money there has to be
some element of like creativity involved
in it like a personal narcissus well but
but but but that's not necessarily
creative it's just nurses don't know but
creative in the sense of like literally
I crime doing something that's project
yes I'm sorry I'm crazily involved yes
where is that Koch brothers would have
been like well I got Kennedy on Fox what
about that Bill Bellamy how far away
from us can we expend this money but
have it do what we want it to do the
popularized world school the money is
micromanage down to the point where like
I'm the best person to give this talk
not not any of the millions of people I
could get to deliver the
message Tom Steyer me I am the best
person to do this as opposed to like I
don't know higher higher you know the
guy from the West Wing
you know like I mean I'm gonna get alan
alda to deliver this or I'm you know
whoever it is you know there
it's just that mentality on the left but
I digress
alpha D Newman let's go to the phones
calling from a two one five area code
who's this where he come from
damn hi it's Mindy Mindy how are you
Mindy what's on your mind hi I'm I'm not
gonna keep you real long I'm calling you
from actually this is the number I'll be
calling you from moving forward because
we're getting rid of our landline okay
there okay yeah it came to one time but
the audio quality on this is much Mindy
but okay you want me to take off my
earbud no that's fine that's fine that's
fine cuz if you want me to say I can
take with my ear but I mean to be honest
with you I really there's nothing i
think is just worse than those like
white earbuds it's not one of those
no soundness I took off the airbag is
that better
so much better okay we will not call you
with ear buds anymore okay back to back
to the climate change things yeah um the
business class is starting to feel the
climate change thing whether they're
admitting it or not and well personally
I can tell you from experience because
my son flies twice a week for he works
for a big company big national company
and he's a project manager and he flies
twice a week so he'll be like on one
project for like the Clemson Dallas and
one in Oakland right now he's in
Oklahoma anyway
he always calls me from the airport and
that's when we catch up because he's you
know bored and he calls me something
every anyway his delays are unbelievable
he start like over the last six years
that he isn't working those delays were
a little bit and now his delays are
getting every time he flies now the
delays are three hours two hours rather
or whether you call right because the
point if if the weather is not that or
he that the plane is coming in from
another part of the country and the
weather's bad and the plane can't come
in so like last week he was in he was in
Louisa New Orleans and the weather was
fine there but his plane was delayed for
hours because it couldn't get off the
ground because there was torrential
rains wherever the plane was coming in
from and last week he was in another
airport and the plane couldn't come in
because the problem wherever there was
tornadoes last week the plane couldn't
come in there or his planes are delayed
because he can't fly out of them you
know wherever he can't fly out of like
coming home those are the weather so bad
and it's just the way I I've noticed a
difference of his delays being so much
more now than they were five six years
ago interesting like there's an uptick
in the delays so it's going to get worse
and knots business class I mean well
it's not any class I mean he flies
business class sites there
all start getting pissed he's real low
level because he's only 28 but the ones
that don't have their own jets that are
like in the sea sleep but they don't
have their own jets they're gonna start
getting really pissed I see what you're
saying yes
like I'm not spending all this time in
the airport I imagine the private jets
would be delayed as well right
everyone's subject to the same weather
that whoa but the private jets are are
with the people so they're not waiting
on the jets to come around from another
location yeah but they're not being able
to work like he'll miss a half a day at
work right right like he'll cook like he
like he'll fly out let's say he'll fly
out Monday morning to go to Oklahoma no
good too late five hours or four hours
or three hours he won't get to the
rent-a-car place till now one no I hear
ya so before it was like efficient and
now they're not efficient so it's going
to start happening where even though the
weather is not bad where they are the
weather's going to be bad
somewhere in the country and people are
just not gonna be able to fly yeah I'm
curious I'm curious if there if that is
all a function of weather or if it's
also a function of Airlines trying to
mitigate the empty seats on their planes
I mean I I have question I'm sure it's a
little bit of both but I think there's
other areas to where this is going to
start to be a problem but I appreciate
the call Mindy
moving forward if the planes are solved
so I can report back on that well no but
the plane may be full just because of
that because of the delay right because
right but they change the plane number
but they'll change the okay so
originally if you is this is why unlike
slight 108 or something if it's delayed
they switch the plane they change the
plane number right and that means that
there's like two planes worth of people
in that one plane right but I'll ask
them if they're changing the plane
number like moving forward like when he
gets delayed are they changing the plane
birth or is it just really well just
maybe thinks it's the weather if he
thinks it's the airline yeah all right
you have a great day bye Mindy thank you
I don't want to know your number
I want to know the reason I did it Mindy
what else we have here that I just want
to post put this up
looks like the milk shakings have made
their way to the United States Dov hi
kind-- I think he's in New York
representative yes
Ilhan must go a truck and this guy
through a chocolate milkshake over the
side of it all right yes Dov Hill is a
he is a local state rep who is in I
think I want to say crown heights maybe
or where is he
I thought Williamsburg a Williams art
Williams ultra all right far right but
like he's ultra-orthodox but he's a
power broker I mean he delivers he I
think is a democratic caucuses with the
Republicans or something to that effect
I can't remember quite but he's always
been a problematic and obviously playing
on the idea that in Williamsburg there
is a vested interest in Ilan Omar in the
house is a little bit of a stretch if
you unless you start to contemplate the
idea of anti-muslim thought and here is
a here is a young man who is deciding to
forgo his milkshake for the sake of
making a point
no it's just a picture is the picture
nice I do think it's nice that you can
walk around with a milkshake and feel
patriotic now like you're ready to be a
patriot I mean I would like to see maybe
somebody market maybe that's what we
should be doing it maybe that should be
some merch majority report milkshake
yeah if you have a dairy company and
wanted us to brand your milkshake that's
right dairy it doesn't have to be cold
it could be like a protein drink I feel
like that way you could keep it and the
key would be the packaging because you
want to be
carry it around in your pocket and then
when you need to just rip off the top
not just a big open top and just rip off
the top like a like a rip away bag
almost and then almost there should be
like a function like when you can
squeeze it so you can make it a
projectile right yeah now apparently I
should say but I just want to say really
dude from apparently has written a piece
saying that the milk shaking is a
metaphorical is that it assassination
attempt I don't know if he's addressed
the egging which would probably be I
mean the milk shaking would be according
to him a handgun oh here it is it's
symbolic assassination attempts this is
a tweet may not be violent any more than
jokes about attempted rape are violent
but a healthy political culture allows
no room for either now that's not true
because the issue about rape jokes is
not about a political culture but it is
about actually a one-to-one it's not
symbolic at all it has real import to
the culture and David Fromm decides that
the milk shaking may be a symbolic
assassination attempt but it's not it's
not an attempt it would be a symbolic
assassination right because the milk
shakes are landing but the fact of the
matter is is that there is no damage to
the political culture no material damage
to the political culture that people
make a symbolic protest there is real
damage to the culture when people start
to make it acceptable to joke about rape
like it's not a big deal because that
implicates how people react to it how
society reacts to it from a criminal
standpoint how it reacts to the
perception of
of victims of rape and two women broadly
that the idea that they would be raped
is just not that big of a deal as
opposed to the idea that people would be
milkshake that we shouldn't have
immediate respect for any perspective
that's out there now look this goes both
ways I think it's perfectly legitimate
and and I said this yesterday for
leftist politicians centrist politicians
political figures I mean if if the right
wants to milkshake me for whatever
reason I think it's I think it's a
legitimate form of protest now it won't
make any difference with me
I've been milkshake like here's how you
know it's not the same if someone shot
me it would be a real problem but if
someone milkshake me no one would care
no one would report about it the only
place you would hear about it would be
on this show and maybe if somebody else
you know whoever milkshake me would have
a video of it but no one would care
because there's no symbolism because
it's not it doesn't it's meaningless
it's a meaningless gesture so the the
the analogy is not apt and here is a
perfect example someone on the you know
Center laughed not getting milkshake but
egged which in some ways is more violent
because it's actual involves physical
touching no that's worse and here's how
people get past it in a way that even
though they've been symbolically
assassinated here's how they get past it
this is 2012 2012
ed Miliband doing an interview gets
egged and I remember when David Frum was
so upset about this at the time
incidentally but God
yes he's been on a whistle-stop tour of
the places where labor did well
yesterday and he's stopped off here in
Southampton it was a stunning victory
here by any standards for labor won't
you put it down - I think it's a couple
of things first of all we ran a very
good campaign we talked to 30,000 voters
since January talking about Labour's
plans on jobs apprenticeships housing
the things that matters are people we've
also got people I think who thought
sorry about that obviously not one of my
fans
but hey Khan we've we've obviously got
people who who you know came to us
because on jobs on apprenticeships on
the things that matter to their oh my
gosh for a guy has just been
symbolically assassinated that's how
adults deal with it and of course when
that happened to Ed Miliband you never
heard about it because it wasn't that
big of a deal because it's an empty
gesture when you AG somebody who the
vast majority of people don't feel their
ideas are breaking the norms that
inhibit people and yesterday I
interviewed a a an academic psychiatrist
who's done a lot of clinical research on
implicit bias that exists in all of us
in terms of race in particular and the
one thing that changes the implications
of implicit bias which we all have at
all times it is on the conscious level
what we accept as norm as being allowed
that you can have the same implicit bias
in January as you do in June but if the
social context is different
the implications of that bias and how it
plays out potentially harms people or
discriminates against people is very
different and so the idea that when you
milkshake a fascist
or when you milkshake a billboard that
is symbolic bombing yeah is is is is
really a hate message is somehow
problematic is just simply wrong and it
is just more defense of a of basically
positions that reinforce the right just
down the spectrum a little bit so well
it's also only a big deal when people
make it out to be a big deal right and
the right is in in power in this country
in every way that matters but they run
on aggrievement so they have to have
something to feel like aggrieved and
attacked over whether it's milkshakes or
like gay characters on TV wait I'm
confused is somebody else making my
aggrievement point and I felt like I
might have heard somebody say my point
about aggrievement IV for years the the
the milk shaking is a great substitute
for any type of actual violence anti
fuzz the real fascists right there you
go well I mean look those milkshakes
could be delivered by anybody just it's
people who just who are you know find
some of this behavior offensive and
rather than being violent they want to
say you're what you are doing to society
is outside the norm I'm going to outside
act outside the norm and instead of
drinking this delicious milkshake I'm
going to spill it on you yep like like
we've said before everybody should be
anti-fascist here we have reports of a
16 year old Guatemalan boy the fifth or
sixth child that has died in custody of
ice and the the Border Patrol in one of
their facilities he apparently had the
flu went untreated for a week and here
is Laura Ingraham just about
year ago talking about how lovely these
accommodations are you know there's a
precedent for this it's when they used
to call a Guantanamo Bay Club Gitmo
when Limbaugh did it and they talked
about how this was a what a vacation
spot and you get three squares a day
here is Laura Ingraham saying that these
prisons that kids are kept in these
cages basically like go on Exeter or
Andover so since more illegal immigrants
are rushing the border more kids are
being separated from their parents and
temporarily housed and what are
essentially summer camp camps or is a
San Diego union-tribune described them
today is looking like basically boarding
schools yeah boarding schools I know I I
mean I'm sure I did not go to a boarding
school but I am sure the cages and the
the lock doors being the ability to
leave all part of boarding school and
here is ben shapiro according to him one
of the good Jews talking about how it is
so offensive to criticize Laura Ingraham
about this is that what she is
discussing is that people actually are
being treated pretty humanely in
detention centers which is generally a
true story
okay nonetheless who to judge wins some
points with the left for saying all of
that sort of stuff and and because he is
coming off as moderate because of the
way he expresses himself as a moderate
he's able to get away with pushing very
extreme policies this is the Democratic
plan so Buddha judge says it's offensive
that we are keeping kids in cages and
CBO says they're being treated pretty
humanely almost like they're humane
people that's the game right there too I
mean that's an extremist extremist
position Buddha jag articulated what
absolutely should be moderate consensus
which is you don't put children and
freezer lockers right yeah it's
especially sick because like crazy
Zionists like Ben Shapiro are always
comparing like moderate
American Jews too like the Jews who
collaborated with the Nazis or whatever
but what he's doing is pretty close to
that like that kind of apologia for just
like anyone can see how messed up and
how similar that is to the way the Nazis
talked about concentration camps it's
pretty humane I just needed to detain
them for a while all right we only have
time for one more call I'm sorry folks
it's 3 o'clock we went late with the
free show etc etc let's see calling from
a 949 area code who's this week home
from David from LA listen
yeah what's on your mind I just wanted
to say I really like climate change
conversation the first hour I wondered
if we could finish off a little bit
dressing on that Jersey about like the
leftist mataji regarding nuclear so yeah
make your point but you got to do it
quick cause you got wind blown in your
phone oh yeah okay my point base was I
think a lot of the big fans a great new
green new deal and like sunrise and all
that I feel like they generally focused
on renewable energy and I feel like
nuclear might be able to actually
provide a more long-term sustainable
plan that we can rely on and I just
wonder why you think they don't focus on
that or don't mention it as much well I
think part of the problem is this is
that I think nuclear energy in a vacuum
is I think in a vacuum as a as a as a
science as it were is probably a pretty
good option the problem is this I think
it's like multifold one it is incredibly
expensive at this point to build new
nuclear facilities incredibly expensive
and when you talk about sustainable I
mean Sun and wind is super super
sustainable which back on that a little
bit I mean I think if we are if we're
trying to find a way in terms of like
power per energy produced you know you
and if we're talking
like trying to solve exponential issues
you'd want to have AI sentiment is more
like reliable like it's not going up and
down with with the availability of the
Sun or the wind or things like that and
it cuts us off of fossil fuels view that
can describe the same kind of power
density by the time you could build the
the number of nuclear facilities you
want I think we're gonna have the
battery technology to to deal with with
the problem you're talking about but
with that said the other problem is is
that not just the the enormous cost it's
just that the system in which we have
been running and nuclear facilities in
this country a the design is very very
dubious okay there are a couple of
different ways that nuclear facilities
could be designed the one that we ended
up going down the road we went down in
terms of like the you know what the like
GE I think it is chose was very
anachronistic it was it was done for I
spoke to actually a guy whose dad
developed it and it had something to do
with like you know sort of naval
constraints and whatnot and this guy's
super concerned about the way that sort
of the the the the the macro that we use
in terms of developing in Fukushima was
built on that as well the other issue is
location because when you're talking
about a climate you know we're gonna
some of this is baked into the cake
right you're talking about more and more
climate disasters and it's hard to come
up with a location that you can be sure
is going to be not subject to some of
these disasters and remember it's one of
those types of things it's the you know
1% doctrine you could build a hundred of
these and if one of them fails the the
size of the catastrophe is enormous
so I think broadly speaking I think
there's an argument but the problem is
who do you trust to actually execute
that deal the costs associated with it
not just in terms of shared dollars but
the costs associated in terms of like
you know
a lot of these people have profit
incentives to cut corners you cut
corners on a solar grid or on a windmill
farm the implications of it are a lot
less scary so I mean I think I don't
know why it's not included but I suspect
I've ticked off a couple of those
reasons appreciate the call thank you so
much I mean talk about wind not being
reliable and certainly messing up your
phone call it's a political economic
question not a technological one right
right
yes that story though I would love to
read something about that story I just
happen to know a guy whose dad was one
that team that developed and he's like
yeah my dad is bricks about it
and I was like wait what anyways folks
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
braixen
