[Music]
the majority report
it's a cedar it is Friday August 30th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to tape steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's program
Caleb came a I don't know if I would
call him a former white nationalist but
a guy who had gone down the rabbit hole
and came back out the New York Times
featured him in an article and now what
he's doing is basically working on a D
radicalization project where he's trying
to reach other young mostly men who are
falling down a YouTube rabbit hole into
white radicalization I guess it's like
the Christian patchouli knee of online
so the right people yes and I
interviewed him on Ring of Fire and then
I wanted to interview him again for this
program because and part of it is
obviously it's it's it's both a story of
what the future of politics are gonna
look like I think it's also a story of
what the present of politics looks like
in some weird ways and for me personally
it it was you know it confirmed some
reasons as to why like we orient at
least the fun half of the show towards
YouTube a little bit
[Music]
because this is where this is where the
fish are bait basically and the fish if
we're not there then they're gonna get
sucked up by some other fisherman I
don't know that's not I'm on vacation
folks it's casual Friday but I'm
actually on vacation we still are
playing this new content for you because
that's the way we roll here and if you
remember you will get extra content in
the form of some deep archive cuts from
the deep archive vaults majority report
back in the aughts
ladies and gentlemen with Janeane
Garofalo and I on air America radio so
stick around for that if you're not a
member
easy to become one go to join the
majority report comm all it takes is
basically a couple dimes and nickels a
day and you are supporting the free show
and you're getting extra content you're
getting the free show commercial free so
it's a win win win win as it were I am
on Caleb Kane's Twitter handle it is
faraday fa our ad a whi speaks on
twitter you can reach the discord and
check out the faraday fam community on
discord where you're working on the
de-radicalization project but the top
his top tweet as of today august 20th is
Matlack and oh yeah he's retweeted your
respect to tell me Lauren not a good
look at those boys but check it out it's
a really interesting story and it give
you a better insight into what's
happening with the young people and
where our politics could be going and
and and this and that so fascinating
story don't forget if you were doing the
a.m. quickie every day I don't think
we're gonna do it on Monday on Labor Day
I think we're gonna pass on that day and
on Labor Day we're gonna be playing our
classic Labor Day montage of Labor
speeches
but we will be back live on Tuesday
ladies and gentlemen rare and ago we got
it is gonna be well let's face it it's
gonna be a crap show it's gonna be a
crap show for the next 12 13 14 months
and then after that it could even be
worse but hopefully it'll be marginally
better marginally better hopefully we
can hit a valley exactly but in the
meantime enjoy this interview we will be
back live on Tuesday Labor Day show on
Monday
Caleb Cain we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program
Caleb Cain Caleb was the subject of a
New York Times article because Mabel was
in The Sunday excuse me the the the
magazine and about how YouTube provides
opportunities to essentially radicalize
or indoctrinate people into the the all
right and Caleb welcome to the program
thank you Sam I'm really glad to be here
now I mentioned to this you know we I
spoke to you on on ring a fire maybe
three or four weeks ago and I mentioned
this at the upfront on the on that
interview and I will I will mention it
again for the sake of this audience
about I can't remember what else two or
three months ago maybe it was more we
got maybe it was Matt had gotten a DM
from you or something to that effect and
somehow your video got our attention
where you went on to talk about how you
had left the alt right and my and and we
were thinking you know should we book
this guy and I have to say that my first
instinct was I want to see a little bit
more see if this is vetted because this
is something it seems to me that the
alt-right would do it certainly I have
to say it's something that I've
contemplated do
over the years but it turns out and
maybe you're in this for the long con
but but assuming you're not tell us
about yourself and just sort of give me
the broad strokes just a timeline of
what we're talking about this period in
your life that has brought you to this
point yes I mean it starts out you know
I grew up in West Virginia and like a
kind of a poor town like upper lower
class lower middle class and you know
went through high school didn't really
work too hard you know teachers like me
they said it was bright but I kind of
just meandered through and then I kind
of got my act together my senior year
went off to college had all this like
opportunity and promise and then I kind
of it up by basically just
getting depressed and not going to class
and stuff like that and I came home kind
of broken and defeated was majorly
depressed I don't know how long I I laid
in bed for a long time only getting up
to use the bathroom and eat and I went
on YouTube and I was just like I have to
I have to fix this I have to fix this
somehow and I was like will you choose
my only source and so I went on YouTube
and I found like this gamer Athene wins
that did like neuroscience videos was
watching that kind of realized I'm sorry
let me just stop you here to be clear
you went on YouTube to figure out how
you can feel better essentially write
anything okay and what what year was
this
that would have been 2012 2013 something
like that I would have been 21 at the
time okay and so just so people know
like we're 2012 in terms of like YouTube
YouTube really started you know kicking
in maybe around 2008 it seems to me in
terms of like when when things start to
become content so you know for someone
your age YouTube had been like you know
the functional equivalent of like the
encyclopedia do you even know what I
mean by encyclopedia oh yeah yeah
basically like I I grew up and when I
was in high school if I wanted to learn
how to get something I wanted
know something I went to YouTube there
wasn't a con on YouTube back then but uh
that's where I went for information that
was like my resource it's better than
library well and I just wanna say this
only because you were probably the you
know on the on the the cutting edge of
people of kids of young people who saw
YouTube as this sort of resource like
I'm not sure that that you know people
understand older people understand the
role that YouTube plays in you know as a
source of information for for people
particularly your age and younger in
particular but but go ahead yeah
absolutely I mean a lot of older people
don't understand the power of YouTube
they thinks just cat videos and this is
why no it's like it's a lot of people
see the serious platform and so I think
youtubers should take their platform
very seriously whenever they put on
information but yeah so I went onto
YouTube first found a theme wins he did
a neuroscience video called God is in
the neurons and I was watching that and
I realized oh like okay I learned about
neuroplasticity stuff like that and I
was like you can fix your brain okay
let's do that
so I started looking more and more found
like Alan Watts videos and like Zen
Buddhism was listening to a lot of that
and I basically like emptied out my mind
and like was ready to be programmed and
then that's when stefan molyneux came
across my thumbnails in the sidebar from
the algorithm and it was some click
Beatty title with a click Beatty
thumbnail will you just explain that a
little bit I mean I I would you know we
have we obviously have tens of thousands
of people who watch the show on YouTube
but we also have tens of thousands who
listen on podcast and I don't know this
for sure but my my intuition is is that
a lot of those people don't use YouTube
that much so when you say like in the
column like what just to like give us a
sense of how you consume YouTube videos
because I think you know like I I think
you take that
granted and it may not be something that
everybody appreciates how YouTube videos
are consumed yeah so basically like the
good thing about YouTube the thing that
I like about YouTube is that
everything's recommended to you
everything is curated based on what you
watch and they do that through on the
internet you have all the words that you
type in or all the you know you can put
in keywords onto a video so it gets
tagged that way and it gets tagged a
couple other ways but basically the
stuff if you watch a bunch of videos on
cats YouTube's going to recommend you
more videos on cats if you're watching
videos on sewing you're going to get
more videos on sewing and so all these
videos they appear either on your home
page when you log in to YouTube or they
appear in the sidebar and that's like a
really convenient thing because you
don't have to every time you go to
youtube you're gonna get content that
you want to see that's helpful to you
and so you know I would click on videos
and then over if you're watching you
know looking at your YouTube page you've
got your video in the top left and then
over on the right the whole right hand
of the web page you have a recommended
list of videos and those videos are
curated to you like specifically based
on this algorithm called reinforce that
algorithm just picks what it thinks that
you're gonna watch and so one of the
things that popped up because I was
watching so much self-help YouTube
thinks ok well he's watching self help
we want him to watch more and more of
this because that's how we get ad
revenue the stefan molyneux guy he's got
a whole bunch of self-help tags you know
keywords in his videos descriptions
throw him one of those and I started
watching that and I consumed the hell
out of Steph's content and he had
thousands and thousands and thousands of
hours of content to consume and I went
through a lot of the self-help stuff I
watched a lot of his call-in shows the
way stefan molyneux works is he
basically he his wife was like a
psychiatrist or something like that and
they used to do shows together until she
was basically the canadian and it was
some canadian psychiatrist bored or
therapist bored or whatever i told her
that she couldn't be doing that and so
do we know
I do we know why for sure I I don't
wanna I don't want to speak out of turn
it's been a while since I've look into
it but I'm pretty sure I believe it was
because she was giving out advice on
that channel and that was she was not
supposed to be doing that outside of her
practice it was something to do with
that but I don't want to I don't want to
slander anybody I look into it on your
own okay but ya know yeah clear about
stefan molyneux because i had a debate
with him probably sometime around that
time I can't remember when it was and it
was set up by some third party and I
don't know if we even released it on
that on the channel but what he did you
watch that contemporaneously at that
time or no okay so he had this whole
thing about what was it like mu foo or
something like this
yeah tell people what that is just so
that people get a sense of what this guy
he was he he was self helpy but also it
would go further into like communal type
of stuff and then into like politics but
you characterized him in that way yeah
so stuff is like your internet dad he's
like the guy on the internet that's
giving you advice and what he would do
is he people would call in to his
call-in show and he would give them
advice on their life he would probably
not characterize it this way but he
would basically tell them what they
should do and he would base it and well
I'm not telling you what to do this is
the objective reality and you have to
make your choice
but basically stuff's background is that
he came from an abusive family and he
was very bitter about that he spent a
lot of time in therapy and basically at
one point he completely excommunicated
from his family and he said that he did
this because they were not willing to
bend his morals they were not willing to
make amends that they were not
apologetic and so he had to cut them out
and so basically like he did this thing
called defueling
it's a defecting from family of origin
and it's basically saying that if your
family doesn't fit your values
completely that you have to get rid of
them
that you have to just move on and so
there's a lot of people there's been a
lot of documentaries where people have
left their families where they've never
heard from their kids again I've had
private emails where people have sent me
said my you know my friend was watching
Molyneux and now he doesn't talk to any
of us or his family so these are like
the basis of a cult and that's why he's
been called a cult leader he we even
went on Joe Rogan and Joe Rogan and to
his credit called him out on this and he
never went on that show again there's
even a website I believe called D food
comedy food org that goes into a lot of
this but he basically runs a donation
based program and I mean there was a
time where he did have meetups where he
had a bunch of people come to his home
in Canada but I think he said stop doing
that but he yeah so he's got this like
weird like you know people have
described it as like an internet cult
like psychology cult like almost like
almost like Scientology but without the
weird alien stuff and he he just he
pulls you onto a call-in show and then
he starts telling you what to do with
your life and then he just it's all this
like like psych psychology stuff but
then he mixes it in with like social
commentary and politics and that's what
happened to me was I was listening to
all this psychology stuff and I was like
oh this is good stuff this is like real
stuff and it was helping me but at the
same time I was getting mystic weird
anarcho-capitalist libertarian like
ideology put in and over the years
Stefan has increasingly drifted further
and further to the right and to the
point where like he's running around
with Warren Southern and New Zealand and
Australia and talking about race and IQ
with Jared Taylor so that's kind of the
background that I had with Stef I mean
so am I am we should say this is a guy
who has now moved as far as I I can tell
into full-on trumpism you know giving up
some of the sort of the the stricter
libertarian ideologies and and going
deeper into what I would argue
my opinion the libertarianism at its
foundation ultimately is a philosophy
that has been developed to provide for
some white supremacy some type of
rationale for white supremacy if you dig
deep enough down there
it basically is like well the property
rights start basically when Europeans
established property rights and that
type of thing but just so that people
get a sense of a characterization of
what this guy is should also say to be
fair Dave Rubin I think said that he and
stefan molyneux were forming the new
center but i think he may have scrubbed
that by now but so that's that's this
guy you basically fell down that
wormhole where did that lead you so
where that led me was this is the this
is the mindset going in it seems to be
the same mindset that stuff followed oh
I was listening to all of this content
and I the most radical thing I got at
that point was the race and IQ stuff and
I was so naive I thought that that was
just son and you know race realism
meaning that you can explain the social
outcomes of what we call races so you
can explain why black people have lower
IQ scores and you can explain why black
people have higher crime rates and you
know statistically live in higher rates
of poverty this can all be explained
through genetics so that was the most
radical idea I picked up from stuff for
the rich right away and you know it goes
into the whole libertarian freewill
thing it goes into the whole you know
justifying hierarchies and from there I
was in this mindset that okay so I want
this free society based on freedom
because that was my big thing I just I
wanted I enjoy freedom and so I went
from there to being a conservative
because I was like well if I want that
free society we need social cohesion
we need borders we need families all
this stuff you know we basically need
traditionalism and from there I went
even further into they were calling
themselves Civic nationalists but I'd
call them the old light and they're
basically like a watered down version a
co-opted form of white supremacy
of the all right and that's kind of
where I settled and it was both going
through the the logical process of the
ideology that led me there and it was
also the algorithm which led me there
because constantly in my sidebar
I'm clicking more and more videos to
staff would have someone on his show I'd
go check out their channel or it would
recommend a channel to me and I went
from watching staff to watching like ben
shapiro steven crowder then i start with
found myself watching more of what
warren Southern Gavin McGinnis I would
started watching staff again kind of
came full circle there and then at the
very bottom of it I was beginning to
listen like Jared Taylor and you know
Jared Taylor is like just the
straight-up white supremacist he
wouldn't describe himself that way but
he runs that organization American
Renaissance and they just basically have
neo-nazis come in there and give
speeches so that that's kind of the
trajectory that I fell through it was
both through the guiding principles of
the ideology of the logical conclusion
of that ideology in my opinion and then
also the algorithm which was driving me
in that direction what were there any
things that functioned as validators
like obviously the it's set up when
these guys have each other on their own
shows that they validate each other by
their presence right I mean and but did
the did were there people outside of
this circle that you're talked about of
these people who functioned as
validators to you I mean just and and
then I want to ask that and ask also to
the extent did did did the algorithm
just function to serve this stuff up to
you or did it also function as some type
of validator
I don't know as so much the fact that it
was being recommended to me it was a
validation in terms of the algorithm
what I did find what I did find myself
thinking back then was well if YouTube
is this great platform cuz I had so much
respect for YouTube and I saw it as like
well this is where all the people with
the real ideas are you know this is like
I saw this it's like the alternative
news network right like this was the
real truth
and I thought well
why are threating lefties on here like I
know about the Young Turks but they seem
very overproduced and like that's like
that's pretty much corporate media or at
least I thought at the time and so the
fact that I didn't see many lefty
content creators or people debating
these people I just thought that the
right-wing was correct because of that I
just figured well I mean yeah they're
just right that's why there aren't any
left to youtubers because it was so
saturated at that time you know we have
bread 2 now and your channel is getting
more popular but at that time all we
really had were the right-wing youtubers
the Paul Joseph Watson's the gat and
again s steven crowder all those types
that's in time and so I mean I mean it
sounds like on some level the you just
that you assume the algorithm would feed
you what existed as a bow yeah I thought
it would or I thought those people would
come in to bait I thought I thought it
would give that to me I didn't really
think about it that it was only serving
me right-wing content because like your
show has been around for a while Pakman
show has been around for a while like
lots of people show's been around for a
while but I might have saw Pakman one
time during this time period like it was
no I never saw it and like on top of
that in terms of validation what really
would validate so this is how it worked
for me was I put staff as an authority
figure and basically like he would do it
if he would do an interview with a guest
and it would be a favorable interview
like they were getting along it was a
softball interview I thought okay well
like they get along and says is that it
this person I mean I should start
listening to their content too and it
was kind of like done the way I did it I
kind of went in blindly consuming things
but I would watch you know he would have
gavin on i'd start watching Gavin and
then like when it really like the big
validators were anytime that someone
that appeared center or left would have
conversations with these people and it
would seem reasonable so like if Jordan
Peterson went and talked with stefan
molyneux okay would that validate that
what's that saying incorrect because now
Jordans talking to him Jordan's got this
huge platform they had a really good
conversation Jordan isn't calling him a
Nazi Jordan isn't calling him a racist
and Jordans not a racist so what the
 like this
this is silly and so that would be a
validation Reuben show was a huge
validator for me because I just saw
Reuben - the lastest I thought Reuben
was a liberal
well classic liberal well again I'm
curious I mean let's talk about Dave
Rubin for a second because you know it
is my that that I mean the dynamic
you've just described is my biggest
problem with him is that he and he's
doing you know he's posing he's able to
pose as a leftist or a liberal less and
less it seems to me and part of that is
you know I think a lot of us have made a
concerted effort to make that more
difficult but if you can remember what
you were thinking when you tuned into
Dave Rubin for the first time and when
he had these people on like walk us
through the the the mental process or
you know just sort of like you know the
the narrative in your head that was
playing yeah so Dave Rubin I found his
content very early on I don't know how
he how he got into the algorithm so
quick but I found his show when he had
that first little set I think it was the
might have been either Sam Harris or
Milo was the first interview that I
watched and I mean I just I thought Dave
Rubin seemed like a nice guy
I had cool-lookin set and like basically
he was having on guests that were like
confirming everything that I believed
and like he was he kept repeating I'm a
liberal I'm a liberal the left has gone
insane and to me that was almost like a
validation it's like well maybe that's
why I went to the right wing maybe I
went to the right wing because all the
lefties have lost their minds now and
they're all sjw's and screaming about
Trump you know maybe that's why I went
to the right there was that I mean his
show like I would guess what is this
when is this one you when you first see
Rubin and you start to get that
validation from him well what year do
you know it probably was I'd have to
look at when he started that first
YouTube channel but I would say it was
probably 2016 yeah it had to be okay had
those in 2016
okay fair enough and so in
in and how much I mean was he a regular
that you watched or you just sort of
like stumbled across him as you're
following some of the other guests would
he introduce you to other people or
would he just function to sort of like
give another angle on on on people that
you are already following uh both I mean
I would watch Ruben show pretty
religiously because he just had on a lot
of guests so it was like for someone
like me that liked to consume content
and like what I would like to do is I
would like to find someone new and then
kind of just devour their content and so
like Rubens show was really good for
that because he would have won a ton of
guests and it would always be political
and then it would always be like
right-wing people which is what I wanted
to hear and so yeah I mean it served as
like a huge gateway and to other
Creators some creators that I found
through him that I wouldn't have found
otherwise there was like I remember the
climate change denier dudes like there
was that old guy from the Greenpeace
thing I believe that he went on Dave
Rubin show I might and then I know the
other guy definitely went on I can't
remember his name but he was like the
case for the the moral case for fossil
fuels or something he was like a younger
guy and those so those those both those
guys were paid off by oil lobbies to to
push anti climate change science and so
I remember finding them on there and I
found that in extremely validating I'm
trying to think if there was anybody
else that I found explicitly through
Ruben but I would always tune into Ruben
like as Ruben hang Milo on I was going
to watch that interview or if he had you
know when he had way in Molony one I was
super excited and so yeah I mean I get
to me Ruben show was just a valid it was
just a validator once I was on write
other shows like that that that that
functioned to sort of platform you know
like serve up I guess in in the in the
right way to you I mean where does did
you ever come across people like like
Sam Harris or
I'm trying to think of others who are
sort of like IDW adjacent um you said
Peterson who else
Sam Harris at all dan Harris for sure
Sam Harris for sure I would watch I
wouldn't listen to it too much
I just can't couldn't bare mattress ads
but I would listen to Sam Harris his
podcast every once in a while and I
would notice that he that had a lot of
right-wing people on there and I hate to
say it but Joe Rogan show I really loved
your Rogen show still I don't think Joe
is like trying to do this intentionally
but I don't think he totally grasps
what's going on so Joe show I would like
when Gavin went on get Joe show I got
super excited I one of the first podcast
I listened to of Joe Rogan was the Milo
podcast that's around the time I started
getting into Joe show more and more
unfortunately and any others I mean not
that I can remember off the top of my
head I mean the people that had the
staff would have on a lot of gas I found
a lot of guest Hearst s show but did you
end I would read any of this stuff I
mean I'm like Milo at that time I
imagine he was you know still at
Breitbart did you go and read breitbart
or did just all stay in the in the
YouTube universe yeah it's kind of
embarrassing I didn't do much reading at
the time I'd read an article here and
there but like I just was so addicted to
YouTube like I would literally walk
around and with headphones in my ear
everywhere I went and then especially
when I got that job at the warehouse
they allowed us to listen to headphones
and I was consuming probably like close
to 16 hours a day of YouTube and that's
just like that's just where my head was
at and it was like it was I listened to
YouTube and I listen to podcast and that
was how I consumed information and even
if I had went and like saw something
like read something that was like
counter to these guys I wouldn't have
believed it because what they teach you
is that they have the real truth that
you can't trust the mainstream media at
all they're completely lying to you so
it wouldn't have mattered if I read
something that was calling them a Nazi
or something like that I wouldn't race
or whatever what about
Alex Jones uh I would watch Alex Jones
for entertainment Alex shows the way I
thought of him he was like you're crazy
Republican uncle that you agreed with
but then he would start talking about
like stuff that was like a little bit
wacko
so I I didn't watch Alex Jones Show very
seriously because it's just like
ridiculously he was just way too
ridiculous but I did see how Alex Jones
is on my side obviously and I thought
Alex Jones did do good work to what
extent did you have like any in real
life interactions that reinforce this or
were you just basically alone through
this hey let's answer that and then I
want to ask if you had any sort of
similar interactions online but but
let's just in real life like would you
completely Iceland you tell this your
your folks and they were just like oh
boy well I mean the thing is I lived in
a rural West Virginia so most people
were Republicans and so while some of my
ideas were a little bit more radical
than what most Republicans have if I
wouldn't probably have talked about that
stuff specifically and I was pretty good
at like not explicitly saying things
anyway because I knew it was
controversial and I didn't want to get
like ostracized by everybody it's like I
wouldn't have talked about race and IQ
just out the gate with somebody but uh
yeah I saw I didn't have a whole lot of
push back in my life I did date a girl
that a traditional Christian girl that a
Dave Rubin likes to go on and on about
that I dated I spent a lot of time with
her and she was like a very
compassionate person and she I know that
she would get disturbed when I talk
about mass immigration and I'd say we'll
just lock down the borders and let him
sit there if they come across the
channel just throw him back if they
forced their way in you've got to shoot
him you know that's like kind of like
where my head space was that as horrible
as it is but I would say stuff like that
and she would get upset but she wouldn't
push back on me too much she had a
brother-in-law who uh I found out at one
time read the Communist Manifesto in
high school and I just like would argue
with him like crazy and like a certain
point he just stopped arguing with me he
just stopped having this kind
stations and I could tell he would get
uncomfortable so mostly just in my
normal life with friends I never got
part of any movements I didn't live far
from Charlottesville but I didn't go to
the Charlotte to a rally or anything was
that I will you want to were you in the
mindset that you would have contemplated
going to Charlottesville at that time
were you looking at it as like maybe I
should have gone or were you just sort
of like rooting it on or how did that
how did that impact you after that after
the fact was Charlottesville
when I stole they call the swastikas and
stuff I was really confused I mean I was
behind what I was behind the whole
Confederate statue thing I thought you
know they shouldn't take down the
statutes history they should put those
statues at a museum or they should leave
them up that the people are just being
ridiculous and I believe that that rally
was just about the statues and I guess
for some people it was but I didn't I
didn't actually know about
Charlottesville until it happened I
didn't because I wasn't in gab chats or
anything so I didn't know about the
unite the right rally but after it
happened I watched the coverage and I
was just really confused I was like why
are all these Nazis heater like they
don't belong here like this isn't a Nazi
movement this is a where Civic
nationalist we're Patriots we care about
our country like I didn't really
understand it wasn't until later when I
would watch videos by Contra points that
she would break down the ideologies and
show me that I believed in a watered
down version of what those Nazis
believed that was jarring for me so but
I do remember that I remember the
Heather hire incident I remember looking
at that video and thinking well the left
must be lying about this and like well
maybe he was scared and you know I kind
of like entertained that whole
conspiracy theory in my head for a
little while
later when I saw him holding up like
Nazi shields I was like what the
like so it was Charlotte Oh was a
jarring event for me but now I wouldn't
I would have been able to attend anyway
I'd work and responsibilities in life
all right so what what is a what so how
did this how did this begin to turn for
you so your your your deep
this your a little bit you know around
Charlottesville you're a little bit
confused is that why certain
associations are coming your way and I
guess theoretically right you could have
head down that route but what what
happened well or I mean or let me let me
know before it before you do that
actually let me just get back to was
there anywhere online that you were
engaging with people who were
reinforcing what you were saying was it
just chat rooms in on YouTube or was
that something you were into or did you
not engage on that level cuz you're just
listening on your phone at work or you
going to read it in someplace I mean was
there anywhere else where you had like a
community surprisingly no I mean I had a
small group of friends and I played
games with and they had right-wing
beliefs so like a couple of the guys and
there were libertarians and then a few
of them were like you know like hard you
know my borders conservatives you know
conservatives I care a lot about the
border and stuff like that and they
would repeat talking points they picked
up from peers and stuff like cultural
Marxism but they never seem to have got
as invested in the politics stuff as me
said I don't think everyone is deep so I
had those guys to bounce ideas off with
and I think like hanging out with them
probably like you know it gave me that
social aspect where could it need to go
on to read it and talk with randos so no
I didn't spend time on on 4chan I didn't
go on to read it or discord or anything
like that I'm kind of glad I didn't
because if I had I probably would have
gotten pulled deeper into it I think
that most people that's the way it goes
for most young people I mean or I don't
know what the order would be but that
they get that type of reinforcement that
is sort of like completely that is
responsive right like hey I'm why why
why is there a Nazi shield there and I
would imagine there's a lot of of young
people in your situation who log on to
read it and someone says well because
you know and and sort of rationalizes it
makes it a little bit easier for you do
like sort of accept it exactly if I had
I think if I had had that real-time
feedback and you know we set up a
discord server sense to try to help the
erratic
as kids online and what we've run into
is we run into a lot of hype they're
educated fascists they know what they're
talking about they've read they've read
Ebola they've you know they've studied
that stuff and they really understand
National Socialism and you know fascism
if I had to run into those guys they
probably could have convinced me because
the ideology that I was following was
basically their ideology when when it
got into the Civic net the the form of
civic nationalism that I was into I
probably could have fell into fascism
pretty easily so and I do think I think
that that's social reinforcement is what
really keeps people there it's it might
be the reason that it was easy for me to
come out because it was such a lurker
and I didn't have a community holding me
back but I see a lot of people in line
and I saw a post I wish I would have
screen cap this post but it was right
after my video went viral and I don't
know if it was a troll or not but it
seems sincere was on 4chan it said you
know I watch this guy's video Faraday
speaks and like his story seems so true
to me like this is exactly what I went
through but like I don't know what to do
I don't want to leave the all right you
guys are my friends and that was like
really haunting to me that that would
hold someone in that place I mean I
don't I'm not I'm not making any I'm not
making any equivalences here in terms of
like this sort of the egregious mistake
the is it was a doctor dr. death the
Errol Morris film about the the guy used
to work in in
and I think he was you know like a
consultant to States to provide
executions was sort of adopted by
neo-nazis in Germany were Holocaust
deniers and it just became like I got a
play a certain role to just maintain
like the attention I'm getting from
people which is nice he was a loner and
so ok so in this instance not having a
community that was sort of like directly
responsible for you probably kept you
less than sort of nailed down as it were
ideologically how did you break out I
just did literally you know we're pre
taping this on Thursday the 27th I just
did a stream with destiny and for the
first time and basically I did it
because I've heard you talk about
destiny was had somehow gotten into the
the algorithm as you call it and given
you a different perspective yes so that
that's great to hear you talk with
Steven so the way I got out it was
completely by chance I think that there
was a lot of stuff that I was seeing
with the alright that was disturbing me
but I think I could have come up with
rationalizations if I kept watching
content because remember I was watching
Jared Taylor and that stuff in the
American Renaissance videos and that was
really dragging me into more the white
identitarian stuff although luckily at
the same time I was watching destiny in
Contra points so what happened was I was
on YouTube one day going through you
know clicking through my sidebar
watching videos and this thumbnail
popped up and it said talk with Martin
trolley and I liked Martin shkreli at
the time because I was like mr.
capitalist and I thought Martin surely
did nothing wrong this is how business
works you know this is like all that
stuff and referring to him hiking those
drug prices and so I thought oh cool so
I watched that video with Martin shkreli
and destiny and it wasn't even a debate
because destiny admitted in the video he
didn't know much about health care and
so Martin shkreli kind of like had a
cordial conversation with him
and I thought oh well destiny must agree
with Martin maybe destiny must be a
right way and then I watched destiny
debated a theme win the guy that game er
that I talked about earlier that first
introduced me to the neuroscience
ironically he debated him and beat him
in a debate and thought oh we'll shoot
like destiny like really knows his stuff
because I seems a smart guy and then
that's when the algorithm recommended to
Lauren southern conversation and I
remember it clearly now I thought that
that was the first video that got
recommended but I remember now like I
saw that thumbnail and I was excited
because I thought they were gonna have a
great conversation and that's not what
happened he sat down with Lauren
southern and just destroyed her in a
debate and made her look like an
absolute fool and that like was like the
crack in the dam and in the the
conversation they had was mass
immigration into Europe during the 2015
refugee crisis and that was a huge
sticking point for me that was bigger
for me than the IQ stuff the race and IQ
stuff it was mass immigration it's the
thing I would talk about the most of
people and I watched that debate and it
got me questioning things it didn't flip
my mind because I thought would decimate
could be wrong this I don't know but I
started watching more and more destiny
because I enjoyed those conversations
and debates that he had had and then he
started debating people like sargon of
akkad
he debated Nick Fuentes he debated like
a whole bunch of these like you know
right-wingers and just one after one
just cut them down and destroyed their
arguments and that was really jarring
and then through the algorithm he did a
conversation with contra points and I
remember I remember popping up now who's
like talk with like transgender or
something and I was like it's like well
I don't know I'm just give doubt by
transgender people but I got to listen
to this and I listened to it and contra
point seemed alright and then I remember
her video started getting recommended to
me and they had very interesting
thumbnail so I started clicking on those
and I just started listening I remember
watching her decrypting the alt-right
video and I sat down and I thought how
is that so accurate like in that video
she basically talked to
dog whistles and talked about how the
altre takes a message like white
civilization like white supremacy and
turns it into Western civilization or
they'll take something like the Jewish
conspiracy the JQ the FET you know the
that the Jews control the world and
they'll turn that into cultural Marxism
you know saying that Marxists have
invaded our society and are controlling
our society and like when I sat and
listened to that I couldn't really deny
any of it I was like wow that's like
that's pretty damn and that was really
jarring for me to like see that
everything that I believed was just like
a bunch of bogus science and Nazi
conspiracy theories and all this stuff
and it was from there that I basically
started to now at the time I was also
listening to Jared Taylor so it's kind
of going to this battle in my mind over
and I remember being afraid I remember
listening to Jared I was like what if
he's right but I I would I watched more
and more content on the other side
because after I found contra points I
started finding people like Shawn and
three arrows and a bomber guy and all
these other youtubers that were you know
lefty you know center-left too far left
you just remember watching your show a
lot and that helped get me off the
libertarian mindset and so it just
basically exposed a lot of stuff me
exposed how these a lot of these people
in the radar grifters they do this for
money they had named it they make bad
arguments and I just started to kind of
deep program myself at the same time I
was also having some life experiences
experiences at my job that were making
me less than happy about the current
system we have in terms of like the
economy I started having experiences my
dating where I dated a girl that was
very wealthy and I would listen to the
way that she would describe poor people
and you know all this stuff that could
turned me off of a lot of right-wing
thinking and then I also spent some time
in Destiny's discord server having
conversations with people where I'd
basically go in and my ideas would just
get destroyed and I'm like and then they
would like recant help me
recontextualize the things that I
believe in I was like okay and I just
had that it's probably about eight nine
months ago
I just said well that's all
like all that stuff that I believed
before it was just wrong into the
process Wow I mean it's it's I took
about a year and a half by the way don't
worry that that process that's
fascinating to me and you and and and
this is in the absence of any of those
other I guess influences that would
preclude such like the cost of you
switching did not mean that you had to
leave your friends did not mean that you
know you weren't getting invited to the
parties on Friday night or whatever I
mean you know I think people can
underestimate the the value of having
some type of social circle and how much
of that that that ideology becomes
intertwined with just sort of a sense of
belonging yeah I mean my right wing
friends were upset with me at first and
annoyed with me but I guess eventually
they just came to accept it but I didn't
have like that group of like hardcore
fascist or Nazis that were like guilty
me into staying because I've seen that
from other people that have messaged me
but I didn't have that and see I think
that was it was easier for me to just
walk away from it because of that in
that original video that you put out you
did say that there were gonna be people
mad at you like who are the people that
you were talking to obviously don't tell
me the specific names but I'm just
saying like who were they Oh I mean just
y'all right
I knew the alt-right was gonna be pissed
I knew the old lighters would be pissed
I figured the Conservatives would be
pissed because I knew that they were
going to think that I was slandering
them and calling them Nazis and that's
predictably in the comments X and I see
people say you think Ben Shapiro is a
Nazi and I said and I'm like I never
said that I've never said that so I just
figured a lot of people are going to be
upset at the beginning when that video
went pretty viral and got a lot of
attention but not too many people
covered it I think the only right way or
they're covered it was Nick Fuentes and
when the New York Times article went
viral that was that was a show
every single I mean it was all over you
know this it was
all over political YouTube and you know
it's weird like to have been involved in
that world for so long and then hearing
all these content creators that you used
to listen to that you now kind of
despise and they're all chanting your
name and calling you a grifter and
saying you're a plant by the FBI they've
made up the most insane conspiracy
theories I've ever heard in my life I
don't think I'll ever believe in another
conspiracy theory again because it's
just like you can when you have one made
about you you can see how obvious like
how contrived they are right what I mean
I was worried and I also have received
death threats I would go on 4chan and I
would see you know we're going to hang
him next to that man in a dress
referring to Natalie concert points and
that's when I went out and bought the
gun because I just yeah obviously I
don't these people are not oh so you
have a weapon now well of course yeah
yeah alright and so well tell me about
that New York Times article I know there
were some people not gonna drag you into
these type of controversies but I know
there were some people who thought that
this was unfair that the New York Times
was trying to you know inappropriately
malign a YouTube
give me your your sense of of the
article a and then B the idea that there
is something problematic just not to say
that YouTube should be completely
obliterated but that there's something
problematic with YouTube yeah so I mean
first of all the article
I thought the article got the thesis
nailed down pretty Pat Kevin did a good
job and you know I made that very clear
to them when they came to interview me
you know they basically just reached out
to me during email I don't know how they
found the video but they did and you
know I when I called him I said look man
I don't want to give this off to some
random reporter that's just going to do
some way crappy job because journalists
the mainstreaming is really bad at
reporting on the alright and he said you
know we got you and we sat and we did a
podcast I don't know if that's going to
get released or not but we did a long
interview and I felt like they asked me
all the right questions
when it released they don't give you any
heads-up on these things as it turns out
they just dropped it when it was
convenient I think that they did that in
concert with the steven crowder debacle
with Carlos is it Mazda yeah so they
released it it was kind of out of the
out of left field for me I made I'm a
might have gotten one text from Kevin
and when I read through it I was like
okay they got they got it down pretty
Pat that's exactly how it happened you
know in terms of the the the funnel in
terms of the algorithm how the algorithm
works and in terms of how light the
logic is going from conservative to you
know very libertarian to conservative to
ultra nationalist how that works things
I didn't like about the article was they
kind of I almost felt like that was
portrayed as a victim a little bit too
much so like it was and it was also like
they were saying like at the end of the
article they preface something about
Caleb still continues to watch hours of
content on YouTube a day and if s when
asked if he would step away he said I
can't step away that YouTube is where
it's at or something like that and I
just felt like that was a little I
didn't like that it's almost like okay
now I'm getting brainwashed on another
rabbit hole which is nice simply not
true so that I wasn't happy about that
but but in general the article covered
everything and I said I thought it
covered everything fairly it didn't
smear conservatives as Nazis it didn't
do any of the predictable things that
sometimes happens with journalists so I
was really happy with how Kevin
basically covered the story and then in
terms of what was your other question
the I guess the the whether the the the
the thing was fair and whether you think
that let's talk about the critique of
YouTube I mean what is like how
problematic do you think YouTube is or
yeah well no I guess so with YouTube
it's not pushing anybody in a particular
political agenda I know that there's
this controversy now and I don't know
too much to make of that I mean I guess
like they are a liberal or
whatever institutions so they're not
going to be very Pro Trump but from what
I can tell they didn't care too much
about what was going on in fact I
remember allegedly maybe hearing rumors
that the CEO didn't think that there was
a problem that that just didn't exist
there was no all great pipeline on
YouTube even though they all write jokes
about it they talk about the libertarian
- all right pipeline Mike Enoch and them
talk about that all the time and so I I
don't know I didn't feel like YouTube
was taken the problem very seriously
from what I was saying did the platform
the biggest problem I see with it isn't
so much that they allow the content to
go on the platform but they basically
give the content creators whether for
good or ill this super weapon and the
super weapon is that algorithm and not
only did it give them that algorithm if
they allow them to monetize through that
algorithm which allows them to expand
their operations and that algorithm is
just it's the most it's one of the most
advanced things that we've created the
smartest minds in the world are working
on that thing and they don't even fully
understand how it works it's like a
black box they know that they put
information in and then of that that
information comes out but it's machine
learning they don't know how the
algorithm does it so I just see that
algorithm is a very irresponsible
creation it's a nice creation it helps
you know you can get a very quick
education on YouTube due to that
algorithm but well how do you know so
much about the algorithm let me put it
that way like what do you know about the
algorithm other than how you received it
you know how it served things up to you
well I'm not a data scientist but I've
read a little bit on it in terms of you
know like I said that it's a black box
that they don't fully know how it works
I know that that's true of these
algorithms because I just read a lot on
science and technology and stuff but
most of my understanding of how the
algorithm works it's actually just
intuitive from just spending so much
time on the platform so Mithila for what
it's doing that's that's basically how
I've come to a lot of those conclusions
but yeah I mean do you
use YouTube differently like do you have
some type of practice now when you watch
YouTube that is different or do you just
like do you do anything to counter the
algorithm in terms of what you get
well my algorithm if I go on my main
account my algorithm is completely
screwed up at this point I mean I've got
you know I could be flicking through
there and I will get Molyneux videos
I'll get your videos
I'll get contra points videos I'll get J
s videos I get because now that I've
watched stuff on both sides I get
everything recommended to me um in terms
of the algorithm because the algorithm
doesn't delineate between which
political it doesn't delineate between
politics it's only saying okay they're
watching a lot of these videos a lot of
these videos that are two three hours
long or you know whatever so now I get
stuff all across the spectrum I don't
spend as much time on YouTube these days
partially cuz I'm busy and I mean it's
not really a source of entertainment
anymore because now this is kind of like
what I do as a whatever not so much a
job but in terms of work so I don't
spend too much time on that platform but
when I do I just I just it's not so much
the way I use YouTube it's just the way
I listen information I just don't take
anything for granted when someone says
something I'm just like okay maybe
that's true okay you get a validate it
alright so what would you do to fix if
you think okay cuz and I want to just I
know we're going long here and I just
want to spend a couple minutes on what
you're actually doing now but before we
get there what would you have YouTube do
if you think if there or is there
anything for them to do I mean yeah I
mean you could censor people you could
be platform people in to monetize men on
that and I don't even know how in the
past I've called for that in terms of
like some of the more extreme creators
like Mike Enoch and Richard Spencer but
I don't even know if that's the right
approach at this point because those
people know their platforms they know
their channels and they'll just funnel
people off platform I almost wonder if
the right thing to do is to get the less
EU
shivers together and have them to bait
these people and to get into the
algorithm because that's what happened
to me that's how I found the other side
I almost wonder if it's just gonna have
to come down to us in terms of what
YouTube does I don't know anything that
anything that I call for YouTube to do
to that side they're going to do to all
sides right now if I say yeah so if I
say okay YouTube take away the algorithm
from them let them put their videos up
but just don't let it go into the
recommend well they're gonna do that to
everybody
well I mean but is that necessarily a
bad thing I mean you you know you can
you can take because look people who've
been to platformed have have really it
has inhibited it seems to me maybe you
don't know cuz it's Underground but I
suspect it's inhibited their growth and
their ability to like you say get the
cash to build out an operation to reach
more people it's true you take people
off platform there on gap maybe they go
deeper down to that but there's no fresh
recruits
there's no expansion of those belief
sets there is I mean this is part of the
argument why I think we need to break up
YouTube is so that you can't make as
much money on a single platform you
don't have the ability to expand and
bring more people in that it would
require you know sort of like more you
need to be more self-directed in a
smaller platform it seems to me but I
you know because I want to talk about
like what we do in the absence of
YouTube do anything but I'm curious like
I guess the idea is that YouTube gave
you the opportunity to get out of there
but it's like you know it's set fire to
the to the wastebasket and then it
brought water but that fire could have
you know tipped over and gotten to the
drapes and these know yeah but it's
completely unguided I mean the
platforming does work we saw that with
Alex Jones we saw that was Milo I mean
there operates a Milo completely fell
apart now as Jones is just you know
struggling to stay afloat he luckily he
has a very devout user
it would definitely cut their funnel off
they wouldn't have the funnel anymore
like I said I mean that algorithm that's
that that's the most powerful tool it's
not the fact that they have an upload
platform and they have but she's
not very popular and it doesn't
recommend videos in the same way so I
mean that that is always an option to
just take the algorithm or take the I
guess I would call it a shadow band
there's always that really what I think
you two needs to do is it seems like
they backpedal on their Terms of Service
but they need to have a very clear Terms
of Service but it seems like the issue
that I see is that any time that they
try to enforce the rules the concern is
that the entirety of the right wing like
joined lockstep together and will push
back and sometimes they've even helped
people like Molyneux they've helped like
alt light channels and get their videos
put back up so I guess that's where
YouTube is that is if they try to do
anything they're gonna have a huge
backlash and that's going to be bad
profitably so I don't know I mean I
guess I I i don't think it's right that
people are on there spreading conspiracy
theories that's not right people on
there talking about Jews control the
world that's not right like I don't see
how that's allowed on their Terms of
Service and the thing is is people just
use dog whistles I mean that's what they
do on Enoch Show they just don't say
Jews they just say they or them right
some other word but like it's just
obvious that they're they're doing very
malicious stuff so I don't know YouTube
should have a strike Terms of Service
that they enforce on everybody
the steven crowder thing was pretty
obvious like steven crowder was saying
things that were directly against their
Terms of Service and they didn't want to
do anything about it that's not right
all right so tell me what you're doing
but just briefly you you so you've
basically started a project to deal with
kids you know young people like you know
like you were right is that basically it
yes basically so I mean when I made that
video I made that video because I wanted
to educate lefties because I heard a lot
of people what I was seeing was I would
go into discord servers lefty discord
servers and I would see like
conservatives or libertarians or you
know God for the journal writer come in
there and they would come in alone and
they would just get they would get what
we call on an Internet dumped on
would just they would crap all over them
call them an idiot called him names and
then that alt writer that right-winger
whoever it was they would get all
frustrated and they would leave and they
never come back and I kept seeing this
happening over and over again and then I
also kept seeing people say been
Shapiro's or not see Jordan Peterson to
not see and I'm like well no they're not
Nazis and then it's a Stefan mountain is
all right like well no Mallory's alt
light and I like Conte found myself like
explaining these things and so I thought
well make that video and that's why I
mean the original video was to try to
like wake people up to what was going on
and I did that video and then it blew up
and then all of a sudden I had all these
volunteers Poehler pour in well they
were like do you have a discord server
so I set up a discord server and then
one second so I set up a discord server
and all of a sudden like a bunch of
volunteers just started pouring in and
they wanted to they were you know we
started getting in talks about well how
do we be radicalized people I shared my
thoughts on things that I had seen on
other servers so eventually it just like
kind of organically took on a life of
its own and so now we have a discord
server and there are a group of what we
call helpers and they're basically
trying to engage in conversation with a
lot of these people that are fallen into
these ideologies it's tough because
there's a lot of people that are very
entrenched in it but we we've gotten
people in there and we've gotten them to
open up basically the thing we're trying
to use the most is just reason just
reasoning things with them very clearly
and then using compassion and empathy
with them so they don't feel attacked
like they feel like they have a space
where they can explore you know kind of
wind down their ideas and so that's what
we're doing online right now it's very
experimental I don't know anybody else
that's tried anything like this but I'm
in talks with like CVE researchers and
other extremist researchers to try to
get resources and help and determining
how to do this but that's basically
where we're at now it's a very new
project do you have any type of like a
place where people can get more
information they just follow you on
Twitter or what follow me on twitter at
Faraday speaks and if you go to my
youtube videos you go into the link and
the
description of my videos you can find
the discord server there you'll also
find my all my other links patreon link
emails the discord server all that stuff
so anyway anyway you need to get a hold
of me on there you can get a hold of me
in the description of my videos and I
will pin the tweet to the discord server
my twitter so that people can find the
discord server on there as well if
anybody wants to volunteer have any kind
of special expertise that they have we'd
love to have people come and help Caleb
fascinating story and I just I
appreciate your your coming on telling
us I appreciate the work that you're
doing now and thank you for your time
we'll put links in the show descriptions
as well thanks again Kelly thank you in
Matt's it goes Rebecca to get
I'm gonna get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut you
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
oh the rubber bands
breaks me I guess fell off sweet ride
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
instead
[Music]
