[Music]
Benjamin Netanyahu has hung on to power
in Israel and this really shouldn't come
as much of a surprise to anybody it was
a very tight election and his primary
you know opponent in the election was
not running with any kind of fundamental
strategic alternative a to Netanyahu's
position that's a really important thing
to highlight here because the stylistic
concern that Netanyahu is totally
alienated as an example cert like the
center-left broadly speaking or that
Israel should sort of pretend to have a
of more respectful relationship to the
United States no matter who's in power
that's the standard-issue position of as
an example even just like the security
establishment in Israel you're much more
likely to hear a former Mossad leader or
defense official even potentially more
substantively say acknowledge that as an
example the Iran deal was working that
it was effective
even though they had problems with it
they shouldn't undermine it or even make
a sort of occasional tip of the hat to
doing something about the Palestinians
this was not in the election but was in
the election was Netanyahu running
clearly on essentially formalizing
apartheid and I and also most likely
exchanging a deal with prospective
coalition partners to make himself
immune from criminal prosecution because
he's under indictment right now let's go
to two different reactions to his win
we'll start with Trump and then we'll go
to the Palestinian analysts Diana Bhutto
and we'll come back and go from there
say it so the fact that bp1
I think we'll see some pretty good
action in terms of peace
look everyone said and I never made it a
promise but everybody said you can't
have peace in the Middle East with
Israel and the Palestinian I think we
have a chance and I think we have now a
better chance with Bibi having one yes
so there is a possibility that as
Professor Juan Cole talked about that
there is a new Saudi initiative and it's
very different from the one in 2003 the
one in 2003 was a Saudi proposal that
ended up going nowhere essentially if
the Israelis withdrew from the West Bank
in Gaza if they created a genuine
two-state solution along 67 borders and
the Saudis would lead the rest of the
Israeli of the Arab world in recognizing
Israel the dynamic were in now is that
Israel informally has very tight
connections with Saudis with the
Emirates obviously they already have
diplomatic relations with Jordan in
Egypt and the preoccupation and
overwhelming focus of both Israel and
particularly the Saudis is Iran and
there's really no problem with selling
out the Palestinians in the process it's
not like there's any sincere concern
from any of these parties about you know
liberating the Palestinians from the
Israelis so this is the so a peace deal
could mean you know some type of you
know I don't even know how they'll
phrase it but it will be no delivery for
the Palestinians it might will just be a
sort of formally formalization of
subjugation even if it's called
a state which is point evened out and
then it will be well no we delivered a
region-wide peace deal and that can of
course be sold to something bigger and
better and more bold and ambitious and
so on now it does remain to be seen
because I think a deal like that
actually could set off another wave of
political unrest across the region this
is Diana Bhutto on bhutesu on Democracy
Now
and we're also joined by Dianna bhutesu
a Palestinian attorney has been an
adviser to to President Mahmoud Abbas in
negotiations with Israel your reaction
to the elections and also to what
appears to be a historically low turnout
by the Palestinian citizens of Israel
what the significance of that is in
terms of the reaction visibly the the
outcome that we've seen this was in
effect for Palestinians at least this
was an election in which you either
choose Trump or you choose Trump the the
positions that both Likud took and
Bennigan's took were virtually
indistinguishable particularly when it
came to Palestinians they bragged about
how much they were going to beat up on
Palestinians and and then took their
voters - as a result so it's not at all
surprising that we see this outcome
given that we really had two candidates
that were quite mirroring one another
when it came to this election in terms
of the the voter turnout there were a
number of factors in terms of low
Palestinian voter turnout one was the
fact that a number of people have
ideologically chosen to boycott and then
others was because there was a level of
voter intimidation and people also
believing that their MKS their members
of Knesset were unable to deliver the
big problem however is that that we've
seen a rise in fascism in Israel and
instead of people boycotting we were
hoping to see that people would have
come out in greater numbers to try to at
least push back against that tide as it
stands right now although the vote the
the ballots have not been completely
counted we really only have about 15 out
of 120 members of Knesset who believe in
equality and who believe in an end to
the occupation and that's a very sad
indication of where Israel is Deanna
Bhutto can you explain who can vote in
the Israeli elections and who can't and
also respond to these 1,200 cameras
being put in the election booths the
polling places of in Arab neighborhoods
yes definitely in terms of who can vote
it's only citizens of Israel who are
allowed to vote and so of that citizens
citizenry about 16 percent of the people
who are eligible to vote are
Palestinians who are citizens of Israel
but then that you look at the vast
remaining of remainder of people that is
real controls whether it's people who
live in the West Bank in the in the Gaza
Strip or in Israeli occupied East
Jerusalem you're looking at close to 6
million individuals who are who are
ineligible to vote in Israeli elections
and yet are being governed by Israel in
terms of the cameras this is not only a
violation of Israeli law but it was
something that the Israeli Prime
Minister brazenly is supporting it had
came out and said yes we shouldn't be
worried about this they should there
should be cameras in all polling
stations
the reason this of course is so alarming
is the fact that this leads to voter
intimidation there are a number of
Palestinians who are working either as
teachers as hot as in other ministries
and who seeing that there is a camera in
place are going feel rightfully so that
their that their votes are being
monitored whether they show up to the
polls or who it is that they're going to
be voting for and so this type of voter
intimidation is the type of action that
Netanyahu has done not only when it came
to this election but in previous
elections where he tried to claim that
that Arabs were voting in droves
he's an idea large I D illogically
opposed to Palestinian freedom
ideologically opposed to Palestinians
having equality and will do anything
that it takes to try to intimidate and
to try to make sure that there is
perpetual control over Palestinian lives
that's absolutely true that's an
objective statement and the parties that
are rising in Israel if anything are
even more extreme than Netanyahu and
certainly synchronize with him but I
think it's really important and well
I'll loop back to some of the results in
a second but this is not just Netanyahu
so it's encouraging that a beta will
Rourke or a Pete Buddha jig have
criticized him obviously Sanders has led
the way in this but now there's you know
and again several candidates then go to
AIPAC Sanders
the only one who specifically identified
why he didn't go to AIPAC so he still
stands apart and is better than the
other candidates on this vital issue but
if you frame it and I mentioned this
yesterday Netanyahu yes is is a monster
he's a leader in the authoritarian trend
he's an apartheid asti's a bigot he's
he's a repugnant individual to anybody
with human values but unfortunately he
is in the center clearly of Israeli
politics he's going to surpass David
ben-gurion in terms of length of
leadership of this country and I'm gonna
quote now from the New York Times
because this write up is an accurate
reflection of how a primarily very hard
right
very unconcerned about these issues that
we might be concerned about in terms of
justice or equity Israeli electorate is
voting and also the dire state of and my
unbelievable sympathies for any part of
the Israeli left eye which yes the
jointless still did manage to send some
people in Parliament I'll get to that in
a second but quoting now from the New
York Times though in many ways they have
Benjamin Netanyahu's apparent reelection
as Prime Minister of Israel attests to a
starkly conservative vision of the
Jewish state and about its people where
they are and where they are headed they
prize stability as well as military and
Economic Security that mr. Netanyahu has
delivered they are in many ways never
been safer though they remain afraid
especially of Iran that's influence over
their neighbors against which mr.
Netanyahu is relentlessly crusaded they
are persuaded by his portrayal doses
challenge him whether Arab citizens or
the left as enemies of the state and
they take his resemblance to
authoritarian leaders around the world
as evidence that he was ahead of the
curve they credit mr. Netanyahu's true
whose strategic vision values power and
fortitude above all with piloting Israel
to unprecedented diplomatic Heights and
they believe still more as possible and
they loathe to let anyone less
experienced take controls let's be
honest with ourselves said Michael Bjorn
a former Israeli ambassador to
Washington our economy's excellent our
foreign relations have never been better
we're secure we've got a guy in polity
for forty years we know him the world
knows him and even our enemies know him
so that is a really perfect reflection
of most of again still the majority of
the Israeli electorate this was a much
tighter race but as Diana Bhutto pointed
out I mean Benny Gant's it's a former
military chief he presided over the
atrocities of Gaza of 2014 he bragged
about his brutality against Palestinians
there's no daylight here there isn't
even the old sort of like two-state
quasi peace process versus full
apartheid daylight and even then was all
that was always suspect because
settlements had always expanded under
labor governments so the next step of
how to actually talk about this and
figure this out is gonna mean that
Netanyahu actually can't just be a
stand-in for a fuller and honest actual
accounting of what Israeli politics is
and there's a reason he keeps winning
there's a reason that the left is
totally marginalized there even the
center left like Moretz and that Labour
you know is essentially irrelevant and
offers critiques on the economy which by
the way I don't know how strong the
Israeli economy is it's built on a lot
of the same fundamental inequalities and
bubbles that the rest of the neoliberal
world is Israel tracks the whole Western
order with that and part of the reason
the last thing I'll leave you with is is
that the broader critique of Israel is
harder not just because of all the
things that people talk about that are
real of course there's an Israel lobby
like there's a Saudi Lobby and all sorts
of other lobbies that influence power
and exertion and of course there's
people as absolutely rightful concern
about the history of anti-semitism and
how we discuss and talk about Israel but
there's also the reality that someone
like Geoff Halper will put forward that
Israel is a microcosm of how the Western
world for lack of a better term is
managing the fallout of today's global
economy and power relations so that if
you start to look at the u.s. role in
Afghanistan that continues to this day
if you look at Iraq if you look at all
sorts of insurgencies and
counterinsurgencies and drone programs
and the merging of military and policing
at home and internationally you can
start to look at the savagery and
management of Gaza as a microcosm and a
showcase for how all of those
relationships work and it's very literal
I mean Israel there's a reason Israel's
of prime security systems and weapons
exporter in the world that oppression
that dynamic is an advertisement for
security policies for weapons for
population control this is gonna there's
a reason that Israeli companies are
involved in things like detention
centers there's a reason that going back
to the 1980s some of the things that we
talked about that Reagan supported in
Central America some of the death squads
and mass killings in places like
Guatemala and El Salvador also included
flying in Israeli trainers so Israel has
also become a showcase for this broader
barbarism of this relationship and that
critique is gonna go far behind
Netanyahu and it's gonna implicate all
of us so that's a sort of big picture on
that election do you guys have anything
you want to add to that I think that was
all pretty good um I would just
reiterate the Israel like I feel like
it's mask off time for Israel you know
like they can't keep playing this game
about how oh it's the only democracy in
the Middle East and we got so just so
human rights and gay rights and stuff
like no I think more and more Americans
are waking up to the fact that that's
not true it is a ok it's complicated
definitely but I feel like sometimes
people use that as a cop-out to avoid
taking a position on it and some aspects
of it are not that complicated like if
you have a population of people that is
subject to your domination who don't
have citizenship rights and don't get to
vote it's not a democracy period and
nothing complicated don't let people use
the complicated evasion with you on this
it's not I mean how you actually solve a
problem like this and the logistics of
it and the culture of it and the power
sucks in the economics yes that's
complicated but the basic analysis of
this situation anybody says that it's
complicated they're either totally
ignorant or they're trying to hustle you
it's nonsense the actualities of the
reality are quite clear and again I mean
look if you put the shoe if you if you
flip the situation and there was a group
of Jewish people that lived in two
disparate pieces of land they were
kicked off hundreds of thousands of
people were kicked off of their homes to
begin with they're in these small slots
controlled by another state and
regularly killed and have second-class
citizenship we would be rightfully
appalled at like the greatest currently
existing act of anti-jewish violence and
and an oppression on the planet I mean
there's nothing complicated about that
basic analysis nothing and it makes you
know I mean I know that obviously the
Democratic Party and Democratic
candidates even the best ones are not
gonna be where I am on this issue yet of
course not but I gotta tell you like I
mean look in some ways Bill de Blasio's
just such a delusional buffoon I don't
even know what to say but he's the one
who's trying to make himself a thing in
2020 and obviously he'll never be but
the notion that he and he still is the
mayor of New York City that's an
important position goes to AIPAC and
attacks me TS well at the same time you
know discourse saying that he's like the
real social democrat candidate oh yeah
and for people to rail against Trump's
racism while totally ignoring the racism
of Netanyahu and the Israeli state is
ridiculous like people could say oh it's
not about race it's about you know the
Jewish people but like how do they treat
Jews who are not white in Israel
absolutely
