let's let's start with what took place
yesterday with and did you find that
Mitch McConnell stuff there wasn't
anything on Fox but we did find him at
the press conference on Tuesday making
similar comments okay so here's the deal
in terms of him excuse me in terms of
impeachment there's no way the house is
not going to impeach Donald Trump at
this point it would it is impossible to
imagine and the Republicans know it they
know that Donald Trump has been caught
dead to rights the only questions at
this point the only material questions
are how many articles of impeachment
will he be will be will he be charged
with from what's going on with the
Ukraine situation in and of itself
there's probably a couple of articles of
impeachment they're abuse of power
arguably emoluments arguably you know
election law and bribery and then you
could also throw in obstruction in so
far as you've had multiple members of
the executive branch not come in and
testify refused to attempts to prevent
other witnesses from testifying and then
the question also becomes do they start
looking into emoluments there's plenty
of examples where he has broken the
emoluments clause or contravened it then
do you also look in obstruction that has
taken place over the course of not just
Muller investigation but in other
oversight functions of the house and
then the only other question that
remains after that is like when are they
going to do this right now they're
talking about going public with the
witnesses in November but we shall see
the only response we have seen from
Republicans is not to refute Bill Taylor
not to refute the Pentagon witness
yesterday as to the implications of
withholding that aid and and and how it
was done it is to complain about the
process in an incredibly disingenuous
way in a way that is perfect for Fox
News here is a mob of well suited
Republican congressman thirteen of whom
have the absolute right to go into that
room without doing these theatrics
thirteen of them are on committees that
allow them to be in the skiff this is
the the room in Congress where they have
hearings if they want it to be
completely secure and they do it in
these rooms you're not supposed to bring
recording devices in of course these
Republicans did you're not supposed to
go in there darrell Issa was actually
frog not frog marched but he was
escorted out of that room during the
Benghazi hearings because he wasn't part
of them he wanted to be but he wasn't
and I'm telling you it was a Republican
trey Gowdy had him taken out because he
wasn't a member of the committee
Celsus friend nothing exactly nothing
nothing that the Democrats have done
that at this point to this point is in
any way out of the norm for the way you
would handle any investigation Benghazi
was handled this way others this is the
way you do it but they need to try and
deal egde it amazed this whole process
now because they know on the facts Trump
is toast here's the here's that clip
[Music]
we still care
okay I want to get into involved in that
so there you have it and here's Matt
Gaetz who was the ringleader of this you
know he went on and made these
complaints like a week or two ago and he
got enough press attention that he
figured oh this is working now but
understand what the strategy is here
this is for consumption by Fox News and
by right-wing media so that and remember
we live in a world now where it used to
be where the right-wing media would try
and get their narrative into the
mainstream into the mainstream into the
mainstream bloodstream of the of the
news now they don't do that they don't
have to because we have two parallel
narratives and they just need something
to talk about and this is what they're
talking about I didn't watch any Fox
News last night I can guarantee you you
barely heard the words Bill Taylor but
you heard all about Matt Gaetz I'm
gathered here with dozens of my
congressional colleagues underground in
the basement of the Capitol
because if behind those doors they
intend to overturn the results of an
American presidential election we want
to know what's going on now as you can
tell he's in a cave in a dark dungeon it
just happens to be the lower-left floor
of the there's probably one or two
floors lower than that but he's talking
about it as being a coup as opposed to
an impeachment impeachment show up in
the Constitution and I think to a
certain extent what they're trying to do
you see that major league baseball
umpire who had - who deleted his tweet
if you're gonna if you're I'm buying an
ar-15 if you're going to try and get rid
of my president yep Mogga whatever it is
civil war did you see that Matt Gaetz
broke laws by giving out faulty
passes down to this lower level for HBO
cameramen for Zoe's filming yes expired
the game expired passes yeah of course
he of course let's make sure that uh
that Mike Allen can get down here with
us guys for fighting for democracy this
is a big embarrassing
all right so here's the here's where
this is going I think at this point the
Democrats are just going to figure out
the details of how they're going to
impeach Donald Trump the timing how many
different articles there's going to be I
mean they're planning on taking a vote
before the Christmas holidays I wouldn't
count on because they're gonna they're
gonna roll out public testimony in
November and I think they're gonna begin
to realize that the America it is
educating the American public we've now
hit fifty five percent on the latest
poll on impeachment and it's going to
get larger and understand what the name
of the game here is pressure on five
senators Republican senators Susan
Collins Cory Gardner McAdams in Arizona
said her name I say McManus out Sally
McAdams joining us and and I think to a
certain extent Thom Tillis although he
supposedly said the other day like
impeachment completely out of the
question I have to say and the question
on the one in Arizona you're gonna have
to strategize very closely with them oh
my god I'm entirely forgetting her name
who who's the other senator Manar is a
Christian cinema because I would say if
there's any Democrats that could flip in
the other direction she'd be right up
there with Manchin that's like a state
wrinkle right there it's possible I
think it's just highly doubtful at this
point but mansion is it's certainly one
to watch well he will not vote for it i
I would I would be very confident of
that
but cinema I don't watch I don't know
but they are those two are far less
reluctant to because they're not up for
reelection
those two are far less reluctant to vote
for impeachment or to make that boat
than those other five and so the
question is is it automatic should we
assume that if impeachment passes in the
house if the articles of impeachment are
sent to the Senate should we assume that
it's automatic that they're going to be
taken up by Mitch McConnell and there's
actually going to be a vote here's Mitch
McConnell from a press conference I
haven't seen this clip but I heard him
on Fox saying something that I think is
similar but let's listen to what he says
here if an impeachment trial happens in
the Senate you could quickly bring up a
vote to dismiss any kind of impeachment
charges would you think about doing that
or will you let the trial go all the way
through into a to a vote on conviction
unlike other procedures in the Senate
the majority leader does not really have
ball control here when it comes over
from the house we have to take it up as
I think you've learned without consent
we're on it six days a week the rule
even says when we turn to it and the
Chief Justice is in the chair and Ruth
on all the motions they can be
overturned by vote but I don't see
anybody in all of this myself or others
who would be able to control the process
at some point it ends with the Clinton
impeachment it went on for two months I
have no idea how long this will go on
what I can't tell you for sure is if the
house and peaches we will be honest it
will displace everything else and we'll
be on it until we
dismissal yeah there are all kinds of
potentials and we don't have it yeah
when we do we'll have to come to grips
with how long we're gonna stay on it in
the in the Clinton impeachment
proceeding senator Lott and Senator
Daschle did agree to a process that kind
of laid out I would be handled if this
were to come over from the house I'm
sure Senator Schumer and I would sit
down and discuss coming to an agreement
on a process that was voted on and in
the Clinton impeachment it was passed a
hundred to nothing so there was broad
agreement on how to handle it Sam yeah
there's a lot of wiggle room in there
I'm not in control of it there was
negotiations last time it's all and now
he's saying the other night on Fox News
he's saying Senate rules now no we're in
what he said there no wire in what he
said on Fox News was the Constitution
right I mean this is a constitutionally
mandated it's the easiest answer
Constitution says we Senate takes it up
we'll take it up how it goes I don't
know but he's not bringing that up which
leads me to believe that he is trying to
at least build a predicate that this is
out of his hands it's a function of
Senate rules the only thing is is that
Senate rules can be voted on and changed
and he's got five members of his caucus
that he does not want to take that book
now he's also covering his ass on the
other side by saying like I'm not you
know I can't there's nothing I can do
because they are in an incredibly
difficult situation because you have
thirty five percent of the country that
will never ever ever there is no amount
of evidence and we've been saying that
since day one
will will justify impeachment of Donald
Trump in their eyes
short of him the video of him running
naked across the lawn chasing that the
lawn mower kid and so
