here is uh Lou Dobbs and jason chaffetz
now what does he do on these days
oh is he a Fox News contributor he
resigned from the house before his term
is up to get a job on on Fox News and
here he is where this guy was like I
can't vote I can't look at my kids
wasn't he the one who said I can't look
at my kids and vote for Donald Trump
didn't he say that and so here is jason
Chaffetz Fox News talking to Lou Dobbs
and Lou Dobbs has a real issue
apparently with the with the two-party
system good to hear them speaking up
he'd just rather go to a 101 party the
president has the ability to do this I
don't think there's there shouldn't be
too much little question that doesn't
mean that the Democrats won't Iceland
there's a tremendous amount of legal
question as to whether the president has
the ability to just randomly call for a
state of emergency however I appreciate
Lou Dobbs making this point moot so that
when President Alexander Acacio Cortez
says that for the sake of the health of
the American people we need to both
create a single-payer health care system
and also nationalize the the oil
refineries that Lou will appreciate that
she has every right and ability to do so
but let's go forward that doesn't mean
that the Democrats won't challenge and
try to obstruct as they have throughout
it where's presidency but I really
believe that the way forward here is for
him to declare a national emergency and
simply sweep aside a the recalcitrant
left in this country they have they have
obstructed resisted and subverted for
far too long the American people don't
need to put
with this and the president needs to
find a way forward here where he can
deliver on this promise in advance of
the 2020 presidential election because
that means he will fulfill all of his
major promises to the American people
from the 2016 election I think it's
critically important I think the
president will prevail if he does it
tonight or tomorrow or whatever it is I
will wholeheartedly support him I do
think they can need to continue the
daily drumbeat and make the case rather
than have everybody say oh well it's
tied up in the courts and you know in
the coming months we'll go ahead and see
what happens I don't want to give the
Democrats that excuse it will be tied up
in the courts and not just by not just
by Democrats but by landowners in Texas
who don't want to give up their property
for the sake of Donald Trump's pretend
wall but Chaffetz was the guy who
withdrew his endorsement of Donald Trump
because he couldn't look at his daughter
in the eye apparently his daughter he
somehow maybe just doesn't look at his
daughter anymore either maybe she
doesn't you know talk to him anymore
what was the thing that he was mad at
Trump about I think that was after the
grab him by the the private part to
comment so women are people but
immigrants not so much not so much
there's a genuine split in conservative
media on this though because ben shapiro
stuck it was talking about yesterday how
it would be really dumb for Trump to
call like Trump she was gonna call for a
national emergency if he wants to have a
momentary victory and just be able to
blame the courts later which is probably
true and there's other you have other
people like Dobbs such as and yeah go
for it maybe because they want that to
happen well I I think Shapiro is afraid
of the precedent that it will set and
because look it will set a precedent it
will set a precedent I mean he will be
he will not build this wall the wall
will not get built particularly this way
like you know the five billion dollars
that would get earmarked for
it would you know they would start the
construction maybe or the process but in
this instance not a dollar will be
expended because it will be tied up in
courts immediately and the question will
never be resolved because it will still
be in courts if the next prep you know
unless Trump wins re-election and then
the next president will have a precedent
to call for a national emergency at any
time and it may be for stuff now
there'll be lawsuits questioning that
that one but here is here is
representative mo Brooks who who is
already worried about the precedent that
could be set because look if you're
gonna argue that a phenomena like people
crossing the border the southern border
right not the northern border just the
southern border is problematic with no
data to support this like how could it
be a crisis now and it hasn't been a
crisis for years how could there be a
state of emergency now and there hasn't
been one for years and you're like I
said you're opening yourself up to a lot
of new precedents because you know
president Sanders or Warren or Biden or
O'Rourke could say we have a real crisis
and that is climate change and we
actually have data that suggests that
not that the number of people coming
across the border is less than it was we
have rising sea temperatures faster than
then were earlier predicted just that's
a story today and represent mo Brooks he
seems to get like where this could be
headed and that's is the problem
judgment where we should not be going
into Syria for the purpose of regime I
think it was the stated purpose of
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama at
various but you're talking about theory
now issuing work permits talks in
America when the statute clearly says
you can't do it let me let me go back to
this matter of national security right
now and the president's determination of
what it's an emergency or not say say
five years from now there's a hurricane
of vast hurricane and there's a
Democratic president who believes that
climate change was involved with the
hurricane thousands of people died from
it could that president he or she then
say he needs a national emergency
declaration to get money to fight that
I'm sorry you'd have that was kind of
convoluted the way I heard it the whole
argument is convoluted for a national
emergency act for wall funding also what
I'm saying is if a president can make
the claim that national security money
emergency money is needed for a wall
could a president at one point say it's
needed to fight climate change I would
have to look at the specific statutes to
see what you can and cannot do that is
so far out the right security there's a
matter of fashion if it is a matter of
national security and the president
deems it so why is it outside the
purview of the law I don't see how that
example that you gave affects the
national security of the United States
of America Pentagon in the intelligence
I'm making a hypothetical is word in
this instance we're talking about
protecting the southern border any
nation to exist has borders and the
primary function of a nation with
respect those two those borders do you
know how most of these that is a matter
of national security by definition both
just uh for instance US news August 1st
2017 national security and defense
officials are recognizing climate change
as a threat it is this has been going on
actually for years before this but the
military has been listening climate
change as an increasing national
security threat in fact I think it's
like close to number one and that the
best is watching mo Brooks is
like eyes shoot up into the back of his
head where he's like oh god how did we
not prepare for this question
I mean he's genuinely stumped I mean so
in some respect look there is value here
to set this precedent because it's like
the filibuster well president Bernie
Sanders could very well say we have a
climate change national security I am
taking money 1/3 1/4 of the military
budget 1/2 3/4 and we're going to fight
climate change with that and there's
nothing you can do based upon the the
Trump precedent the Republican precedent
I totally have the right it'd be even
cooler if I thought the Democrats would
ever do that well yes I mean who knows
again there would be lawsuits and
whatnot but it would be cooler it would
be great I don't know that Donald Trump
is going to do what he's going to do
either but fun to watch congressman mo
Brooks Laich all of a sudden in real
time realize like oh boy I left the
panel
I left the paddle in the truck I'm up
the creek now
