probably vote for Narenda Modi over this
guy Mike Bloomberg uh-oh
Modi's not great on economics either so
I had to give Mikey some credit the
other day because he made the obvious
point that Howard Schultz's narcissistic
delusions about running for president
could help him the white house the
Donald Trump and then it was as if on
cues like I'm getting praised in
progressive circles I need to remind
everybody of what an I am and so
here he is talking about why and this is
at a campaign event in New Hampshire and
and this is the I I know it's a very you
know it's a racist cultural trope but
Tonto and The Lone Ranger would say who
we white man and this is definitely a
who you question that Mike Bloomberg is
asking here about who can afford
Medicare for all I think you could never
afford that you're talking about
trillions of dollars I think you can
have Medicare for all for people that
are uncovered but because that's a
smaller group and a lot of them are
taken care of Medicaid already Medicare
but to replace the entire private system
where companies provide health care for
their employees would bankrupt us for a
very long time a very long time it just
simply wouldn't work
who does he mean by us I mean when you
say you could never afford that is he
talking to me I think he's talking to
about a literally a couple of thousand
people across the planet what's so funny
about it is that and I think again we
don't even need to pull up the tweet but
I'm pretty sure it was an on G or Dardis
who's just like just you know he's just
like in machine gun mode right now he
pointed out that like Bloomberg his
commitment to give to philanthropy as
well as political campaigns well exceeds
what he would be taxed at under the aoc
proposal and the point is though and it
dis correlates perfectly yesterday with
the conversation about art which is like
what these oligarchs are actually saying
it's like first of all just dismiss they
can afford it that's that's a
lie that's nonsense anybody who says
that is not being serious or their
definition of a Ford is like I might
only have five homes instead of ten
nonsense but what they're actually
saying is like I'm willing to do some
good things and I'm gonna hold you
hostage for it so there's like a
fundamental delusion and threat under it
yeah we used to win it's the government
administrating their money it's
theoretically a more democratic system
than just billionaires deciding who gets
their money the problem with government
is that it's not Democratic enough yes
but that's you know that's going into
the complete opposite direction of what
you people are you know what those
people are talking about and didn't
Bernie I think I'm probably getting into
it more tomorrow but didn't he announce
some pretty big well tax thing his
wealth tax kind of blows warrants out of
the water do-do-do-do-do-do that's why I
said Warren should it weren't you two
jacked hers up a little bit more even
she definitely should I mean it is
radical right like and it's probably
with a Gorsuch court they're gonna
challenge it constitutionally sure
because of how much the income tax was
challenged but I mean why that's what
I'm saying like the whole I Tony Blair
but you do like leftist policies like
exactly talk as if you're just going
after the tippy-top you can even use
that cute c-word language let Bernie go
whole hog be like yo we're just gonna
take it I actually like the idea though
Tony Bozek
look we're talking about less than 0.5
of its population I mean so you hear a
lot of melodrama from places like Davos
Michael Bloomberg but really I mean it's
very modest proposal I like the I feel
like that that would be my if I ever run
for office it's Robinson runs for office
it's how he's going to talk yeah I like
the idea of very wealthy people fig
trying to figure out how they're gonna
meet their wealth tax obligations each
year
that'd be a fun little thing
put them through that would be beautiful
better sell some stuff but I guess so
