this was a pretty good moment I I have
to concede that I the Golden Globes this
year which is something I always do I
always make it a point of missing their
their the Golden Globes and then what I
like to do is follow that up with
missing the Emmys and the Grammys and
the Oscars
I'd like to miss all of those every year
but I catch the Tonys but yeah
the one I do like to watch is the ESPYs
now I'm joking is that still around
ESPYs gets emotional they do montage is
very well is it the ESPYs like they give
awards to sports teams hell yeah okay
that to me seems a little bit a little
bit redundant because there's one of the
ways that sports teams get awarded is
they win and then they get they they win
the champion just a lot of random chance
in sports that's Joe this is this is for
the deserving sports teams who happen to
have lost to a league less deserving we
want a democracy and not a meritocracy
but nevertheless there was a good moment
in the Oscars which I thought not Oscars
Nia Golden Globes which I feel like was
was missed right and because Fox and
Friends yesterday talked about how
what's his face from veep who was that
actor's name again Julia Louie Dreyfus
no vice I'm sorry the actor from Bill
Kristol belt had had said something
political and they were very upset about
it because it was an otherwise
non-political now that was great they
were like oh this Jessica I like what
they're they're like yeah this is just
great just great
JD works so hard he's clutching and you
know just up there doing your movies he
just gotta be so rude so rude anyway
that's the Golden Girls turns 40 this
year Andy Sandberg this is gonna upset
them too yeah this is gonna upset them
but I don't think they picked up on it
because it's late on the uptake on this
one but he was talking about
the Black Panthers I guess they won some
awards the not the the group of the the
movie and he had this to say which I
thought was was pretty good not not
necessarily something I would expect
from him but maybe that's my own my own
bias you know if you told me as a kid
growing up in the bay there'd be a movie
called black panther that starts off in
Oakland this is not what I would have
imagined
Ryan were there like a bunch of old
members of the actual Black Panther
Party saying I can't even get an
audition just kidding they were all
framed and murdered for wanting justice
and equality the world isn't always has
been a nightmare it just seems worse now
because of our phones what else happened
this year yeah that would really slipped
under the radar
yeah look at the way yahoo entertainment
wrote up this bit says if that sounds a
bit awkward what was but not as awkward
as samberg's attempts to poke fun at
black panther director Ryan Coogler by
asking if members of the actual Black
Panther Party tried to audition for that
blockbuster Marvel movie googlers
confused reaction spoke for all of us at
home he was confused that was definitely
no I think it was that fit absolutely it
was an awkward moment
who wrote that on yahoo it wasn't Chris
Rosen was it could please no I'm joking
yeah I have a feeling I hi this is Ethan
out today I have a feeling Ethan just
sort of like you know quickly scribbled
that off as he was he's writing he's
writing up something but be more
generous maybe maybe Ethan went to go
take his fits during midway through that
joke and he didn't get the punchline
because you know what if he didn't turn
it into that joke I guess it would have
been a kind of awkward like if he didn't
follow it up with a joke about Cohen's
help Pro and it was just about like
Eldridge Cleaver trying to audition or
something sure I guess the yeah so maybe
Ethan missed it maybe he's just lazy
versus that's what I say that's a good
he just he just like no I mean like
the room though well yeah I mean I mean
I think that flies over a lot people
don't understand like who Fred Hampton
is right like people have no idea of
this history really a lot of white
people I'm States right yeah good the
cameraperson not have found a person who
is having a big reaction to it like
there's got to be what you mentioned
Ryan Coogler specifically so that's why
the camera we said Ryan
he said he literally spoke to Ryan but
there is so good for Andy Sandberg
