[Music]
let me just give you a little bit of a
timeline and a little bit of insight
into how we we do this a show so we
didn't know what the timing was of the
Muller report in terms of when it was
going to drop until this morning and at
9:30 a.m.
William Bar gave a press conference to
ostensibly take questions on the report
with no one in the audience having seen
any version of the report why would you
do this well we'll get into this because
this is this is really actually like a
great lesson in how politics and spin
works the report was then released up
almost an hour ago
to the minute and so people are going
through it it's it's a 440 page report I
think it is and apparently there's a
real absence of of the materials from
the Intel investigation so this is
strictly on the criminal aspects of it
and I'm gonna read you you know some
excerpts but of course I haven't read
much of it at all and so you can take
with it what you want some of these
excerpts come from frankly Twitter feeds
of people on the left and on the right
and so these are really you know you
can't see them in context but the
paragraphs themselves make relevance but
bill bars performance today was was
shocking I guess to a lot of people I
mean you'll recall when he was nominated
I think we referred to him is you know
just as bad as Jeff Sessions but smarter
and the guy has a long history of
running interference for four presidents
dating back to the the iran-contra
affair he has there are a couple of
pieces I've been reading about his role
and misinterpreting a Mis presenting
Congress when he omitted parts of a
Justice Department memo in 1989 that's
when he was the head of the jest
Department's Office of Legal Counsel it
concluded at that time that the FBI
could forcibly abduct people in other
countries with a consent of a foreign
state so you know these are and this was
a way of paving the way of abducting
Manuel Noriega during the first Bush
administration he also was part of of
the pardon process for people involved
in iran-contra gate and so this guy has
a long history of this he also wrote a
19 page memo as a job application as to
why the president can obstruct we will
again go through some of these things in
a moment but the important to understand
things to understand I think in this is
that the point of the the the reason why
they they did this the way that this has
been done it seems to me is that and
it's quite clear that Muller at least on
the question of obstruction was and he
was not in a position to say this should
go to Congress but that I think he was
anticipating
this question should go to Congress the
reason why we're getting the report as
opposed to not getting the report is I
think the White House knew there's a
certain inevitability to this report
coming out whether it was going to be
subpoenaed by Congress whether it was
going to be leaked regardless and what
they understand in the White House and I
imagine they understand this in Congress
- is that how the report is made public
will to a large extent determine the way
that it is absorbed by the public so for
instance the White House here's a
scenario the White House does not
release the report and I say the White
House because it's quite clear that
there the that to talk about the
Independence of the Department of
Justice that's the point is sort of
silly so the White House decides not to
release the report when it comes out it
comes out in the hands of Jerrold Nadler
let's say or you know I'm the maybe the
Senate Judiciary Committee and it's
Patrick Leahy and they get to be the
ones well wouldn't be Patrick Leahy
so it would be Jerrold Nadler right
because the house would get it and lay
he's not in charge of the committee in
the Senate cuz it's controlled by
Republicans so Jerrold Nadler will be
out there and he is going to be the one
who's going to tell you the important
parts like you can go on to Donald Trump
Junior's a Twitter feed and I'm sure
he's pulling pictures of you know
whatever it is and you can get in a
sense of what the mole report says and
then you can go to Marcy wheelers
Twitter feed and get a different sense
of what the mall report is right and
when you go to Twitter you choose who's
going to be your narrator but in terms
of the the country how the report gets
to the public is is what will determine
who gets to be the narrator
for that report bill bar has been
desperately trying to be the narrator
for weeks now I mean to the point where
he wanted to be the new it was so
important for him to be the narrator
that he is taking questions on a report
that none of the reporters have seen so
he knows they can't ask the questions
that the reporters want to ask they can
only ask these general questions that he
wants them to ask I mean if it was up to
him he'd want no press conference he'd
want no report obviously they want none
of this but the report exists so the
question is to who gets to define to the
public what that report means and to
some extent that's like you know what
this program does and what Rush Limbaugh
does and what MSNBC does and what Fox
does I mean to some extent that's what
the dissemination of news is all about
but in this case in terms of the report
it is a much higher stakes game that
they're playing and so this is uh this
is what's going down with this and we're
going to play a couple of clips from
bill Bars thing and I'm going to read a
couple of things from the report this is
all incredibly preliminary and and
frankly at the end of the day I don't
know what it's going to mean for
anything I don't you know we still have
a bunch of investigations that are
extant in terms of whether Donald Trump
is going to be president between now and
2020 none of this means anything because
he will be and in terms of whether he is
going to win his election in 2020 I
don't know that any of this is
implicated either the speculation that
somehow this would give a Donald Trump a
win and he would go around and this
would be some type of benefit for him
electoral II is I'm sorry frankly silly
and there's absolutely no data to
support that if there was a going to be
a bump in the polls for Donald Trump it
would have happened before this would
have been the period we would have seen
it because now that the report is out
there and Bill Barr is not the only
person who has seen it I mean just it's
very this is like it's like this is
honestly like a children's book right
like somebody goes looks into the secret
chest comes out and they're the one who
tells you what's in it well now the
chest has been open and other people are
getting to examine it and to the extent
that they can and I you know I can't
tell obviously I have not read through
440 pages I don't know to what extent it
is redacted and what parts are redacted
the percentage of the redactions I
imagine are far less relevant than the
redactions themselves and so what we're
going to do is we're going to get into
we're gonna play just so you get a sense
of where we are today
now we're going on vacation today and I
was thinking about like how come every
time we go on vacation there tends to be
these sort of big news things and I
don't think it's a coincidence now I'm
not suggesting that they're afraid of
art they're afraid of our attention what
I am suggesting is that this show goes
on vacation as per the Department of
Education in New York City's calendar
when I got to take care of the kids and
and they're on vacation and the calendar
generally follows when holidays are so
February vacation is during Presidents
Day spring vacation is during Easter and
Passover obviously Christmas vacation is
during Christmas and so I don't think
it's a coincidence that bill Barr
presents this the day before Good Friday
and going into the holidays just because
and I don't know that there's actual
data to show this but there's there's
probably like if we got to drop it at
some time miles we'll do it during the
time when we know people going to
holidays and so so it's not so much that
that are scared of us is just like we're
all in the same schedule
