[Music]
going back briefly touch on this to our
conversation about Center for American
Progress this is a piece that came out
in Politico on the 10th the
establishment looks to crush liberals on
Medicare for all and it outlines how a
group of lobbyists and other an industry
people from the insurance industry and
HMOs are getting ready to fund a massive
astroturf effort to destroy Medicare for
all all of these companies of course
represent the parasitic self-dealing
industries that profit off of the
immoral and inefficient health care
system we have and profit off of the
deaths and suffering of millions of
Americans and they are staffing up with
Obama and Clinton alums to as I say to
run a campaign to destroy the
possibility of Medicare for all
America's health insurance plans and
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association more
than a dozen groups this is now quoting
from Politico more than a dozen groups
intended to press their point next year
through the partnership for America's
health care future a vehicle to combat
expanding government role in health care
America's health insurance plans and
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association
helped found the coalition alongside the
Federation of American hospitals the big
lobby pharmacy nasc Pharma and the
America Medical American Medical
Association you go back to the history
of the propaganda campaigns against
going back to the FDR and Truman these
were the interest groups which helped
destroy America having a national health
care system like every other
industrialized country the partnership
has received support from Lauren
Crawford Schaffer a veteran of the Obama
administration's health and human
services department and Hillary
Clinton's 2016 campaign who's running
its operations out of the lobbying shop
forbes state partners we believe all
Americans deserve access
to affordable high quality care but a
one-size-fits-all government-controlled
system like medicare for all isn't the
answer Schafer said note the word access
this is a major concern with bata
O'Rourke this is why people are
criticizing and bado has not come out
clearly for Medicare for all
and he uses terms like access access
doesn't mean a goddamn thing everybody
theoretically has access to everything a
right a hundred percent no
delivery is what Medicare for all
does former top Obama aide Eric Smith
has been involved in morning
communications for the partnership
though he told POLITICO his relationship
with the coalition was ending in the
next few weeks now basically look this
group is gonna harness and there's a
long history of corporate groups
staffing up lobbying shops with people
who are veterans of Democrat campaigns
these are the people who actually are
most effective in developing the talking
points to kill important things whether
it's labor union organizing whether it's
net neutrality and now most importantly
with Medicare for all any consulting
firm that gets staffed up on a 2020
campaign that has people who have been
involved in these efforts should
immediately be shunned that's the
problem out of the gate you're staffing
up saying that you're progressive with
people that are gonna run propaganda to
destroy the most important legislative
push in the United States right now
Medicare for all then you should
immediately fire that consulting firm
there should be a blacklist on any
Democratic consultants that work on
these efforts or you should publicly
announce that you're running a corporate
right-wing campaign and you value the
profits of a parasitical industry more
than American lives all right
