[Music]
now there's a whole lot of things that
the Department of Education is doing
wrong from slashing Pell grants to
trying to provide more funding to
charter schools and make no mistake
about it understand Betsy DeVos is on
the record as saying that she believes
in public education but doesn't believe
in public schools and what that means is
I believe in collecting money from the
public and giving that money essentially
to private schools not just charters I
would I would bet anything that that's
sixty million dollars that are going
towards charter school funding has a
very very very loose definition of what
a charter school is that are essentially
private schools and for-profit yeah
university schools and heavily parochial
because for her at the end of the day
funding private schools is a way of
making sure that she's funding parochial
schools and by funding parochial schools
I mean Christian schools so if she asked
him fund a Jewish school god forbid a
Muslim school she'll do it if she knows
that she can fund ten or fifteen or
twenty Christian schools for every one
bigger picture but this is a and I'm
quite convinced this is one of those
things
well here is mark Pocan from Wisconsin
talking about one of the cuts that Betsy
DeVos has proposed thing Ms Lee
mentioned about the cuts of special
olympics do you know how many kids are
going to be affected by that cut Madame
second
we should say that Betsy DeVos is
proposing cutting almost 18 million
dollars for Special Olympics educational
programs are going to be affected by
that cut Madame secretary miss mr.
procane let me just say again we had may
we had to make some good call decisions
with this budget this is a
questioner how many kids not about the
budget it's 270,000 kids
that's a I'll answer it for you that's
okay no problem it's two hundred seventy
two thousand kids
awesome organization one that is well
supported by the philanthropic sector as
well reclaiming my time if I could Madam
Secretary says a couple more parts to
this so also we have cuts that go in the
special education grants to states from
3 million to 2.2 million a 26 percent
cut and then also in this budget you
have a 7.5 million dollar cut to the
National Technical Institute for the
blind a 13 million dollar cut for
Gallaudet University a 5 million dollar
cut for a federal program for print
books for blind students and you
recently had a federal judge rule
against us on some areas around special
education I have two nephews with autism
what is it that we have a problem with
with children who are in special
education why are we cutting all of
these programs over and over with in
this budget well sir we have continued
to retain the funding levels for eye-dea
and held that level so in the kind I
don't sorry I don't think I brought it
by day I believe I brought up special
olympics special education grants the
state's the National Technical Institute
for the blind Gallaudet University
federal program for printing books so if
you could address those that's the
question I would really I will address
the broader question or if you could
actually address the question I asked
that's even a better way to answer
questions supporting students with
special needs we have continued to hold
that funding level that funding at a
level amount and in the context of a
budget proposal that is a 10% reduction
okay I'll read claim my time I'll
reclaim my time you're not going to
answer the question yeah of course she's
not I mean I'm not convinced that some
of this isn't just like we're gonna
throw stuff out there that's just so
egregious that we can kick some of that
back right the I used the example of
back when I used to write scripts
occasionally I'll put an extra scene in
that's really stupid as bait for notes
from executives what they would say like
Duquette do we really need this thing
where he goes out and he
he does the pirouette and has the cat on
his head I have it's essential for the
script but if you insist that's almost
exactly how I would do it like it well I
was really thinking that no that's dead
that brings out a lot of the character
although wait a second though I think
maybe you have a good point problem is
if the talking dog is dead we won't know
who he is like and then you know I took
it out maybe I took it out and I came
back the next weekend I'm like you know
it actually I think it makes it much
better I think yeah that was a great
note thanks guys but it is also possible
that Betsy DeVos is that horrible of a
human being that they see value in in
cutting these programs so that folks are
driven out of the public school system
and basically into probably parochial
schools or special schools that are
private schools that are paid and
for-profit either one is is incredibly
egregious but this is this is who they
are yeah I would say trying to deal with
these things exclusively through
philanthropy has been tried maybe mainly
in the 19th century really exactly it's
like yes right you're depriving kids of
their right to a cost-free public
education reading that boils down to
right reading Dickens wasn't supposed to
be like a road map exactly Democrats
could learn something now from them all
the sharding negotiations in the middle
