[Music]
jay-j cool the Elan Omar sensoring has
to be long-term strategy to undermine
her into an extent the progressive
movement the Democratic leadership might
catch heat this week but nobody will
would hold their vote for Pelosi just
because of this meanwhile the next
election will be filled with ads about
Omar getting censured for anti-semitism
the details won't make a difference at
this point it's disappointing that the
irony of Omar's money point money and
politics missed by so many yeah well
look of course I agree with this totally
and I will remind you that it was the
Democrats who censured move on when it
was General Petraeus who just
coincidentally ended up being prosecuted
or not prosecuted enough for betraying
us by basically giving up government
secrets and it was also the Democrats
who voted to defund ACORN there's they
are super weak in this situation and
there they will capitulate to either
I shouldn't say either I should say both
big-money donors and also a a perception
that the center is somehow offended you
know there was what was it Waldman we
were talking to about that Ben whittler
quote about just the the the Democrats
get very very nervous about what the
mainstream pundits are C says whereas
Republicans don't care in fact they wear
it as a badge of honor that yeah it's
really what we're really seeing I think
in many respects is a Islamophobia and
you know this is where uh folks like we
you know we had problems for a long time
with with folks like Sam Harris because
they mainstream this stuff and they make
it sound like it can be intellectual now
of course I don't know that he's
responsible for this but you know the
the general tenor first can I just read
this quote really quick from congressman
Juan Vargas though because he you know
he showed the ball he said it's
disturbing that rep Omar continues to
perpetuate hurtful anti-semitic
stereotypes and misrepresent our Jewish
community total smear and lie just have
to always say that additionally
questioning the support for the u.s.
relationship a u.s. Israeli really
Israel relationship is unacceptable
that's the bottom line he's saying that
any questioning of a policy set around a
sovereign nation-state one that by any
objective international standard is in
violation of any number of laws and
norms and abuses and so on but frankly
even if it wasn't I mean just the
premise that if you're in Congress you
can't criticize France or India or
Zimbabwe or Israel is utterly demented
well particularly when we're giving them
each exhibit Egypt or sadly you know
yeah bring in groups bring in countries
that we fund and sub-sub text all right
let me so let me just do this here that
is the subtext of what's going on the
text of course is that there's an
opening here for people who want to
launder a a policy of not questioning
Israel by arguing that it's
anti-semitism and they're being aided
and abetted because there's already a
healthy dose of Islamophobia in this
country here is an activist at the West
Virginia State House not a Democrat
maybe maybe she is I don't know but I
can't hear you so GOP sponsored event
yeah this is a Republican sponsored
event and so this is an opening right I
mean this is what we're seeing is the
Israeli Lobby and it comes in various
forms using Islamophobia in this
instance as essentially a way of
laundering a
eh-eh censuring of any critique of
israel and i can tell you that as a
supporter of Israel this is does not end
well for Israel every time you do this
on a short-term basis even these tiny
little victories that you get end up
hurting Israel in the long term but here
is this some woman at the West Virginia
State House and this is really you know
this is the level two subtext of the
criticism that we're seeing of Ilan Omar
she's got a poster
never forget you said with pictures of
the twin towers and a picture of Ilan
Omar I am the proof you have forgotten
so this is I mean this is the worst of
the worst when it comes to Islamophobia
and it's just it's just stunning I mean
this is and and it is being perpetrated
in the name of of anti anti-semitism
when in fact it is the exact same
response but just a different flavor
that's basically what we're seeing the
same amount of hate just as different
flavor and it's being weaponized by
those who do want who don't want
critique of Israel and like I say as a
longtime supporter of Israel's right to
exist this is the greatest threat to the
future of Israel these people who think
that they're helping out right now and
inoculating Israel from criticism huge
mistake huge mistake
well at least they're saying the quiet
parts out loud right but it it it's a
real problem I mean because this is not
going to end well for Israel he's not
gonna and I think I think just to make a
little distinction I think it's not
gonna end well for the type of people
you're talking about who definitely
exist and I fundamentally disagree and I
think this is disgusting but I know
people who have a what I think is
inaccurate and wrong but sincere
misunderstanding about this issue but
the broader kind of context of where
Israel's at right now I think is just
this does work for the current iteration
of Israel because this is just like raw
brute force to destroy any opposition to
it right but my point is it's like
saying if you're building alliances with
you know or been and hungry and the
Chinese government doesn't matter that
may be the case but but I it is
essentially like ignore
you know that you have a faction and
pretending that you don't and not
treating it instead of trying to pretend
like there's nothing wrong with what
Israel is doing because at one point
this stuff catches up with you
and and it has and that's why it's
reaching this level of desperation here
is a Barry Weiss who is reaching us into
a level of desperation yeah well I mean
she is you know it's quite clear whether
she's on you know Joe Rogan's podcast or
really anywhere except for maybe with
Meghan McCain on the view that the depth
of her understanding of these issues is
extremely shallow and she's joining on
the bandwagon there's no reason to think
that she's thinking about this any more
than she's thought about anything else
frankly which is sad because this is her
primary thing well yeah and this is this
is a twofer for people it undermines a
strong progressive voice in the house
and also supposedly protects Israel from
critique so we've talked about this
offline personally and now on this show
but it's easy to spot anti-semitism when
and it's a bunch of crazy people with
tiki torches screaming Jews will not
replace us yes what's trickier is tweets
like Minnesota congresswoman Ileana Mars
recently deleted about how Israel has
quote hypnotized the world to carry out
quote evil that is harder to spot as
anti-semitic which makes it more
dangerous you think how so does make it
more dangerous because as you said when
you see people marching with tiki
torches or use here the Pittsburgh
killer writing on social media all Jews
must die
that's very obviously elimination
establish a scent is inform the far left
is that it often coughed in times is
smuggled into the mainstream under the
guise of progressive values so it says
about itself I'm just standing up for
the downtrodden Palestinians which they
are I am just standing up for justice
I'm standing against racism and so that
kind of language is a siren song
including to Jews 75% of whom
for Democrats and so that's the problem
with it is that it's not as easy to spot
oftentimes because it says we're just
about criticizing Israel in the case of
the Dillahunty Pelosi shut it down Nancy
Pelosi shut it down very aggressively
with Ilhan Omer the problem is that she
still has a spot on the set on the right
Congressional Foreign Affairs Committee
right that's the problem is that this
made up anti-semitism that I'm seeing
has not even though it's been addressed
it's not been effective in trying to get
her out of a policy position where she
can actually do the things that Barry
White's we said we're legitimate which
was bringing some justice to people who
are being oppressed and sometimes things
are hard to spot because they're not
there now as one of those 75% who are
apparently not sophisticated enough as a
50 some-odd year-old man to be aware of
of anti-semitism I frankly I'm offended
by that how's that I'm offended and I
would like the New York Times to address
that columnist who's telling the world
that I'm not capable of it I my Jewish
education involved teachers with the
tattoo on their arm of with numbers so I
don't need to be told by Barry Weiss
that I don't know anti-semitism when I
see it I was watching helicopters fly
over Caesarea on the way to bomb Lebanon
when Barry Weiss was maybe not even in
diapers yet so I don't need to be told
that I'm deluded about anti-semitism
that's really offensive and I want the
New York Times to censure her frankly
well if bigotry of the left is dangerous
because it appears like social justice
isn't bigotry from the center even more
dangerous I mean look at she's going
around
loading people okay whoo it's
indisputable they are gateways to right
way to right-wing ethno-nationalism so
maybe she should be looking in her own
work for those people who are not seeing
where anti-semitism comes it may be the
case that dave rubin and sam harris are
not anti-semitic but certainly they
given a platform to people who have
spread these type of things and they
have given a platform to people who have
given a platform to so I mean honestly
the New York Times should really be
looking into Barry Weiss cuz this is
pretty offensive stuff this is her
primary thing too like all the stuff
about being a reasonable centrist it's
like oh you can seem reasonable unlike
these social issues but no when it comes
to Zionism she is a member of the right
well and of course like so many of these
other people I mean first of all if you
genuinely had a robust classical like a
ACLU style commitment to open society
and free debate and so on III could
imagine I could imagine people that III
think I have more respect maybe for like
the kind of free speech absolutist
position then others do even though it
is in a slowly mine but I have a lot of
respect for it and if they were sincere
at all they would be all over literal
state legislation suppressing people's
freedom speech relative to a sovereign
nation state so not only is she
hypocritical on the face of it she's you
know structurally hypocritical in the
sense of going back to her college
activism trying to silence academics
