[Music]
go home from the seven-one-seven area
code who's this where you going from hi
this is danny from PA danny from PA
what's on your mind well done well first
I just want to say that one woman at the
CPAC conference was talking about
skittles parties hmm am I the only
person that just got a huge just started
remembering when the craze was about
rainbow parties yeah
what was the rainbow party remember
those are them never mind look at em em
little yeah well dude yeah all right
there you go uh something yesterday kind
of put this into my mind would you were
talking about how to talk a family
member had a more or less extreme right
politics I've got something a little bit
more worse than that much much worse
than that I have a family member who is
basically a fascist now just the other
day they were sending me stuff about
Pinochet and talking about how apartheid
really wasn't that bad and it seems as
if every day gets worse and worse where
it can I tried not to talk about
politics with him ever but every so
often it gets to something like well
here's how the Jews are responsible for
the breakup between the Orthodox and the
Catholic Church and I always have to
shut everything down immediately when it
happens because I just don't want to
have to deal with that how old is this
party how does it start
um how did it start he started as a
bright libertarian witch go figure
and I can't pinpoint anything exactly
did I definitely started noticing an
uptick
of far-right reactionary politics around
2016 what's the obvious sources I what's
his media sources Drudge Report
Breitbart a bunch of sources that I've
never seen battle bees like a 2005 web
design news aggregator things like that
Wow and everybody else in the family
also watches one American news which is
yes yeah that's a yeah I mean this is
it's a problem you know I don't know
yeah I mean the only thing I could tell
you is that maybe I don't know what is
the sort of like the path out of
something like that you know that
someone would go to I mean almost feels
like you know in that instance like Joe
Rogan's almost the solution right I mean
to send them a Johann Hari oh yeah the
question is honestly I mean the question
is you know does the valve work both
ways right you you is it one of those
things where it just descends you
further down a wormhole into right-wing
you know neo-fascism or is it can the
valve actually like sort of like
jettison you out I don't know I don't
know I mean I think I don't know I've
always been at a loss for how to even
confront the situation to the point
where I just try to shut it deadly
that's all I can do what's the guy's
name
we had him on the program who was a
former Chris cippolini yeah yeah Chris
pitch alene actually yeah look him up he
was a former member of a neo-nazi group
and maybe they have like you know here's
how you can help your loved ones type of
such I dunno I know that you know Scott
astron who is a really good you know
he's an anthropologist it does work with
like understanding terrorism and now
he's looking at more like all right
groups in the same continuum and I don't
know how you measure this but they're
doing like brain imaging studies
social isolation is like a core
commonality in all of our models to
these ideologies and it makes a lot of
spice like social isolation sorry oh
look out at Hren a tra n he's a really
good writer he's a package I'll
definitely check it out yeah check out
so definitely look up the Christian guy
dudes because you know it's just
stressful you know I grew up in a very
religious conservative house and a kid
you not when I say of extended family
and media family every person in my
family is Tea Party conservative or
whatever the equivalent is now of how
does you flip and I I can't explain it
other than like growing up gay I was
able to get out of a lot of bisexual I
was able to get out of a lot of social
conservatives and I guess from that it
just grew on me to the point where but
you started writing identity that would
be oppressed innately by that politics
like you know I don't I don't want to
say it that helps sounds messed up but
it gave you a nudge in the right
direction that's interesting well Danny
good luck with it keep us updated I'm
curious to see if you find anything is
effective or which which direction that
stuff heads in thanks for the comment
all right have a good day
Jesus please one American news network
man that's rough stuff yeah we weren't
talking about so BA that's like main man
like I feel relieved your relatives only
watch Fox News
