[Music]
here is another example of them on their
heels I mean what what are what are the
Republicans what is the right talking
about they are they are not going out
with any type of like agenda they are
responding to things there's a bench
peer oh he's having to try and figure
out how to deliver this I guess he's in
a hotel room somewhere doing his radio
show maybe I'm not quite sure maybe he's
just doing a pot I don't know what he's
doing but here he is basically trying to
explain what like I mean I think this is
this is where one of those things where
form meets function it's so
incomprehensible but all the words
individually make sense it's just that
there's some type of jumble let's play
this when it comes to scandals when it
comes to president Trump came up with a
plan the plan was deployed Rudy Giuliani
to uncover the specific corruption of
Joe Biden and then leveraging the
Ukrainian government to help renew
Giuliani to go after the specific
corruption of Joe Biden because the man
he has a gimlet-eyed
char posit oh I guess here I know I
understand it what he's trying to say is
like this is such an intricate plan that
Donald Trump it's ridiculous that Donald
Trump could come up with it let's be
clear on what the plan was I know that
you're getting money from the Congress
I'm not gonna give it to you until you
give me what I want
that's like wealth dimensional chess
yeah I'd say I got news for you my
six-year-old son comes up with more
sophisticated plans than that that's a
pretty basic plan and they're like wait
second president Trump why are you
stopping why why are you holding up this
money just say the agencies are doing it
or come up with an idea like maybe bench
Pira doesn't remind realize that he's
surrounded by people who are not as
incoherent as
is there bad people but they're not
incoherent to problem-solvers
if the Mad King is going around saying I
want the stuff on Biden and they're not
gonna get their money until I get it
you tell Mike Pence he can't go they're
gonna come up with some you know lie to
protect it but for Ben Shapiro I'm gonna
try and make it like it's impossible for
Donald Trump to come up with this the
intricate of a plan go back and then
leverage the Ukrainian government to
help rajul eonni to go after the
specific corruption of Joe Biden because
the man he has a gimlet-eyed sharp-eyed
steely steely missile man I'd plan he's
just gonna carry that here's the best
defense No right that's the best of it
isn't no you got to be kidding no that's
this is not a dude with a plan and the
problem for Republicans that's the
problem for Republicans is that if
you're a Republican senator and you say
that Trump might attack you Trent might
go after you so instead you have to
somehow plan that you have to say this
is all for T chest but the problem is if
you say it's for T chest then he's
capable of seeing what he's doing and if
he's capable of seeing what he's doing
it makes him look more guilty not less
guilty plus it hey this is funny but
it's not for DHS saying I'm going to
keep you from getting the money that is
been appropriated to you unless you give
me dirt on Joe Biden
that's not for DHS that's not even 3d
chess that's not checkers that's not
even checkers it would be checkers if
you couldn't do double jumps I would say
right it's like tiddlywinks is really
what it is but Ben Shapiro wants to tell
his conservative followers that's so
intricate that child could never come up
with it and the order is why people
aren't saying that Donald Trump doesn't
have the intelligence or coherence to do
that is because they're afraid of Donald
Trump what kind of messed up like
dynamic does he think is going on in the
Republic oh I know thing if he's capable
of seeing what he's doing
it makes him look more guilty not less
guilty so here's the thing as every good
defense lawyer knows there are a few
defenses that are available when it
comes to crimes Minh
hey and when it comes to a bribery
situation like this like a bribery case
that they're trying to make or a quid
pro quo or a targeting case which
they're talking about an abuse of power
you sort of require intent as an element
to the crime the quick answer for
defense where is intent was not here
there was no intent the intent was not
present and here's the beautiful thing
about Trump as a client the intent is
almost never there because Trump doesn't
have requisite intent for nearly
anything the man has the attention span
of a gnat posited this is just a bizarre
thing to say the only thing that Donald
Trump has his intent he doesn't have the
ability necessarily to execute but all
he does is have just naked desires and
yeah he's a walking it'd but exactly
that's all he is now I would also add
that any defense attorney would say to
you but this is not a criminal case this
is an impeachment it's a political case
and we don't have to prove intent we can
prove that he
illicitly held up this money and then
also illicit Lee requested aid from a
foreign government for his political
campaign and then we could combine those
two and say he extorted this government
for falsified information and we can
impeach him you can impeach him on any
one of those counts frankly and I hope
they do good attention span of a gnat
that doesn't mean that he can't actually
do wonderful things as president he's
and many wonderful things that I
appreciate it's why I'm more likely to
vote for him now than I was in 2016 I
get all that I get that he's delegated a
lot of stuff that's great he's done a
lot of things I think no other
Republican would do sometimes it's great
that he's punching back at the media all
of that is granted taken for granted if
you are his defense lawyer his best
defense - he had a plan in Ukraine to go
after Joe Biden is dude doesn't have
plans here's the evidence he doesn't
plan things ever when is the last time
Trump had like a four-step plan
he just doesn't his great instincts
politically no plan this is one of the I
want to say dumbest arguments I think
I've ever heard I'm gonna vote for this
guy who has no plan he has no plans he
has no plans because he has no plans
because and the evidence is because he
has no plans believe that's what we call
a tautology something to that if it's
only two steps Bend it's called
Ukraine's not playing ball I'm Joe Biden
so we're not gonna play ball with them
two steps
how many argumentative fallacies do you
think we're in that clip should we ask
Ben Burgess III mean there there's a lot
but it's also just sort of like
ridiculous fantasy land premises the
category error where he substitute
intent for intelligence maybe it was
philosophy and I just didn't understand
it because he's the cool kids
philosopher it's possible
