[Music]
just want to remind you how not racist
Donald Trump is we know he's not racist
because he told us and here he is he is
on the White House lawn and it turns out
he is one of the least racist people in
the world I am the least racist person
there is anywhere in the world you know
almost all my business life because I
had to deal with him unfortunately in
New York pause it for one second now he
was talking about you know now Sharpton
almost all his business life now
I thought he had said if you didn't hear
the shark that almost I've been the
least racist person for almost my entire
business life because there was that
little thing where they had to get to
consent decrees from the Department of
Justice for stop being so racist in your
housing policies and we didn't have bar
there at the time right we did no idea
so what about Sharpton now he's a racer
he's a racer but when people when people
let me explain
what I've done for african-american in
two and a half years no president has
been able to do anything like it there
you go
african-americans is he's the great
white hope as as Jesse Lee Peterson
would say there's a great exchange among
I mean all the exchanges with Cornel
West are great but he told a very funny
Rogan asked him if he ever met Trump and
he said that he did meet Trump briefly I
think in the 80s or early 90s at some
some show in Las Vegas and Cornell I
mean he threaded basically a broader
argument about what patriotism is an
immigration and black experience but he
just had a very funny rundown of how
excited Trump was to be in a room of
black people because it made him feel
cool right and that was his distinct
memory of Trump and that's like Trump's
sort of emmos like this that's why I
feel like it's so Queens it's so New
York because it's so vile racist and
then also like hey what's up hip cat
then become a town you know Cornell was
really explaining that well past the
watermelon Moe ever nobody would go must
be think Bill O'Reilly doesn't get it he
doesn't get these are my cat's look here
is Donald Trump explaining a little bit
more because the African American people
have been calling the White House they
have never been so happy as what a
president is done the African American
people have been calling the White House
I'm not sure how that works exactly like
is it that PartyLite app is there a
party app where everybody lines up but
there it is Donald Trump the least
racist person and this is relevant
because it will there's a couple of
polling out today now look who knows
right I mean we don't know this stuff
but there is indications that this is
gonna hurt Trump this seems to be the
game plan and he's going to keep looking
for these opportunities in which to
basically string that that that racist
flag up the there was no doubt right
that in 2018 the hardcore racist just
didn't show up
Republicans had better turnout than
they've had in the past Democrats had an
even better turnout than they've had in
the past Donald Trump will motivate
those people to come out however there
is data there's two data points that I
want you to dive scene one is a report
that for whatever reason this explicit
of racism is turning off and Trump is
beginning to lose non-college educated
white women I mean I didn't start
anything with the wife and I'm not quite
clear what what it is that why all of a
sudden this racism but I people suspect
that it may have something to do with
the the the the kids but the racism in
and of itself seems to be so blatant the
the non-college white guys they're all
in this motivates them to vote no no not
all white guys no knowledge I'm also
triggered by the the white whatever mean
on college' not all white guys not all
non college I'm talking broad strokes
not all not even probably the majority
of non-college educated white women are
moving to trump because of this but it's
significant enough of them that it's
problematic for Trump simultaneously
there is some polling that is showing
that the voters who did not come out in
2012 excuse me who came out in 2012 but
did not come out in 2016 for the
Democratic candidate may very well be
motivated by this explicit of racism
right like I can tell you that
do you remember Mike who worked
downstairs here how would you say is
late 20s early 30s african-american guy
late 20s 30s was working at you know in
the building as like like I don't know
what you call it a concierge a concierge
and I I think he was an IT guy or he had
someone I carry my job you had other
things going on when Trump one came in
he's like yeah I'm not surprised this
this this that's the way this country is
and I think there was a lot of African
Americans who had a similar response
like no kidding and I think a lot of
African Americans did did not come out
in part I mean I I don't know you know
how narrowly you want to tailor what
politics are but Hillary Clinton was
just not doing the politics properly in
to motivate it everything was
transactional everything was top down
there was not necessarily she was not
she was not emphasizing the material
benefits that she was going to provide
not rustic because of her own record and
the clearance record was incredibly
racist yes
yeah only with them that's really I mean
and that has changed over time Bill
Clinton was was was relatively you know
relatively popular with the
african-american vote and I would say
also again Clinton's relationships with
older African Americans pretty strong so
and I think there was an awareness of
Trump's racism but I think at one point
I don't know that we had a similar
dynamic where Trump was like
ethically targeting different
african-americans over and over again
and in the course of the past week in
fact actually now that the the the
non-college educated white women are
responding to his attacks on the squad I
wouldn't be surprised if a OCS
background as a bartender is not helpful
in this regard it's definitely helpful
in this regard and I just want to say I
think that the there's no question that
I we talk about the real contradictory
nature of a lot of the electorate and I
think that this is why Matt and I have
been trying to emphasize so much that
you really have to disaggregate between
a hard core of a trump republican base
and some other people who may have any
number of problematic I t's bla bla bla
bla bla but I don't like this they don't
like and it is it's bearing and I don't
think there's that many of those people
but I think there's on your graph
there's significantly exactly yes and
which makes sense right I mean it would
make sense just in terms of very broad
generalizations that someone living in
Wisconsin might be more sensitive to
overt racism than somebody say living in
Alabama with all due respect I don't
know maybe I'm maybe I'm wrong about
that but I suspect on the the data bears
me out but but the real issue is will it
bring out african-americans who stayed
home during the Clinton Trump race with
Donald Trump going out there and getting
all explicitly racist I mean super
explicitly racist and so we'll see at
the end of the day this stuff is just
sort of I don't know I don't wanna say
it's masturbatory but I mean that's part
of like you know why we do this is just
sort of give you a sense of what where
we think things are but at the end of
the day it's not going to make that much
of a difference unless people get out
there organize mobilize so do that
