I can't believe this guy Matt Walsh
still they're still letting him do
videos after his big proclamation that
abortions will somehow not will will
somehow get rid of the evidence of a
child being raped and the suggestion
that children should be forced to carry
the baby and have a forced pregnancy
from rape so that because that's the
only way to get evidence about a rape
occurring yeah they're not just carrying
a baby they're carrying evidence yes and
they're still letting this guy post
videos oh my God look at that globe back
there give me a break
oh my god all right well this has proves
that I'm I'm intelligent I have a
stand-up globe either abortion doctor
number four is a problematic term
because it includes the word doctor I
agree with NPR that we should discard
that terminology which is confusing and
I think has the tendency to obfuscate
though their recommendation for a
replacement term is obviously absurd I
would suggest the term medical assassin
that we use that instead because this
makes it clear that these are
professional professionals ostensibly in
the medical industry now they did go to
medical school they are in that industry
no way around that
but they aren't doctors because by
definition doctors treat and cure I'm
sure in fact if you were to look up the
definition of doctor in merriam-webster
you would find something like that about
how they treat and cure illness and
sickness that's what they swear to do in
Hippocratic oath abortionist do not
treat any diseases
the
do not cure anyone of any posit for one
second I just want to go through some of
his uh he says they are not ostensibly
in this industry and then he says but
they I mean they are of course in this
industry a doctor is a person skilled or
specializing in the healing arts person
who gives medical treatment to he's
wrong about the definition it's not
about curing things it's about providing
medical treatments to and well let's
just continue I just want you while you
hear this where he calls doctors who
perform abortions because that is what
they are and that is what they do he
calls them assassins I want you to
recall that Bill O'Reilly waged a war
against the guy George Tiller
who was a doctor who performed abortions
O'Reilly talked about a killer a tiller
on his show and called him tiller the
baby killer not an assassin but a baby
killer operating a death mill executing
babies close to being born like an
assassin if you will and tiller was
ultimately assassinated and killed by an
anti-abortion activist so just as you
know and surely this guy knows it I mean
he's proved his ignorance over and over
again in the context of these videos so
I guess gets its concei
he doesn't but hard to believe and so
what he's doing is inciting violence
against it and he would say I don't care
they're assassins they're not doctors
continue any diseases they do not cure
anyone of anything so they're not
doctors they kill that's what they do
they are assassins when when someone is
paid to kill another person you know
that's a that's a hit man or an assassin
a mercenary any medical mercenary I
think is better yeah I think well know
what I'm gonna change my guidance for my
medical mercenary is the better one
there so that's what it oh well he backs
off the assassin to just mercenary npr's
guidance as far as I can tell is they
you don't call it doctors abortion
doctors cuz they do more than often just
do more than just abortion right right
you wouldn't call a doctor like a
tonsillectomy doctor that guy is just
reprehensible but this is what they're
saying on the on the right it's been
Shapiro's daily wire folks there you go
there you go
