so David this is your story about the
this corporate-funded judicial boot camp
and its impact on the federal judiciary
is particularly important in light of
the fact that when we look back on at
least the first two years of the Trump
administration and Republican control
the Senate and the house there are very
few accomplishments that have any
durability I mean we do see a massive
tax cut for corporations and if
Democrats handle that properly they will
be able to roll that back and use that
money for programs that many of us like
but the single most durable impact of
the Trump administration and this total
Republican rule has been the
installation of a record number of
federal judges not just on the Supreme
Court we've seen two already seated but
federal judges at the circuit and an
appellate levels we see a domination of
of right-wing judges and now we know
like I guess the machine that pumps them
out yeah so I mean the piece and the
paper that I wrote about is historical
in nature this is this is about a
program that started way back in 1976
and continued to 1999 but recent
reporting has shown that there's an
attempt to influence law clerks at the
Heritage Foundation puts together a
training academy there are other less
reported on retreats and and and things
of that nature that you know it would
clear intent of indoctrinating federal
judges there's a whole apparatus you
know the Federals of Federalist Society
which seeks out law students you know at
the very very early stages of their
career and and and puts them
into high-profile jobs and works to get
them onto the federal bench there's a
whole apparatus on the right and and
what I wrote about in this piece is
really one of the more embryonic
versions of that something that happened
in the 70s and 80s that really had this
amazingly powerful and robust effect on
changing attitudes within the federal
judiciary all right well let's I mean
let's let's go through this it starts in
1976 what is the impetus I mean where
what what is it that makes what is it
about this era
I guess that created some awareness on
the right any ways that that we should
be playing some type of long game here
so I mean this is the era of what is
known as the Powell memo where Lewis
Powell who was who eventually became a
Supreme Court justice but at the time
was a lawyer wrote that businesses need
to sort of get into the game of politics
in a more focused way that they were
losing out to the likes of Ralph Nader
in terms of influencing politics and
this can be seen as part of that there
was a movement called the law and
economics movement which attempted to
apply economic principles to the law to
to the the various ways in which judges
go about understanding various parts of
the law including criminal law family
law ha regulation all sorts of things
and the law and economic center which
was very much funded by corporations a
hundred and five of them according to a
contemporary account put on this two to
three weeks seminar for federal judges
they did it down in Plantation Island
Florida it was a resort area they drank
a lot of wine they they it was it was
seen as something that was
you know a pleasurable trip in some
senses but also a very intensive almost
like a semester long seminar in
economics plugged into a two to three
week period and it was for federal
judges so judges who you know wanted to
understand more about economics and how
they could maybe apply that within their
cases their course in their case work
their career could could get it there
and and and at the time the theory that
the law and economics movement sort of
put forward is that there is no
structure underlying the decision-making
that that is made in the judiciary that
there there are no sort of formal ways
statistical analysis to look at whether
there is discrimination whether there is
proof of flawed whatever it is and they
set about to to change that and the the
the seminar was billed as very much a
nonpartisan sort of objective look at
here's some tools you can use you judges
to make sense of the law however it was
put together by a guy named Henry mani
who is a conservative there were liberal
economists that that gave lectures as
part of the series but they were
confined to certain segments of the
discussion and conservatives were very
much in a forefront when the certain
large subjects came up Manny controlled
the curriculum he he knew exactly what
he was doing and he that while he sort
of presented it in an objective manner
it the clear intent of this was to
indoctrinate federal judges in in
conservative views business-friendly
views of the law and by 1990 over 40% of
all federal judges took this seminar so
this is very very widespread
a lot of the people who were deciding
these cases we're taking these classes
and what this paper then then wanted to
look at is what effect did this hat
alright and before we get into that like
I also want to just a touch on this this
notion that these seminars just simply
by defining the arena by commingling the
notion of economics and economics itself
as a as a discipline in a profession has
its own ideology that is baked into it
right of course
but the idea of applying cost-benefit
analysis and economic efficiency it
almost I mean I guess back when I was in
school the one of the things that if you
did anything in the social sciences the
first thing as you advanced through the
years was the professors would tell you
you need to find the underlying
assumptions of any endeavor and once you
do everything after that follows fairly
predictably and if and if you sit there
and train people that the law is an
assessment of cost-benefit analysis and
economic efficiency and those are the
prominent those are the the prominent I
guess elements that you must follow then
then what follows after that becomes
fairly standardized right I mean yeah I
think that's right and and you know when
you are talking about a case where you
you know maybe it was some business that
had some litigation before the court
they they might not be able to win on
the fact that they poisoned a certain
number of people in in a various
specific area but they might be able to
find some economists that can tell you
well the the there were costs here but
the benefits of providing this service
whatever it is they provided to all
these people surely outweigh these costs
so economics is a field upon which
business can more easily
the fight that battle it's it's more
favorable terrain for them and so yes if
you're if you're you know boiling down
the law which has certain sort of uh you
know the it's it's it's it's a little
more abstract than just cause benefit
into this framework then yeah you're
gonna get a certain kind of
understanding of the law coming out of
that alright Dave we're gonna take a
break when we come back I want to ask
you how how it was determined by this
working paper that judges decisions were
impacted what how did this manifest
itself
how did eat these these changes in the
way that federal judges assess the law
and assess their cases how did that
trickle down to future generations of of
would be both lawyers and or not would
be but lawyers and would-be judges that
would come after them and lastly I'm
curious as to your perspective on how
this might have implicated antitrust
when we talk about things like
efficiency and cost benefit analysis
this is going to have an impact on the
way that antitrust is is assessed and
and executed and we know there was a big
change right around this same time we
gotta take quick break I'm Sam cedar I'm
talking to David and this is ring of
fire radio
