[Music]
[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any ELISA
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday January 28th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
assistant professor of government at
Cornell University Jamila Michener on
our fragmented democracy Medicaid
federalism and unequal politics also on
the program today
the government's reopened for three
weeks and labor is who we should thank
meanwhile Kamala Harris announces a
plutocrat dabbles and wall street freaks
out about Warren and Sanders Nancy
Pelosi says no State of the Union yet
we'll see if you're a good boy newest
and Taliban and peace talks meanwhile
the Trump administration warns of the
gathering venezuelan threat to the
united states and good news
new mexico advances voting rights for
ex-felons New York state protects trans
rights North Carolina will get another
democratic state Supreme Court justice
[Music]
lastly Massachusetts attorney general
going after the Sackler family don't
worry about them for their for their
role in engineering the opioid crisis
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen you know the the
Sackler thing is really it's fascinating
and hopefully we'll get to it but we've
spoken particularly when we go to to
Vegas for the tort lawyer shows heard
quite a bit about the opioid crisis and
I think most of the attorneys I have
talked to there have been going after
the distributors there are three major
distributors they have a statutory
responsibility to report back to the US
government when they see spikes and
unaccounted-for spikes in prescription
drugs going to specific regions of the
country which is exactly what that was
nevertheless we've heard a lot about the
Sackler z' and I went to the Brooklyn
Museum this weekend Sackler wing and you
just like we could I could I could not
going to the wing or I could sit down
with my kids and say this is why we're
not going into that wing but it is sort
of fascinating it is a the wing there
who had an exhibit and I don't know I
think it's a K it's been there for a
while this exhibit on feminist artwork
which is you know the way that I guess
they make themselves feel better on some
level did they they've sponsored the
dinner party is that were that yeah that
whole wing and you want to go up to yeah
you're like you're just looking around
like there's no what am I going to
here like I wanted to go up to the to
the security guard go like I'm not
taking my kids in here cuz the sackless
and he would have just looked at me like
all right anyway like I think we might
have a problem no it's not even that it
would just be like okay what I have no
idea what you're talking about the
restrooms right down the hall recommend
the gift shop but their money is
everywhere and that is I mean there's a
lot of that going on right now of course
you know with Davos and the this sort of
greater understanding of the cost of
philanthropy and what it does to our
society etc etc but a good weekend in so
far as Donald Trump caved we were on the
air Friday when that happened and I just
want to you know make this clear I I
think the Democrats did a good job and
not screwing this up I think Nancy
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer Pelosi
obviously was a positive force and Chuck
Schumer was smart enough to sort of
recede and and you know and a lot of
this was successful because Chuck goaded
him into saying I'll own the the
shutdown and I think that was those were
that was a moment that Donald Trump
would like to take back and I think
Chuck Schumer's very proud of himself
about that and good for him but largely
understand this what the Democrats did
was they managed not to screw it up and
good for them they deserve credit for
that
but on Friday five minutes into the show
there were reports that LaGuardia that
Miami and I think Philadelphia airports
had to suspend flights for an hour or
something and it was obviously a work
action by some of the air traffic
controllers simultaneously the flight
attendant Union put out a statement
saying in response to the FAA staffing
shortages Sarah Nelson the president of
the
flight attendants union said this is
exactly what AFA and other aviation
unions have been warning about what
happened the aviation system depends on
the safety of the professionals who run
it
they've been doing unbelievably heroic
work even as they are betrayed by the
government that employs them they're
fatigued worried and distracted but they
won't risk our safety so the planes will
stay on the ground this is anything but
it's sick out it's only about our safety
and the air traffic controllers absolute
commitment to it do we have your
attention now leader McConnell all
lawmakers open the government and get
back to business and democracy to
discuss whatever issue you so choose
shut down must end immediately this is
the union's associated with the airports
basically threatening we're gonna go all
in on this we are there solidarity and
this is a veiled threat there and it was
not you know it was not a glib one and
it was certainly substantiated by you
know with with reality but it was eight
I mean it was goes beyond the threat
it's a promise like look you know you
drop a hammer off of a building it's
gonna fall to the ground that's what's
gonna happen gravity is gonna work here
and and then you know and we said at the
the first ten minutes into the show on
Friday I was like this is what this is
probably going to end by the weekend
because this is the beginning of the end
of those people work at airports we're
gonna gonna continue to take this and
and once the airports go forget it
within three hours the government
shutdown was over so and and from day
one on the shutdown I think we said
literally from day one
it's the airports because that's the
that's the moment where you start to
shut down a the government functioning
for the wealthy people in a really
explicit way and be because it is such
an easily digestible and it's a national
story it has not you can see it if
you're in New York City you can see it
when Atlanta shuts down
their airport and so make sure that you
the credit is where credit is due on
this it was this was a labor victory
this was about labor power and it just
bookmarked this in your minds folks
because this is indicative of of what
labor can do meanwhile Mick Mulvaney
trying to make the best out of a really
bad situation for the administration I
mean this is they really lost this one
in a big big way they didn't even come
out of this thing this spin you know
lost or unmitigated l yes but here's how
they're going to salvage it I mean this
is the most anemic thing I've ever heard
and I can just imagine like the idea
that any think anybody takes his threat
seriously look Donald Trump may go out
there and declare a national emergency
to to fund the wall but it'll set an
interesting precedent because I don't
think he has any other emergencies he's
gonna see outside of maybe you know
Venezuela but certainly there's some
emergencies I think on the left that
people envision in F Wall Street's
worried right now about an Elizabeth
Warren or Bernie Sanders coming at the
office wait till they have the emergency
powers that Donald Trump is going to
provide for them that should be rather
interesting all right here is Mick
Mulvaney let's just keep the the picture
up right we're just gonna keep the
picture up okay are you gonna keep it on
me all right
yeah this is CBS so we're just gonna
listen to the audio because they get
very uptight about people seeing the
images of Mick Mulvaney and who was the
host
Martinez anything but here the pictures
of them is the president really prepared
to shut down the government again in
three weeks yeah I think he actually is
no he's mind you know he's willing to do
whatever it takes to secure the border
he does take this very seriously this is
a serious humanitarian and security
crisis and as I mean if we were to
believe this why did they why why did he
start the government back up if he's
willing to do anything that takes what
wait what just his bonus questions
infusion theory President of the United
States he takes the security of the
nation as his highest priority he
doesn't want to shut the government down
let's make that very clear he doesn't
want to declare a national emergency
what he wants to do is fix this the way
that things are supposed to get fixed
with our government which is through
legislation one of the reasons he he
agreed to open the government this week
was to essentially take the Democrats at
their word while their leadership had
been telling us they were not interested
in negotiating and then we're sort of
taking this do nothing and hope the
president gives up approach there were
many many Democrats both rank-and-file
and some lower levels of leadership
would come to us and say look we we
happen to agree with you on border
security yeah good luck with that good
luck with that I think that that that
that's the most anemic thing I've ever
seen that's also I mean even a Maggie
Haberman at this piece and the times I
think it dropped yesterday about how
Jared Kushner actually thought because
he was able to move this small and you
know I guess credit where credit is due
justice reform bill through the House
and Senate and have Trump sign it that
all of a sudden he was now like the deal
maker and the Democrat whisperer and she
and she just you know and very like
polite times language was like he really
underestimated the extent to which
rank-and-file democrats backed their
leadership in their position seemed to
be seem to kind of catch him off guard
well it's only been two years right
since they've been in office right still
neophytes yeah they haven't figured out
how deep Washington works right
I guess Kushner's been talking to pic
Mulvaney folks as your company outgrown
QuickBooks are shared spreadsheets mute
manual processes and legacy systems
costing you time and money
introducing NetSuite by Oracle it's the
business management software that
handles every aspect of your business in
an easy-to-use cloud platform with
NetSuite you can save time money and
unneeded headaches by managing sales
human resources finance and accounting
instantly right from your desk even from
your phone thousands of the best known
and fastest-growing companies use
NetSuite to manage a business now it's
available to you better yet it's more
affordable than you think because right
now NetSuite is offering you valuable
insights to help you overcome the
obstacles that are holding you back free
don't miss out on unleashing your
business's full potential with this free
guide crushing the five barriers to
growth you'll learn how to acquire new
customers increase profits and finally
get real visibility into your cash flow
getnet Suites guide crushing the five
barriers to growth I'm into it
at NetSuite dot-com / majority now
that's NetSuite dot-com / majority to
download their free crushing the five
barriers to growth guide today NetSuite
dot-com / majority and folks every two
seconds there's a new victim of identity
theft which means a criminal could be
spending your money applying for loans
in your name and even damaging your
credit the good credit you've worked on
so hard to build unfortunately you can
miss certain threats to your identity by
just checking bank statements and
monitoring your credit good thing
there's life lock identity theft
protection life lock uses proprietary
technology to detect and alert you to a
wide range of identity threats like your
social security number for sale on the
dark web I checked out my dark web
through this I'm clean nice but it's and
I gotta say I was shocked because I've
gotten about a half a dozen over the
past like three years half a dozen like
from I don't know if it wasn't I don't
want to say the company but I think it
was my medical insurance company was
like oh we a slight hack and it's
possible your social security number
comes when they give you those messages
nothing to worry about
here Experian I mean entire system was
covering our ass frankly you should be
able to be there should be massive
lawsuits about this and then they then
they say oh but we've got we'll give you
a free six months of you know some type
of security protection or something
meanwhile it's too late
if you do have an issue involving
identity theft one of light life locks
identity restoration specialists will
work to fix it of course no one can
prevent all identity theft or monitor
all transactions at all businesses but
with life lock you get identity theft
protection and additional features to
help protect your device against cyber
threats for as low as 99 999 a month
don't waste another second visit life
law comm slash majority now to save an
extra 10% on your first year that's life
lock calm / majority for an extra 10%
off life lock dot-com / majority check
it out folks
identity theft super scary and anybody
I've never I have never experienced it I
have had a family member deal with it
and the mop-up is a huge pain in the
butt having someone who can walk you
through that and be dogged for you
extremely helpful alright we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back be
talking to Jamila Meixner on fragmented
democracy Medicaid federalism in unequal
politics
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor of government from Cornell
University Jamila Mecca nur she is the
author fragmented democracy Medicaid
federalism and unequal politics Jamila
did I pronounce your last name correctly
it's pretty all right well I apologize
welcome to the program
and thank you for joining us so all
right let's just start with for for
folks who don't know like give us a
sense of where Medicaid fits in as a
program in the the structure of
government-sponsored health insurance
sure so we don't have any sort of
universal government-sponsored health
insurance that that anyone and everyone
can have access to instead what we have
is the government helping various
subsets of people who have very specific
needs and fall into very specific
categories so we have Medicare which is
for all elderly people who are over 65
so that you know you can get health
insurance in your old age and we have
for example the VA which is a government
agency that provides health insurance
and benefits to our veterans and then we
have Medicaid which is a program that
provides health insurance predominantly
to low-income Americans right so people
who are poor and lack resources and now
that's not in every state there are some
states where you can be as poor as you
like and you wouldn't get health
insurance but in many states if you're
at a hundred and thirty-three percent of
the poverty line or below you can have
access to Medicaid and the vast majority
of people who rely on Medicaid are
living in poverty or very near poverty
and many of those people are also
elderly and so Medicaid covers what
Medicare doesn't and they are also
disabled and have other kinds of health
challenges
so Medicaid is the program that really
provides health insurance for the most
vulnerable most most needy people in the
country and we should say I mean just
correct me if I'm wrong but the VA is
also not just provides health insurance
but they these are government government
paid doctors essentially and hospitals
okay and so that is when people say
government-run health and health care
that's we have it I mean that is
basically it we just happen to only
provide it to to our our vets and we in
my understandings to the VA actually
Elizabeth Warren came out with the
proposal recently to produce generic
drugs in certain instances by the
government the VA does that now when
there are shortages there actually so
they machole in there so let's start
with this idea of how now Medicare is
how is Medicare different from Medicaid
well I guess maybe we should I should
ask that second so let's talk about
first about Medicaid in that fragmented
nature I don't think people realize how
not federally directed Medicaid is I
know I apologize for not for doing that
like with a double- I guess but explain
to us if I'm eligible for Medicaid and
go through a state where a state where I
may not even get I meant there may be no
eligibility for me through to a state
where maybe they've accepted the
expansion of Medicaid under the ACA
like oh where does the federal I guess
direction end in terms of that that that
flow of health insurance to a recipient
yeah that's a great question so the
federal government sets the broadest
kinds of contours for Medicaid as a
health insurance provider right
so there are some really large
categories of things that every state
who who covers Medicaid beneficiaries
which is every state has to provide
right and there are certain categories
of people that every state has to cover
and so you know pregnant women who are
living below the poverty line can
receive Medicaid in every state right
and they can receive coverage for their
pregnancy however what other things they
receive coverage for might vary from
state to state so even if you're a
pregnant woman who's eligible for
Medicaid in any state right let's say
that you live in you know Alabama you
will get coverage for your pregnancy and
for some things directly related to it
but you might not get physical therapy
if you have an injury and you might not
get glasses if you're unable to see you
might not get your teeth taken care of
if you have a dental problem because
those things podiatry vision those are
optional and space can decide whether
they want to offer those things to any
of their Medicaid beneficiaries or
whether they want to offer them to all
of them and they have lots and lots of
leeway of discretion now there are some
states that have an expanded Medicaid
and in those non-expansion States there
are still 14 states that haven't adopted
the expansion and in those states you
can be very very poor in many of those
states and not qualify for Medicaid if
for example you're a childless adult or
even if you're an adult with children in
some cases in the states that has
expanded Medicaid to the other 37 states
everyone who lives at 1:33 or below of
the poverty line is eligible but even in
those states whether you've expanded or
not they'd still get to make really
specific choices about what they'll
cover and what they'll not that they
want all states have to cover some basic
suite of things
then all states also have a ton more
choice in terms of what they provide and
what they don't now my understanding has
always been that that the reason why we
would not want from the perspective of
someone who wants as many people as
possible covered by health insurance the
reason why we would not want the federal
government to block grant money to the
states would be that it would their that
that one the the rate in which the
increase of health care would not be
covered and that to the state could use
it could could redirect money like how
what what is the relationship between
the money that the federal government
makes available and the state so when
you say the state says like we will not
cover podiatry for instance is that are
they are they getting the same amount of
money per potential recipient as another
state that may offer podiatry and they
just simply decide we're gonna we're
gonna put it on respiratory stuff as
opposed to podiatry I mean how does that
work however how does the money what how
does the state restrict in that fashion
yeah so you know what Medicaid the in
terms of the funding you know the
federal government allocates or matches
a certain amount of money and it varies
across states and it depends on how much
the state spend and it also depends on
on the states themselves for example and
how high poverty is in the states and a
number of other factors but the federal
government essentially will cover
there's a kind of it's called the
federal medical assistance percentage
the S map multiplier but it's the kind
of the percentage that the federal
government uses and determines that they
will match and cover of all that the
state spends so you know states have to
make decisions
because it is true that the more that
they spend the more that the federal
government will cover for them but then
they're less covering the remaining
percentage of the cost for Medicaid
beneficiaries so that you know the less
they spend total the less they're
leftover percentages and you know how
much that percentages varies from state
to state so states have to make pretty
complicated decisions about how much
they can afford to spend and how much
they're currently spending you know the
thing about about the real challenge
with block grants is that you know
states right now you know treat Medicaid
as and Medicaid is it's really an
entitlement so states have a lot of
decisions to make about who's eligible
and who's not but once they make
decisions about who's eligible every
single person in that state who's
eligible gets the benefit and that's
because no matter how much the state
spends the state can decide everybody is
eligible below this certain amount and
right now that amount is 133 so even the
states that has the most generous
eligible eligibility requirements they
decide we're going to be generous the
federal government will match that up
until the place where they say they will
which is 133 and so those states can be
really generous and they can count on
the federal government to match their
share to cover the share that they said
that they will and they have to cover
the rest but everyone in that state who
qualifies based on those eligibility
criteria will get medicaid that's what
really an entitlement means it doesn't
mean anybody feels like their title to
anyone anything it just means everyone
who fits the criteria gets the benefit
if we were to block grant Medicaid
states would have a cap amount right and
and that cap amount would increase over
time but it wouldn't increase at the
rate of cost and it would mean that when
states ran out of money like when they
ran out of the money but the federal
government gave them they ran out and
there's no more money left and so one of
the things that happens under those
circumstances is that people stop
getting the benefit it's not something
that you get
you're eligible any more and you get it
if you're lucky enough to get it before
the state runs out of the bundle of
money that the federal government has
given them and so that often will hat
will mean that states have to pull back
that they have to offer lesser they have
to cover fewer people and then there's
the big problem of right now
you know states get compensated based on
what they spent but if states just get a
fixed amount and it's given to them
right there's an incentive there well
now we know that we're getting you know
whatever the amount is now we're getting
a billion dollars from the federal
government let's try to find ways of
spending less right now we have a
surplus and maybe we can do some other
things with this maybe we can redirect
it we know that's what happened with
TANF with the Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families when it got blocked
granted now States just get a big old
pile of money and they start getting
creative about how they use that money
and they use less and less of it for the
core purpose of the program so that we
know now states are using TANF funds to
do all sorts of things to fund
scholarships from college scholarships
for middle class and upper middle class
students you know they just make up
reasons to spend the money on things
that they want to because block grants
give them even more flexibility than
they already have fewer resources fewer
resources to help people with but more
flexibility to misuse those reasons
right okay and so we should so so I mean
in some respects just to restate in in
in some ways right now Medicaid is like
an economic stabilizer like food stamps
there is a formula as to who is eligible
and if you have let's say a financial
crisis and more people lose their jobs
and more people dip into poverty more
people are going to be eligible and the
money will be there because the program
will expand with the need as opposed to
the need being constrained by whatever
we decide is an arbitrary number that
we're going to fulfill that need with
yeah okay and so and and then the the
the block grants on top of that not only
have that problem but as you say can
easily be diverted by states that don't
have an interest in providing
for the the least fortunate in their
state it's easy to pick out at least 14
right now that are almost openly hostile
to those people based upon their refusal
to pick up the expansion but all right
so how is that different from as it is
now where where you have a state that
just says like okay we're going to take
care of X number of our people or and
and we can't exactly say how many of
those people there are but we're gonna
set the formula at such a place where we
anticipate it will cover about X number
of people and the the federal money will
cover 80 percent of that let's say or 90
percent of that and we'll have to make
up that ten percent we can have that
line item in the budget it'll make it
look like we're humane people on some
respected to some respect
how is Medicare different is Medicare
like is that parceled out by the state
as well or is that a direct federal
benefit Medicare is a federal benefit so
with Medicaid its intergovernmental the
states are covering part the federal
government is covering part and how much
varies across states depending on
several factors but it really is a
shared responsibility between the states
and the federal government Medicare is
not a shared responsibility the states
do share some responsibility in terms of
administering medic Medicare right so if
you are an elderly person and you have a
problem with your Medicare there's a
local office that you can go to to talk
to someone about it and that's in your
state so states help with administration
but when it comes to where the funding
for the program is coming from it's
coming from the center it's coming from
the federal government and what that
means is that a that it's more generous
B that it's more reliable it's it's much
more difficult for for those for
Medicare to fluctuating where Medicaid
it goes up and down with state budgets
when states are having a hard time
when they're in some sort of an economic
recession or having some sort of
financial trouble they can cut Medicaid
it's an option because there's a portion
of it a large chunk of it that they're
directly in control of Medicare doesn't
work like that it's a much more stable
and reliable program because it's
structure is nationally based and not
federated in the same way that Medicaid
is okay and in your research we started
getting closer to like the the heart of
your research in terms of what that
difference in that dynamic does to
people's perspective on the the program
and in government more broadly but let
just lastly like how is it that what
mean why is it that way
like why when these two programs were
developed was there this distinction so
this has been a part of the kind of
broader struggle around providing people
who have needs in the United States with
what they need you know the way that we
approach helping people whether it's
with their health needs or other poor
social needs in this country has always
been pretty piecemeal and fragmented and
so there are some groups of people that
are viewed as desirable and we want to
help them and we want to help them in
ways that are generous in ways that are
consistent in ways that are equitable
and fair and they're an elderly people
fall into that category right who
doesn't think of most elderly people as
the kind of you know group that you want
to help nobody wants to see old people
sick or struggling or living in poverty
and so there are a sympathetic group
that you know for a long time American
social policy has been oriented towards
helping and helping in the most stable
equitable way possible
now other groups of people for example
people who are just poor they may not be
elderly they may not be sympathetic in
any other way but they're poor they lack
resources and our general policy
approach in this country towards people
who are
living in poverty is that we want to
give them we tend to give them as little
as possible and we tend to have programs
that help those people vary a lot across
space we want States to have a lot of
choice a lot of discretion over how they
treat their their people they're poor
people right and part of this is part of
American political culture and the way
that we think about people living in
poverty and the kinds of policies that
we make for them but it's been baked
into Medicaid from the very beginning
and so Medicaid and Medicare actually
came from the very same piece of
legislation but the way that that
legislation wrote the kind of policy
it's set apart Medicare in one way and
Medicaid in another and that was largely
a function of who the pot the programs
are serving who they're kind of targeted
populations were and when you're
targeted populations or people that we
all feel good about and want to help
well then you get policy that's more
fair and consistent and when you're
targeted populations are people that you
know maybe some of us are suspicious of
we don't think they ought work hard
enough we don't want them using our
taxpayer dollars we don't want to sort
of have them be supporting their quote
unquote dependency or whatever other
tropes that we might have about people
in need when those are the targets of
the policy but then we get very
different policy and that policy tends
to not be as consistent or stable or
generous how and again I'm sorry we're a
little bit a little bit tangential but I
think it's important because it really
sets the table for people but how
racialized was that that decision was it
extremely racialized or just incredibly
extremely racialized whichever one is
more incredibly I mean you know uh
anyone who pays enough attention to us
Social Policy and the history of that
policy knows that race is baked into all
of these decisions from the decision
makers themselves and what state they
came from and what their commitments
were based on that to the policies that
were
precursors to Medicaid so before
Medicaid emerged there were lots of
policies that were precursors to it that
were sort of a beginning there's a whole
chapter in my book about the history of
this and you know over time we're just
trying newer and newer ways to target
our benefits of the people who we like
the most and black and brown people are
almost never in that category right and
even when they are in the category we
try to divert benefits away from them
even if they are elderly or they are
veterans or they are pregnant women and
that's one of the things that the state
flexibility gives us it means that in
places for example where a states rights
right I mean it's yeah I mean that's
basically the whole narrative states
rights usually means if not always means
how much are we allowed to discriminate
against our people of color is really
what it comes down to that is exactly
right and that's happened in in all
domains of social policy including
health policy from the very beginning of
the time that we had any policies so you
know it's impossible even for me to
tease out all of the the kind of racial
threads that that can be woven when we
think about Medicaid and health policy
more generally it's just ubiquitous it's
always there we've talked on this
program a decent amount with with folks
who have written extensively on on just
the the the premise of Social Security
also being highly racialized and so yeah
35 years later I guess when they're
doing Medicare and Medicaid it's you
know was old is new again and and and so
on in fact also I'm also struck that
when we often talk about Medicaid and we
talk about Medicaid cuts the most
salient political rhetoric is usually or
the one that gets the most traction is
often the statistic that two-thirds of
our elderly who are in nursing homes are
there because of Medicaid so people
spend you know as you get older
obviously you have less assets
you at one point run out of money and
you must go into a nursing home you
become eligible for Medicaid you get
sort of like shuttled from Medicare to
Medicaid and then you're in a nursing
home and Medicaid is paying for it and
yeah that ends up being a big political
talking point because you know of the
the way that we have a a structure
around the narrative around I guess the
morality of of being poor in this
country or living in poverty I should
say so all right well let's talk about
to the research that you've done what
are the implications from a on the for
this fragmentation on its recipients
perspective on government because one of
the things that we also have heard is if
you are on Medicaid and one would think
it would be different but it's not you
are less likely to vote now part of that
is a function of poverty makes it harder
to vote in many respects but is there
more to it than that yes there's there's
more to it than that so when I first
started looking at some data and
initially it was it was quantitative
data was Survey data and I saw this
large pattern Medicaid beneficiaries
being less likely to vote and it made
perfect sense to me these are folks who
are living in poverty and they're just
we know from lots of research from
decades of research that they're less
likely to participate in the political
process because there are all sorts of
barriers and so I wasn't terribly
surprised about that
but there was a part of me that also
wanted to know does Medicaid itself have
anything to do with it is it about that
the nature and the characteristics of
the people who are on Medicaid things
like poverty or is there more to it and
what I found was that there were more -
there was more to it and I found that by
both by looking deeper into quantitative
data into survey data and thinking about
how to control for things like poverty
and lots of the things that we know are
associated with it and one of the things
that I did for example was that I looked
at a survey called the fragile families
and child well-being survey that has
nearly ten thousand people and many of
them over 50% of them were Medicaid
beneficiaries so I had lots of a sort of
large sample to consider and I looked at
people who who took that survey who were
Medicaid beneficiaries and people who
were not but who were very similar to
each other in many other ways they were
similar in terms of their level of
poverty they were similar in terms of
their race similar in terms of many
aspects of their life circumstance and
what I found was that this relationship
between Medicaid and not participating
in politics was much not voting and not
engaging in other ways you know didn't
go away right
as a result of so you know the folks who
were Medicaid beneficiaries when
compared to their counterparts who were
similar in many many other ways were
still less likely to vote even though
the only observable difference between
them was being a Medicaid beneficiary
then what I did was I started talking to
a lot of Medicaid beneficiaries to try
to figure out why would this be is there
something about Medicaid and what they
told me again and again in many
different ways and I talked to
beneficiaries from across the country is
that their negative experiences with
Medicaid did affect the way that they
thought about government and politics
and their willingness and desire to
participate in politics and one of the
things that the kind of fragmented
nature of Medicaid like we've been
talking about that it's different in
different places
you know Medicaid beneficiaries know
this very well they're the ones who told
this to me and brought the sort of the
theme of this book to light for me
because they talked about how you know
their parents in other states or their
brothers in other states on Medicaid had
one thing and they had another or they
talked about how much Medicaid changed
over time that five years ago they may
they were able to get benefits that they
couldn't get now or they talked about
how they went across they moved a
slightly across the border to a
different state and figured out they
couldn't get something that was hugely
important or that they thought about
moving and when they research to make
sure they'd be able to get life-saving
benefits
other states they found out it wouldn't
and this sends a really clear message it
sends a message that says your value is
not your value in your needs aren't
anything that will be responded to on
account of you being a member of this
broader political community or as a
citizen of the country it depends on
what state you live in and on how that
state feels like treating you sometimes
it depends on what county you live in
what neighborhood you live in the kind
of experience you have with the program
the kind of access you have to hospitals
to doctors to benefits and this kind of
motley mix of contingencies people feel
it in their everyday life and they know
what it means they know that they're the
kind of people who aren't guaranteed
anything who aren't protected even for
this most basic set of health benefit
and people read those messages and they
feed those messages into their
calculations about whether they should
bother taking part in the political
system whether their voices are
important and will be heard and
responded to and for the most part
Medicaid beneficiaries don't believe
that although it's worth saying that
that varies but in states that are being
generous to beneficiaries where benefits
are consistent and where bureaucracies
are well staffed so that people have
positive experiences and where benefits
are expanding we know that participation
is most more likely to happen political
participation and in states where those
things aren't the case participation is
less likely to happen so the story isn't
that Medicaid makes people not
participate in politics the story is
that that kind of experience that people
have with the program which depends on
decisions the states and localities make
can affect our democracy can affect
whether the voices of those folks are
heard do we see a difference in they're
there for those folks particularly ones
who are I guess states they're more or
less generous I guess do we see a any
distinction between their voting
patterns in federal versus state
elections so in the data I have I
couldn't distinguish between for most of
the data I couldn't distinguish between
federal and state elections I did I
could however distinguish between state
and federal elections and local
elections and and what I found is that
you know the decreased likelihood to
participate spans across all of those
different kinds of elections so it's not
sort of limited to what's happening at
the national level so it's not as though
people are thinking well my negative
experience with Medicaid I won't
participate in national politics right
you know instead it affects the way
people think about politics across the
board part of it is that some of what's
going on is really local and people are
thinking about this in terms of both in
terms of their state and in terms of you
know the federal government and
sometimes even more local than that and
so it affects what people are doing
across the board and even beyond voting
like event whether or not people will
participate in the local political group
or attend the local political meeting
just even the basics of democratic
engagement are sort of eroded when
people are alienated from the government
on account of experiences with getting a
very basic benefit which is health care
all right so a lot of people think I'm
not asking you to pay my bills or to
give me food I want to be able to go see
a doctor and if the government doesn't
see me as important enough to provide
that then why would I be important
enough to participate in politics and to
think that that would matter at all that
anyone at any level of government would
listen to my voice so I mean it is it's
a little bit counterintuitive but the
more that you cut Medicaid the less
likely its recipients are going to
respond politically in some ways right I
mean that's the that's the message being
sent to some of these that's that
answers the question why we have 14
states that don't have an expanded
Medicaid yeah I mean that the research
record on this is growing stronger every
day so there are a few studies that came
out last year that showed that state
that expanded Medicaid in the wake of
the affordable care act that people were
more likely to vote immediately in the
wake of the expansions right so we know
that expansion boosts voting and it
boosts voting especially in places for
example that have high concentrations of
poor people so we have reason to believe
that the boost is coming from the very
people who are getting the benefit and
the opposite is also true
when you retract benefits when you take
things away people are less likely to
vote I show this in the book and then I
also have another paper I wrote recently
wrote with a colleague that will be
publishing that looks at a specific case
looks at Tennessee because they made
huge cuts in the mid-2000s and took
hundreds of thousands of people off of
their Medicaid program pretty quickly
and pretty with pretty um quickly
without much warning so we look at the
election before and the election right
after to try to see if there'll be any
differences that aren't accounted for by
lots of other things that we can measure
and control for what we find is in the
wake of a big set of cuts people are
significantly the aggregate voting rates
are significantly lower right so you
know there's more and more evidence in
more and more forms whether it's from
talking to people about their experience
are looking at different kinds of big
quantitative data that shows that yeah
people are less likely to vote when you
take away their benefits and we would
hope for the opposite that people see
that they're losing something important
to them and they get out there and they
push back and that and they punish their
elected officials and we think that's
how amok reseed work that when you take
things away from your constituents that
haunt them that those constituents will
push back and that that will end up
harming you politically but that's not
the way that that it appears to work
when it comes to Medicaid part of the
reason is because you know people get
alienated they get discouraged and they
get sent very specific messages that
they then listen to right and this is
part of a broader narrative right I mean
if you're poor you deserve to be poor
you're irrelevant and here is we're
going to cut your Medicaid just to
remind you of all those things that
we've been trying to signal to you for
decades if not longer yeah and so how
much do you think how much do you think
well I guess I have two questions about
that but about your data one is how much
you think there have been politicians
who are aware of this dynamic if not you
know so specifically in terms of
qualitative sense but they had a an
intuition or they had anecdotal sort of
evidence of this hey how much do you
think that is the case be are you
worried that you know I'm running for
governor in Kentucky this is uh I know
what I'm gonna do I'm gonna cut I'm
gonna cut you know or you know I'm
running for reelect the way for me to do
that cut benefits that's gonna work for
me two different ways right it's gonna
suppress the vote in some areas and it's
gonna probably I'm gonna get I'm gonna
get you know appreciation from from
people who don't like people of color
you know getting you know Medicaid
phones or whatever it is that they think
that they're getting I mean how much do
you worry about those two dynamics
obviously the second one you're an
academic you're your I understand the
mission is to is to bring out the truth
but I just wonder how much you think
this information has been or will be
weaponized
I do worry about that I think two things
I think the two questions are related I
don't think that some too many sort of
political folks this is anything new
right I think that there's an intuition
about these sorts of things that comes
from the the the clear evidence right
that for example they could kick
hundreds of thousands of people off
Medicaid in Tennessee and the next
election of that governor stays in power
right and so we you know there's lots of
evidence over time that people can take
pretty kind of harsh
turns against programs like Medicaid and
not necessarily suffer many consequences
politically and so I think intuitively
or in some way a lot of elected
officials probably suspect this right I
also think that the folks who want to
take these benefits away
would want to take them away whether or
not it was going to be a political bust
or boon for them right so they're likely
going to behave the same way whether
they know this or not it may give them a
little bit more Glee knowing this right
um but what I focus on more and one of
the things that I try to think about as
I you know when I think about who to
take this research to and would it
disseminate it to is focus on the way we
can use information like this for good
right I think for any research that is
produced there are people who can misuse
it who can weaponize it and there are
people who can use it for good and I
think part of what I try to do is think
about you know what does this mean there
are organizations out there that that
mobilize and support Medicaid
beneficiaries it's great for them to
know this and to have a sense that one
of the ways they can be supporting
Medicaid beneficiaries is politically
right not just providing them with
economic resources but thinking about
helping them register to vote and
helping them to be aware of political
issues I've talked to you know and
spoken with Hospital Association primary
care providers all sorts of folks who
say wow we never thought about Medicaid
in these political terms and this shapes
the way that we want to approach our
patients or our clients going forward so
I try to think about who can use this
for good to offset the efforts that are
already going to be made to dampen these
folks voices now it seems to me the
answer to how I mean it
I mean what's interesting about this is
that from an ideological spective that
liberals want to create a safety net
Medicaid is an important liberal
institution it was the biggest
accomplishment it seems to me the
expansion of Medicaid was probably the
single biggest achievement by the Obama
administration specifically within the
context of the ACA that Medicaid
expansion was probably the the most
important part of it although I think
there's an argument about the patient
protections broadly speaking but
that is considered a liberal solution to
this problem right we're going to have a
we're gonna we're going to make sure
that that we have a safety net for
people but the efficacy of that safety
net is inhibited by that perspective and
not making it a universal program right
because the idea is almost like the way
it's a I mean I hate to use this as an
analogy but it's the way they hid bad
mortgages right ones that were had more
had more risk which is you put it in
bigger tranches and it's harder to get
at those so if the idea is that you know
Medicaid was set up specifically as a
separate program for Medicare so that
you could cut it really right and
diminish the the the benefits for
essentially people of color and brought
and more broadly people living in
poverty the idea is you make a universal
program and those people are made safer
that the the the the liberal the the
liberal agenda is more fulfilled with a
more socialistic for lack of a better
word universal program all right I mean
this is the best argument for universal
health care it seems to me in terms of
the poor because it protects that that
that portion of the population as much
if not more than any because they're
more susceptible to getting their pro
their their benefits cut yeah I mean
this is a classic debate among people
who are trying to figure out how to help
the most needy with Social Policy target
to them which often is much more
politically feasible because it's less
costly or do we try to create universal
programs that cover everyone which is
more politically sustainable because you
can't isolate the poor people's programs
and try to you know pick them off one by
one and it's a classic and difficult
dilemma you know I think that a
universal approach to health policy is
is preferred is better
and is you know it's a more sort of
effective fulfillment of of the kind of
liberal vision it's one way of thinking
about it but if it should be a more you
know a more effective and more
compelling fulfillment of what should be
everyone's vision for Americans to be
able to be as healthy as possible on
terms that are equitable you know a lot
of people just don't realize that what
state you live in what race you are how
much money you make these are things
that will determine your access to
benefits that essentially decide whether
you could live or die I don't actually
think that even people who understand
themselves many at least to be
Republicans would would say that that's
right
could actually think of a moral
grounding for that sort of policy design
I I can't fathom what the moral
grounding is there are kind of fiscal
and practical grounds right we don't
want to you know spend this much money
but the moral grounds for the
arbitrariness of the whole system even
for many people who are doing everything
right and working hard you just happen
to live in the wrong State and so I
think that there's a liberal case to
make I think that there's a human case
to make and I focus on Medicaid in my
research because Medicaid is the
institution we have and so let's think
about how to make it the best we can but
you know in the in the sort of backdrop
for me as always let's think about how
to build new institutions that are more
inclusive more equitable and more
politically and economically sustainable
and that that will mean looking beyond
Medicaid and looking to a universal
system Jamila missioner the book is
fragmented democracy Medicaid federalism
and unequal politics thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
Thank You Pam all right folks we're
gonna take a quick break heading to the
fun half of the program wherein we will
have fun and at least a half of a
program we'll discuss some Bernie and
compromise in burning material to
compromise yeah we will get to that oh
but wait a second before we get to that
now look our fans our audience of this
program are very dedicated and they
start projects want to make you aware of
them when we can and when we're made
aware of them and this one look I would
not say to support unless you're in a
position to easily support there are
certainly more important endeavors out
there however we would be remiss and I
don't want anyone to confuse to to
accuse us of censoring anybody or
stifling debate because this is almost a
debate topic - not only is it about a
debate it's almost a debate topic but
apparently now wait is this a well is
this a video we have a new video from Bo
Prague which is about it's a song that
Dave Rubin should debate Sam cedar oh
well I was talking about what I
understand was a fundraising do we have
a link to that okay now why don't we
play the song will play the song after
we show this Michael just informed me I
was informed of this in the there's a
special channel and the TPMS discord
called the open exchange channel and
this came to me is a special breaking
alert for an ideas forum now that's not
my favorite picture but but you know
what beggars can't I think for purposes
of this I think they went in the right
creative direction that's fine
there is a GoFundMe entitled debate Sam
cedar billboard in Los Angeles there is
an image of a billboard
apparently this would be it would be
it's a picture of Dave Rubin and a
picture of me and it says Dave you can't
hide forever debate Sam
[Music]
and we scrolled out let me read what it
says here we are trying to raise
awareness of the fact that the that
political commentator dave rubin is
still ducking sam cedar for a long
overdue debate we will be purchasing a
billboard in Los Angeles near the home
of the Rubin report to bring attention
to this crisis billboard design' is not
final okay there you go
please offer suggestions in the comments
and how much are they looking to raise
how much does it cost to get a billboard
in Los Angeles $4,000
now they've they've made it to a 76 now
they don't get to pocket this money this
is one of those things like it's got to
be they make the goal right
I think I'm go fund me it say you make
the goal no I think Kickstarter is you
have to make the goal but GoFundMe I
think it whatever you get yeah wait a
second we sure that this is real that
someone's gonna actually like anybody if
you're doing this and it's fake stop it
yeah you stop that right this is Chris
Johnson from Queens find you I think you
should make a commitment that if it does
if you don't get to the goal then you'll
become maximum patron levels of all of
our shows right if you don't get to the
goal right oh yeah you you gotta you got
to do the Billboard I mean I think
that's I just want to say I think it's
childish and I think it's obnoxious and
I think it's certainly in keeping with
the spirit of the discourse that Dave
and I have and so it would be super oh
we just didn't want to suppress this
guy's ideas yes the bottom line that
would be super super funny but and let's
just round it out with a left is best
Dave Rubin should debate Sam cedar by a
bullfrog and we'll head into the fun
half this Thursday instead of Tuesday
TMDs Rights Day starting it no no State
of the Union this we thought it was
gonna be was all scheduled anyways so
Bill Fletcher jr. on the Soudan upper
sizings we'll talk about Venezuela
unlocked illicit history of the BJP RSS
and how it leads to the tulsi gabbard
candidacy become a patron patreon.com
slash TMDs literally a few tickets left
if you want to come Friday ah homepage
also you can support this program by
becoming a member join the majority
report calm don't forget too that just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
literary hangover House of the Seven
Gables exported last night for YouTube
will be up this afternoon alright folks
see you in the fun half they seem did
sort of angry I don't know well I don't
want to get into that they were that
wasn't my my own thing alright yeah it
doesn't matter it does matter
hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense
dave rubin is gonna absolutely need to
be exposed
look I encourage all of you to go fan
trolling Dave Rubin is a video and then
there was like 14 videos so a lot of
people made mixes of this our friends
creative awesome people on youtubes
basically everybody we got a ton and
debates and cedar debate Sam cedar speed
debate debate Sam cedar I do respect you
[Music]
[Laughter]
laughs who's laughing now Sam just a
reminder it is your support that makes a
show possible
does not get less mature than those
folks well Prague is a genius I mean
everybody I mean it was that a piano
ended at the end a brand with him from
your high school
wait wait wait wait wait right at the
end there oh my god they rated Brendan's
high school yearbook that was my
headshot they took of me when I was at
fusion if you look close to that photos
kind of funny you can I shaved that day
but totally forgot the area below my
lower lip there's a little soul patch in
there it's covered by the text are we in
the front now okay I want to download
that you put that on I'm gonna put that
on my iPhone can we put this stuff on
Spotify how would we do that I think we
did almost well the easiest way would
just be to release it on the podcast
feed so then it shows up like oh right
that's what we should do we should put
out like a couple of of feeds put them
out on the weekend on the weekend of
just the songs themselves so the people
can play them on Spotify we could put
them on our mr playlist because we have
like what ten of those songs now yeah I
think I'm not sure if you can put
podcast episodes on playlists really
yeah oh it's absurd is there no way to
put like amateur music on Spotify or is
it all happening you need to do you need
to do licensing yeah
it's a real shame that's a real shame we
could get that guy that was trying to
start in fours music yeah I want to pay
that guy to sidle up next to Sam and
water here that's bigger than it is Sam
we got Microsoft music here I've been
working on I moved to Brooklyn I'm
really excited that Dave Ruby won't
debate you we should talk
[Laughter]
let's go to the phone call from a to 100
area code who's this where you come from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir I'm good good very very happy
about the announcement on Friday even
though it was an announcement but it was
a leak and I think it said the same
purpose I don't know I don't know about
that but I'm that I'm a little skeptical
of that story in particular but but who
knows but let's continue
why are you skeptical um I just I don't
think that was I don't think that was
coming from Bernie's camp I think that
it came from outside of Bernie's camp
but that's why okay well but Bernie
hasn't denied the story that's correct
I think there's a pretty good chance
that he could be running but I just
don't know that that was from Bernie's
camp okay well I mean you know Joshua
Orton right yes I do know Josh yes
okay because he made a statement also
it's a saying no decision is imminent as
opposed to you know denying it right and
so yeah okay
all right great okay so yeah
yeah also having an announcement about
I'm going to be having my own channel on
YouTube whoa
all right when are you gonna put out
your Santa Dave won't debate salmon yeah
it's called the cacophonous hoedown so
anybody who's interested you know if you
could subscribe to my channel I haven't
put anything up yet still love you know
in the works so anyway so yeah just just
wondering what what your thoughts were
Sam and also on the the Harris
announcement and I'm wondering also what
you feel about Harris how well she's
gonna do in the south and you know since
the primary in California is going to be
on Super Tuesday do you feel she's going
to be uh she's gonna do well enough to
where she's gonna get a large amount of
votes in California yeah you know she in
Iowa New Hampshire and South Carolina I
mean I think she's gonna be very
competitive I think she is it's it's you
know it's early to tell but if this race
comes down between two or three people I
would imagine that she's gonna be one of
them okay it's one of the things I'm
sorry good one of the things that we
were speaking of a few weeks ago was
that you know the people from the middle
of the pack haven't really done that
well so I went back you know ten
elections and the only two that actually
have one from the middle of the pack
were Clinton in 92 and one denomination
and in Dukakis in 88 so I mean the
history doesn't bode - well from people
who aren't in the top two at this point
right so okay and I'm trying to think
who was in the top two in 92 I mean it
would have been Tsongas right probably
was probably strong early on in 92 but
he had it came out that he had cancer
during the
campaign right so there was some sort of
like yes but there was questions there
was a lot of questions that loomed over
his candidacy that Harken poll well
early cause of Iowa did he have like
calm feel do you remember who was in the
lead in 92 in Iowa out of the gate yeah
I think Harkin won in Iowa but who was
in the lead about a year out a year out
for my well Cuomo would be but he didn't
run he didn't run
I'm sure yeah right that's right I mean
Harkin was doing real well also yeah
yeah I think I think Kamala Harris is
gonna be is is gonna be if there's three
people who are gonna be vying for it you
know by you know by this time in 2020
she will be one of them if there are two
I suspect you will be one of them do you
think her lack of specific being
specific on on issues so far do you
think that's gonna hurt her you know
when the debates first start up or do
you think she's gonna continue to be
vague all through the election I think
is right now music ething it's very big
there's nothing that helps you be vague
more than having 14 other people onstage
with you okay and so the thing about
this is that when you have this many
people who are gonna be in debating if
you want to hide from specifics I'm not
saying she wants to I think right now I
mean she has come out and she is you
know this is early in the campaign this
is where there's a lot of sort of like
platitudes and whatnot for most
candidates although for instance Warren
has come out with proposal after
proposal after proposal at this point
but for certainly the lane that I think
Kamala Harris is running in and which is
you know a little bit more towards the
the center of the Democratic Party
has been you know she's talking and
likes her broad strokes protecting
democracy making you know America more
inclusive I mean there's not talking
about policy in a dramatic way she came
out with a you know a set of issues but
she's not getting that policy heavy the
debates she won't have to not until it's
down to two or three people which is you
know for someone like her who's gonna be
running on a more like charismatic
appeal and on sort of like broad themes
that's helpful so we shall see it's
going to be interesting because Warren
ostensibly Warren and and Sanders are
gonna introduce a lot more policy to the
the sort of the the race I think then
you know we have generally seen in the
past
I think if Booker runs he'll try to
distinguish himself is like the
center-left policy yeah and it's gonna
be interesting to see like you know it's
quite possible that in the early stages
of this race it's gonna be more like
Booker Gillibrand and Kamala Harris you
know going after each other than Bernie
and or Lawrence and Warren should I mean
I think it's great if they obviously I
think there are real differences I've
said a million times between Sanders and
Warren but I also think conversely they
should be if he announces which I think
obviously we all know I hope he does and
I think he should and I think you will
but there should be some type of
armistice of like there should be a lot
of moments where amongst their
disagreements they remind everybody that
like hey you know that political piece
that came out we're basically Wall
Street is excited and happy about
everybody else on this stage provides us
that's the basic dividing line and we
have our disagreements but we're in some
sense collaborators here I would be
surprised if that's not the angle unless
they end up you know again in this time
next year and they're the only two
people on stage well that's great but
right so I think I think Kamala Harris
is going
be pretty formidable I don't you know
for me personally I have problems with
with with Kamala Harris's work as a
prosecutor not and I want to be explicit
about this and John I appreciate the
phone call and you know let us know when
your YouTube is up and we're gonna we'll
push it a little more
Thanks calling in thank you I have
Kamala Harris let's do it let's I want
to play both these videos here's Kamala
Harris making her announcement 20,000
people in California there for the
announcement that's that's a big number
ladies and gentlemen that's a super big
number and she's gonna be a a formidable
candidate there's just no doubt about it
here she is again if things can change
but she's running a very sort of broad
themed campaign this is not going to be
a steeped in policy this is going to be
her campaign is gonna be about broad
liberal visions she is not terribly
ideological as far as I can tell and and
in many respects very much like Obama
Obama's gambit you know and I think of
all the candidates in the race so far I
think she is you know Biden would
obviously be like that to to a large
extent I think he's gonna come in and
just talk about restoring America to
America and broad principles she seems
to be running out here's her a clip of
her speech from Oakland this weekend
[Applause]
when white-supremacist March and murder
in Charlottesville or Massacre innocent
worshipers in a Pittsburgh synagogue
that's not our America
[Applause]
when we have children in cages crying
for their mothers and fathers don't you
dare call that border security that's a
human rights abuse
[Applause]
when we have leaders to attack public
schools and vilify public schoolteachers
that is not our America when bankers who
crashed our economy get bonuses but the
workers who brought our country back
can't even get a raise
that's not our America
[Applause]
and when American families are barely
living paycheck to paycheck
what is this administration's response
their response is to try and take
healthcare away from millions of
families their response is to give away
a trillion dollars to the biggest
corporations in this country and their
response is to blame immigrants as the
source of all our problems
and guys let's understand what's
happening here people in power are
trying to convince us that the villain
in our American story is each other
okay I mean I there's it's impossible to
disagree with any of those sentiments
but it's also possible to say that's not
terribly specific and now look it's an
opening speech maybe she will pivot into
but I suspect we're gonna hear a lot of
this it's not quite there's no red
America there's no blue America but it
is a you know broadly speaking I would
hope every single Democratic candidate
feels quite strongly about
we shouldn't have KKK people walking
around like we do now and I imagine
we're gonna even hear that if there was
a Republican primary we would hear that
um theoretically theoretically but but
with that said this video came out today
too or at least is making the rounds I
don't know if it's making around today
this is from the Commonwealth Club which
is her name sure they come with Club I
know that sort of Li isn't it kind of
almost like a West Coast like Press Club
almost type of thing
Thanks well he or she is in 2010 now
look I am NOT one of those people who
believes that you should be disqualified
because you're a prosecutor had Eliot
Spitzer not turned out to have certain
private moral deficiencies and even then
you know I would have I I would have
loved him to run for president
I want prosecutors who will prosecute
white-collar criminals that is hugely
important in fact it's one of my
critiques of Kamala Harris that you know
we've talked about on this program way
before anyone enters
paid she would run for president as a
freshman senator when we talked in the
context of Steve minuchin who there were
people in her office who had developed
at least what everybody perceives is a
reasonable argument why this guy should
be prosecuted and she never was but when
I see video like this it's a little bit
more disturbing because it's not hard to
figure out the policy implications of
this now we just spoke to a professor
who Jamila missioner who wrote about why
Medicaid is so susceptible to being
implicated by the states and it
basically comes down to a highly
racialized situation where people living
in poverty people of color are just
simply you know berated for being in
that position in our society and you
don't have to be a white politician to
to take advantage of society's
predisposition to believing that people
living in poverty have a a moral deficit
anybody can do that a lot of people have
spoken about Barack Obama who one of the
advantages he had to being black was
that he didn't have to talk about race
in the way that Hillary Clinton did and
Hillary Clinton was punished in some
respects electoral e for talking about
race so much what Obama did was pursued
what they call a politics of
respectability and instead of saying
systemically we have a problem in this
country that has inhibited people of
colors progress in our society that
there is some type of moral failure that
they have we got to be our brother's
keeper this is an individual problem
his people not stepping up and there
this is more of that but almost worse
here's Kemal Harris at the Commonwealth
Club in 2010 I would not be standing
here were it not for the education I
received and I know men of many of us
will say the same thing and I believe a
child going without an education is
tantamount to a crime so I decided I was
going to start prosecuting parents for
truancy well this was a little
controversial in San Francisco and
frankly my staff went bananas they were
very concerned because we didn't know at
the time whether I was gonna have an
opponent in my reelection race what I
said look I'm done this is a serious
issue and I've got a little political
capital and I'm gonna spend some of it
and this is what we did we recognized
that in that initiative as a prosecutor
and law enforcement I have a huge stick
the school district has got to care it
let's work in tandem around our
collective objective and goal which is
to get those kids in school so to that
end on my letterhead now let me tell you
something about my letterhead when
you're the DA of a major city in this
country usually the job comes with a
badge and there is often an artistic
rendering of said badge on your
stationery
so I sent a letter out on my letterhead
to every parent in the school district
outlining the connection that was
statistically proven between elementary
school truancy high school dropouts who
will become a victim of crime and who
will become a perpetrator of crime we
sent it out to everyone a friend of mine
actually called me and he said calmly my
wife got the letter she freaked out she
brought all the kids into the living
room held up the letter said if you
don't go to school
Karma's gonna put you and me in jail yes
we achieved attend to intended effect I
don't think that's funny that's
extraordinarily punitive
and creepy and shows such a I mean this
is the first time obviously I object to
her policies because we have different
politics but that's the first time I've
just been really creeped out and
disgusted it's and I wanted to say I
think it's important because I think
obviously there's gonna be a lot of
echoing of Obama's campaigns but I think
we gotta go back and look at Bill
Clinton's 1992 campaign as well because
on one hand where maybe it's a positive
because of the new political terrain
were in with Bernie and AOC people
Clinton's 92 campaign at least had a
semblance of economic populism which
she's gonna need to put forward and she
did that but she did it in a very
Clintonian way like you know if the CEOs
are getting a raise than America ought
to get a raise which is my very gentle
way of putting it but it echos that uh
but then people also you know remember
that I mean Bill Clinton's triangulating
on crime and race issues were horrifying
he literally stopped a meeting yes to
execute yeah I mean you were gonna say
but he literally went back and executed
a mentally disabled black man to prove
his on the different kind of Democrats
so I think and if the polling bears this
out because you've been saying this and
I think unfortunately right a lot of us
are you know if you're on the Left
you're very concerned about the criminal
industrial the prison industrial complex
and over scented saying and the cesta
foster stuff which he's also been
incredibly bad on but I think that what
you might see from her his a fusion of
Obama and ninety two Clinton a ninety
two Clinton not just with the sort of
like soft economic populism but actually
some if if it calls for it some very
heavy triangulating on criminal justice
issues and I just think if you know
anything about poverty or anything about
people trying to get their lives
together in a certain way that clip is
is mortifying it profoundly disturbing
what what what's also interesting is
that she talks about running for
reelection in San Francisco now she's
trying to make the jump from San
Francisco to the state in 2010 and
that's what you know everything that we
have knocked Andrew Cuomo for is really
what that move is I'm coming from San
Francisco
San Francisco politics there's a reason
why they say that hippie dippie that
type of thing I've got a show that I am
serious that I can have some type of
like conservative moral sort of stance
and and that's what she's talking about
there and she's she's she's bragging
about it she says like you know I had to
alienate some of my core people on some
level my staff like hey this is morally
wrong what you're doing maybe they all
were like hey this could hurt you and
your re-election chances in San
Francisco
I mean it but maybe some people on our
staff were actually like this is
incredibly abusive your glassess than
racial and maybe we should like have
some basic integrity in how we do our
jobs I'd be curious to see if that if
and I doubt I don't know how you break
that out I mean it was clear that the
the school board was also attempting to
that but even if it's even if it was
effective which I I questioned whether
it was effective I don't know but even
if it was effective it there's a lot of
things that we could do effectively by
threatening people to be arrested and
that don't make it right and that is a
little bit disturbing so you know what
we'll see but here is another candidate
about whom I think this guy's gonna go a
lot less far than Kamala Harris in my
estimation and in many respects I don't
know why this guy I don't know why you
would need a Joe Biden in the race with
the Kamala Harris in the race
but here is Joe Biden proving that even
though he's only 24 months out of the
office in the White House he might as
well be decades removed from where the
Democratic Party is today and frankly
Americans broadly speaking
because I don't know if he is you know
ticketed the Senate lately or the house
or any state houses or any any political
arena but this guy's a little bit toned
up now he is defending not just going to
a speech and supporting a Republican in
Michigan I think it was Upton right but
it was also revealed earlier in the week
that he was paid a couple hundred grand
to do it and you know he wasn't paid to
do to endorse this guy he was paid and
then he endorsed it there that is part
of like he delivered let's put it that
way I get in trouble I read in new york
times a day that i then one of my
problems is if i were to run for
president i like republicans okay bless
me Father for I have sinned we start
talking to one another again well I mean
one of the ways that the Obama
administration got stuff done was by
having a majority a veto-proof majority
in the Senate and controlling the house
and having the presidency in fact I
think that's the only way things got
done as far as I could tell during those
years I don't know if he remembers
Merrick garland or the empty Supreme
Court seat but that is Joe Biden
basically announcing like look I may or
may not jump into this race but I can
assure you I am NOT going to in any way
have a sense of what's going on
politically right now
well I'd also like to take him up on his
challenge and talk about some of the
things that he did get done in a
bipartisan basis in his career like
expand prisons like war right one of the
most repressive criminal justice bills
in history which Bill Clinton's giant
achievements have great achievements
like help Shepherd the invasion of iraq
under george w bush and
everybody look up the credit-card bill
that Joe Biden wrote not only is it like
I mean it really is just like one of the
most naked it is just a one to one like
I'm a senator from Delaware the credit
card companies want this this will harm
tens of millions of people it's there's
no clearer example of just pure
corporate bagman ship but then also look
contemporaneously at Elizabeth Warren
explaining why it's one of the most like
obscene pieces of legislation of Matt's
what got her into the right into
politics I think largely right but
lettuce also as long as we're critiquing
people now Bernie Sanders has not
entered the race officially or really I
mean in any way but you know who knows I
think there's a decent chance he will at
this point certainly not quashing any of
the speculation but when Bernie enters
the race he's going to have to contend
with his past and there has been a video
we saw a video earlier of Kamala Harris
from 2010 sort of bragging about
threatening to jail parents whose kids
don't go to school enough
here is a trip apparently that Bernie
Sanders took to the Soviet Union in 1988
which if you recall is supposedly in an
era when we were trying to culturally
make inroads into the Soviet Union but
God help us is this the way you do it
he's out of dinner and he's sure David
cross was also I was not the young David
Cross in 88 I can assure you David cross
that hair big curly fro all right here
let's listen to this
[Applause]
[Applause]
there's bernie sanders on the light
they're lenient about a shared on
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
I posit I think what it is that there's
a Russian woman there and she's saying
when one side of the table
sings their song so this is a you know a
mixed Russian and or I should say Soviet
and American meal they have all sorts of
wine bottles out there I guess to sort
of hide the fact that what they're
really doing which is supposedly eating
and they are they are switching songs
back and forth I continue
[Applause]
[Music]
there's my footage of Bernie Sanders man
[Music]
with a sign first American pizza and
Moscow
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
Bernie Sanders is so cool
everything you learn about him he just
gets cooler also can we say wait a sec
he's ageless wait it looks the same back
first off first off the idea that you
would be wearing no shirt at dinner it's
disgusting
I'm sorry we're not gonna let Bernie
Sanders escape by this there's a reason
why they say no shirt no shoes no
service I don't know if he was wearing
shoes there I don't know why you would
if you're not gonna wear a shirt at the
dinner table but I hope I hope enough
people see this there we got yeah yeah
it'll be really damaging this is by the
way just like his point of reference
isn't this this is an 88 yeah so this
was two years after Mikhail Gorbachev
and Reagan tried to get rid of all of
the world's nukes at Reykjavik mmm so
like how bizarre like how out of the
mainstream that like at a time when like
Esalen Institute is facilitating
cultural diplomacy and all sorts of
direct relationships are forming and the
Cold War that Bernie Sanders would do
this I mean very damning no I can
explain to you what was going on is this
gonna involve a jonathan chait theory
okay Jonathan shape the years 1980 88 a
young KGB officer named Vladimir Putin
calls a meeting with a young Burlington
mayor Hardy looks like a grandpa and a
real estate developer from New York City
named Donald Trump Putin knows that by
2016 late stage capitalism they're
ruining America you will run from left
against Hillary Clinton's you will know
who is here at this time is the Jonathan
Chait column Louie Gohmert
this land was made for vitomir Putin was
at first it was a commitment to
socialism but then it became a
commitment to Russia as a country Donald
and I had our marching orders I saw a
tweet by someone who was an editor at
Wired and I've read you know stuff from
her before and I thought oh yeah that's
pretty good writer and I still for the
life of me can't figure out if she
wasn't joking that the implication is
that Sanders entire campaign is a a
Putin project yes there's a lot of
people going after the Bernie supporters
online right now in a way that they're
saying that it's an organized front for
Russia it's that's pretty frankly could
used to be a little bit more organized
this time yes it's definitely for Russia
Russia if you're listening release more
emails release bought emails had the
vine did good ads but he was a little
sloppy with the Ukraine stuff for God's
sake not exactly good PR really I I was
I I got a little disturbed by the whole
thing yeah yeah I can't even keep up no
but I got you so look I think there are
people obviously we talk a lot about the
the people on on well on both sides of
that that 2016 election who lost their
 but I honestly think that like you
know some people thought Hillary Clinton
had Parkinson's and that Seth rich was
rubbed out by the Clintons did you hear
the Harris has sickle cell but the the
but the idea that there are people who
genuinely believe that Bernie is some
type of Russian agent is pretty stunning
I given and this is actually another
good sort of political callback moment
and I in look correct me if I'm wrong
because I'm basically going off of
watching the war room documentary but
Bill Clinton when he was a Rhodes
Scholar
he took a road trip into the Soviet
Union right and they tried to make that
was a thing they tried to be what kind
of young American pro test Vietnam and
wants to visit the Soviet Union right
and there's actually a great clip in
that documentary James Carville's like
who was you know the best Clinton
operative he's like what are you talking
in a basketball man crazy and it's so
funny that's not that's some of the same
contingent of those Clinton Easter's are
now like it's like hey you were right
back then you were supposed to be
engaging with the Soviets you idiots you
should be engaging with all of our
enemies that's a good thing lastly as we
do our roundup of the of what's
happening with 2020 this would be the
last time we talk about hopefully for
the day wow this is stunning Howard
Schultz the guy that you've never heard
of before really the past couple of
weeks the CEO or former CEO of Starbucks
is convinced that America is crying out
for him to run for president
is this the hypothetical disease say I'm
not gonna answer a hypothetical here yes
okay this is stunning let me tell you
something Howard Schultz is so rich that
the laws of running for president are
not going to even come close to
requiring him to do anything other than
say that he is going to be great here is
just the whole philosophy of how to
maybe redistribution versus growth and
I'm not sure that the stock market is
necessarily the barometer you want to
look at either but it's possible this
year we grow above 3% and there's maybe
a lot of reasons why why that's going to
happen maybe it was set up by the Obama
administration but for eight years we
didn't never had a year we barely got to
two percent so
there's this never-ending argument about
whether growth and letting the private
sector have more capital keeping it in
in the private sector and letting that
grow the pie or whether redistribution
is the way to go I mean if we end up
growing it greater than 3% this year
would you repeal the Tax Reform Act
would you raise taxes on corporations
back to where they were if you were
president well I I don't want to talk in
the hypothetical about whether what I
would do if I was president but let me
try and say this in my own way I think
the greatest threat domestically to the
country is this twenty one trillion
dollar debt hanging over the cloud of
America and future generations and the
fact that interest rates are going up
we're going to be paying close to over
four hundred billion dollars in interest
expense which i think is the the number
one or number two issue in terms of
federal expense so wait a second so he's
a not gonna engage in a hypothetical of
like what I would do as president right
all that is I'm not it's a hypothetical
me when I'm president you gotta ask me
when I'm president I'm gonna give away
my plans right now that's exactly what
the other candidates would like me to do
because they're just gonna adopt my
proposals on top of which not only am I
not going to tell you what I'm going to
do as president all I'm going to do is
tell you that the the biggest problem we
have is something that we would have to
solve by me doing the thing that I'm not
going to tell you that I'm gonna do when
the president and so I I think this
interview is over just vote for me
what I love here and cuz I think we said
earlier maybe I guess before we are in
air that this is obviously some form of
like threat from the oleg art class not
nominate Sanders or Warren that's
probably the most rational
interpretation of this delusion but
apparently they're not all on the same
page because Mike Bloomberg and an act
of just pure raw negative campaigning
and not focusing on his own ideas has
tweeted out in 2020 the great likelihood
is that an independent would just split
the
at the Trump vote it ends up reelecting
the president that's a risk I refuse to
run in 2016 and we can't afford to run
it now and it links to a longer memo can
we pull this up here I'll send a link
but I just I mean the fact that and I
Bloomberg yeah
is the voice of reason like when
moderate Bloomberg is releasing you as a
as a fellow oligarch I think it's you
should listen I mean it's interesting
because I do think that what this this
move by Schultz is a way of basically
opening the door in the event that there
is a candidate that the oligarchs are
concerned about definitely and the idea
that I bloom Berg would shut that down
now if I didn't run you can't run I
didn't do it you won't do it you you
roaster you loser I could never sit in
my mansion surrounded in money and know
that someone with a couple of billion
dollars less than me ended up being
president when I could have done it so I
love of the ultimate diss of these
people is like I voted for birdy Sandy's
over you that's how big a loser you are
if I can't have the presidency no
billionaire can have the presidency but
whatever back to credit where credit's
do this is esteem good for him totally
good for him yet good for him here I
didn't I'm not gonna be President so
you're not gonna be President his son of
a bit official statement from Michael
Bloomberg I'm not gonna read as a citrus
independent to become president so
you're not either
and all the same people that tried to
scare me for consulting contracts of
2016 you're about to lose out in a bunch
of money he'll think Howard Schultz is
dumb fantasy give me a break
you sold coffee I'm gonna have a cafe
owner as president I'm gonna be
President if anybody's gonna be
president and I will not answer your
hypotheticals hey do you like that part
there you go
a specific
 that trust my business experience
what's great though is that Schultz the
way in which they like the billionaire
oligarch argument is all the same like
of course Trump is a racist in a
xenophobe in an idiot and a demagogue
but actually the core point there of
like I'm not gonna answer any specific
questions I'm a wealthy businessman
right it's all you should know same
thing same argument why don't we just
compare our bank books and that's who
gets to be President yes son of a cafe
owner oh I was the guy who made things
of grandi instead of a large well boohoo
I created a financial terminal you
I ever I have a suggestion for you get
me a copy how about that yes that's Mike
Bloomberg I want the full name spell on
the cup and though I don't know enough
time to talk about race relations with
you barista Bloomberg should kick the
Starbucks out of the Bloomberg bit yeah
it's a done brothers now you're slob Oh
meanwhile it does feel like the the
Trump administration is thinking that a
war in Venezuela I mean I don't even
know what that would look like I guess
we matter absolutely horrifying it might
actually also unlike the fake lying one
legitimately create some type of
region-wide migration crisis which God
knows the bowls narrow government would
already respond to obscenely what's
already trickling out of Venezuela but
here is Mike Pompeo and look there's a
lot of reasons in terms of the domestic
politics you could imagine why the Trump
administration would want to get
involved in a war now I happen to
believe
as effective as these things were back
in the day for distracting the American
public this is just not gonna cut it
so here's Mike Pompeo in front of the
United Nations sitting behind him if I'm
not mistaken said Elliott Abrams behind
him
yup Elliott Abrams is the point man on
Venezuela for the administration now I I
don't know if people remember Elliott
Abrams well let's listen to a Pompeo
says first the United States stands with
the Venezuelan people so far many other
nations have chosen to do the same and
they too have recognized the legitimate
government president Guido the United
States stands proudly with you as we
stand together in support of Venezuela
you knew the Venezuelan people Venezuela
people did not have a moment to spare
and now it's time now it's time for
every other nation to pick a side no
more delays no more games either you
stand with the forces of freedom or
you're in league with Maduro and his
Mayim there you go the forces of freedom
where we heard that before
Elliott Abrams sitting behind here we
just keep that image of him up there
because this is like Elliott Abrams
was Reagan's point man or one of them in
the iran-contra affair he just
coincidentally was pardoned by George
Herbert Walker Bush and ultimately I
think Herbert Walker Bush avoided his
implications or being implicated in that
scandal Elliott Abrams was also the one
of the early architects of the Iraq war
he was I remember one particular story
where he had called in a bunch of
evangelical Christians and basically
told them that we need to do this and
they were I think upset about maybe this
is endangering Israel in some way and
they're like oh no we'd to do this
because of the apocalypse coming
something to that effect
I don't know I can't remember off the
top of my my head but I'm I'm quite sure
that during the Reagan era Elliott
Abrams was implicated as a as a guy who
was in who was helping with death squads
he helped out in El Salvador and
Nicaragua across I mean this guy's
crimes or and facilitation of just
brutality and mass killing in the Reagan
era and Central America is unparalleled
and it is like and also I mean him and
Otto rice who played a major role the
Bush administration's Latin America
policy too but there is just something
like you know he there's no even pretend
that the end game that they're
envisioning is death squads and mass
cleanup if the right-wing to he'd roles
in as well he was running like in
Congress he had some role I don't he
wasn't in Congress he was part of the
Reagan administration and he was
basically trying to make sure that I
think it was Guatemalan I think it was
the Guatemalan president I think it was
a president could get funds because he
was accused of basically trying to kill
off indigenous people in Guatemala and
he was trying to make sure running
[Music]
interference in Congress to make sure
that funds were not cut off to him I
mean there was there's more and I got to
go back and me specifically tried to
whitewash a massacre of a thousand men
women and children by us-funded death
squads in El Salvador that's the main
big you know the big one the Guatemala
stuff is real it was indigenous villages
I think actually if I'm not mistaken the
young girl that was recently killed or
died in ice custody if you recall
one of these wishi was indigenous she
wasn't Spanish yeah I think that might
be the same group that we were
supporting massacre in the 80s so I mean
Elliott Abrams is one of the great her
if reminyl just obscene disgusting
people of our time and of course he
helped finance the Contras okay you know
we talk about accountability for these
people when they're in office and why it
was so dangerous that that barack obama
basically said turn the page on this
part of the problem is isn't is you know
metaphorically you're not holding the
elite to account and it can create more
problems in the future the other problem
is actually really practical and that
they bring these people back
again and again and again steve minuchin
ends up being treasury secretary he
should have been in jail and that should
really I mean look again I think
ironically the this the lane that staked
out on opposing a coup and supporting a
diplomatic process is moderate and
obvious and but you know a lot of
Democratic leaders have still gone on
board with this yes and a lot of even
you know liberal commentators are
prevaricated and playing false
equivalencies and you know it should
have been obvious you never support a
u.s. coup to begin with but the Elliott
Abrams role should be that should be
done be red flag II but now the the good
news we're told about America's you know
sort of beating the drums for a war with
Venezuela basically what would creating
a civil war with Venezuela it seems to
me is that it would bring this country
together you don't believe me ask you
Hewitt MSNBC contributor word cloud the
next thirty three weeks allow the
opportunity to go big and solve this
Jared Kushner is leading it and it is
far more important to shut down the
Maduro government than argument and I
think Donald Trump is leading there and
he is winning there because of Bolton
and Pompeyo going down to see Paulson ro
and and Duque it's that's gonna happen
that's gonna bring us together that is
gonna bring us together
I think I'm involved in a Latin American
politics that has a never gone well
completely because you're Russia is
against that i underst
before that and that will help that will
help I think that all right there's how
is this ban allowed on television
there's Chuck Todd basically saying the
subtext of which is like are you out of
your mind
that's gonna bring quit hugh hewitt's
trying to say like that should be a
distraction if we see Donald Trump
actually like getting involved directly
in Latin America and I saw a a report
earlier that said that we had gotten
involved in the past hundred years or so
from from a John H cotesworth Harvard
review of Latin America from 1898 to
1994 the US government has intervened
successfully to change governments in
Latin America a total of at least 41
times that amounts to once every 28
months for an entire century now let's
take a look at how Latin America is
doing right
I mean Guatemala El Salvador Honduras
society has in many respects civil
societies broken down in many respects
that's why we see so many people from
these countries trying to you know risk
everything to to get out of those
countries there's way too good right I
mean let me go back to the 50s and
Eisenhower or those infamous like
Guatemala coup and the 70s Chile's the
big thing but then through the 70s and
80s we've helped fund I mean they're
called the Condor years we literally
helped right-wing governments coordinate
the mass murder of everybody on the left
and not just you know of course I mean I
shouldn't I feel like I shouldn't even
need to make this distinction but just
this point of clarity not just leftist
guerrillas were they slaughtering they
were slaughtering first of all any
villages where those guerrillas might be
but also slaughtering the equivalent of
Rachel Maddow like I'm a liberal and I
have some qualms with the government
well you're gonna get a bullet in your
head from
the regimes that we supported and even
as one example at the Brazilian regime
we supported through the 80s it's always
reported here that they killed less
people than rivaling regimes and that's
partially true but what isn't included
in the estimates is mass slaughter of
indigenous people right and now we're on
the next wave of it because there's no
doubt that the u.s. foreign policy
shifted towards reversing the pink tide
and in 2009 when Obama and Clinton
signed off on that coup in Honduras
that was the reversal that shows up in
Brazil and they never stopped trying to
undermine Venezuela I mean the taught
the sanctions on Venezuela have been
vicious under Bush Obama and obviously
Trump let's go to the phones come from a
478 area code who's this where he call
them from Jeb from Georgia what is
happening yeah are we gonna see you at
the end of this week uh yeah actually
orders team you replied on Thursday man
there's already some people early out
there Ames from Australia all the way
there while he ain't clean I heard a bus
people we all meet up fantastic I can't
wait to go to my books to that night
what what's odd is what I'm calling
about when something's gonna be
happening at the same time I'm in
Brooklyn actually I will not be in
Georgia to experience this but we got
some news here I don't know if you or
anymore your programs familiar with
Stone Mountain Stone Mountain is yeah is
there what is said uh yeah us don't turn
down a big old it's probably the most
horrendous Confederate monument in the
entire country because it's not just the
statute it's big old bas relief carving
on the side of a huge granite mountain
what really really sucks if you're
talking about removing it anyway the
news is we got some actual KKK some
actual Nazis they're about to rally
there that Saturday a couple years ago
they tried to crowd yeah they tried to
go there only about a couple dozens of
them showed up about 200 counter
protesters without number about ten more
good hopefully that's going to happen
again on on Saturday and if if I may be
so bold if people are interested in the
history stone mountain and a little bit
more about what's happening there I did
do a little podcast episode about it on
my on my channel it's at dis to post
copy I want to check that out but uh but
uh the gist of it is it's called flower
united that's not really an organization
support like an organization of
organizations they're supported by
people like the metro Atlanta PC DSA the
Lancer - is the John Brown come closer
out of the area that company the thereat
flower you know they're coordinating all
the all the activity is a bail fund
therefore a big Express to be better
than that and there there were fully
under followed on Twitter so go and
check out flowers you know that would
surely do my heart's good I think
appreciate for those people do I think
it's very important with these people
try to rally in public and whine about
how hard white people have it they are
confronted by a broad coalition of
activists of different areas that
they're into all show up and let them
know that we and we about all that save
some time for that nice man well
beautiful appreciated people can check
it out just an imp essent we'll see you
later in the week Jeff hey man thanks
for come from a 443 area code who's just
were you calling from this me yes it is
you hi Sam Peter from Maryland hello
Peter from Maryland what's on your mind
so I know you were saying that you
didn't want to talk about 2020 but uh
I just wanted to discuss a little bit
more of it okay but I'm sick so anyways
so I kinda have to disagree with what
you said about Harris and and the fact
that basically I think so
I heard from Jordan from that basically
that like before she officially
announced that she basically met up with
Clinton supporters
or donors I would say that basically you
should do that like on the hush-hush
and I think once that is basically
revealed I think I mean people think
that Clintons are fiscally toxic to
start with so I can't really see why so
wait you think that your argument is
that when people find out that that dad
that she met with Clinton donors that
that's gonna hurt her in the in the
primary all right all right basically
just like all the establishment
candidates in general well all basically
went to Wall Street yeah well my
understanding is there was a story that
that Gillibrand Booker and Harris did I
mean look I I personally agree with you
but I don't I don't want to I don't want
to say this too
specifically I'm not convinced frankly
that well first off you should recall
Hillary Clinton got a lot more votes
than Bernie Sanders did I mean there was
a lot of people are willing to vote for
her in the Democratic primary I mean she
was a more popular candidate Democrats
okay don't say that again or I'll hang
up on you because I'm going to give you
the benefit of the doubt the the only
thing that was rigged in her favor there
was an attempt to rig it in her favor
and I think it actually cut against her
was the way that the DNC scheduled the
debates okay there is no other there is
no other rigging of the election did
they want and not only not only did they
not change votes towards her they didn't
have the ability to do anything that
would drive more votes to her they just
there was a half a dozen people in the
office who wanted her to win and the
only thing that they had the power over
was the debate schedule and I'm quite
convinced that that ended up
hurting her now it's possible Bernie
could have gotten more popular but that
that is not why Bernie lost all right
but now that said the fact is wait a
second the fact is there was a lot of
Democrats who voted for Hillary Clinton
the idea that your average Democratic
primary voter if they hear that their
that that Kamala Harris is going to the
same fundraisers as Hillary Clinton is
going to dissuade them from voting from
her for her if they're inclined to vote
for her is it's it's it's bizarre it's
bizarre well it's not think it would did
like I wouldn't say it was like this way
but I'm saying there's the stigma that
the Clintons have nowadays it's a lot
more toxic in a way that it wasn't 2016
it's for them I think it's like I think
like I think if Hillary Clinton ran
today I think the vast majority not the
vast majority but certainly the majority
of her supporters would be like don't do
this I I think they would be I think I
think they would say that the moment is
passed you got screwed and but don't do
this but I don't think they're gonna say
that about someone that Hillary Clinton
thinks is good they're not gonna say
that about Kamala Harris because any
more than they would support any more
than they would support Kristin
Gillibrand because the Clintons are mad
at her for saying that
Bill Clinton should have resigned right
like I don't think P I don't think
Kristin Gillibrand is gonna get a lot of
votes because Hillary Clinton is not
supportive of her and I also don't think
that Kamala Harris is going to lose any
votes because Hillary Clinton is
supportive of her I just don't think
that's going to happen and I think to
tell yourself that suggests to me that
you need to get a better sense of where
Democrats are because if someone like
Warren or you support someone like
Warren or Sanders you need to be smarter
in terms of what how you sell them to
these other Democrats because it's not I
can assure you saying that
Laurie Clinton as donator you know don't
donators are going to support Kamala
Harris is not going to keep one person
from voting from Kamala Harris that was
going to vote for her before I don't
think I just don't know so let me so let
me rephrase it in another way to say
it's basically so obviously it looks
that Kamala Harris is basically the
establishment like darling in a way
right would you agree with that I think
it's starting to shape up that way it's
a little bit early but I think yeah I
think that's right yeah right so
basically the point I'm making is that
so basically the fact is and I'm just
gonna point out the obvious that she's a
black woman it's basically a way that
the establishment can basically just go
either people who oppose her stances are
basically they're racist or sexist and
basically that's like the way that I see
it in a way and that if you bring up the
stuff like I just mentioned with the
Clinton stuff and then her prosecuting
history
they're basically they're just going to
like be outraged with that kind of I I I
think if you bring up the Clinton stuff
it's gonna be just silly okay
I think the prosecuting stuff is legit I
think the idea that she gets money from
Wall Street legit I don't think I don't
think it's helpful to bring up Clinton
in this context because I think people
who imagine that someone's going to
change their vote based upon a
realization that someone is in good
favor with Hillary Clinton I think is
deluding themselves I say this I I will
say this in terms of talking to normal
people like there there are some people
who love and worship the Clintons who
think that they do something for people
that they do not and then there's people
who totally hate the Clintons who think
that they detract in a ways they do not
it I mean I just agreeing with him it
really doesn't matter and I would watch
I mean I put up a video you know we did
the
what happened before' TM yes but I think
we actually covered this similarly on
majority report on Thursday like you
gonna have to be really smart about how
you talk about Kamala Harris because of
some of the dynamics you've identified
but just focus on Wall Street and
prosecution and other relevant issues
that's it and I I mean I think the the
the idea is that bringing up these there
are people who just assume and and I
think it's really a mistaken assumption
it's one thing to say that like okay
Clinton is not you know it lost and
there's no reason to to try and revive
Hillary Clinton but it is a mistake to
assume that those millions more people
who voted for Clinton over Bernie
Sanders didn't want Clinton to win and
it is it is a delusion and rather than
even litigate that point now I would
suggest to you that keep that to
yourself because it's not going to be
effective anybody you anybody you who
has who even is slightly interested in
that line of reasoning is not going to
vote for Kamala Harris anyways and so I
think the idea is yeah you could talk
about the prosecutorial stuff I think
that's only gonna go so far frankly I
think the the question is really in
terms of who's gonna carry who is that's
gonna resonate with is if there are
members of the advocacy groups for
people living in poverty if there are
members of the african-american
community who speak up against those
that type of prosecutorial vigor because
largely those are the people people of
color who are subject who are on the
other end of that okay if they speak up
I think that it's gonna be more of a
problem for her than it is if you know
people who are supporting Elizabeth
Warren do Freeman
but let me finish and and then I would
say it is really just more of a question
of you know how compared her programs to
those of Elizabeth Warren compared her
programs to those of Bernie Sanders who
are putting real substantive policy
proposals on the table that are meant to
achieve certain goals and I would also
really really if you really want to be
helpful make it clear that anybody can
beat Donald Trump because the biggest
argument you're going to get with Kamala
Harris is that she can win and Bernie
and Elizabeth Warren can't and that is
simply not the case
that's you know I mean if you're talking
about strategic that's the way it is so
kind of a red herring from the
establishment well that's why I'm saying
it is here there because bets I mean
that is I think it is a red herring and
the other thing is and Michael misses
point that if Bernie wins the nomination
if Elizabeth Warren wins the nomination
if Kamala Harris wins the nomination if
Peter Budaj inger whatever the guys name
is when the determination got it
Hillary Clinton's gonna campaign with
them and they're gonna want Hillary
Clinton to campaign with him all those
people and so unless you're prepared to
say I'm not voting for that person
because Hillary Clinton is being
supportive of them you got it we you got
to start mentally preparing yourself
yeah you got it and I and I say that as
someone who does not like for I mean we
just mentioned tenderers before I don't
like Hillary Clinton but she got to be
real about it and you also got to
realize like inside the Democratic base
I don't know what the latest polls are
but I'm sure if we polled I'm sure
nationally overall she's unpopular and
I'm sure amongst Democrats she still has
a favorable rating so final point two
and on that one so so you bring that up
but I'm just just your thoughts so back
in the midterms when Gilliam was
obviously the candidate so I mean
because there were four that said he
was helping him as well and I think
election day he had like a five-point
lead didn't he I don't know but I know
that uh Nelson did better than him and
Nelson is also good support looks to
people look to the Bradley effect as to
why he underperformed his polls
definitely not and again I you know
you'd have to even get you didn't have
to think about this Nelson did better
than him do you think that there were a
bunch of progressives going I'm gonna
vote for Nelson but I'm not gonna vote
for Gilliam because Gilliam had Hillary
Clinton help her no that's absurd it's
absurd so like look you honestly like
you just there is this this the the
hatred for Clinton drives some people to
be irrational and irrationality is not
going to be helpful in this situation so
that's the only thing I would tell you
it is not going to be helpful in this
situation there is there is literally a
dozen things that that could have
happened to Hillary Clinton or could
have been done differently by Hillary
Clinton and she would be in her third
year of her administration that that any
number of those things would have swung
70,000 votes and so you know out of two
hundred and twenty thirty million votes
70,000 okay so I may just keep that in
mind appreciate the call
Wow my god can't wait to talk about
super-delegates again please stop doing
these calls because I really really
really really really don't like Hillary
Clinton and I don't appreciate being in
a position where you have to clarify
obvious things by the way I mean I did
look up cuz I wanted to underline the
point because I assume she campaigned
with Nelson - Nelson did refuse to
campaign with her oh she did
so maybe Gilliam shouldn't have
campaigned with her but that ain't why
he lost no - Ron DeSantis like guys and
that's also really it's both not
strategic and it's offensive he lost
because of race obviously he lost to a
overtly racist candidate it's not
because he did a hit with Hillary
Clinton and all of a sudden a bunch of
people were just like you know would I
was all for Medicare but when I saw
Andrew Gilliam criticise Medora room
campaign from Hillary Clinton forget it
when I saw him dab with her on that
stage man that's when he lost me I
thought he was a real progressive I
thought did with Fidel come from nine
one six Terry cut who's this where he
come from hi my name is Eduardo speaking
from California hey Eduardo what's
what's on your mind hi I've been
watching guys I mean you listener and
watching guys for like about a week so I
don't want to make any assumptions on
what you guys believe in or not okay but
I apologize in advance if I do I'm I'm a
Marxist and I'm really sort of maybe a
bit annoyed or confused with the term
democratic socialism because I mean aoc
and Bernie they they advocate for social
democratic policy right but you know
they use democratic socialism and they
don't use any rhetoric because of
socialism like nice like you know
workers only the means of production
right polishing capitalism etc right so
to his credit wouldn't even be better
for him to just say social democracy
instead of friends of the heat that
socialism shakes in this country well
alright I would say I would say this I
don't think socialism takes the heat
that you think it does anymore
hey B I find okay that Marxists are far
more hung up on the specifics of these
terms than your average American voter
like I mean like I can assure you that
they could he could say I'm a Social
Democrat or I'm a Democratic Socialist
and 99.9% of the people are gonna vote
for anybody left of you know Jeb Bush
don't care they don't care they just
don't care I mean so um I think I I mean
from a from a like a purely political
perspective I don't know why if I was
them I would make that distinction I
mean I think look the reality is I think
they are Social Democrats you know to
the extent but but but that doesn't even
mean anything in America right like you
know like people say that stuff is I you
know who you you know who used to call
themselves the first person I heard on
television called himself a Social
Democrat David Lawrence O'Donnell
lawrence O'Donnell lawrence O'Donnell
did and I you know like that was his way
of saying like oh right now I think I
should be perceived as being to the left
of where I am and but in a way that
really can't translate one-for-one in a
value and yeah I mean it's it doesn't
you know here's the thing and and and
and I feel like people who are steeped I
don't want to make a generalization
either but I will people who are steeped
in knowledge of political philosophy
feel like it's very important that they
label themselves in a very accurate way
and that other people label themselves
in an accurate way but most people don't
care about I'm an equatorial
post-transition communist just to be
clear but I also I just want to say like
I think right now yeah it totally
doesn't matter and it's if anything I
mean it's it's an amusing distraction
for people who care about that stuff at
best on the other hands I mean maybe
look I think you could say a couple
years ago that you know essentially some
version of like progressive was as far
as you could go and now I actually would
say I think there are some meaningful
conversations that aren't totally
abstract of a difference between yeah I
guess we could say Social Democratic
versus liberal progressive politicians
no no I think this is my point B
substances is different but no but these
are the point no I agree but the point
I'm making is if we got to a place in
five or ten years where there was
actually a policy distinction between
like essentially debates on how much of
the private sector you want to make
public and then all of a sudden those
terms became a stand-in for something
substantive that would be cool but
that's not where we are right yeah but I
even think even then frankly I mean
because I Got News for you the word
progressive ten years ago right was
introduced or 15 years ago was
introduced because people were afraid to
call themselves liberal and now it's
like oh like the and they weren't afraid
themselves to call themselves liberal
because they were afraid of being
attacked from the left they were afraid
of being attacked from the right so
people started calling themselves
progressive as a way of saying like I'm
not liberal but not because I'm to the
left of liberal it was because it was
just a different term I mean these terms
are I think like what is important is
the policies that they're suggesting
right and this the the use of shorthand
for these policies I think that's that's
fine to talk about things from an
academic perspective and perhaps like in
a you know shorthand in the context of
people who are heavily steeped in in in
politics but broadly speaking the
American public don't care they don't
care they don't care they definitely a
and though just a quick shout out I am
Brazilian I've been to the United States
for about 15 years and just want to
thank you guys for doing a lot of
coverage of what's going on bazzill with
Bernardo and stuff
it definitely means a lot because you
know as a Brazilian now I've been pretty
much freaking out this past year like
all this stuff going on I bet I still
have a lot of family there so yeah
thanks a lot guys know that do you have
an opinion you know when this was coming
up with a Oh see if she's a real
socialist there was the the thing about
the worker can owns the means of
production right yeah and this might get
me in trouble with some people but I
think the Labour Party used a common
ownership of the means of production
instead right I think that makes a lot
more sense in this context can
especially considering environmental
yeah that makes a lot more sense to me
considering environmental issues right
like rather than money the industries no
I I think my only point is that I think
the more you move like I think actually
labor is a good example because some of
the proposals that Corbin and McDonald
have in their manifesto on worker owned
businesses and the other types of things
you're talking about is a tick to the
left of what is on the table from
Sanders right now and so if you started
having people like AOC put out proposals
like the government is gonna state funds
workers taking over their businesses and
that's what I mean by being or whatever
I mean the terminology is still
secondary but I just think this space
you open up yes is it terminology I mean
this it is I think you more show out of
time than that because I don't care in
London they have a parliamentary system
of government and so having that level
of specificity is sometimes advantageous
in this country having that level of
specificity is definitely a detriment
because you until unless we get a system
of government where there can actually
be coalition's of actual different
parties you don't want to say like I am
exclude like I'm in a silo the size of
you know a pencil in the context of
these other dozen that's actually why
the only word that I've been pretty
adamant about using and trying to
detoxify I mean Marxism because I think
actually that's just literally like
saying you know this is a import
an intellectual tradition and stopping
children about it and that's socialist
because socialism means something and I
think Jenny and to me I mean that in the
broadest possible sense I mean
everything from Bernie to Thomas Sankara
fits that category I mean it must in my
opinion socialism only has to mean what
four years sort of utopian socialism
where everyone lives in 1600 person
communes and exactly
yeah we've totally abolished money Marx
really really mess with the meaning when
he came around all right we got we got
time for one more caller call him from a
three four seven area code who's this
where you come from how's it hanging my
name is Florida yeah what's up but
that's hanging down there
sänger even calling uh I don't
understand your obsession with Sam
Harris
I don't now it's not hanging good Paul
okay so you don't understand my
obsession with Sam Harris well I think
you don't understand if you perceive it
as an obsession I don't know that I've
mentioned Sam Harris's name on the show
in months particularly but if you're
asking me Mike is writing a book about
it but but but listen here's the problem
with it let me tell you what I think the
problem is with Sam Harris I think the
problem with Sam Harris is that he gives
intellectual credence to some very toxic
ideas
he gives intellectual credence to some
very toxic people and he does so to
people who obviously I have some
crossover with in terms of an audience
and so I feel it is my responsibility to
make people aware of that okay I
understand I can understand
you think that about him but what I'm
wondering is uh you think do you think
he's intentionally trying to do that do
you think he has ulterior motives ill
intentions well I don't care it's
irrelevant a minute sir well it's
irrelevant to me whether he's doing it
because it's it's relevant to me whether
he's doing it because he's stupid or
he's evil or he's just looking to make
money or he's a celebrity hound it
doesn't matter I think he's either
stupid or evil or stupid and evil or
he's and obviously I'm being a little
bit hyperbolic I don't know that he's
evil I think he's bad person or he's
just he just wants Fame or or wealth or
just as a narcissist I don't know it
doesn't matter I don't know I don't know
I don't think that you can be well
intended if you think that the idea is
that you're gonna write off a billion
people as have a subscribing to an idea
that you have decided is fundamentally
wrong I don't know if you can be well
intentioned because let me finish
I don't know wait let me finish let me
finish I don't know if you can be
well-intentioned and just you know judge
you know just sort of like whimsically a
debate whether you know provided an
apology for torture at an era when we
are debating it as a fundamental
principle in the country I don't know if
you could be well intentioned maybe you
could come up with a with an argument
that you can be well intentioned to do
that and maybe I could too
but I don't know it doesn't matter it
doesn't matter I don't care I don't know
what your intentions are for cause I
don't know if you're a good person wait
let me finish
I'm you listeners tanga I'm
gonna hang up on you yeah I'm gonna give
him one but listen I don't know what
your intentions are you could be a good
person you could be a bad person you
could be a smart person you could be a
dumpers no you're annoying you could be
doing this because you're getting paid
by somebody you could be doing this as a
bat or a lark you could be doing this to
impress a man you could be doing this to
impress a woman you could be doing this
so that your dad loves you you could be
doing this because your mom loves you
you can do this just because you're
bored it doesn't matter to me oh he hung
up it doesn't matter to me
oh wait maybe you didn't what what
number who's calling from no 3:40
oh yeah okay you could be doing it for
all sorts of reasons
it doesn't matter the reality is you've
wasted more of my time than I probably
should have allowed and I it it that's
the reality
oh no and here's another reality again I
gotta say and then you could say good
say your piece Michael you look at
Tara's fans and have critics it seems to
me like both of them don't really
understand what Harris is saying I think
I think I think Harris critics think
that he's I'm also bigoted I can see why
they think that but I also think his
fans thank you the Muslim bigoted and
they and they like him for it and when I
read I read some of his books I've
listened someone's podcasts you know I
familiarize myself the same here I said
I do not see whatever it is that you see
these critics Andy supporters think he's
a Muslim bigoted but we should all
listen to you all right let me let
Michael have the final word hello she I
mean I'll just say this because I mean
first of all I find it in general
bizarre the emotional stakes that people
have in this but and I think Eid
homonyms are fun and funny but a the
frame that it's an obsession to
criticize somebody who unfortunately is
an important public figure I wish he
wasn't
I was she just had a few men
Taoiseach naps and weird ideas about
Muslims and was irrelevant but
unfortunately there's a lot of people
that ask us about him and there's a big
poisoning that he has in the culture we
haven't even talked about the bell curve
stuff right we haven't even talked about
the complete misrepresentation I
differently less important areas like
Buddhism so like and and and yes that's
another good tip you might one thing you
do share with his fans is that nobody
seems to interpret him correctly and
it's all profoundly right right that is
also another critique that he just tries
he's so slippery that no one can
understand him like God of course like
thousands of years of history and then
easy to understand I it'll brow bubble
of you that interview was a pre-tape
right was it a pre-tape on Friday yeah
yeah Michaelson interview with um
Michael stop was it Michael stop who was
talking about oh yeah who wrote a book
about the intellectual history of of IQ
race measure man and and what what
Samaras did in rehabilitating to or
introducing him to a whole new crew of
people who are not you know who is is
reprehensible Murray
yeah well Sam Harrison introducing
people to charles murray all over again
but then also in mainstreaming people
like Jordan Peterson and Dave Rubin and
he may have had some hesitancy to be
lumped in with those guys but you know
for a guy who has so many platforms I
haven't maybe I've missed it where he
said I don't want to be lumped in with
them they have toxic ideas but all right
we've run out of time also I just but
just this notion I mean look it does
piss me off I won't pretend that doesn't
piss me off
obsession like well you're like we're
obsessed with the presidential
candidates I mean this is in the lane of
what we cover and just because it hurts
your feelings because you have some
weird fixation on the guy there's
nothing I can do for you I'm sorry if it
upsets you
[Music]
it is funny though that like there is a
there it he there is something about him
that creates a need to be the one to
explain and defend him right yeah we
think it has something to do with like a
rank value of what you think is most
important because the people who think
is how self-help stuff is like just so
good for the world I mean yeah ways
everything I know is here's a guy who's
defending him to his own supporters i
mean i think sam harris sells himself is
like this is how you understand that it
complex things so that's what people are
buying and they're not gonna act like
they haven't bought it or they have
right like i now have his skeleton key
is exactly right exactly
if i say to you you're smarter for
listening to me that ladies and
gentleman you and i you know and i don't
say it explicitly or sometimes i do
you're smarter for listening to me so
when you support me what you're really
supporting is the fact that you're smart
keep that in mind that's what it you
know chris ryan had a thing with him
where you know his fans were trying to
like harass him into getting him on the
show and i remember the only selling a
part of the exchange though it was like
chris ryan was like really only part of
this that's interesting is like why does
it matter to you so much that i like
this guy it is i really do think it's
that like when if it's validation it's
validation well with that folks we
didn't even get to ions today i
apologize see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
