[Music]
last night I guess it was two nights ago
in Michigan a Republican now it's hard
to know who was in this in this
auditorium in Michigan he's a Republican
don't agree with him on much some things
though I mean he's one of those guys I
think probably on some of the national
Kirti issues I would agree with it's
hard to know who's in this facility in
Grand Rapids Michigan but I saw one clip
where at least one of the he was a
retired vet fought in Vietnam was
commemorating I guess it was fifty years
I think he said that one of his buddies
was killed on that day
and he said something to the effect of
like do we get a do-over on our vote for
the president which suggested me at
least some of them in there were voters
of Donald Trump anyways when Amash went
into this room he got a standing ovation
for an extended period of time for
calling for impeachment and here he is
making the case at a town hall I think
it's really important that we do our job
as a congress that we not allow
misconduct to go undeterred that we not
just say someone can buy
across and that there are no
consequences to it and if if you give a
chance I encourage you all to read the
tweets where it lays all of this out
mothers report lays all of this out and
I'm confident that if you read Volume
two you will be appalled at much of the
conduct and and I was appalled by it and
and that's why I stated what I stated
that's why I came to that conclusion
because I think we can't go we can't let
conduct like that go unchecked Congress
has a duty to keep the president in
check and it is a difficult process for
those who are worried about you know
Congress intruding on the President's
powers consistently it is a difficult
process to remove someone from office
it's not easy so no one's suggesting
that just because you start some inquiry
or process that a person's remove from
office nonetheless we have a job to do
and I think we owe it to the American
people to to represent them to ensure
that the people we have in office are
doing the right thing are of good
character aren't violating the public
trust I mean Nancy Pelosi can't figure
out how to sell it to the American
public she just basically copy
everything he just said but also good
luck with that
as a Republican well yes and we'll get
to that in just a moment actually but I
mean if Justin Amash can figure it out
if he can figure out how to be
politically viable in this instance
there's no reason why the Democrats can
and I mean he's laying out the the path
for it admit it's getting you know at
one point this is the my you know this
is
you hear a lot of assessments that I
think are wrong anyways of what happened
during the Clinton years and I certainly
understand why Donald Trump might think
it's in his best interest to get
impeached he very well may be trying to
get impeached I don't know it wouldn't
be completely irrational of him to
assume that it would work out well but
the one thing that's definitively clear
that was not the case during the Clinton
impeachment is there was no cost for
Republicans to not impeach there is a
building cost for Democrats to not
impeach this stuff is not gonna go away
it's not gonna go away and to the extent
that it does go away it's only because
Trump's gonna do other horrible things
that are gonna make people to like why
didn't we deal with this like it's not
like like I'm just curious as to what
the the Democratic leadership thinks is
going to happen between now and the 2020
election that is going to mean if their
plan works and Trump you know does stuff
that's horrible and hoist himself on his
own petard that's just gonna remind
everybody that the the Democrats did not
impeach him did not even try to hold him
to account if Trump does I don't know
like he does an infrastructure bill that
everybody loves I don't think that's
gonna happen but how does that help the
Democrats like there is no it is sort of
fascinating that I understand wanting to
capture the moment but the election is
not tomorrow the election is in 18
months and sometimes like you you wish
that everybody's sentiments that exist
today you could freeze them in amber and
show up November 6th or wherever it is
2020 but that's just not the way it
works if we could just bottle the
feeling that everybody had about Hillary
when she was looking at her phone on Air
Force One in 2012 yeah exactly
they're so bad at this
