a State Department has ordered
non-emergency embassy staff to leave
Iraq why well of course it's because a
travel advisory warned numerous
terrorist and insurgent groups are
active in Iraq regularly attacking both
Iraqi security and forces and civilians
anti-us sectarian militias that may also
threaten us with citizens and Western
companies throughout Iraq it is a an
attempt to make it seem and to build
this narrative that somehow Iran is
attacking America tried to do it with
this story of the boats unfortunately
they forgot to damage the Saudi boats
that were supposedly attacked by Iran or
Iranian proxies got to you've got to if
you're going to try and start up war
you've got to look back into history and
realize you need to sink these boats you
need to do some damage on it if you're
going to do it
US lawmakers are upset because they are
in the dark and in terms of of what's
going on in Iran I think we're I don't
know we may update that tree to Parsi
that diffic a fire that we're going to
play maybe a Memorial Day I think it's
going to be consistent Michael had an
updated talk with him the other night
but the bottom line is the the
understanding at least from people on
the outside is that Bolton and Pompeyo
and the neo-cons wanna war with Iran
Donald Trump of course has no sense of
whether he wants a war or not he just
wants to have a win if he can if he can
make a new deal with them I guess that
could be exactly the same as the old
deal but he gets to credit for it he
would be happy with that he thinks
that's what Pompeyo and Bolton they're
doing they are telling him we are trying
to be tough and bring him to the
negotiation table when of course
Michael and I were talking about this
before it's easy to say you could do
that with North Korea because they have
no to the extent that they have internal
politics it is much more like Game of
Thrones stuff or they don't worry about
the populous but in Iran they actually
have like broad swaths of of politics
that involve a domestic opinion and
whatnot so leaders are constrained there
by that and there are different
competing factions as to what should
happen
we're in regards to the United States
what will be the what will protect them
as much it's not just a dude drinking
Cristal who you know likes to have Trump
there and I'm gonna talk him up although
that didn't work for Trump and so what
we have are is a basically a rudderless
administration with some factions in the
administration paddling in one direction
hoping that they'll get caught into a
current and the current will do the rest
of the work and that is a spiral into
war and that's where we're at
supposedly US lawmakers are in the dark
that's what members of Congress are
saying but Lindsey Graham says I think
all of us are in the dark over here well
Tom cotton seems to be able to see in
the dark here he is on firing line wood
that was this Margaret Hoover is I don't
know could we win a war with Iran yes
that didn't take you a second to strikes
the first strike in the last strike what
other conditions or the circumstances
that would justify going to war cause
you know that sounds really glib and
it's supposed to project that he knows
what he's talking about but we just went
through two wars that lasted about 18
years we still have people there it just
depends on how you want to define a war
so it's also conceivable to not have
that last strike in fact I think we've
had that last strike
multiple times in both those countries
those pronouncements but it sounds
really glib say yes we can win any war
we want to I think history has shown
that that's not the case but Tom cotton
is understands that if I say it
confidently enough it'll make it sound
like it actually is a something that
means something this is my earth right
well if we're on struck out militarily
against the United States or against our
allies in the region then I would have
certainly expect a devastating response
against a run as somebody who fought in
two fronts in the Middle East both in
Iraq and in Afghanistan do you think it
would be a good idea to go to war with
Iran no I don't advocate military action
against Iran
I'm simply delivering the message that
if Iran were to attack the United States
it would be a grave miscalculation on
their part and there would be a furious
response now we don't want to govern the
run we don't want to rule 80 million
Iranians we want 80 million or onions to
be able to govern themselves where are
you on regime change what I want this to
have an outlaw regime change its
behavior to rejoin the civilized world
and stop supporting terrorism and trying
to overthrow the governments of so many
of its neighbors ultimately it's up to
their onion people and their leaders to
decide how they're going to govern their
country but with men like those in
charge of Iran I think we're gonna see
what we've seen for the last 40 years
which is a revolutionary theological
movement that's hijacked the powers of a
nation-state
I wonder if that means on any level to
you that war is inevitable war is never
inevitable war is always the product of
human choices yeah like for instance if
you break a deal that is the first step
in achieving what he wants to achieve
and it's a huge first step massive first
step I mean this is dangerous because
they really are basically just setting
up we're just going to keep putting
ourselves close enough
threatening enough to the regime so that
if something goes awry and it can be
perceived as an attack on us
well then we would have to have
devastating responses I mean it's really
problematic I would imagine they are
setting up an attack by a proxy as it
were but we will continue to watch this
Tommie rotten was a prime you know also
you know somebody who tried to destroy
the initial deal with poison pills and
what's amazing is that all of these
ancillary issues which at some of them
you have to figure out some of them the
United States just has to stop trying to
demand you know other countries submit
to its will on every single thing but
the whole precision of how this deal
worked was that it didn't include all
these ancillary issues and was a success
as a result of it and everybody needs to
be reminded that there is absolutely no
institution on earth including him to
the Trump administration that denies
that Iran wasn't living up to its
obligation that's right what happened
was there was a very specific call to
bipartisan to deal specifically with the
Iran's nuclear program and the Obama
administration pursued that exclusive
agenda not whether Iran was funding
Hamas not whether they were providing
food for you know factions in Yemen not
whether they were supportive of
Hezbollah not whether they were involved
in Iraq
none of it it was specifically the
development of nuclear weapons step one
massive step massive step they took it
they were successful they were there we
had it no one contends that this was
broken and as soon as that deal was
signed every single Republican was like
it doesn't include stuff that we
specifically didn't want included in the
first place and now we have a way of
attacking it it really is stunning and
it's super scary
