[Music]
so dollar up still looking for someone
to put on the Federal Reserve and
Stephen Moore despite the fact that he
on national television said I get a
pretty big learning curve for this
little steep but I can handle it and I
desperately need a job probably not one
of the guys that you want to be
overseeing the monetary policy of the
country but he's still making his case
he's better than Herman Cain well part
of what some of the things you're
writing show are to summit observers
saying it shows that you're not
qualified because of your views on
gender including things like Pay Equity
I want to point out something you wrote
in a 2014 column you actually asked what
are the implications of deciding which
women earn more than men we don't really
know but it could be disruptive to
family stability a lot of people look at
it that supposed to mean I just want I
just want to make it clear he wrote this
in 2014 not 1914 2014 we don't know what
could happen if women actually start
making this is this is basically a
movement to put an in sell on on the
federal is this Jordan Peterson right
here yeah a lot of people look at it and
said what do you mean by that well look
first of all when you look at what's
happened under Donald Trump and what's
happening with wages now and increases
income I think prosperity and economic
growth are our women's issue there they
benefit you know blacks they benefit
minorities this is us as you just said
this is a sizzling economy right right
now I'm very proud to have played a role
in this I was a senior economic advisor
with Larry Kudlow to that campaign it's
a really really strong economy women
have benefited you know right there the
lowest unemployment rate for women and
50
now you know in right in that article
you're taking on legislation designed to
close the wage gap what we are closing
the wage gap I mean the way to close the
wage gap is by creating a healthy
economy right now we have 7.1 million
7.1 million more jobs than people that
are filling them right now that's
allowing women minorities others to
where to increase their wages I mean
look I'm happy and proud of the fact
that I've played a small role in
creating an economy today that's
probably as good as it's been in 20
years in terms of the labor force issues
right now George this is the best labor
market for workers in your in my
lifetime I mean look I'm not gonna
apologize for that I think it's a
fantastic thing I just want them when it
comes to wages and and you know gender
equity I want that to be decided by the
market I don't want government to
intervene those kinds of you know yeah I
mean do we have more of this what is
Stephanopoulos do after this like he's
just sat there as more is specifically
not answering his question and just
going on and on in a desperate attempt
to ingratiate himself with Donald Trump
so he gets a point to the Fed I mean
this is this is one of the most naked
well we'll have to leave it there we
have to have Megan McCain on to incite
ignite I bail on Omar I de
Stephanopoulos follow this up by going
like loosen I first off I want to
apologize for asking you to apologize
for all the success that you've had I
really apologize for that women have
benefited you know right there you're
the lowest unemployment rate for women
15 right you know in right in that
article you're taking on legislation
designed to close the wage you don't
even fit me and as good as it's been in
20 years in terms of the labor force
issues right now George this is the best
labor market for workers in your in my
lifetime I mean I look I'm not gonna
apologize litter equity I want that to
be decided by the market I don't want
government to intervene in those kinds
of things your fate is in the hands of
the Senate including some female
senators and there's no Hollins
we're like what like what is going like
is he is he like contractually obligated
to not make his his his into his
subjects to answer the question I mean
this is it's almost up it's bizarre
asking well it's like a total Gaslight
like wait a second are we supposed to
believe that he answered that question
it really is stunning I mean I just
don't understand like surely
Stephanopoulos was aware that he's not
answering the question he's just decided
like well I did the whole thing where
you ask twice you know get the answer
you just move on he could at least
register that he did not answer the
question right right just so that my
audience doesn't think they're
completely insane I'm not going to
pretend like you answered the question
you clearly don't want to answer all of
what you just said there's no reason to
believe that if you think it will
destabilize the family unit if women
make more because of legislation then
you would if they just based on the
mazing success of Donald Trump but they
don't need to address that and he did
good I like him he praised me and better
than Herman Cain better than Herman Cain
he also thinks that it wants to see kids
11 and 12 working he's are kind of a
radical on that sort of thing
I'm sure I'm sure he was really in the
fields I think sure he was in the fields
when he was growing up wonder what that
would do for our social systems if we
reintroduced child sweatshop labor even
more stability right I don't want to
deny those kids the chance to succeed
that's right
