we have a special guest I want to make
sure that we bring him out and then we
were going to open up some questions and
we also have a video of a very
disturbing thing that's happening
amongst listeners of the show but we got
there I want to bring out a very good
friend of mine ladies and gentlemen he
is the voice of the majority
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you so much thank you so good to
be here
how's it going hello gang hello looking
good I'm a funny guy yeah you hear it's
really psyched psyched to be here in
Brooklyn
it's like to be on a podcast I love it
loving it it's great to see you I think
for folks to see you in the flesh as
opposed to here you just a lot of people
don't know what I look like and you look
like John may I see you quite a bit so
it's true
I saw you probably a couple days ago
right it's gonna say have you lost some
wagers I lost weight in the last like a
couple months I've been eating less
trying to stay healthy and and that's a
big thank you thank you for pointing
that out
I have not eaten there yet but yeah no I
am I've been getting myself into some
shape and I think I've lost nine pounds
forehead is shrunk a little bit well I'm
not wearing my heart and I did get a
haircut
actually this morning we've got a
haircut
I was longer on the side and it was
actually shorter in the front in fact I
mean I think like I used to push it back
I think that's probably what you not
only didn't like push it back it like
almost wasn't there in the front all
right I I got a haircut this morning and
then I did take a nap and I ran over
here cuz I was late and I'd you know
have my cap on so it did not get a
chance to you know I fixed my hair I
don't think I'm talking about your hair
I know I thought what are you talking
about
let me see if I can just pull something
up here we just pull up a picture of
Stephen Miller
I just don't be so harsh reminiscing and
I just want to see if you see something
that might they may comment on something
yeah just comment on a picture
yeah that's the Steven Miller the guy
from that yeah the Trump guy right
that's the drunk guy yes that's him on a
Sunday morning talk show we can get a
picture of him on a Monday afternoon
show no does he look like me or
something or what cuz I don't look like
that
yeah but yo whoa yeah I see what he did
there that's pretty embarrassing
like he with his hair or something
we put on fake hair I'm not sure he
could have shaved I mean you got to be
an idiot to do something like that if
you're it's odds like if it's gonna be
so obvious I would feel like that
there's my comment on that I'm not a fan
of its politics obviously either but I
do would say he is one of the more
stylish members of the Trump
I mean if I had to rate them I you know
like his skinny tie is not an ad he's
scoff I you know I
and I have to say like he looks pretty
good you know with the with the with the
fake hair it'd be pretty vain to do
something like this you looking to do
more on-camera work these days yeah I
don't want to get my myself out there my
face out there a little bit more than I
usually do one second assistant
[Applause]
sorry I just had those are the vitamin
powder vitamins that I've been taking we
go to the same doctor you so you must
know about this stuff sure topic topic
is a powder - five minutes goes through
the scalp and absorbs it to the
bloodstream faster because the scalp
actually you know the other night nice
head of hair as as do I so you can
relate yeah maybe it might be for the
best a little bit of awkward around here
yeah I'm sorry to make it awkward right
yeah let's show a show a Tucker Carlson
clip the whole show just show a talk
across and show live on the on the
 big screen that's that's I mean
I've personally been to a few Tucker
Carlson show viewing parties in my day
and and they they it can get a little
crazy they have as much pedantic
interruptions or do you just watch no
commercial guy with you going posit now
this is really interesting
I just went ten seconds without pausing
it which I know is it
