folks you remember what's this guy's
name now Jason Miller Jason Miller of
course Jason Miller not to be confused
with John Miller the alias that Donald
Trump would use when he would call media
people back in the day Jason Miller was
a former senior campaign aide to Donald
Trump he had to leave after he had an
affair with another former aide to
Donald Trump and they had a child out of
wedlock and Jason Miller of course was
married to someone else and the I don't
even know if Jason Miller in that woman
taught they had a very rocky and I think
that was public I'm not going to say her
name it's not important to this story
because apparently Jason Miller was
super busy at that time because if
you're gonna have one lady on the side
why wouldn't you have two and so
according to court documents or I should
say according to reporting by Caitlyn
Krueger right is that who was and she
works at a buzz Flener at splinter
there was a story that she wrote that
Jason Miller had impregnated a woman and
or you know it had an affair with a
woman and the woman got pregnant and the
woman he was afraid that she was going
to carry the baby to term so he made a
smoothie that included the day after
pill and she made these charges after
obviously having a an acute situation
that would follow a taking the day after
pill and so this guy Jason Miller
decided to sue the this woman Caitlyn
Kruger at splinter News
and you know the you had here it is X
CNN pundit Jason Miller files a hundred
million dollar lawsuit over the abortion
pill story now it's very hard to know
what the story is here
maybe the reporter got it wrong
maybe the reporter didn't get it wrong
and Jason Miller knows that if we put
enough money behind a lawsuit we can win
because the other side can't necessarily
defend it so it turns out that Caitlin
Kruger has a boyfriend and this
boyfriend is a guy named will menaker
who of course we've had on this program
a couple of times he is one of the hosts
of Chapo Trap House which apparently
engaged in name-calling and so will man
occur took to Twitter to say to call
Jason Miller a rat-faced baby killer and
Trump PR homunculus and says he's suing
my girlfriend for a hundred million
dollars cool exclamation point and so
now it appears according to court
documents reviewed reviewed by The Daily
Beast that Miller and his legal team
have added will menaker to the hundred
million dollar defamation lawsuit
against splinter news in Gizmodo a media
group and the amended suit filed on
Thursday sites that tweet that rat-faced
baby killer and Trump PR homunculus
Jason Miller is suing my girlfriend for
a hundred million dollars cool Miller is
seeking unspecified damages for it the
suit calls me mad occurs misconduct now
that's a good spin off show first off
I'm not an attorney but Jason Miller is
clearly a public figure right I mean he
was out there he was on national TV
multiple times during the campaign that
alone makes you a public figure so the
defamation laws are that you need to
knowingly report out or to make
accusations without anything backing up
now it seems to me that will men occur
is simply reporting what another
reporter has written now I guess he's
he's saying you know he's made up the
part about rat-faced but that's an
opinion and let's be honest
hmm I mean if I if I was gonna describe
necessarily a bad thing it's not
actually a bad to have a rat face it's
not particularly if your face looks like
a rat and baby-killer is simply you know
I guess the argument is that he he
killed the fetus it was reported that he
killed the fetus I didn't realize well
Medicare was pro-life well Medicare I
don't sue me will push some type of but
what's the theory behind this like what
what what is the theory here that that
will melt like why would you sue will
men know one detail that I think we
might have overlooked is that Miller is
being represented by the same attorneys
that sued Gizmodo media and took down
Gawker with the Terri bow Ella or Hulk
Hogan lawsuit so those guys were funded
by Peter teal as well so this could be
an attempt to finally take down every
aspect of Gizmodo and now they find
maybe an opportunity to throw chappo
chat but I don't understand what the
theory is theory is looking like that
you can attach will menaker to this suit
I mean it's one thing to go after
splinter media but but this is just a
guy you can see like there's no there's
no transitive property where you can sue
something because this is a boyfriend or
girlfriend like you've got on a date so
you're part of this well the theory is
apparently Miller
accusing Kruger and Yasha Ali of being
in cahoots with AJ Delgado who's who
Miller is I guess blaming or was AJ
Delgado was the first woman right that
he had an affair with right and so
apparently this is the this is all a
cabal of people trying to smear Jason
Miller which I mean you can see why
they'd be in a hurry to do that the guy
with his importance and prestige right
the we we've got to go after Miller and
how we gonna do this I know all they did
get the Chapo guys this is the way we'll
take down Miller first happen which
we're going to get we're gonna get
someone who has does a far left wing the
podcast
there's a tremendous amount of
credibility minoccurs an ass that we've
been cultivating for a long time and we
found the perfect person to set him up
ah there we go
who else is he gonna bring in on this
what you sure yeah sure Ali who doesn't
I I don't like his politics
personally I've seen well that's the
exploit makes it even more perfect oh
yeah we're gonna surround him with
different politics take out Jason Miller
funny it's funny because that's what
they're doing
who's it it's all projection from the
Peter teal side oh well yeah well and
the project Veritas thing right like
we're gonna float a fake story or some
fake story is gonna be floated and we're
gonna get our people in the media to run
with it and yeah by the time doing a rat
F which is interesting I wonder if it's
a rat face F stands for face maybe what
we can do
get Miller to grow a goatee therefore
it'll be more difficult to save it as a
rat face does that make it more
difficult or less difficult gonna rat
 the rat face initiate somebody go
get Jason Miller's tail trimmed so that
they when they call him rat face it we
clearly enacted definition I like the
idea though that if we're going to you
know operate or you know activate agent
moniker and Krueger we're gonna do it on
mill I'm gonna do it on Miller right
Miller is the key to the integrated
Pompeo right it was the key to the
entire operation if you could take
Miller out what is Miller doing these
days is he still like is he on CNN
believe he's no he stepped down from CNN
but I believe he's still on the keep
America great reelection campaign and
just to clarify all Splinter did was
report on allegations made in the
lawsuit
they reported on allegations in a
lawsuit perfect we've got them right
exactly where we want them that is
pretty impressive apparently somebody
just stepped up and said we'll pay to
just do this lawsuit you're never gonna
see a dollar this is gonna tie them up
and be a pain in the ass that's so bad
it's total this is a slap suit right
this is a slap suit I mean this goes
without saying but the fact that
individual billionaires have the power
to single-handedly execute any
publication that they don't like because
they like made fun of them or whatever
not great for democracy yeah that's just
a little problem the threat to free
speech right now I wonder if there is
actually like a mechanism to deal with
this
I think it's revolution
well if short of revolution there is a
mechanism to deal with this because I
think like the first amendment would
have seemed to have been well but but
but but clearly they're not going to win
this lawsuit if it was just that
splinter news was just simply reporting
on a a court filing and that was in the
Delgado custody battle and apparently
the filing was sealed so that would be
on Delgado though well no it's not
defamation if you she may have like you
know broken you know she may be in
contempt of court if you release
something that is sealed that's a
different issue but in terms of
defamation just because it's sealed
doesn't it doesn't implicate the
reporter if you get a leak you can write
it I mean even if it's a top-secret
exactly now it's possible if the
reporter did not confer you know the
reporter had to trust somebody either
that they were getting the right
documents or that you know they weren't
being lied to but even then the
defamation laws for a public figure are
much tougher
and this lawsuit is completely nuts
agent Delgado is saying that it she says
I'm just amused at their entire lawsuit
seems to rest on reporter couldn't
report on what was in a court filing
that was sealed and in parentheses she
says hey morons it was never sealed and
isn't sealed and here look at this
nameless faceless affidavit from an
unidentified person denying this yeah I
don't I don't quite follow that but but
what is going on here is completely a
lawsuit to intimidate and so there are
slap laws but maybe this is filed in a
place where there's not a jurisdiction
for that or they don't think that
they're gonna make some money but there
should be a countersuit here because
this is this Malone out the very quiz in
Florida get a Papantonio on it mmm
doesn't do those that small bore buddy
here's the other thing that's total
small bore like there were people who
gleefully watched Gawker go down and had
no sympathy for them because it wasn't a
very sympathetic scenario to a lot of
people right they published someone's
sex tape without their consent but the
First Amendment isn't just for people
that you like and things that you like
and I saw I didn't like I mean I thought
it was kind of a shitty move of Gawker
but like I understood the broader
implications and that this is a slippery
slope and we're seeing it right now
absolutely
