[Music]
if you want to bring in a voice of
reason in this question about Ilan Omar
who better than the former felon who
used one of the apartments set aside for
rescue workers down at the 9/11 site to
maintain an affair with was it was it
with who did he have the affair with I
can't remember who he did and Bernie
Kerik a man of a complete lack of of
ethics and morals and credibility do you
have Judith Regan was it did he was he
the one who had it would you with Regan
I was confused between who Giuliani had
his affairs with and who Carrick had his
affairs was the opening line of a 2004
in New York Times story during his use
of the apartment mr. Carrick and Judith
Regan engaged in an extramarital affair
there occurring to someone look that is
called commitment to your job commitment
to your job I don't want to leave the
9/11 site and so I'm going to have my
affairs here guys see if everything's
safe for the workers so if you don't
have an affair in your 9/11 apartment
you're basically letting the terrorists
win now to be fair to characterize a
9/11 after he got out of jail by
becoming a I think he was working with
Giuliani maybe still does by becoming a
consultant to some of the worst
autocratic regimes and oppressive
regimes around the world ostensibly to
protect their national security so who
better than to have on Sean Hannity's
program
the other night to talk about Elon Omar
look I lost 23 people that work for me
we lost 400 first responders and close
to 1,700 people that were in the
building
unbelievable and so and the way I showed
them my proper respect was to engage in
my affair down at the site because I
wanted like I say I wanted to be there I
wanted them to see all of it I wanted to
see all of it coin and so you hear
anti-semitic comments then they comment
really struck by what she said about all
the way they say al Qaeda ha ha no no
we're here here's the issue Shawn she's
infatuated with al Qaeda with Hamas
Hezbollah she was at care at a
fundraiser she was the keynote speaker
at a fundraiser for care which according
to the United Arab Emirates and Arab
nation they are a terrorist organization
they're also the dual indicted
co-conspirator in the homeland and a
number of in the what homeland case the
homeland case so Bernie Kerik just sort
of picking up the mantle maybe not quite
as incendiary as the president of course
then when the president says this stuff
it's just a matter of time right before
he repeats these lies you know this is
this has been going on for a decade and
it's gotten worse and if the Democrats
don't stand up to it nobody's going to
so she's out there and you know frankly
she should be getting a medal for what
she's going through I just want to say
really briefly there's a 2014 report and
the in the Washington Post why has the
UAE deemed care a terrorist group which
obviously it's not deemed terrorist
group in the United States and I quote
briefly it says the UAE s list seems to
be driven by something closer to home
however the very first name included in
is the yo a UAE Muslim Brotherhood
they're fierce opponents of the Muslim
Brotherhood and a significant number of
the more surprising
oceans on the lists have ties to
transnational Islamist group the Muslim
American Society so I mean basically the
point to simplify it is this has
everything to do with a rivalry with
Qatar and internal politics which have
definitely faced criticism from like
typical groups you'd expect like Amnesty
International so that's that's quite a
you know exciting I mean the UAE is also
a partner in the Saudi mass murder of
Yemen right now okay but where was she
while I was having an affair and 9/11 I
was going to say I could assure you
during those attacks I was not a banging
the publisher of enlightenment by OJ
Simpson no see now you're confused
because that is why that is why Rudy
wanted the command center in Manhattan
as opposed to Brooklyn where they had
suggested it so that he could have his
affair and then I just took the one
across the street on the other side see
we basically had the whole Ground Zero
area surrounded and protected from both
the north and the west so that if
anything happened we were there having
an affair when am I allowed to use the
word infidel they also I just want to
note a lot of people are standing with
Ilhan Omar by sending her money she was
one of the top House Democrats in
fundraising this quarter
she raised over six hundred and thirty
thousand dollars from online donors good
that's one thing you can do it is a
great thing to do I have to say
including myself and it was incredibly
satisfying thing to do please do that
