from a 408 area code who's this where
you come from hello hello Oh Ari I'm
calling from the area hello Ari from the
Bay Area what's on your mind I had a
question regarding the upcoming Iran war
which is being ginned up by but its
current administration
I was curious because there's there's
several different contentions on on sort
of what that would entail and it seems
like you know there's obviously sort of
the World War three people that you know
say that automatically you know you know
because the Russian and the Chinese are
heavily invested in Iran that it will
you know become a some sort of you know
potential you know world war situation
but it seems to me that you know sort of
the Wilkerson's and Chomsky's sort of
make the argument that the Chinese and
the Russians would welcome a war with
Iran because they did actually like to
see the United States mired in another
disaster in the Middle East I was just
curious what what you guys take what
based on the type of people you've had
on and your experience with it I mean
issue I I can't imagine anyone in their
right mind thinks that we are going to
be able to and I'll let you go and
answer this and we'll give Michael a
crack at it
I can't any think that anyone in their
right mind thinks that we have the
ability to to you know win a war with
Iran I think there may be some people
who think like oh we could destabilize
Iran enough that maybe there would be
some type of like coup or revolution
which seems to me would be contrary to
sort of every example of of when we've
had coos or revolutions the idea of an
outside attack is the one thing that
sort of like cements power in in
leadership's like that so yeah I
wouldn't be surprised if Russia and
China were like oh yeah bring it on this
is the type of thing that will alienate
you from your allies but for a couple of
rather rickety regimes in the Middle
East and will will drain your coffers I
mean look at where we are relative to
the ability we had to project soft power
in the world
20 years ago right I mean and so much of
that is a function of the disaster that
Iraq was yeah I think that's all that
makes sense to me I I don't I mean I
don't know if China and Russia would
necessarily want something that
catastrophic to happen and I know that
China definitely in particular is making
a lot of moves right now with the
current Iranian government and Russia
also has a good relationship with them
so I and it had any and that could
definitely play some of you know that
could also affect what Russia is doing
in Syria so when I hear you know
scenarios like that I guess my default
assumption is that these places are are
still not run by crazy people and that
could be an incredibly crazy like the
ramifications of that scenario would
first and foremost harm the people of
Iran and then us as a you know another
imperial folly it would probably end us
but it would be a cat a cat Astra fee
for the whole Middle East region that
would affect China and Russia so but
it's possible I mean we would be done
there's dock now about us attacking
Venezuela have you seen this I've seen
here going back this year Mike Pompeo
threatened that specifically when he was
head of the CIA it's nuts I have to have
critical support for Maduro now what's
happening we can't we don't have to
support Maduro Maduro and the government
there is a
but there's no doubt we have been
interfering they're going back to the
coup in 2002 that the New York Times
endorsed for God's sake and we can
oppose any military imperial action
without supporting a failed government
yep
