[Music]
alright you're calling from a 3 100 area
code who are you where you calling from
hey Mike hey hey what's going on brother
hey man what's on your mind
hey good good man this is our Gary over
silly man hey Gary
yeah first I really appreciate
everything you guys do shout out to Matt
jamie-san whole crew cool thank you and
I wanted to call I wanted to just sort
of set up a frame real quick just like
using a personal anecdote but buddy but
broadly speaking like you touched on it
earlier when you talked about how Dems
have this like liberals can sort of be
annoying with this call for civility and
there's this sort of reflective mindset
and I'm this is something sort of like I
thought about through the years and and
I've had like three people in my life
that that run the gamut from far-right
conservatives to like Third Way centrist
and then a Liberal Democrat who even
voted for Bernie and in the primary two
years ago and we were at dinner last
night and it just sort of struck me at
the end of the night that in all three
of these cases those sort of archetypes
those those the people and the ideas
that they that they represent
politically they're they're very unaware
of sort of the political concept of
something that that you guys have
covered a lot and Sam talks a lot about
which is asymmetric polarization right
and right the thing that I we sort of
like any time it doesn't matter if I'm
talking to a far-right person who a
family member who I love but but he's
just you know he's a fox fury reads The
Wall Street Journal you know or if I
talk to my Third Way centrist friend
he's always sending me pieces by you
know David Brooks and Rostow Todd and he
sent me the max loot piece that just
came out you know you know the one that
was saying the damn Dems are
you know they need to do this and so
last night this is sort of the third
prong of it like this is the Liberal
Democrat and even in this case where
this guy we agree on 99% of the things
but there is this with I have found that
there is this reflexive need to sort of
there's a self-image that certain
liberals have just say well I I don't
identify by party right and and and and
but what I was trying to communicate
because he was saying he sort of made in
a fact I said well you know you know
unions are the problem and then he won't
daring this he was stirring some
personal anecdotes about like individual
stories of like inefficient lazy city
workers right and I granted him that I
said yeah of course like as a dude yes
there are there are there moments where
government workers and like
bureaucracies run amok and they they but
that is not the primary driver in this
problem and my the thing that I'm I'm at
a loss for where to go because it seems
like no matter what you say whether it's
they just don't understand the the true
nature of what we're facing in the form
of this Republican Party there I I think
I I think you're totally right and I
would say in the case of your
progressive friend I think honestly I'll
do a shameless plug you should be
telling me to listen to this show as an
example because I do think would people
like that who are already there
politically they just need social
permission to not play into those
cliches I think you need community yeah
you need exactly you need community
precisely and I think any and it's funny
to like this is a difference between
being in your mid-30s in mid-20s right
like I mean like there's plenty of
people who are my age you've always had
left politics even publicly so but it
had like the progression of like oh man
like do I have to pretend that
you know that's a problem or what I'm
saying like because there's all these
yeah and that's what we need to be very
worried in general I think about sort of
substituting mores for politics but I
would recommend your friend listen to
this show
and you know all the other shows in this
universe I think that would be helpful
your centrist friend I don't know man I
I I think it's one thing to talk about
somebody who's kind of on the
center-left and bringing them through
policy but I gotta say like a diet of
dough that Brooks and boot I mean who
does not does not a sharp line make but
you know I guess you know I mean I guess
in his case what I would say is if you
want maybe you could give him like books
by like Jacob hacker as an example who
actually it's less polemical but it's
like the actual numbers on asymmetric
polarization and the actual political
science of why the cliches that are
propelled by those people and then you
know you're a publican friend I don't
know I mean you know talk about
basketball or football or whatever
thanks for the call man I mean honestly
like not gonna say to stop banging yeah
I mean I've I'd certainly I've in fact
one really good friend who is who's
professionally radically different
politics I mean we argue about but
you also just have to remember that
there is a much bigger life than
politics you know and also like we have
a lot of authors on here that are think
good bridges like I mean Jane mayors I
think my favorite cuz just a couple of
books she's written but also like oh but
not Beschloss who am I thinking of I
mean there's a just look who's the guy
who you know know it was a foreign
policy guy I'll figure a Walt no he
wrote the book about how Jimmy Carter
and sort of the move to the Middle East
oh base of itch base of it yeah guys
like that I think where they're sort of
they have a lot of this sort of prestige
of the print prestige to them I think
that's important for people like you
they like to see a like a Pulitzer Prize
definitely for that centrist life
they're ver they're very they're very
attached to that kind of thing
