the one of the moments in the speech
that that really struck me was the one
where he said and I'm not going to get
the words exactly right but the gist of
it was or the rhyme that he offered and
like I said it was a couple more beats I
think to both ends of the rhyme but it
was essentially you can't oh no you
can't have peace and legislate if you
have war and investigate now maybe I may
be mixing up the order in which it's
going around but the you know aside from
the fact that it was eerily reminiscent
of if if the glove doesn't fit you must
acquit it's also a vague threat like I
don't know what that means peace what do
you mean by peace do you not I mean like
you know like it did seem like he was
saying like look if you continue to
investigate me things can get pretty
chaotic and wouldn't that be a shame
like nice country you have here nice
stability be a real shame to lose it I
mean it did have a feel to that didn't
it
Oh absent think there's any doubt I mean
it was actually one of it one of the
more clever lines in the speech simply
because they did have some plausible
deniability which they can say oh no
that wasn't a threat we were talking
about war and peace that we've got to
deal with those things and if we do all
this other stuff then we can't you know
we won't be able to do the important
things that we need to deal with but of
course it's a double entendre and we
know exactly what he was really saying
you want to go to war you know you want
peace you want to have a nice exactly
you know nice little government you have
here it'd be a shame if anything
happened to it of course that's what he
was saying and in fact there's some
reporting that said that before the
State of the Union when they were
writing it that he was sending it back
because he thought it was way too soft
and I just have a feeling you know he
really wanted to talk about the
investigations but they told him I'm
sure that it was a mistake because you
know Richard Nixon had done
and he said you know one year of
Watergate is enough and the comparisons
were too much so they kind of had to try
to find a way to do it to please him
right so that he could do it with that
when they could have some kind of
plausible deniability but of course it
was a threat and it was taken as a
threat by the Democrats Nancy Pelosi
said so she heard it that way and
absolutely you know he talked about
partisan investigations at one point -
and she rolled her eyes at that actually
sitting behind him and she said after
the State of the Union she said you know
with this but this is not going to deter
us we're going to do our jobs of
oversight and whatever but it was
definitely he was throwing down the
gauntlet and saying look if you want to
you know if you want to get anything
done for the American people or you know
if you don't want to have an all-out war
don't you know you got to end all these
investigations I mean it's obvious that
he's freaked out by it and well he
should be I mean you know it's he is the
walls are closing in on him from all
directions on that stuff but as the
Democrats weren't having any of it and I
don't think they're going to they have
no reason to because there is ZERO
reason to believe that he is willing to
negotiate in good faith on anything and
so the next two years they have no
choice you know they can try they'll
pass legend Emma Kratz will pass some
positive legislation they're going into
a big election they want some some
things to run on that they can say this
is what we stand for but you know the
idea that any of it's going to pass I
don't think they're deluding themselves
I mean he is you know even at the moment
say refusing to and you know even
entertain the idea that the the
Appropriations people working on this on
the budget that they're going to come up
with anything on his wall I mean he's
basically just thing alia it's not going
to work there's no way so I mean this is
not what a good faith negotiator does so
you know I think they understand that
about him and you know we just have
about about a minute and a half left
here and and I know you'll be joining me
in the next hour but what what about
that like you know it doesn't
you know have you seen a way out of this
of this and you know we can talk more
about this uh you know after the at the
in the next hour but the big question I
have right now is now that Mitch
McConnell has basically told the
president like you can't declare a state
of the emergency a state of emergency
and and and they have reasons to be very
fearful about setting that precedent
ones which I have to say I think are
justified and frankly I find quite
enticing and and we can talk about that
when we return as well but the real
question that we're faced with now is
how does Donald Trump end this I guess
this question is to whether the
government will shut down again I I I
have yet to really get a clearer sense
of how this is going to be averted but
yet it's almost impossible to imagine
that they would shut the government down
again I think what we would see is
almost an immediate reaction by labor
that that that in many respects resolved
the first government shutdown but let's
talk about that in the next hour Heather
if you'll join me
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be back in a moment and then
Heather we'll be back in the next hour
