[Music]
warden this is Henry Louis Gates was on
Joe Scarborough this morning and again
you need to connect in my mind the
terrorism and attempt to ethnically
cleanse America through these ice and
immigration policies with voter
suppression it's a strategic white
supremacy and this is really the part
where like the fact that there are some
real ghouls and goblins in this
administration who really believe this
stuff
and people like Paul Ryan who I'm sure
like oh I don't want to be associated
with that but they have absolutely the
same agenda and partially it's just and
it's a power agenda right this is
designing your electorate and Henry
Louis Gates is going to explain to
scarborough the scale of voter
suppression taking place in the trump
era paved by the Roberts Court gutting
the Voting Rights Act as an example it
submit that think that it was only the
South rising again you're absolutely
right it was a confluence of events the
north and the south grew weary of
reconstruction grant initially
suppressed the Ku Klux Klan
remember the 13th amendment that
abolished slavery is ratified on
December 6 1865 about the same time that
the Klan is born and grant suppresses
the Klan in the early years of his
administration but after that his
re-election and the panic of 1873 which
is officially called the great
depression interest in the north grew
weary as well do we really need to
commit all these resources for these
former slaves didn't we free them they
should be on their own can't they stand
on their own two feet and so starting in
1890 the former Confederate states had
thoughts constitutional conventions that
suppress the black vote I'll give you a
dramatic example in 1898 there were a
hundred and thirty thousand black men
registered to vote in Louisiana by 1904
that number had been reduced to one
thousand three
and 42 think about that and and that
happened in large part because the
terror campaigns because of the Klan
because governments weren't weren't
doing their jobs is it is this what
we're going to also read about in Sony
the road oh yes absolutely
look voter voter suppression and a very
conservative Supreme Court that in 1883
declared the Civil Rights Act of 1875
unconstitutional so think about it 12
years of black freedom followed by an
all right rollback and a president who
refused to renounce white supremacy
Andrew Johnson does this sound familiar
absolutely I was reading exactly Robert
Paxton
Paxton's the anatomy of fascism and we
often focus I think rightly on the
capitalism angle of what leads to
fascism but her Paxton makes a
convincing case that that the Klan was
actually maybe the first fascist
organization we've had and a sort of
response to increased franchise 'men and
sort of like bringing in more people
into the political process they realized
we need something to rile up our people
to like the difference between
authoritarianism and fascism is fascism
likes the people around up
authoritarianism wants them excluded as
much as possible right all right all
right we'll take a final
