about the the William Bar hearings I
mean look the the fact is is that
William bar is a smarter Jeff Sessions
and the only question is and by that I
mean in terms of like race everybody's
smarter than Jeff Jeff's an idiot Jeff's
dumb he's a hick bill bar is if you if
you enjoyed the idea that cops were able
to basically have free reign and no
record there would be no oversight of
the way the cops treat marginal
communities minority community it's
really across the board well then you're
gonna like bill bar but that elections
have consequences and and this is what
what came in with Donald Trump and with
the Republicans frankly particularly the
you know the even more racialized
Republican Party as we have today the
big issues in terms of a bar of course
are things like hey if Donald Trump and
in recall that Rex Tillerson said you
know sort of like as a joke but not
really I had to tell Trump not to do
illegal things all the time right mean
that that is the reporting that comes
out the question is will a guy like Bill
Barr also remind Donald Trump you can't
do things illegally because once bill
bar comes in here
there's there's a good chance we're
gonna see a full a wholesale clean you
know cleaning house and so there's not
going to be many sane people left in
there and Bill Barr also wrote an
18-page memo to Donald Trump unsolicited
some people call it a job application
where he basically outlined why it was
impossible for there to be obstruction
because collusion is not a crime now of
course that's not what Donald Trump's
gonna be charged with if he's charged
with anything or if he can be charged
but the idea that obstruction cannot
exist unless there's an underlying crime
well you can't prove an underlying crime
a lot of times because of obstruction
you can't say well you can't you can't
arrest me for the bank robbery because I
drove the getaway car so well that you
couldn't catch me
exactly logic anyways he wrote this a 19
page unsolicited memo and the the key
questions are will Barr interfere with
the investigation will Barr interfere
with the release of the results will
Barr if Donald Trump says let it's time
to arrest Hillary Clinton I mean these
are legitimate question on that far off
I'm laughing because like it's possibly
true
exactly here is Bill Barr
this is his opening statements right
here we go
listen to this first I believe it is
vitally important that the special
counsel be allowed to complete his
investigation I have known Bob Muller
for 30 years we work closely together
throughout my previous tenure at the
Department of Justice we've been friends
since and I have the utmost respect for
Bob and his distinguished record of
public service and when he was named
special counsel I said his selection was
good news and that knowing him I had
confidence he would handle the matter
properly and I still have that
confidence today given his public
actions to date I expect that the
special counsel is well along in his
investigation at the same time the
president has been steadfast that he was
not involved in any collusion with
Russian attempts to interfere in the
election
I believe it is in the best interest of
everyone the President Congress and the
American people that this matter be
resolved by allowing the special counsel
to complete his work the country needs a
credible resolution to these issues and
if confirmed I will not permit partisan
politics personal interests or any other
improper consideration to interfere with
this or any other investigation I will
follow the special counsel regulation
scrupulous ly and in good faith and on
my watch Bob will be allowed to finish
his work you know that would have been a
great opportunity to say and we will
release this information to the public
so the public will see the results of
this investigation regardless of what it
is that's where you would have added
that if that's what what your intention
was so it's quite possible that over the
past couple of months six months ago
that when Bill Barr wrote that
unsolicited 19 page memo saying there's
no it's impossible to find the president
guilty not even legally speaking but
that there is no it's not even a
question of fact this investigation the
investigation itself is impossible to
find a violation by the president even
if he has had a has reconsidered that
perspective the real question is are we
going to hear about it because it sounds
to me like they have basically figured
out a plan B and Plan B is to just
basically suck this investigation down
the drain you finish and when you're
done thank you goodbye we'll just put it
in the put it in a file cabinet here is
Leahy asking more about that if
confirmed both seeking and following
advice of the Department
career ethics official I'm sorry posit
I'm sorry this in this instance right
the questions gonna be so patrick leahy
and this is what happened with whitaker
and this is what happened with jeff
sessions there is an internal agency
essentially within the DOJ it's a
committee subcommittee made up of
officials at the DOJ who assess whether
there is a conflict of interest or an
appearance of conflict of interest which
would require various officials to
recuse themselves jeff sessions it was
recommended to him by this ethics
committee recuse yourself there's an
internal DOJ committee you'll recall
last time marcy wheeler was on she
anticipated that this committee made up
of like four or five senior DOJ
officials would tell Matt Whittaker to
recuse himself and then Matt Riddick
Whittaker announced they they said I'm
okay and it wasn't till like three or
four weeks later that we hear the
reporting that in fact no he was told he
should recuse himself so the question
becomes with Bill Barr
if it's determined by other DOJ
officials that because of your position
in the past it is best for at the very
least the the the the optics so the so
that the American public can have
confidence that the investigations not
being manipulated or buried or
interfered with or underfunded or
whatever it is that you recuse yourself
will you listen
unlike Matt Whittaker to the
recommendations of these members of the
Department of Justice here's the
question
if confirmed both seeking and following
advice of the department's career
ethics officials and whether you must
recuse from the special counsels
investigation I I will seek the advice
of the career ethics personnel but under
the regulations I make the decision as
the head of the agency as to my own
refusal so I certainly would consult
with them and and at the end of the day
I would make a decision in good faith
based on the laws and the facts that are
evident at that time same thing if
you're talking about a conflict of
interest well no some conflicts as you
know are mandatory yeah thank you
so in there's also obviously another way
that you could have responded to this I
will give deference to that committee
they will have a priority it's
conceivable that I would disagree with
what they would say but I would show
deference to them but not I'm just going
to listen to them when they give their
Proclamation everybody gets to said bad
that's right I'll hear them and I hear
you right now
look at the talks everybody shares the
feelings brah in other words there's no
commitment from this guy that he's going
to not be essentially corrupt excuse me
pardon me sir I just gave you a
commitment to listen I believe this
that's right he's gonna go on a
listening tour this is a guy who put in
who submitted a 19 page memo saying that
there is no even construction in which
you could be considered guilty because
the charges themselves don't even they
can't even if true they can't be true
even if you obstructed it's not pot
would not be possible for you to
obstruct well I am totally willing to
hear you out on that now he's going to
you know he's going to be the next day
J uh but he does seem quite a bit more
savvy than session right you know he
could mean who knows maybe he'll be
totally shambolic the next couple weeks
and I'll stand corrected does seem a lot
more kind of adroit at manipulating this
process it's not inconceivable I mean
you know these days it's not
inconceivable that you know this guy's a
former Reagan official a G George
Herbert Walker Bush FS official maybe
maybe some of these old line Republicans
said oh do the old write a 19 page memo
trick where it sounds like you'll
totally be on board we can sell him on
you and then you get in there and you
accurately function like a you know a
real Attorney General a real Republican
one who's just going to use the power of
the office to make sure that black
people don't have any redress people
coming in here and OD targeting black
people and that's not my problem
obviously targeting black people is
great but at a certain point you need to
take care of numero uno exactly
first mr. Magoo the dumb inbred guy
doesn't do it and now he writes a whole
90 page memo and all of a sudden I'm
still being harassed this is really
unfair now I know what it feels like to
be a black guy ironically totally unfair
