[Music]
meanwhile the second clip we have for
you today is also relevant to having
Marci on and really the question of
impeachment this is pretty stunning and
we played some of the clips from from
the Justin Amash town hall where the he
had a tremendous amount of support for
his calls to impeach Donald Trump based
upon the mahler report I think there's a
lot of people would argue you don't need
them all a report to impeach Donald
Trump but it's nice to have multiple
accounts and the argument that many
people are making about impeachment
despite the fact that it doesn't have
poll as well as one would want to go
ahead with it is that there's a huge
contingency of people in this country
who are not aware of what's in that
report I would include virtually all of
you listening to me because I know
almost none of you have read it I know
almost none of you have read it and but
you're aware of a you know summations of
it so you have a general gist there's a
clip from this Justin Amash thing that I
think in some ways it's it's sort of
mind-blowing and it's just a good
reminder that we don't know what the F a
certain segment of the population a
large segment of the population is
exposed to on a daily basis and what
their perspective is on these things we
can talk about ben shapiro
although he is now on right-wing talk
radio can talk about you know jordan
Peterson dayroom anyway that's that's
where the kids but when you talk about
people ages 40 to 70 in this country who
are conservative the main source of
their news
it's not just Fox in fact it's not Fox
it is right-wing radio and if you listen
to right-wing radio you are living in a
completely different universe than
everyone else and here is an example of
that this is from lawrence O'Donnell
caught this clip it's pretty amazing
Horace were outraged and others were
confused one Republican who attended the
congressman's Town Hall said that she
didn't know there was anything negative
about President Trump in the Mulla
report until congressman Amash started
talking about it I was surprised to hear
there was anything negative in the malla
report at all about President Trump I
hadn't heard that before
and I mainly listened to conservative
news and I haven't heard anything
negative about that report and
president trumpet been exonerated I I
mean where could like what like where
would you ever get the notion that
although they completely exonerated all
the charges obliterated in their report
FoxNews right-wing radio and people and
guests who go on those shows guests even
guests who are really concerned about
misinformation and hoaxes and whatnot
that that that is why any calculation
that anyone makes about polling
regarding impeachment is largely
irrelevant because it presumes that
people know what's there and the fact is
is they don't you go back and as big as
that grabbing by the the P word tape was
not as many people heard it as we
thought I think at the time Clinton's
emails dropped strategically right on
that day or the day after that tape got
released and not as many people were as
we're of we're of it I think as we
thought at the time so those are the two
clips were playing before Marcy wheeler
gets on
