all right let's let's look in on one
more well a couple of uh as you know
Donald Trump was booed at the Houston
Houston Astros washing Nationals World
Series game game five right and let's
just remind you of one of the other
cheers that we heard this also call it a
Bronx cheer when they boo but I don't
know what you would call this cheer
[Applause]
make it easy
there it is lock him up lock sure when
they see the picture up on there now
folks as you know that cheer was
organized by all of the Democratic
candidates running for office and also a
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer they were
all there they were all leading everyone
in know it was a lock him up every it
was a organic spontaneous reaction to
this the the image of Donald Trump at
the game everybody wanting to make sure
that he wasn't enjoying himself but this
is a great opportunity for folks to
flash their bona fides as being
objective and just being able to analyze
this and and longing for the days of
normalcy
here's Mika and Joe just lamenting the
fact we hear this type of cheer at a
baseball game but nobody again I speak
to the lock him up chance again I it's
just it's unamerican it started with
Donald Trump in fact he's made it a
centerpiece of his campaign rallies it's
sickening when it happened was it was
rallies could I just take a moment to
just enjoy that image of these six
almost total rebels I mean you almost
can see you could you could line them up
in terms of their hair loss and their
aging as they go along
you know and thank God they all wore
different ties or would be extremely
confusing that's not relevant well maybe
it is a little bit this whole idea that
we need to project some sense of of
normalcy and look at Donald Trump it's
true it started with Donald Trump and
now it's actually gone to some people
who go to a baseball game as rallies I
find it kind of sickening watching it's
wearing a president we are Americans and
not do that we do not want the world
hearing us chant lock him up that he
created this president are to any
president that's what I'm saying
let's hope as we move forward maybe this
is one less fascist tactic he and his
supporters use during chance that you
were going to actually imprison your
political opponents so let's leave that
behind
and just this is pretty this is pretty
rudimentary stuff I'm gonna I'm gonna
lay this out for folks and you see you
know this is like one of those things
one of these things doesn't fit with the
other a presidential candidate and or a
president right particularly a president
who has access to all the levers of
power presidential candidate has some
power to they have a huge platform
calling for someone let's just even
stipulate that they have the same levels
of guilt or non guilt calling for
someone to be locked up versus people at
a baseball game who have the ability to
get a beer or a hot dog does does
anybody see the dynamic difference here
that it makes these two examples
completely different they're both
fascism there but it's I mean it it is
and you know I think it's easy to assume
that this isn't important but this is
important because this is the way you
create a textbook version of false
equivalency because it's not just a
question of elevating drunken bleacher
fans at a baseball game to having the
power of the presidency but it's a way
of saying that the power of the
presidency
it's irrelevant in this equation I mean
this and this is like this is this is
true across all issues in politics like
you're like you're going to completely
ignore the dynamic between people the
power between people and here is Joe's
response on a tweet so let's see if I've
got this straight when crowds chant lock
her up toward Hillary it is a liberal
and anti-american I agree
but when crowds chant the same word
toward Trump it's suddenly a fulsome
exercise of sacred First Amendment
rights
what hypocritical clowns here's the
thing when crowds chant lock her up
toward Hillary it was literally led by
people at their convention
it was literally led by the presidential
candidate it was literally led by a
president who was egging them to do that
the issue isn't the crowds it is the
person who has enormous power
marshalling this from the crowds this is
not like the king rides through the the
town and people throw tomatoes at him
this is like the king saying to his
soldiers find those people I mean and
the one similarity though to be just
fair is that they're both fascism right
that's right lock her up I mean is Joe
being disingenuous here or is it
possible that he just can't wrap his
brain around the difference that'll be
an extra credit question for you folks I
mean back in the American Revolution
times we used to like tar and feather
people as a usual part of public like
life and protest you know what that is
he goes on to say if you think that
democracy is strengthened by calling for
the arrest of political opponents
you're as ignorant in his illiberal as
Trump himself delete your account and
read some civics stop embarrassing
yourself now he's also changing the
terrain of the debate with the second
part of the tweet right where it's like
you don't have to think that democracy
is strengthened to think that these are
not equivalent and the fact of the
matter is those people in those
bleachers are not political opponents of
Donald Trump except for to the extent
that they don't want their actually his
constituents he's president you know is
actually a much less important point but
a funny contrast I and dozens of other
patriots at the Bernie rally in Queens
were starting to try to get a lock him
up champ going regularly specifically
while the mayor of San Juan who's a
co-chair of Bernie's campaign was
talking about Trump's conduct in Puerto
Rico which by the way I'm a make your
case person there's some things you
could talk about with Clinton as an
example in Haiti where you might get me
to go on that chant for what it's worth
and I think Donald Trump has done any
number of things where you could just
say lock him up if I didn't lock people
up I think it would be a problem for a
political candidate I I I happen to
agree with that but that being said the
crowd the crowds were out me and my
fellow Patriots were heartily making
that point and the mayor of San Juan
could have just ignored us she could
have even just smirked a little bit
giving a little nod but she said no
we're gonna vote him out there you go so
there you go Joe it should working to
calm down now I know that Joe spent 10
minutes talking about how how much that
helped our democracies right can you
pull that clip please I guess we don't
have it here's chris coons getting on
the i know people can't see it but chris
could he always just looks so goddamn
sad well you know i mean had people
noticed and maybe maybe we've been
paying more attention to it but chris
coons feels his moment
humming folks he feels he can see where
this is going and he has been on this
path for some time when he said that we
should reinstitute institute the
filibuster if we take back the Senate to
give Republicans the ability to kill our
judicial picks not our Supreme Court
justice but at well I mean also our
Supreme Court justice but our judicial
our judicial picks across the board
because Chris Coons and this is the
thing that people have to understand
about the Senate particularly when it
comes to Democrats because the
Democratic coalition is much broader
than the Republican coalition it almost
doesn't matter where the fault lines are
there are going to be Democrats who
rushed to that fault line so that they
can be right at the fulcrum so that they
can get all the attention it is very
hard for us non psychopathic people to
contemplate that there would be two or
three individuals who are so determined
to be the most popular or the the most
important in in the class but they would
actually prohibit and inhibit the
ability for people to get health care
let's say or the ability to like live
fuller richer lives or to live or die
because they want to be at that fulcrum
Chris Coons is one of those guys you'll
recall he said you know one of the wanna
I think history's gonna judge us that
and I'm of course for it I'm totally for
having women and people non-white in the
idea that I'm really sanity it's a great
idea but in practice I think history's
gonna show that it's led to a lot of
polarization right it's important
because he of something he drops in this
in this conversation about the fact that
some people had a baseball game said
lock him up to Donald Trump's face
Trump attended Game five of the World
Series in Washington last night I just
want to play the sound
thank you soon he was booed and you can
hear the chants thereof lock him up what
do you make of that Center we'll forgive
me I'm enough of a sort of
traditionalist about our institutions
that even at a time well I believe that
yeah I remember a time where it was all
just white guys for the most part and
things weren't so polarized but forgive
me Father for I have sinned
- go ahead that's senator we'll forgive
me I'm enough of a sort of
traditionalist about our institutions
that even at a time when there is a lot
that our president does that I find
that's it I'm sorry one more time I know
this is annoying folks but I will tell
you the institution he's talking about
is a baseball stadium that's what he's
talking about I guess right I mean what
it what like where did this happen but
good lot that our president does that I
find disturbing offensive unconventional
I have a hard time with the idea of a
crowd on a globally televised sporting
event chanting lock him up about our
president I frankly think the office of
the president deserves respect even when
the actions of our president at times
don't I certainly hope that we won't
hear
lock him up chance at democratic rallies
or at our convention I think that's one
of the most regrettable even at times
despicable actions by candidate Trump
when he was running for president in
2016 it reminds me of things that happen
in countries where rule of law is
unknown or unestablished and you know
sort of whipping up public furor on both
sides I don't think is constructive or
helpful I understand why crowds in
Washington would feel a lot of animus
towards our president given a lot of
things that he's done but I frankly
that's why I think those of us in the
Senate need to approach the impeachment
process seriously in a measured and
responsible way because our very
institutions our Constitution is at risk
by these sorts of the passions that have
been unleashed by the politics of the
moment who is we
anything well you know what is the
Institute you like I'm sorry if you're a
traditionalist and you must know that
when you go into the bleacher section or
the higher seats of a baseball game
you're gonna hear some pretty ugly stuff
I mean I remember coming down to a
Yankees game as a Red Sox fan 35 years
ago and I Got News for You Chris Coons
your ears would fall off of what you
heard well I mean you know I'm a
traditionalist and the idea that you can
have women on their periods at baseball
games I love the idea of it but it might
not be working out so most work what
does it work with it's really Sciences
off you know the president support don't
get me wrong he's there are children who
have been kidnapped and will never see
their parents again there are parents
whose kids were kidnapped and they will
never see their kids again the idea that
Chris Coons has even three minutes to
criticize some people at a baseball game
we don't want to see an image of Donald
Trump is is stunning I mean honestly if
you feel so obligated to take some type
of high road about that all well and
good but you should say like but in the
great scheme of things let's put this in
perspective there are children who will
never see their parents as part of our
government policy so and they and those
people in that crowd have no power zero
power to do anything in regards to what
makes what Donald Trump did so
reprehensible
because when Donald Trump does it as a
candidate when he does it as a president
when he leads send them back lock her up
as a president it begins to undercut
folks faith in the institutions of our
government when people at a baseball
game do it what what does it
undercut the institution of being polite
at a ball game honestly this is just
like this is this is like it it would be
childish if it wasn't so disingenuous it
bums me out to say that only
property-owning white males should vote
again but thank you look at the long
light of history that's probably where
we're headed the governor's picking
senators there's a lot of people in the
Senate Democratic caucus that won't
agree with me I don't see what I think
so
