with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
they are we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar it is Monday July
15th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this is
the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today professor of history from the
University of North Florida David
Cortright on the age of addiction how
bad habits became big business
also on the program today Nancy Pelosi
all in on a tax on progressives freshman
congresswoman and then truck weighs in
with his own special tinge of racism I
look something that GOP overlords visit
their concentration camps as ice raids
begin and Trump threatens to give the
American Community Survey to States so
they can gerrymander regarding
immigration info as he contemplates
dumping Wilbur Ross for blowing it on
the census new poll Biden Warren Sanders
albey Trump and the Capitol moved to
Jerusalem Jerusalem Jerusalem jzl enters
the Democratic primary and what's the
matter with Kansas less now that taxes
have been raised sure Trump's proposed
EPA rules assaults community's ability
to live safely and in addition to its
illegal so-called safe country
Guatemalan deal Trump looks to frontally
assault asylum seekers at our border all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen I have more or less
recovered from Netroots nation those of
you who listen to the AM quickie every
morning on Friday and Thursday I did it
and I can tell you that my voice at 7:00
a.m. or 7:30 a.m. on Friday was not good
I think a lot of people were not even
clear that it was me but feeling a
little better still working on that
quickie in the morning and if you have
thoughts send us your thoughts at
majority reporters at gmail.com the
length the format the content the
production values whatever you want to
weigh in with we will take your your
criticism or your praise if you like it
at you can send us an email at majority
reporters at gmail.com we're going to
keep it on the majority report stream
for at least a couple more weeks and
then we will branch it off and you will
have to sign up for it it'll be a
freebie of course and hopefully we'll
have some advertising we'll see how that
goes just one of the innovations that
we've been working on and the majority
of port labs
here deep in the bowels of the HQ at in
the majority report and also a reminder
it is your it is your memberships that
make this show work you can become a
member at join the majority report comm
so obviously a lot to talk about we have
a guess we will we will at the very
least what we don't end up talking about
today we will cover tomorrow will have a
news day but some of the most despicable
video footage I think I've ever seen in
some way it's despicable because it was
just so calm and creepy this is Mike
Pence vice-president United States with
I think Tom Tillis and Lindsey Graham
maybe one other white senator male
senator going in and touring the
facilities at their concentration camp
and it is stunning and after a while you
start to wonder like why would they
release this and then when you note that
it's only men that they're showing
they're walking in they're overseeing a
cage full and I mean full of men from
Central America who at the beginning of
this basically said they haven't had a
you know they need showers like they're
not getting there's no hygiene here and
it's eerie because they don't the the
Vice President the centers don't seem to
have any reaction to it they just are
sort of overlooking it almost like it
like like their chattel and it's also
what is eerie about it is part of that
is because they don't go up and say well
how is it going there's no sense that
they're looking at human beings it looks
like they are looking at
animals or some commodity it's really
really creepy
here it is
[Applause]
posit I mean just like you know like
Pence's not even doesn't even seem to be
looking at the people he seems to be
looking at the guards and you could see
behind pence over his right shoulder
there's there's there's a guard on a
sort of an elevated tower and he seems
to be looking at the towers and the
agent the officer whatever you want to
call him next to him says that they are
looking to see if there's a rowdy one
and they pull them out here goes
[Applause]
[Music]
watchtowers up here the watchtowers help
us pick out anyone that gets rowdy
[Music]
and then they the men appeared to lie
down I guess to show them that there's
no room for everybody to sleep in there
these things and they're lying down with
these foil blankets and my understanding
about these foil blankets and maybe
someone can correct me if listeners know
any more about it but my understanding
about these things they're great if
you're in a cold-weather situation
because they completely trap the heat
but they're not in a great situation if
you're not in a cold weather situation
which is my understand why they're
keeping it at 60 degrees in there
because you start to sweat very quickly
with these things if it's not cold
enough in there but of course if you
don't put it on you're freezing and
you're lying on a cement floor and
here's the point we look at this and we
go there they're exposed how can they do
this how could they show us this how
could they show us the the inhumanity
there that is not a bug folks they want
their people to see this that's why it's
just men because they're savvy enough to
realize like well kids children that may
be a little bit too much because there
are kids and children there's no reason
to believe they're in any better
situation than these men but when they
show 380 men in what looks to me to be
like half of a basketball court behind a
cage in there for 40 days no showers
when they show men to their to their
people to their constituents their vote
are happy they're happy they like it it
makes them feel good makes them feel
like their government is doing something
it's disgusting
it's disgusting I mean and I don't know
how far it goes this is just a weird
it's just a weird moment too well it's
more than obviously but it's a very
strange moment to experience where you
start to see this type of stuff and
where does it go like this is the new
baseline right where and I don't late
and here's the bottom line like I don't
know
well look we didn't have this level of a
miseration that we were causing with
people I don't know that we've ever had
it at least in the modern times we had
internment camps with Japanese during
World War two Obama deported a lot of
people record numbers I don't think we
had anything like this and at the very
least we certainly didn't have images of
it and that may be a failure of people
like myself and may be a failure of
journalists and may be a failure of
politicians that we didn't have that
awareness of it but it certainly wasn't
that bad when the Trump administration
changed the and I've mentioned this
before and Jim McGovern congressman from
Worcester Mass said that there were
decades on Twitter of us asylum and
immigration law upheld time and time
again by US courts protects children and
families seeking safe haven in the
United States these laws comply with
international law treaties and
agreements the US has signed frameworks
been upheld by past Republican and
Democratic administrations including
periods when the number of migrants
coming to our southern border was two or
three times greater than what it is now
then in 2017 Trump terminated the family
case management program that even ice
admits was 99% effective and having
these families appear before a court
we've mentioned this in the past these
people in the past would be released on
essentially probation or probation or
parole and would have to return to the
courts because our laws say we must
grant them a hearing and we have not put
the funds in to have hearings in as
expedited as a manner as as Trump would
want or as the Republicans claim they
want they didn't do this when they
control government folks totally and 99%
effective at having these families
appear before court the program cost
taxpayers about $38 per day per family
in comparison detaining families costs
hundreds of dollars per day so even if
you're not compelled by the humanity or
the inhumanity of locking these people
up this is this is a policy that is not
designed to save of America anything
other than I don't know I guess in these
people's minds they're white the the
purity of the white culture well I mean
I was listening to a Ronald Reagan's
re-direct podcast and they did a good
job pointing out and you've alluded to
this already that part of the reason
they're spending more to be cruel is
because they like the propaganda value
of that cruelty they want those images
shown not just to their people but down
in Central America but the problem is
you just can't top the the difficulty
that these people
go through in their own home countries
it's just uh it's just amazing but you
wonder like at what point now that the
baseline has been risen at what point
like at what point do just people
sitting in Brooklyn would do something
about it and uh you know I don't mean
you know vote for somebody better or get
on Twitter like I don't know there are
people out there there getting arrested
trying to block these things I spoke to
people in Philadelphia who are some of
these interviews will be on Ring of Fire
I think we'll play them eventually on
the show people who are protesting like
private detention facilities there's one
in Pennsylvania there's three in the
country for families to in Texas and one
happens to be in Pennsylvania and you
can shut those things out and the analog
would be like you know drug companies
saying we're not gonna use our drugs for
capital punishment but I don't know I
wonder how bad it has to get until
you're like wait a second I gotta sort
of like contemplate a whole different
set of potential responses at this point
yeah i tweeted i retweeted a thread or
two from some immigrant justice
organizations on things people can do to
get involved and help people can head
over to Jamie's Twitter feed for that uh
weird to go into some ads after this but
it's the nature of it
staying properly hydrated one of the
most important factors during the hot
summer months
like what IV is the fastest most
efficient way to stay hydrated we all
use it in the office I think we're out
actually right now aren't we no two more
packets
that's why we've all been so healthy I
should have brought a couple down that's
right if I had taken that at Netroots
you know I use it when I fly you know I
use it when I occasionally overindulged
which is very rare ladies and gentleman
very rare but liquid IV is the
fastest-growing wellness brand it can
provide the same hydration as drinking
two to three bottles of water and it
contains five essential item vitamins
including vitamin C more vitamin C
rather than an orange and it's much
potassium as a banana way you'd keep
yourself from getting charley horses the
healthy alternative to traditional
sugary sports drinks with no artificial
flavors or preservatives and it's a
perfect for fueling tough workouts
preventing muscle fatigue promoting
healthy post-workout recovery find them
everywhere their hydration multiplier is
even sold at Costco's nationwide I love
liquid IV I know you will too right now
my listeners get 25% off at liquid IV
calm when you use my code majority a
check out 25% off of anything you order
at liquid Ivy's website go to liquid IV
dot-com enter my code majority get the
savings start getting better hydration
that's liquid IV calm promo code
majority don't wait start properly
hydrating today also if you believe
you're not being snooped on or that
nobody cares about your online data
you're wrong your privacy is under
attack by hackers governments ad
companies ISPs you need a trusted
software that's going to protect your
online activity expressvpn their apps
use powerful encryption to secure your
data ex expressvpn runs at the
background of your computer or your
phone your laptop whenever you use the
internet you just like you normally
would simply download the app click to
connect and voila your
expressvpn is the fastest VPN it cost
less than seven bucks a month and it
comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee
expressvpn uses new cutting-edge
technology called trusted server and it
makes sure there's no logs of what you
do online so it stops hackers it stops
anybody else who might be snooping on
you and it stops Internet companies from
grabbing all your data you can take back
your online privacy with Express VPN and
that means also protecting all of your
passwords protect your online activity
today find out how you can get three
months free at expressvpn dot-com slash
majority that's e^x PR e SS VPN comm
slash majority for three months free
with a one-year package it's visiting
spresso VPN dot-com / majority to learn
more and finally the World Health
Organization has named the health
epidemic of the 21st century you know
what it is
stress feeling more uncertainty and
anxiety than ever before and that's why
we're partnering with calm it's the
number one rated app from meditation
when you meditate your brain chemistry
changes meditations been shown to slow
down the release of stress chemicals
into your bloodstream like cortisol and
adrenaline gives you some much-needed
relief with calm you discover a whole
library simple guided meditations on
themes like anxiety creative and focus
they even have other resources to help
you relax like sleep stories it's my
favorite music and more so if you're
stressed take a deep breath get calm
right now majority report listeners get
25% off a calm premium subscription at
com.com slash majority that's CA LM
dot-com / majority forty million people
have downloaded calm find out why at
calm calm / majority all right we're
gonna take a quick break and when we
come back we're going to talk about our
age of addiction and more importantly
how
addiction has been weaponized or I
should say monetized or hyper or
weaponized to be monetized with
Professor David Cortright we'll be right
back after this
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome history professor u of North
Florida David Cortright author of his
latest the age of addiction how bad
habits became big business professor
welcome to the program
hey Sam it's good to be with you so let
me pull up my notes let's let's just
start with this notion of well rather
than starting with limbic capitalism
because I think we will we will get
there
let's talk about the sort of the the
history of addiction because in many
respects that that's what your your book
basically takes us through the the the
life of addiction at least insofar as
we've known it as addiction when did we
first contemplate the idea of addiction
as opposed to like sometimes some people
really like to do this stuff but it
becomes a problem uh why it's clear that
even in ancient history people had a
conception of addiction of compulsive
behavior that was harmful to the
individual that was characterized by
craving and it was usually associated
with things like gambling or alcohol so
for a long time even though they didn't
use the word addiction the concept was
there the point of the book is that
addiction has really exploded in the
last 40 or 50 years so let me ask you a
question if you heard the word addiction
30 or 40 years ago what did you think of
well I mean I was I was I was young but
I imagine I would have I would have
thought about like hard drugs like
heroin or hay actually no that's exactly
right and now if you look anyplace on
the internet or you tune in the news or
whatever you're going to hear stories
about compulsive overeating or sugar
addiction or machine gambling addiction
or social media use that's compulsive
internet porn even habitual tanning
you've got all the whole cat
of addiction has exploded in the last
say 30 or 40 years and that's really
what the book is about and and and that
explosion of addiction is that is that a
function of a society that pathologize
'as things or is that a function of what
we understand addiction has actually
increased and encompassed more I guess
silos of activity well it's a function
of a lot of things one one thing that's
happened is the commercialization of
Weiss so a lot of things that a hundred
years ago the government tried to
suppress in the name of reform like
prostitution or pornography which back
then would have been called obscenity or
even the alcohol industry a lot of
things that the capital P progressives
tried to regulate survived the reform
onslaught and then they they grew as
industries in the mid to late twentieth
century but also new technologies have
come along and they have made possible
things like compulsive social media use
which no reformer 100 years ago would
have even dreamed up so it's a lot of
different things all right well let's
let's talk about this this concept of
limbic capitalism I mean when did this
well well tell us about it first well
okay so the word one big refers to the
region of your brain that's responsible
for pleasure and motivation and
long-term memory and other really
important functions that are linked to
survival and they're linked to your
emotions you need your limbic system but
paradoxically other people can capture
it and they can make your limbic system
work against you and basically limbic
capitalism hurts us by undermining our
appetite control I mean that that's
really at the core of addiction is you
lose control and typically over will
take food addiction for example
everybody needs food food
necessary for survival but there are
some people who have simply lost control
of their eating and that didn't happen
by accident there there were there were
people who figured out ways to create
more and more delicious and brain
reinforcing foods and some people on
became literally addicted to them and
and by the way I don't mean to suggest
that everybody who's overweight is an
addict I think that's ridiculous that's
a misuse of the term but probably a
quarter of all people who are grossly
overweight
fulfil the criteria full-blown addiction
was I mean but what's the first I mean
do can you pinpoint on like what that
would the first sort of like major push
for limbic capitalism would be I mean I
think like the most obvious answer in my
mind is tobacco right I mean you had
these companies that were clearly aware
of the addictive properties of what they
were doing and and hid that yeah I I
think I think that's well put they
didn't necessarily know about the limbic
system or the specific neural pathways
for how nicotine addicted people which
is is evidence that became available in
the 70s 80s and 90s but they sure as
shootin knew that they were dealing with
an addictive product and and they
mounted a very clever marketing campaign
to expand the use of that product so the
classic example is that around 1900 it
was mainly men who smoked and so the
industry saw that there was this whole
other market namely women that if they
could valorize cigarette consumption and
make it seem glamorous and sexy and very
aqua then they could tap into this other
market which they did so that the limbic
capitalism story is really tie into this
larger story of the expansion of
marketing and
advertising in the 20th century in the
limbic the the limbic capitalism is just
sort of like almost a another level of
sophistication as to the processes in
which this addiction happens yeah and
it's also a reference to the fact that
some products are are just inherently
more dangerous than others so capitalism
in general has a set of problems that
are potentially associated with it I
mean any enterprise don't keep two sets
of books don't exploit your workers
don't pollute the environment there are
certain rules that ought to apply to any
business but limbic capitalism is
different from garden-variety capitalism
which just makes ordinary durable goods
insofar as the products themselves are
inherently problematic that they're
there's a difference between a company
that makes rakes and plows and nails and
one that makes internet pornography or
our video poker machines if you see what
I mean and and that's that's what I'm
trying to get at with this phrase
Olympic capitalism there there are
certain products that target the regions
of your brain that are tied in to
compulsive behavior and and how how
sophisticated or how much awareness to
those who are selling this stuff have I
mean we use the example of cigarettes I
think like famously I think it was this
guy Edward Bernays who I believe was
with Freud's a cousin or or some
relation who was the one who put the
cigarettes in the hands of the the
suffragettes marchers and and that
helped with that I mean how but how
sophisticated are all of these sort of
limbic capitalists they are
sophisticated and they've gotten more
sophisticated so you're right in the
early 20th century
there's
in mid 20th century there's a revolution
in advertising and I spent a lot of time
in the advertising archives
let me tell you if you want to
understand how the world really works
the best place from which to view it is
in the collections the special
collections libraries which have all
these internal memoranda that ad
executives write to one another it's
that they know how to get you let's
let's put it that way but since then
there's been a kind of quantum leap in
the ability to develop and market
potentially addictive products because
there are all these new technologies so
that video game designers or computer
game designers study patterns of mouse
clicks or they even track where your
eyes are on the screen to see which
features of a game prototype are more
most interesting to young players so
they've got all kinds of tools and and
that's one of the illusions that people
have I think about the marketplace is
that a lot of people think all I can
control this you know I I'm in front of
a screen and I can I can limit the
amount of time I spend on it and all the
rest of it but the threat no matter how
smart you are there are a thousand
people on the other side of that screen
who are smarter than you are who are
figuring out ways to keep you glued to
that screen in the new economy of
attention that's what's going on let's
just go back just a little bit about to
this this concept you have of liberating
enslaving pleasures this is sort of like
pre our sophistication in understanding
of addiction just you know with some
vague notion of like uh people are doing
stuff that's bad for them but we're
talking like in the the I guess maybe
around the 17th century 18th century
maybe where you had people using stuff
because you'd you know life was hard and
there was moments of escape there is I
mean what what what is that that
paradigm
of things that both liberate in and
slave it's a good paradox actually I so
so I earlier I used the phrase
potentially addictive products and
services I try to make the point in the
book that these things are not all evil
and they're not they're not all to be
avoided and then in fact they've brought
a lot of pleasure and even liberation
into human lives in the course of
history I mean you know what's what's
the matter what's the matter with
posting someone with a glass of wine at
a wedding feast nothing there there is
there's a very humane and liberating
aspect to many of these things on the
other hand there there's a potential
problem and the problem is that people
will become such heavy consumers that
they will harm themselves and generate
social costs and the temptation is for
businesses to market these products in a
way that they encourage heavy and
destructive consumption in a certain
subgroup of users because frankly that's
where they get most of their money so in
the alcohol industry freezing up all 80%
of the revenues come from 20% of the
users and that's the built-in temptation
either I mean are are you describing I
mean is this could this arguably just be
a problem with capitalism I mean because
you have era you know pre at least the
capitalism that we understand today and
the sort of the the the this I guess
late stage of capitalism where okay
people have access to alcohol people
have access to
I don't know depending on where they
live like you know coca or or or so you
know or some other drug in that on some
level because you know some people are
going to be destroyed by them
but the numbers of people who will be
are far less because the the product as
it were has not been so commodified and
then with this sort of machine behind it
to sort of insert it in in our lives in
a way that has been you know that that I
guess hyper inflates its allure in some
way yeah Sam listen you should have
written a book and saved me the trouble
I think I think you just nailed it I
mean there are lots of things you use
the word commodify that's part of the
problem there were there were many
products that were not particularly
harmful that became more so as a
consequence of industrialization and
commodification on cigarettes would be
an example cheap booze which was
ubiquitous by the late 19th century
another thing that's really important to
keep in mind is that the the historical
context of what constitutes a dangerous
product changes so take alcohol as an
example there was once a time when water
was was very polluted and full of
pathogenic microorganisms and if you
drank water you were going to get
cholera or some other terrible disease
and you're actually better off drinking
something like beer but with the the
public health reforms and the
improvement in sanitation at the end of
the 19th century in the beginning of the
20th century
suddenly drinking water is safe and
temperance societies start building what
they call temperance fountains or what
we would call water fountains in many
cities and the message is drink water
not booze so that the the sort of the
risks and benefits of alcohol change in
comparison to what the alternative
beverages are if you see what I mean so
it's it's it's a little bit tricky to
say you know these things are always bad
or risky you're always addictive but but
generally speaking with the passage of
time and the growth
technology and marketing addiction has
definitely expanded we should say it
just reminds me they did Johnny
Appleseed he was going around growing
apple trees it was all vastly for apple
cider I'm a hard time hard cider
absolutely right which by the way was
exempted by the Volstead Act something
that a lot of people don't know is that
rural interests that supported the
Volstead Act those people were mainly
concerned about working-class in cities
drinking and so it's perfectly okay for
farmers to keep fermenting their cider
and drinking their slice so there's a
kind of double standard that was built
into the legislation interesting and so
let's talk about the sort of the anti
vices and and in the anti-vice activism
pro-vice activism you you dedicate a
chapter each to each but but let's I
mean
tell us what I mean what should we
understand about the the anti-vice
activist it wasn't simply all
puritanical I mean I know that that for
instance the part of the the the
progressive movement at the time
supported prohibition in part because
they wanted an income tax and alcohol
had been a source of really the federal
government's revenue in terms of taxes
and they wanted to take that off the
table for a while yeah and and they're
also worried about the corrupting
influence of the alcohol industry which
owns a lot of the state legislatures so
so right so this is actually politically
this is really interesting so the people
that historians call capital P
progressives that sort of turn turn of
the last century progressives were
people who believed that it was
necessary for the government to
intervene in at least certain markets in
the interests of economic justice and
also in the case of Linda capitalism to
suppress the consumption of certain
products
that they thought were bad for the
public's health and they weren't all
religious so there were some people who
were religiously conservative people who
were you know Baptist or Methodist and
they just thought alcohol and tobacco
were evil but there were also secular
progressives who thought yeah you can
make a case that these things are
harmful and they shortened lives and we
should discourage their use especially
among the young so they supported
everything from out-and-out prohibition
to age restrictions on purchasing things
like tobacco products to ours that
saloons could operate there there were
there's a spectrum of regulation that
comes out of the progressive era and
it's not just in the United States that
this this book the age of addiction is a
global history and one of the things I
try to show is that there were anti-vice
progressives in every country in fact
you know who the biggest aunty Vice
progressive in the world was in late
19th in the early 20th century know
Gandhi Gandhi its Gandhi I you know we
immediately think of carry nation or
somebody but the person who is probably
the most famous and consistent anti-vice
activist is Gandhi who thinks that she
shouldn't smoke the government should
enact prohibition that opium production
needs to be curtailed that these things
are bad for people and and you can find
people all over the world who adhere to
this and if I could just extend that
what's it what's interesting today is
that there's a split among progressives
let's say smalti' progressives there
there are economic progressives who feel
still very strongly that it's the
business of the government to regulate
markets and to regulate capitalist
enterprise but they don't like the drug
war and they don't like religious
conservatives and they don't like
anything that smacks of Puritanism and
so that
that there's very pronounced ambivalence
about the government interfering with
markets and what used to be called vice
in fact they don't even want to use the
word vice so they're they're torn on the
one hand they embrace the principle of
government regulation but they think oh
well if you let the government was on
drugs we're going to have another racist
drug war and so on so there's this real
tension I think within the left today
well I would add to I mean for instance
in the context of let's say in New York
City Bloomberg got rid of sugary drinks
like you couldn't buy a sugar drink that
was larger they couldn't have a soda
fountain that was larger than 20 ounces
let's say I think it was right and in
many respects it's a it's a little bit
regressive in terms of a policy it also
doesn't address sort of some of the and
we see this with other sort of products
that were sold in terms of like with
trans fat and whatnot that it sort of I
guess as a unintended consequence or one
that people were aware of would maybe
punish people who live in food deserts
in certain urban areas and whatnot but I
mean this so this dilemma extends itself
but where I mean I guess the this is a
question of I mean there's sort of like
a weird sort of cross-section of things
like libertarianism and the sort of the
definition of freedom in some respects
well go ahead so two things about
Bloomberg one it let's be clear the
people who funded the repeal campaign in
New York City that was the food industry
in the sugar industry and they
appropriated libertarian arguments nice
you know I agree with you the
libertarians didn't like Bloomberg's
nanny regulations as they were called
but but the people who paid for the the
posters and the ads mocking Bloomberg
that came from the industry because they
were afraid about sale
and I'm sending enough to believe
there's not that much daylight between
those two separate groups of people
anyways ambien say alright that may be
as is but the other thing that's
important to understand is that
Bloomberg wins in the end all right so
so there are now a number of cities
across the United States the tax sugary
beverages Mexico has imposed a tax on
sugary beverages the World Health
Organization has endorsed the concept as
sound public health policy so his
problem was not that he was wrong it was
more like he was premature because the
idea is in fact catching on in other
places well and also the on the other
end of that the US government heavily
subsidizes the the it's corn syrup but
the the sugar that goes in those sugary
products yeah well one of about 50
examples of where the left hand or the
right of the US government doesn't know
what the right hand is doing I mean that
you're right that's that's a point that
the just drives critics of the food
industry crazy is you you get one
department in the government giving you
good advice about what constitutes a
healthy diet and you have other branches
of the government that are subsidizing
mass production of unhealthful foods you
know go figure but you know I think
that's a that's a familiar story to
anybody at least in American history
which is one of my fields going all the
way back to the New Deal is that you'll
often have government agencies and
government programs working at
cross-purposes which turns out to be one
of the libertarian objections to
government action is because they fear
that inevitably they'll be this kind of
a screw up as a as a father of a 14 year
old girl I have to now we have to talk a
little bit about digital addiction and
and particularly mobility you you're
right that there's basically three I
guess things that the that the sort of
our connectivity does in terms of
enhancing limbic capitalism it's the the
connectivity and mobility itself in the
products that it promotes it's the it's
the the the use of the internet to sort
of hyper I guess charge older addictions
and in that in both instances both these
things have been engineered to to to
really zero in on our our
vulnerabilities I guess as human beings
and exploit those I mean and I guess
this includes like things like
gamification and and and beyond but talk
about the the the the and I think it's
it's fairly obvious that if people were
prone to having a pornography addiction
or gambling addiction or or I guess
maybe even some in some instances
medications the internet is going to
sort of like enhance that as a delivery
mechanism and sort of get rid of
barriers to you know the bar to entry or
the bardic to addiction I guess but then
there's something addictive in and of
itself to the the connectivity talk
about that well so one of the things
that I discovered is it again looking at
history if you try to think think what
are the preconditions for mass addiction
there are five things and they all start
with the letter A so it's so it's easy
to remember accessibility affordability
advertising and anima T meaning that if
you're in an environment where nobody
else knows that you're doing this it's
easier and then finally enemy or
basically social and moral
those are the those are the five big
contributing factors to mass addiction
and if you think about it the internet
basically supercharges all five of those
things it's it's five for five and I
think you're also right that in addition
to making things like pornography or
gambling or drugs or how do you use
drugs or how do you grow marijuana
providing that kind of information to
people or that kind of content in
addition to doing that there are certain
fetishes that develop around the
technology itself so that in the
literature for example there's a there's
a whole literature on phantom vibrations
where people get so tuned in to their
smartphone in their hip pocket that they
think it's vibrating when it's not get
it I have today alright okay so you know
what I'm talking about no exactly we're
talking about yes all right so it's it's
a it's a conditioned response I mean
it's it's just it's just ABC of
Psychology it's a conditioned response
and one of the really fascinating things
to me was how that elites especially
Silicon Valley elites are very aware of
the addictive potential of this
technology what whether it's by accident
or by design but increasingly they're
sending their own children
to what you might call digitally
decluttered schools or they're they're
going off screen themselves to me it's
fascinating that that which used to be
free which is face to face human
interaction has become a luxury good
it's almost like it's a mark of social
status or a sign of upward mobility so
if you if you walk into a restaurant and
you see a bunch of apparently
well-educated people having a lively
conversation at a dinner table and then
you at the next table or a bunch of kids
who are lost
in their smartphones just ignoring one
another you know which of those two
groups would you guess is upwardly
mobile right that's that me either
there's like these all Waldorf schools
now these private schools that have been
around for quite a while that did it's
true those type of things and all right
well let me so what what can be done I
mean you address this it really does
seem to be to be a question of of
society I mean to sort of Mille
you know Bloomberg in in terms of a
sugary sugary drinks may have provided
some type of ant-and- and maybe before
we get that I'd you just say that my
understanding is that the research on
the mobile phones this latest generation
the kids literally my daughter's age are
are unique in terms of you know the the
demographic studies have shown like a
dramatic change in in in children
essentially or you know young teens in
terms of their generation in terms of
like things like like like drug use
alcohol use teen pregnancy and whatnot
but rises in anime as you say and
depression and anxiety because
specifically of the mobility that comes
with a phone as opposed to even and like
an iPad apparently so with this sort of
knowledge that we have a real I mean
this is a real health crisis right I
mean this is like in the same way we
have a measles outbreak and they say
okay we're going to moratorium on your
ability to avoid getting vaccinations
there there has to become a society wide
understanding that this is a public
health crisis well it is and so far as
things like distracted driving really
can kill you you're right I mean there
there is there is a risk to life and
limb although you have to be careful to
distinguish between that risk and say
the risk posed by cigarettes
although just and listening to what you
were saying I had a thought which is
maybe each generation has a special
vulnerability so if you grew up in the
United States in 40s and 50s the thing
that was going to get you the big threat
was cigarette smoking which which was
very very widespread especially among
the young at the time and now that
increasingly the threat comes from
digital technologies which whatever they
may or may not do for your health are
really bad news when it comes to
education for example there's a massive
amount of digital distraction it doesn't
help learning you're right about that as
to your first question what can we do
about this I think I think Tax Policy is
part of the example i I'm sorry part of
the solution to the problem I think that
Bloomberg was on the right track and I
think that there it's not just sugary
drinks I wouldn't limit it to that I
think that alcohol and a lot of other
things are under taxed I think getting
serious about enforcing age restrictions
I think government monopolies for
certain kinds of really addictive
products like schedule 2 and schedule 3
controlled substances that's a policy
option that's out there I mean we if you
take if you take something like opioids
we have to have opioids
they are life-saving in certain
circumstances these are valuable
medicines but do you want them
necessarily marketed by private
enterprise that's seeking to maximize
profits for that particular category of
products by the way I don't know the
answer to that question I'm just
thinking out loud here but certainly a
hundred years ago there were people who
would make the argument that alcohol is
and that an inevitable presence in our
society and so therefore we would be
better off if all of the the pubs and
the saloons and the taverns were run by
the government and strictly managed by
the government so that the the saloon
keepers were put on a salary and they
didn't
the incentive to keep pushing booze so
that everybody got drunk and lastly let
me just say that ridicule is a much
underutilized tactic in fighting back
against Olympique capitalism some of the
most effective public health campaigns
have been those that have held up people
like tobacco executives to ridicule and
and ridicule is especially effective I
think for young people and I think that
that's that's something that we can
develop more than we have that's well
both those things are fascinating
because on one hand I mean I could see
Bernie Sanders coming out tomorrow and
saying that we need to nationalize the
production of some classes of
medications like opioids I mean it's
hard to argue that it is safe for
society to allow capitalists to be
responsible for the production of these
drugs they just literally killed
hundreds of thousands of Americans and
and misery
maybe maybe millions because of their
pursuit of profits and I should say just
for the sake of fairness that I think
one of the Sackler is you know
complained that it was was difficult on
their kids to go to school because of
all the negative publicity for them but
yeah that was thinking of the David
Sackler interview in Vanity Fair
yes exactly yeah well on the other hand
I mean the the reason maybe you hear
some hesitation in my voice is that you
you do get innovation I mean look at
another example smartphone so you and
I've been talking about the potential
abuses are dangerous especially for
young people of being obsessed with your
smartphone on the other hand the
smartphone is a really great piece of
technology which helps people navigate
from place to place
which makes it easier to make 911 calls
I mean there are there are lots of
benefits that are associated with this
technology and I guess somebody who was
defending free enterprise would say well
you know did it take an apple to develop
this technology would this necessarily
come out of a nationalized
telecommunications industry that that's
a fair question to ask and that's
another reason why I used the phrase
liberating enslaving pleasures in the
bloc is because I don't want it to come
across as just entirely one-sided or
puritanical because I recognize that
these these same products and services
that can cause so much mischief and so
much misery and even death can also be
liberating and life-saving in other
circumstances well it's it's a
fascinating book and I think we can I'm
happy to come to an agreement that maybe
what we need is just on a case-by-case
basis decide what we're going to
nationalize yeah that's right that's a
good insight that when we talk about
limbic capitalism we're actually talking
about a whole range of industries and I
I really believe that some of these
products are are intrinsically more
dangerous than others which by the way
is why the government in the Controlled
Substances Act says oK we've got
schedule on drugs which are forbidden
and we've got schedule two and three
which are tightly regulated in schedule
four and five which are less tightly
regulated I mean that's nothing if not
an acknowledgment of what you just said
is that some drugs are more dangerous
than others David Cortright the book is
the age of addiction how bad habits
became big business thanks so much for
your time today really appreciate it
Sam I enjoyed it thank you okay all
right folks that's it for us we will
head into the fun half where we will
look upon I think we'll probably end up
discussing this intra
fight that is taking place here and this
sort of almost the bizarre nature of it
how Donald Trump has perhaps maybe given
both sides and out here although I
suspect it won't work that way but we've
got a lot to talk about in that Accord
and then we'll see Lindsey Graham try
and justify I don't know there's it's
just it's pretty it's pretty stunning
all of what's going on now it's it's
pretty stunning none of it and I don't
know that there's a coincidence none of
it is really dealing with or I should
say all of it is a distraction I don't
think I'm not I'm not saying that's its
conceived in that way but maybe it is
from the idea that Donald Trump seems to
have absolutely no accountability in the
context of I mean just the other day he
lost another cabinet secretary albeit to
a story of pedophilia and sex
trafficking as opposed to two of his
campaign chairs a statewide campaign
chairs who had to sit down for direct
pedophilia that I think was ongoing and
I mean I it's quite possible that would
be very close to him just having two or
three actual members of his cabinet as
opposed to acting members and you have
things like the EPA rolling back you
know stuff like this during the Bush
years I don't know we would end up
talking about more because there was
less of a distraction less people are
paying attention maybe it's the exact
same amount of people who are paying
attention to questions like this but the
EPA is preparing to weaken rules that
have for over the past thirty some odd
years so early in the EPA's existence
which you'll recall
first came into existence in was 72-73
under Nixon it would eliminate the
ability of individuals or communities to
appeal against the EPA issued pollution
permits before a panel of agency judges
however the permit holders the industry
like literally the polluters could still
appeal to the panel so the panel that
exists only for one type of appeal when
corporations lose so you'd have an
opportunity to appeal if you want to
increase pollution but you will not have
an opportunity to appeal to an EP an EPA
decision if it's to decrease pollution I
mean that's pretty stunning
they're apparently just in going over
some of the changes in June there was an
announcement of a new EPA rule that
would weaken regulations on greenhouse
pollution from power plants smokestacks
in late summer
there's expected to be an announcement
of a similar plan to weaken rules on
vehicle tailpipe pollution and of course
that 2018 proposal to open much of the
United States coastline to oil drilling
you know you hear a Donald Trump in his
chums talk about the clean water and the
clean air that we have because
apparently some of his pollsters have
said this is a problem with them with
Republicans in the Republican Women in
the suburbs are a little concerned that
you're rolling back EPA regulations at a
time where we are headed towards a
barreling down upon a climate disaster
and so they're just keep saying clean
water and clean air over and over again
and then they'll let us cage the
immigrants I guess is the plan but we
will we will touch on some of these
things I guess in the fun app because
it's that's fun I mean I think I'm in a
cranky mood today that's fair yeah
anyways it's your support that makes
this show possible folks you can become
a member by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report com
just pennies a day
well nickels add a handful of nickels a
day and we give you extra content every
day occasionally we give you a special
bonus but I mean we give you a bonus
every day like 90 minutes plus you get a
commercial free
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority to get 10% off
and check out the a.m. quickie it's in
your feed it's not gonna be there
forever see if you like it
have you got any comments send us an
email maggiore reporters at gmail.com
uh Michael is out today but I imagine
he'll be back tomorrow some type of
mystery thing that's going on with him
always happens to be on mondays mystery
Mondays yeah mystery Mondays we need to
get like a maybe a counter or some type
of graph I wonder if we could color code
this gone on Mondays like do one of
those things where you built like
whatever those those the reverse of
those like chocolate calendars counting
down to Christmas like see if what we
could we could build with like little
dots indicating on Mondays like some
type of building or something like that
I don't know
once again I'm very torn between my
desire to talk on Michael and my
desire to never side with the boss
against a fellow employee it's stuff
that's very tough dilemma it's a very
tough dilemma but Jamie's here Jamie
Here I am what's up what's the latest
the Intifada oh well we recorded an
episode at an undisclosed location
wherein we talked to a few different yes
a few different very interesting
communist thinkers about let's see the
first one was actually about the song
Old Town Road
we interviewed Joshua clover and had an
interesting conversation about that oh
it was all authors of articles in this
issue of commie and magazine which is a
really great magazine that we really
encourage everyone to check out and
they're good friends of ours and we've
been doing a lot of stuff together so we
talked to Joshua clover about Old Town
Road we talked to Michelle
O'Brien about family abolition and we
spoke to God my brain is gone
Chloe Watlington one of the editors from
calm you mag Essene about her editor's
note in the latest issue which I found
to be really powerful and the human
reasons behind why we're all doing this
Bat Yam a most recent episode on Rutger
Bregman and his book on ubi and open
borders is out and also on the YouTube
page just put the episode on Margaret
Fuller who's wrote woman in the 19th
century she's an early American
I missed you should know about alright
folks gonna take a quick break
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty Jamie and
I may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
breeze up their buggy whippin like he's
boss I am NOT your employer I'm sorry I
didn't idiot we're just going to
get rid of you alright yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first I'm hoping that
more moves to my repertoire all I have
is the dip in the scroll fine we can
double dip yes this is a perfect moment
no wait what you make under a million
dollars come here not they accuse me
 you you all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I see some people Shitler
what's such a No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
yeah no kidding
my daughter is sold something on D pop
and I've hooked up my paypal to it so
she always demands the money
she's like calling me and I'm like dude
I'm doing a show
god she's figure out a great business
model have dad buy pants sell them
pocket the money smart yeah it is smart
I know at first I was like oh she's
learning about business but she's not
learning about business it's not
learning about anything except for just
how to fleece her dad that's a big part
of American business I guess probably is
well dad I'm first i fleece you and then
I just go on to do other people I don't
know that's business I mean it pretty
much is it is we just talked about it
exactly we did and it's very exciting
Oh God
Netroots nation was interesting I you
know I didn't get out of I basically sat
in a seat for like ten hours each day
and then then went out and had drinks
and dinner with people that I hadn't
seen in a long time or that I have seen
and that was fun and then I had to leave
early Saturday
unfortunately so I missed sort of these
some of the headliners there but we'll
go through that in a minute but first I
just want to hear is a OC and I don't
know I you know I don't know what there
is to say about the attack on on her
that I didn't and you know the so called
squad that we didn't talk about during
the interviews on Thursday and Friday
I mean I think to a large extent people
seem largely really confused as to why
Pelosi would go this hard
I mean it's understandable on some level
if you are jaded towards politicians and
skeptical of them broadly and you know
even some skepticism of Pelosi but at
one point it becomes hard to understand
the logic even from her perspective and
that's the part that I find before I
mean I know why people do bad things and
stupid things but there is also I want
to say that it was on Crooked Timber but
I'm not sure a writer maybe it was
Jonathan Schwartz who a tiny revolution
maybe I'm not sure who had some type of
iron law of institutions which is that
people would rather maintain their power
within an institution even more than
maintaining the power of the institution
in and of itself and that is not unique
to Congress that is not unique to
anything he's just institutions groups
and it's quite conceivable that Nancy
Pelosi despite the fact that you know
the Ceph Moulton's of the caucus came at
her and tried to run against there they
were quite easily dispatched I think and
rightly so Nancy Pelosi and many of her
ilk see this generation this younger
generation of Congress people
represented if not directly but
illustrated by AOC and clib and Elan
Omar and Jana Presley and and others who
are you know sort of like adjacent but
particularly those younger women of
color are the future of the Democratic
Party in many respects electoral either'
they're the present of the Democratic
Party and maybe that's why in terms of
leadership these folks are the future
and I think it threatens Pelosi and her
ilk and at least in the context of this
era it definitely feels like Pelosi is
not up to the differences of this era
they're just not aware of what's going
on with their their voters ID it's not
it's just simply can't understand what
the what they hope to gain to this I
understand the idea of like they're
hoping to run out the clock they're
afraid of impeachment because it puts
them off but this is going just a little
bit further than that and III don't see
how this is effective I really don't I
mean I know that there was an internal
poll that supposedly showed that people
did not
people in the industrial Midwest were
not responding well to AOC and socialism
supposedly but it is and that may be the
case it may not be the case but either
way even if I stipulate that that poll
is accurate and it was delivered to us
accurately which I tend to be a little
skeptical of but even even if I
stipulate that it still doesn't make any
sense
Nancy Pelosi pulls like crap in every
single district in the entire country
and she has for a decade certainly did
going into the 2016 race and that was
exclusively about the house in the
Senate exclusively about the house in
the set I mean presumably right and
Nancy Pelosi pulled like garbage and
that did not implicate people voting and
she was the leader of the party now it's
true Fox has done a great job in
defining AOC more Republicans are aware
of her than Democrats but the fact of
the matter is is that in 2020 the vote
is gonna be about Donald Trump and the
question is are you going to give your
base any reason not to vote against
Donald Trump like not just it to vote
for somebody up but I mean like
literally are you going to give your
base any reason to stay at home or
you're gonna make it a clear sort of
choice that they're making and that is
to go out and vote against Donald Trump
and not have any misgivings are you
going to have an activated base and
activated people who stayed at home
during 2016 I mean that's really the
question we know that Trump's people
came out as much as they were ever gonna
come out they did not come out in 2018
some Republicans had I think one of
their best turnouts in a midterm as well
it's just Democrats went even even
further and they did not like the this
is what it's gonna come down to how many
people get to the polls particularly in
these states and so it doesn't matter
what somebody in Michigan thinks of aoc
it doesn't matter in terms of them not
liking her because the the jump from
there to I'm gonna vote for Trump where
I otherwise wouldn't is just very hard
to understand but it does if you want in
Milwaukee more african-american turnout
if you want more african-american people
of color turnout in Michigan you best
not crap
on the people who are representing the
interests of those people who are
speaking out on behalf of those people
because then you start to wonder if
you're one of those people it would be
irrational otherwise so like is this a
is this a party that's really in my
interests or even has the potential to
be in my interest because anytime we get
some voice in there that we appreciate
they get sidelines and attacked more so
than the people even went after Nancy
Pelosi remember ALC voted for so I don't
know and the it's mystifying and of
course Donald Trump stepped in it and we
will we will talk about that in a moment
well I think it's exactly what you said
she's more invested in preserving her
power within the Institute
and you know representing the interests
that currently dominate the institution
than the success of the institution
itself but I do wonder like if you
compare what's happening in the
Democratic Party right now with the
progressive wing the squad or whatever
to when the Tea Party took over the
Republicans AOC is playing it very
differently by demanding to be included
in this institution right whereas I
think the Tea Party was more openly
oppositional to the Republican
establishment and I wonder if that's a
good move I mean I don't know ALC may
have been doing that what she's doing is
sitting a congresswoman I mean just as
Democrats are I don't know if they're
going after all the blue dogs but they
are going out and they are primary they
are primary Democrats and that's you
know theoretically what the tea party
did I mean you know the strategies
aren't going to align because the
dynamics are very different and the
voters are different the institutional
support in terms of money I mean the the
Tea Party thousands of busts and showed
up to bring them to rallies and it was
all paid for by the Koch brothers
there's just no equivalent and so it's
it's a it's a different calculation I
mean the fact of the matter is that you
know Mitch McConnell Lindsey Graham look
at Lindsey Graham like you know these
are our politicians who have a different
relationship with their base and I don't
know that the Democrats are ever going
to have that because they're a much more
diverse party frankly they just simply
are I mean sheer numbers and so there's
too many I think different sort of like
planes that intersect to make the
democratic party planes and groups of
people as opposed to Republicans which
starts off with I guess you know the
advantage that there are a hundred
percent white yeah but don't you think
one strength of the kinds of politics
that these people represent is that it
is more of a mass working-class politic
the king bring together diverse segments
of the population that who represents
IOC Rashidah to leave that they can
bring diverse groups of people yes no I
do think that's that's one of their
strengths but I'm just saying that the
the strategies are not going to align
the strategies of insurgents in the
Democratic Party are not going to
necessarily align with the strategies of
insurgents in the Republican Party
because in many respects the tea party
or whatever you want to call it didn't
have to take over the apparatus of the
Republican Party because the Koch
brothers came in and they created one
that was better like they literally
remember those stories of the of the
voter files people weren't going to the
party anymore for the voter files
because the Koch brothers had developed
a better voter file now I don't know
who's gonna step in Tom Styer is not
gonna say like hey guys I'm going to
give a hundred million dollars to the
Justice Democrats and they're gonna
create a voter file it's gonna be better
and so it doesn't matter where you go go
to these guys I mean it's that's not
gonna happen yeah I guess it just seems
kind of weird to me that you would come
in throw a bunch of bombs primary
Democrats and represent policies that
the centrist wing of the party hates and
finds extremely threatening and then act
surprised that they are responding to
you with hostility who's who's acting
surprised I mean the way that a OSI has
been talking about this stuff the way
that the squad has been talking about it
it seems like they expect their their
their policies and their actions to be
more welcome than they actually are
I mean I think this is just the fight
yeah I mean I think I'm not sure that is
it a rhetorical stance that they're
taking I would imagine some of that is I
mean some of it is I would imagine is a
rhetorical stance I mean it helps you're
trying to sort of like marshal your own
forces and so you you make it look like
you got cold caught but you know we
don't know what the relationship has
been between them and Pelosi we don't
know that from looking in the outside
you know it could have been better or
worse at different points but I mean if
I'm Nancy
Oh see and I don't and it's it's hard
for me to put myself into her position I
don't have this power I don't have the
same relationship to wanting power I
think that probably she does which is
why I'm not the Speaker of the House but
one could also imagine a scenario where
we're gonna co-op the energy of these
people and we're gonna bring them into
the tent and have them piss out instead
of piss in oh yeah and it seems like
there was an active that's that's the
thing that I'm very surprised about is
that I'm not surprised that there's not
animosity I'm not surprised that people
feel threatened by them I'm just
surprised by the way they're going about
it because it's not terribly effective
you can feel threatened by people and
react in a way that's more constructive
to your own agenda in the long run I
mean it's not like Nancy Pelosi are
gonna live forever right like I mean I
don't know how many more years she plans
to be Speaker of the House but I think
it's a I don't know if it's that
strategic like the way like drew Hamill
that Nancy Pelosi is chief of staff and
the other guy for Hakeem Jeffries
tweeted this stuff out on Friday night
like it seems so petty so and not very
strategic to me like these are just
small minded like apparatchik likes like
grasping on power oh yeah they're
they're absolutely letting their hubris
get in the way like the smart thing to
do would be to deny them the attention
and deny them the news stories because
that's what they're running on and
that's how they're building a base right
you could just say oh it's not a big
deal I'm not gonna comment we're working
it out instead of you know being this
much of a see-you-next-tuesday
and good oh geez all right well here is
a Oh see after having toured these
facilities these border concentration
camps in June and she is at the house
Department of Homeland Security hearings
is that what it is and I think she's
there testifying not necess
a member of the committee because they
had been on the trip and here she is
much has been made about the fact that
we have said that this is a manufactured
crisis and in many ways it is
manufactured and that it is wholly
unnecessary it is unnecessary to
separate children from their families it
is unnecessary to have a policy to
detain innocent women and families that
have harmed no person and are legally
seeking asylum in the United States of
America it is unnecessary to have a
policy that calls children unaccompanied
when they arrive with older brothers
sisters and grandparents and treat them
no differently than human traffickers
and in speaking of trafficking it is
completely unnecessary for this
administration to choose to implement
policies like metering and so-called
remain in Mexico policies that dump
innocent people in dangerous territories
that puts them right in the crosshairs
of human traffickers right for picking
this is a manufactured crisis because
cruelty because the cruelty is
manufactured this is a manufactured
crisis because there is no need for us
to do this when I and when we took our
tour of the border one of the first
things that we were told was that we
were not allowed to speak to the
migrants that we were not allowed to
have contact with them that we shouldn't
and this was given for reasons of quote
their safety or reasons for or for the
expediency of the tour we went in and
one of the officers attempted to sneak a
photograph photograph of myself and
other of the and other congressional
members and at that point we asked to
enter one of the cells we're allowed to
speak to the women and these are the
women that we spoke to it's their
handwriting and what we are being asked
to speak only to officers we are not
getting the accounts of migrants of
their treatment of what they are
experiencing and so when these women
tell me that they were put into a cell
and that their sink was not working and
we tempted to think ourselves and the
sink was not working and they were told
to drink out of a toilet bowl I believe
them I believe these women I believed
the canker sores that I saw in their
mouths because they were only allowed to
be fed on nutritious food I believed
them when they said they were sleeping
on concrete floors for two months I
believed them and what was worse about
this mr. chairman was the fact that
there were American flags hanging all
over these facilities that children
being separated from their parents in
front of an American flag that women
were being called these names under an
American flag it's it's stunning to
watch these these videos and to hear
these stories and to know that this is
official policy and that half the
country maybe a little more maybe a
little less at least does not care
certainly a significant percentage of
the country has figured out a way to say
this is the right thing we're doing the
right thing here like I mean are there
vast swathes of people who can actually
point to a single thing that has
materially that that immigrants have
materially impacted their lives for the
worse a single thing and you're willing
to put people in cages for for what it's
just insane it's insanity
it really is insanity and
you know like I said earlier like I
don't know how to articulate this
without it sounding like you know sort
of like it arm's length but it's it III
I just wonder like at what point do we
cross the cross a threshold where we see
images or become aware of what's going
on you know cuz I feel like I said this
like a year ago but you know this is not
this is not obviously this is not the
Holocaust but if you were going to do
another mass extinction or I should say
extermination of people this is one of
the ways that you would go about doing
it this would be one of the early steps
now there's a lot of different branches
you can head off from this point but you
certainly can't get to there without
going through what we're going through
now yeah hey the concentration camps
didn't start explicitly as death camps
no and I don't know I mean like what you
know at what point just you know just
step back and think about where we have
gone from here we knew that there were
these facilities jeff merkley was
outside of one of them wasn't allowed to
go in then got in got a little peak
maybe well what's the big deal oh
they're in cages that's horrible but
then what's the big deal oh there are
people dying in there but not many oh
they're in cages and they're not being
fed very well or they're covered with
lice or they're not allowed to shower
but what's the big deal they're they
have to drink out of some toilets well
now it's not their fault because you
know we'd lead they were designed for
these things I don't I mean
at what point that you know one of the
things that you know as a kid going to
Hebrew school all of it was about not
all of it but when I was seven eight
nine ten
we were only thirty years out thirty
years out from the the Holocaust we are
more than thirty years out from when I
was seven or eight nine ten I can tell
you that and we spent a lot of time as
kids probably more than we probably
should have frankly but I think there
was an awareness that like you know
these concentration camp survivors some
of them were our Hebrew teachers are
gonna die off and there's not going to
be any first-hand recollection and so
you better make sure that next
generation has an awareness of it
obviously different people took
different things from from that
understanding of that generation that
went through it but I just remember you
know with the questions with everybody
how is like you know how do how do
people around there let this happen how
do people like whether they were in
Germany or whether or in Poland or other
countries around there like they knew
the cancer there how do they how did
they sort of like pretend like they
didn't know what was going on how do
they allow that to happen in the run-up
now obviously it's not completely
analogous but there's weird the you know
this weird dynamic where you start to
see these pictures that come out of
there and I don't think that I don't
think that we have the that we're in a
country that is going to begin to
exterminate people like this but at what
point do we say like oh you know what
the systemic killing of people that we
have rounded up is not the threshold
where we engage like we're supposed to
be a country that is
you know whatever American
exceptionalism like where is the
threshold where we engage like what
would it be what if people are kept in
there for 50 days a hundred days 200
days like what's the date what's the
date where we say hey there's something
that is so wrong that we need to break
the law to stop it
how many people have to die how many
kids have to be separated what are the
illnesses that need to go on there it's
not enough like chicken pox it's not
enough like you know lice infestations
what is the threshold where it's I mean
I it should have happened already I
don't know am i I really don't know but
I don't I don't know what like you know
what's the threshold of you know to
action or what I I mean I I don't I I
don't know what it is I really don't but
there's this like sort of creepy ass
feeling that when you start to see these
images you see these you see Mike Pence
go and just look over the pen as to oh
here the specimens we've assembled in
this cage and what happens when one of
them gets a little bit rowdy oh the guy
on the platform pulls them out we pull
them out I don't know where they send
them where I mean what where do they put
them where do they put those people
they've got 380 I think at that pen 380
he said in another pen where's the extra
space where they put the rowdy ones
where do they put the rowdy ones when
they pulled them out they have been
using solitary confinement on a lot of
people they're not they're not
appreciative we're giving you a cement
floor to sleep on the only way you can
get out of that cage full of people and
your cement floor with the aluminum
plant your tin foil blanket is to be
rowdy yeah and I am wonder where that
gets you I mean what is what is supposed
to separate us as a well what is the
unique element of our
entry hi I mean it's I also really want
to make the point that the images we're
seeing right now are incredibly shocking
and I'm glad that a lot of people are
waking up to it for the first time but
this has been building for a long time
right the infrastructure for a lot of
this stuff was laid during the Clinton
administration it was continued under
Obama and it is certainly accelerating
but the best way to get involved because
everyone wants to know how they can get
involved in there definitely ways the
best way to get involved is to get
involved in long term immigrant justice
organizing and there are people who've
been doing this work for a very long
time and welcoming the increased
attention and I think that everyone else
needs to follow their lead and and and I
think a lot of people are going to be
looking to the left for answers now and
it seems like a good chance to draw out
the connections in a very explicit way
between the tech sector capitalist
accumulation militarized borders and
state violence against human beings
besides race is aria Rai CES do you have
any other groups you want to plug I got
a look back at the thread but certainly
my friends in the DSA immigrant justice
working group have been doing some
really admirable work I'm about to raise
some funds for el otro lado I believe
which is a organization that helps
migrants in Tijuana and I'm gonna post a
whole lot more really soon
yeah and of follow Ronald Reagan I'm
sure he is posting some of those
organizations as well
yeah the redirect podcast actually they
go into the how this was a slow sort of
accumulating mess of infrastructure food
you know terrorizing immigrants let's go
to the phones calling from a 707 area
code who's this where you come from
seven eight
yes hey Sam
we California Jeff from California
what's on your mind yeah yeah Gio from
California what is on your mind so thank
you um longtime listener big fan
first-time caller so I have a little bit
of a problem on my hands last year I
spent Christmas with my little brother
and very quickly managed to convince him
that Bernie Sanders was the best option
for 2020 and recently sorry I'm a little
nervous
recently we're trying to convert my
other brother and the problem is he like
he basically he works for charter
schools in Brooklyn and so he's really
you know up to the teeth in the
establishment bs and so what I'm asking
you is how would you approach someone
who has a brain and is a very smart
person but has kind of gone the other
way
Rishi who did your brother support it's
give me a sense of like how far how far
gone is okay so so so I mean obviously
he's supported Hillary in 2016 and the
last time I talked to my little brother
was after the debate and he said and I
asked him you know did he say anything
about Bernie and my little brother said
that he quote said Bernie is just a mess
well better but who does important who
does he support do you know no I know I
I think he I think he supports Carmona
pretty strongly well he's not a Biden
levels of of problem I know I don't
think so I don't think that he's going
to vote for that I mean
I don't nothing like what was say to
someone like that I think that that ilk
of folk is not necessarily going to be
how Bernie wins if he wins the primary
frankly I'd be more concerned if he was
a Biden supporter I mean on some level
strategically speaking maybe him being a
crack amla supporter is good maybe you
just say like what about Booker you
should think about Booker like Booker
really edgy all I'm saying is like you
got two choices you can you can try and
convert him to Bernie or maybe you could
take him off the board a little bit and
so maybe you should turn him on to Cory
Booker try to like sidelight and made to
some other losing that's what I'm
suggesting
yes like say to him like one who you
know who really is great with charter
schools Cory Booker boy look into him
cuz I don't know about come on can I ask
you a question is he like a teacher or
more of a boss or administrator so he
started out as a teacher and you know I
should say that like you know my little
brother's gay and like I helped start
the GSA in my high school and so like we
don't we don't agree on anything except
for the fact that we both you know are
like socially liberal you know I'm
saying like right like like I'm a
stand-up comedian he doesn't like my
jokes because he thinks that they're not
woke enough but he but he used to be a
teacher and now he's an administrator so
now now he is like a recruiter his class
position might make this a little more
difficult I was kidding why I'm calling
you
yeah I gotta say take him off the board
but pushing into Booker's camp I think
I'm with Sam on this so can I say one
thing that they like
you've actually you've actually sort of
inspired me in a way that you've given
me a new strategy which is the
primary like you said take him off the
board in the primary and then hopefully
I can yeah I mean the general you're
gonna have a much better argument with
him Trump vs. Bernie then you will try
to peel him right off so I would just
say take him off the board take him off
the board for now for now all right Sam
all right then I'll uh I'll cut one
again thanks for taking my call it's
been good talking how you - there you go
also anybody as Brendan points out
behind us anybody who is in New York it
doesn't matter if they don't vote for
Bernie over Trump like Bernie's gonna
win New York right in New York right
you're looking to the general election
let's go to the phones come from a 267
area code who's this where he come from
I'm calling about a medical bill I just
received I had a claim that was denied
unfortunately and the plans I have is
called a Rubin care not for reasons of I
mean just didn't make you Oh
what happened he also obviously is gone
that one of those like Rubin phones - it
just stops talking to you an idea
overload back sorry can you hear me now
better yeah yeah I okay I go through a
dead zone there as I escaped my wage
slavery anyway the thing I wanted to ask
about who is this is this is fran from
Philadelphia all right from Philadelphia
all right friend you know we kept your
sign did you see that we ended up using
it the left is best as our well we
realized when we got down there I said
to Brendan like I gotta get a majority
report a banner just to identify the
table as people are walking by and then
we just ended up budged using your left
as best
and putting a stick amazing yeah it
makes me so makes me so happy
well it was great seeing you Sam you you
know look the camera really does add 10
pounds because you are a slender Fox if
I do say so myself
anyway we should Bert for anyone on
bumble there you know he's a looker he's
a looker there you go folks the thing I
want to ask about is um try to it's
basically about what a jet heavy on
camera no guys I was with Pete footages
a national service plan and in the
context of something like a connection
that I that I kind of see coming from
Fred Jamison about the connection
between Universal conscription or you
know you could even dumb it down to the
word of like national service and a
green new deal jobs guarantee refugee
crisis and currently the border crisis
so the sort of the idea that I had had
building on Jameson was you know you
have a Fred if you have a job guarantee
if you need a jobs guarantee and you
need to deal with upcoming you know
massive displacement issues around the
world and certainly locally then I feel
like a core you could create later
Pizzey idea I had was call it Ark the
Aiden relief corps in which you just
capitalized on the kind of hero culture
that we already have in this country and
actually turn it into something good and
instead of you know the hero of the
American heroes defending freedom
basically murdering people how about you
know having massive ships you know
repurposing our aircraft carriers to be
you know essentially refugee escape
vehicles
and have and you could do this you could
do this you know locally in the United
States you know just what the National
Guard are these us to some extent of
helping people in environmental crisis
region but then that you know that would
be it there would be a job that would be
in the jobs guarantee that should be
part of the green new deal is this aid
and relief corps because you know now we
have this border crisis and you made
this great comment about our standards
going to shift again we're we're okay
with you know these concentration camps
becoming death camps because that that
really is just numerically that has to
be coming down the pike
if nothing changes because there will
just be too many people trying to escape
environmental crises or starvation then
it will just be literally there'll be
nowhere to put them if you don't have a
better solution than these camps you
know can we build have the aid in week
or a different jobs guarantee corps
build cities build town so these people
to live in that wouldn't just be
reservations I think that would happen
Ange the way we think about immigration
but anyway well I mean I think look IIIi
think the idea of what you're talking
about is a good idea I don't know that
it you know frankly the numbers that
we're talking about we have dealt with
the numbers of immigrants on the
southern border before we've certainly
we certainly have been able to absorb
this many of people and we certainly
have the ability to go and put them on
you know probation and have them come
back to court but I think the idea of a
you know of some type of WPA is what
you're really talking about right makes
a lot of sense I mean why not why not it
worked quite well before and so but Fran
I appreciate the call I think it's a
good idea and again thank you for this
sign but I think a lot of people were
mystified but it gave us a time to
remind people what left an anecdote yeah
but one of the it wasn't the zero hour
podcast it was the one was one further
to the right of you they were like I
think you know as I was sort of
photobombing they were like okay what is
this creepy guy doing what left his best
what does that mean
and I was like David what is that and I
said well it's the truth I don't know
what else you want me to say and and
they're like but like what is it does it
mean something I'm like well just the
left is best but you know is nothing
else and one of the guys at the table
goes well you know I don't know waffles
are pretty good anyway that was that was
the that was the the level of podcast
you were on honestly promoting we're
promoting the left they're promoting
waffles thank you for just a reminder
the whole left is best meme on this show
came from shortly after the Trump got
elected there was a fake
vandalism scandal in Connecticut I think
it was right it was like I can't
remember what town in my hometown was
West Hartford where supposedly some some
anarchist anti-fog people targeted a
play targeted a playground and one of
the things that they rode on the
playground to show that they mark their
territory is left is best which of
course famed anti fast logan best of
course where it's i mean can you imagine
these guys just sitting around going
like what are we gonna do to make it
look like they were a narc oh I know
they say left is number one no it
doesn't sound right did you see a guy
set himself on fire trying to burn down
a synagogue recently no oh yeah I'll see
if I can find that story he there's a
security camera footage of him trying to
set it oh and he accidentally set
himself on fire accidentally somehow
we're kind of self owned is that what
your left is best that sounds like
something they would write this is
breaking a judge has sentenced James
Alex Fields jr. he is the
guy who rammed his car into protesters
in Charlottesville killing Heather hire
he has been given prison plus 419 years
- prison excuse me life in prison plus
419 years for murder of Heather hire and
malicious wounding of others in
Charlottesville Wow I don't know how to
feel about that I don't either to be
honest with you that seems like a long
time and probably I don't know I just
don't know that there is value in
basically essentially telling someone
you're gonna die in prison but no like I
don't believe in that for anyone right
even for horrible murderers well for
instance like Brevik the under sporadic
the guy who did kill Dahl the kids in
Norway and set the bomb off Norway
doesn't have life sentences they have
like 30 year sentences and after every
30 years you have to reassess it and I
think something like that's yeah doable
as a starting point frankly all right
let's turn to in the wake of reporting
on the sentence that that white
supremacist who ran his car into
protesters in Charlottesville killing
Heather hire and wounding others let's
talk about the the president who is
really with of course his handmaidens in
the Republican Party been normalizing
racism and social scientists will tell
you that whatever people's racist ideas
are they can occupy a larger part
of the way that they filter things in
the world and when figures in society
begin to normalize these things and they
say basically tell other people it's
okay then people on the outer margins of
these things become even bolder and act
upon these things and it's not just the
president normalizing it it's the
Republican Party normalizing it when you
don't have I don't know more than one
two Republican lawmakers coming out and
criticizing Donald Trump for tweeting
that these women of color who are
freshmen Congress people should go back
to their countries because you know
Alana Omar was a Somali refugee
basically I mean her story is basically
the story that Americans tell themselves
as what America is and Don Trump has
basically came out and said go home to
where you belong if you want an example
of how something like that can be
normalized like normalized just not even
made normal like almost like hey this is
it this is a there's a benefit this is
cheeky here is Fox and Friends listen to
how they talk about this it is again
when you talk about like you know in a
note that all of this stuff basically
came out of the trip that the squad made
down to these detention centers this is
what has brought a lot of this to the
fore this is what has raised the
emotions of of of people and and seeing
Nancy Pelosi's in activity or left-wing
base there and essentially what these
these newly elected congressman
congressman and went oftentimes women in
these cases
are coming out and saying listen we were
elected to buck the system we were
elected to step in and and shake off the
establishment because they feel that
Democrats have not been fulfilling a
progressive enough agenda and they feel
that voters want to hear from them so
they are standing firm and I think that
Nancy Pelosi is going to have a hard
time contending with a lot of people who
are very very strong they're very very
principled and they are not backing
without a doubt you know we're not the
only ones to notice president Trump
noticing tweeting this morning this so
interesting to see progressive
Democratic congresswoman who originally
came from countries whose governments
are a complete and total catastrophe the
worst most corrupt and inept anywhere in
the world if they even have a
functioning government at all now loudly
and viciously telling the people of the
United States the greatest and most
powerful nation on earth how our
government is to be run why don't they
go back and help fix the totally broken
and crime-infested places from which
they came then come back and show us how
it is done these places need your help
badly you can't leave fast enough I'm
sure that Nancy Pelosi would be very
happy
luckily work out free travel
arrangements this tweet that you're just
saying now it's clearly going to get I
think a lot of discussion is feeling
very comedic today I call okay first off
look you can hear them forcing chuckles
during the last reading of that both I
don't know the the stooge in the middle
and the stooge on the on the right and
they both both have the exact same
reaction is that strange once but so
would feel a little comedic and so it
says the comedian in chief almost
simultaneously as if like this is the
way that we're gonna deal with this we
got to put this news up I mean because
everybody's talking about it how do we
say oh he's joking he's being jocular is
that zette sound to any jet sound
familiar to you if you ever like heard
rush limbaugh when he was always when he
was challenged like you called Sandra
Fluke a for going up in front of
Congress and saying that we should have
health insurance that provides birth
control for people I was joking
kids take a joke gab McGinnis I was
joking
kids take a joke
all these all right guys I'm joking I'm
joking snowflakes you can't take a joke
what do you want to censor me I'm being
comedic this is what's wrong with the
left you're not funny anymore
this is how I mean like I I don't think
that these people all get in a room and
say hey how can we mainstream increased
hostility towards brown people how can
we do that but I'll tell you what if
they did I mean I think what happens is
Trump has a certain mentality he reacts
and then these sycophants try and make
it go down in the smoothest way possible
but if they did get into a room and try
and plan it out I Got News for you it
would look exactly like this they don't
this is just ad hoc because this is not
brain surgery
oh he just he basically just used the
the greatest sort of racist meme you
could against people who are whose job
it is as congresspeople to tell the
government what to do they are the
government that's the system that we
have here and you tell them to go back
home they would not be Congress people
if this was not their home ha ha ha ha
he's joking he's joking there's a point
there's a point he's trying to make a
point but it's a joke yeah like do they
think that he wouldn't deport them if he
could figure out how to do it oh my god
well they would they would be gone like
it's funny
he said have a nice trip I mean come on
that's a funny way to deport people are
the Instagram group did hashtag squad
goals and all that it seems like a
number of the things that they say are
those means that you see on on Instagram
these somewhat like defiant and
inspirational memes
this is real life
this isn't social media just having fun
trying to you know rile people up this
is real life the words you say have
real-life consequences posit this is I
will remind you he is saying this 10
seconds after just saying that Donald
Trump was told these women to go home to
their home countries three of them born
in the United States incidentally that
it's a joke I mean this is stunning and
I think that needs to be taken to
consideration I think president rump is
making an important point because he's
trying to say that the values that built
this country everything from you know
securing the border and being a nation
of laws to you know freedom to teach on
college campuses whatever issue you're
talking about a lot of times these are
the very issues that the left is trying
to obstruct and he's drawing attention
to that and saying if you don't like
what this country stands for you're not
gonna change it and take away all these
things that Americans value so much like
freedom of speech in college campus
countries built on the word border does
not appear in the Constitution also by
the way strengthen borders freedom of
speech of college campuses do you know
the big major principles the country is
built on like if you don't like it leave
and go set up camp somewhere else but
you're not gonna destroy what we have
fought so hard and so long to value it's
a good point we're gonna talk to your
headlines now again not oh my god it I
mean that was right
Jesus what we know what the list you
don't even have to the list is
strengthen the borders freedom of speech
on college campuses there was one more
was trying to say that the values that
built this country everything from you
know securing the border and being a
nation of laws to you know pleasing
speech on college campuses whatever
issue you're talking about being a
nation of laws well that's what makes
America unique where our your nation of
laws no less of the other nation no
never I think we're a nation of laws
except for when it comes to businesses
who want to put crap in the environment
or poison the water or cut some corners
when they're making a medical device or
you know put some food products or quasi
food products in our kids cereal
you know a nation of laws except for
those niggly little ones that inhibit
business do you think we all missed the
part in the Declaration of Independence
where they talked about the sjw's on the
college campuses I mean I think if you
there's there's no doubt in my mind that
the there's enough letters in the
Declaration of Independence where if you
knock a bunch out you could actually
create that sentence unbelievable
here is Lindsey Graham he is going out
now to I guess further this is what we
played for you in terms of the Fox and
Friends weekend was yesterday Sunday
here is today this is the next step
we've got to run cover for President
Trump he's told these people to leave
the country these congresswomen he's
told him to leave the country ha ha ha
but words have consequences when they're
said by on Instagram not so much on
Twitter
according to Fox and Friends well here
is Lindsey Graham running to Fox again
trying to sort of make it seem like well
I don't know if Trump's tweet was racist
but these women deserved it we all know
that a OC in this crowd are a bunch of
Communists they hate Israel they hate
our own country they're calling the
guards along our border the bored troll
agents concentration camp guards they
accused people who support Israel of
doing it for the Benjamins they're
anti-semitic they're anti America don't
get down aim higher we don't need to
know anything about them personally talk
about their policy oh there he is he's
defending them now right they're
communists they're anti-semites they
hate this country
but don't go don't don't call them like
those things immigrant don't get
immigrant on them don't get don't get
don't do that he had that strong Britt
Cavanaugh here in energy there yep yeah
with a pitch of McCarthy you know let me
just say this I I
wish john mccain was alive to see this
hi and I don't know I don't know why
that would give me such pleasure to look
at the look on John McCain's face if he
had to see Lindsey Graham what a
horrible horrible horrible despicable
human being and I don't know you know I
this is a Republican Party folks this is
it this is it and the people who are
gonna respond to that I get news for you
there is nothing that's going to you're
not going to sell them on anything else
I'm sorry you just simply not that's
just not gonna happen and fishing in
those waters is is like literally trying
to fish with I don't I mean like a fly
rod you can spend eight hours in the
water and you can slap it slap it slap
it slap it and maybe you'll you'll hook
one and you'll come home with one fish
but it is if you need to get a net full
fish that is not the place to do it kind
of makes me want to run for office to
show them what a real America hating
communist looks like exactly yeah that's
the other thing about this America Haiti
thing is when a OC breaks down in tears
in front of that D in that DHS committee
about how you're doing all this stuff in
front of the American flag like there's
a lot of people that might point out you
know the type of things like this is
what it's always happened in front of
that flag at the same time like being
someone who wants to redeem the actual
promise II however mythological like I
think AOC is doing exactly what should
be celebrated by that crowd yeah of
course we've got two different news for
you they're not communists they're not
communists and of course that's always
been on some level I think like
particularly in this day and age just a
surrogate for the word they're not white
like that's what communist means
interracial marriage not white it also
shows that the word socialist doesn't
work anymore yeah
to go to communist yeah exactly yep we
got to juice this baby hell yeah and by
the way like I'm totally fine with
people on the inside using one strategy
and people on the outside using another
if a OSE wants to get up in front of the
flag and call them out I'm not living up
to America's Promise that's great at the
same time I'm really working on the
outside to convince people that America
is bad there you go
watch out Lindsey Graham so of course
all of the grifters get in on the act
at this point you're Newt Gingrich you
know you're in the final chapter and
you're just happy to get on television
and if you've got to get out there and
say some say some crazy ass things then
you'll do it
here's Newt Gingrich on with the weekday
Fox and Friends stooges brian kilmeade
asking if Trump being racist was a good
political move quick the president
inserted himself in the middle of this
intramural fight between the speaker and
and the squad was that a good political
move well I think the President believes
that the more he can get the country to
look at the so-called squad the more he
can get him realize how radical they are
and how fundamentally anti-american
their views are in the long run the
better off he is I think he would like
to see the closet incidentally as we
suggested earlier when Lindsey Graham
was calling them communists when Newt
Gingrich says get the country to look at
how radical they are and how
fundamentally anti-american their views
are I get news for you that's also a
code for not white
how not white they are in the long run
the better off he is I think he would
like to see them as sort of the the
front page of the Democratic Party and
any and I think he thinks anything he
does to elevate them is to his net
advantage is he right
oh I think so but yeah uh-oh I got to
think about that cuz I still may want to
be to get a job yeah I think so
David Axelrod thinks he's right you
tweeted it says it's a it's a tough
strategy it is a tough strategy but I
don't think it's actually gonna work to
be honest with you Trump did this too
with Barack Obama it didn't it didn't
have had the impact on Barack Obama it
was effective in terms of Hillary
Clinton
here's Axelrod with the deliberate
racists out Burt Donald Trump wants to
raise the profile of his targets Drive
dens to defend them and make them
emblematic of the entire party it's a
cold hard strategy but doesn't mean it's
necessarily an effective one and the
question is there's no doubt in my mind
they found that Nancy Pelosi as a target
was ineffective in 2018 because when
they say San Francisco politics now that
used to mean gay she's gay she's for the
gays and now that just does not have the
same resonance because we've had
marriage equality for what feels like a
lifetime now it's only been like four or
five years and guess what these people
living in Ohio guess what's changed in
their lives nothing in Michigan nothing
in Pennsylvania nothing I was just down
there you couldn't tell the difference
between pre marriage equality and post
marriage equality everything was just
the same and they have had a lot of a
lot of mileage out of really I mean
hundreds of years of examples of
demonizing people of color as an
effective political strategy so the
question is we already know that like
eighty-five percent of Republican voters
knew who AOC was the question is how
does the Democratic Party respond to
this like just because it's
Donald Trump's strategy to elevate for
women of color who serve in Congress
because it's going to activate the
racism of his base does not mean that
the strategy of Democrats should be like
um we're not really affiliated with them
like we're not we don't have the the
brown people cooties on us like that I
mean that's what Nancy Pelosi ostensibly
is trying to do to salvage the front
line Democrats and I Got News for you
not gonna work not gonna work that ship
has sailed
after Barack Obama if there was any
chance I don't know that there was any
chance I'm not even talking about
morality here I'm just talking about
sheer hard strategy you really only have
one choice which is to push further to
leverage them to drive out more people
to vote this is a this is basically a
war of attrition folks this the these
sort of like sneaky measures that Nancy
Pelosi can put the cork back in the
bottle put the genie back in the bottle
because all you're gonna do if you're
gonna try and convince whatever tiny
amount of people that are in this pool
that are convinced about that the
Democratic Party is not the better of
the two parties in representing these
people and look the fact of the matter
is there's no equivalent in the
Republican Party there's no four women
of color who are representing people in
the Republican Congress right they don't
exist
and so as bad as the Democratic Party is
the association with these women is
legit if you want to suppress people of
color in this country you have one
choice when it comes to an electoral
strategy and that is
vote for Republicans and the idea that
you can convince any of these people
that well you know it's def call
Democrats or Republicans it's not gonna
work
it's not gonna work and so here you have
Donald Trump basically saying that these
people hate our country he's going to a
demand an apology from the freshman
congresswoman who clash with Pelosi
Pelosi apparently is putting on the on
the floor a vote to condemn Donald Trump
which is smart because you have one
choice here now Donald Trump has I would
argue even before Donald Trump all the
social science shows it we had that
professor on who wrote that book
identity crisis up until Barack Obama
50% of non-college educated white people
still thought the Republican party was
to the left of the Democrats when it
came to race to the left of the
Democrats when it came to race holding
on to the vestiges of the Republican
Party that they're their parents had
probably told them from from from from
Lincoln from you know the Dixiecrats and
they didn't realize it until Barack
Obama got elected
well they realize it now so Donald Trump
is gonna play his strategy and there's
only one way to match this strategy you
double down do you think we're a party
that supports brown people I Got News
for you you don't know how much we
support brown people you think that
we're a party that is a vehicle for
brown people you don't know how much
we're vehicle for brown people because
here's Donald Trump he's gonna double
down here he is
I'll tell you with our country and I
think everybody in this audience is a
great manufactures great workers in our
audience - they put a lot of their
workers here if you're not happy here
[Applause]
but if you're not happy in the US if
you're complaining all the time very
simply you can leave if you leave right
now come back if you want don't come
back okay - these are basis they can
somebody that would say that so
speaker Pelosi said make America I mean
they're going all-in with this
you're going all-in now just a reminder
you remember his speech at the DN at the
RNC right the Merrick is a hellscape
he's campaigning now and they've shifted
he thinks he's gonna do Reagan now if
you don't like Trump's America you can
leave but here's the bottom line they
are static this is the thing that like
it's you know the Donald Trump one with
a smaller percentage than Mitt Romney
they are static the Democrats right now
the idea that they would alienate for
people who could go and get those votes
in Wisconsin and Michigan tomorrow it's
just it's just stunning like you you
they're just the game of mitigation is
just not gonna work anymore
yeah well this is why it comes off so
disingenuously
when the Democrats try to present the
position themselves as being good on
race right like you you can't give an
inch to these people especially not
right now when all that's at stake is at
stake so I feel like people would trust
them a little bit more if they didn't
continue to distance themselves from
these four women if they didn't continue
to beef up the militarized border like
all of these things put the lie to their
their pretensions to some sort of
diversity project well I mean look the
fact is is that they are the Democrats I
mean I mean it puts the lie I don't know
what Nancy Pelosi has articulated that
but but the reality is the Democrats are
diverse they are diverse it's just that
the leadership wants to distance
themselves from the reality of the party
and that that strategy is just not going
to work anymore it's I don't know that
it ever worked frankly but it's not
gonna work anymore it's just not gonna
work anymore yes that's what I mean
that's who I'm talking about when I talk
about how Nancy Pelosi is happy to use
these people in a photo-op happy to have
superficial diversity but it went in
their votes yeah and but when it comes
down to it she's not willing to do
anything for people of color in America
I it's a horrible horrible strategy it's
just a horrible strategy but again I
think it may go back to just wanting to
maintain her power in this branch and
then you get conservatives saying things
like well both parties are racist but at
least the Republicans are honest about
it yeah I don't know if they say that
but I mean it's disingenuous when they
do but they do say it here is Ilan Omar
she is at Netroots on Saturday she is
explaining this her perspective on this
in turn us into
scene is that what you would call it
internecine internecine fight amongst
the Democrats and what she feels people
who are perceive themselves as the
insurgents of the Democrats need to do
there's a constant I think struggle
often times with people who have power
about sharing that power and we are not
really in the business of asking for the
share of that power we're in the
business of trying to grab that power
and return it to the people so that we
can push for an agenda that frees young
people from the shackles of student debt
that make sure every single American has
access to health care the young kids in
our country who had parents who had to
make a really difficult choice to
survive are not being caged at our
borders that we are not carrying the
water for this crucial this cruel
administration that we are doing the job
that the people sent to us when they put
us in the majority which is to resist
and insist on policies that mush that
push this country forward that's the
work that we're doing I made the I mean
you imagine how celebrated Alana Morrow
would be if she was just like talking
about how we need school choice and like
if she just like sort of just toed the
line like do you have like any idea how
celebration should be like she would be
on every certainly every like a Glamour
magazine cover like we like it would be
it would be crazy every every time she
used a you know search for a word landed
on the wrong one and changed it would be
celebrated as a national holiday if she
was espousing anything other than sort
of politics that are just like
marginally to the left of where the
Democratic Party you know the the
mainstream supposedly leadership of the
party is I mean it's just it's stunning
people they would be falling over
themselves every single Democrat would
know the story of a woman who was a
Somali refugee and is now a
congresswoman it's it's just that her
politics are challenging are challenging
people now you do that I'm like there's
no way that's not the future that's no
way that's not the future and frankly
anybody standing in front of that he's
got to go and not only that people who
are not actively helping them have got
to be if got it either go or they got to
be pressured that they're gonna be gone
so that they reorient their sense of
where their incentives lie yep it's go
time it is go time meanwhile we have a
story of Medicare for all in in three
clips and I'm not sure which one we
should play first I guess maybe we
should play a Biden first right here is
Joe Biden managing to to do this all I
don't know how many jump cuts they had
to have in this
but I will tell you this I spoke to a
lot or you know one of the things that I
like about Netroots is that you go out
to a bar I don't I don't have personal
contact with a lot of reporters the vast
majority of these reporters are younger
than me some instances significantly
younger than me and they go around and
they just they follow candidates so you
find somebody who's been like following
Joe Biden for months they're all
concerned about Joe Biden like I don't
think it's appropriate for a reporter to
sort of like in some instances sort of
like provide some subjective analysis
but I had two or three reporters say
almost the identical thing to me like he
has changed like in terms of age he's
aged but and we all age I didn't have
people who follow Bernie Sanders say
this to me and and I Got News for you
like the reporters don't they form like
a personal assessment of the candidate
more than they do ideological they don't
assign Bernie fans to follow Bernie
Sanders or Biden fans to follow that
most of these reports as far as I can
tell some of these anyways there seem to
be largely agnostic they seem to be just
sort of like almost like how can you
really do that like if any policies but
you know particularly aggressive so
that's so weird well it's it's weird
it's weird they cover it in a way like
almost like if you were like a good
reporter and I said you're gonna follow
the Orioles I know you're not a baseball
fan I know you don't particularly like
the Orioles but you're gonna go out
there and then you're gonna tell me
everything you see about the Orioles so
so it's not you know it's a game to them
yeah I mean it's a job it's a job and
but the the people following Biden said
to me the weird thing is he moves so
slow and what's interesting about
it is we have a clip after this or Joe
Biden oh I know that's not what it is I
saw a clip of him where he was behind
Barack Obama and Barack Obama signed the
ACA maybe it's in this thing and Joe
Biden is clapping and this is this is
about eight years ago and Joe Biden's
clapping yeah right here will you watch
this you watch Joe Biden now and you
watch how hard he claps right there and
you can't Joe Biden hasn't moved that
fast in about five years I think as in
that clap that's what's interesting
about that like he's really hammering
that clap but go ahead what's going
there's great being part of the first
democratic debate in Miami the question
was asked whether we support eliminating
private health insurance some said yes I
said that's what me not I believe we
have to protect and build on Obamacare
that's why I proposed adding the public
option to Obamacare as the best way to
lower cost and cover everyone I
understand the appeal of Medicare for
all but folks supporting it should be
clear that means getting rid of
Obamacare and I'm not for that I was
very proud the day I stood there with
Barack Obama and he signed that
legislation never before had anyone ever
been able to do that in the White House
20 million Americans gained coverage
over a hundred million with pre-existing
conditions finally got protection the
most important piece of mine you know I
know how hard it is to get
I watched it starting over makes no
sense to me at all
I knew the Republicans do everything in
their power to repeal Obamacare
they still are but I'm surprised that so
many Democrats are running on getting
rid of the Affordable Care Act was a
historic achievement for President Obama
and if I'm elected president I'm going
to do everything in my power to protect
it and build on okay that is one of the
most cynical takes you could possibly
have the idea that this is getting rid
of Obamacare it is building Obamacare it
is building it now
it's overcoming it in the Hegelian sense
it's just absurd it would be like how
can we possibly give up c.t our CRT
computer monitors why would we want to
do that it's such an amazing
accomplishment the idea of a computer
yes it's the size of an entire apartment
but why would we want to give that all
up for a for a laptop why would you want
to do that it's like when they were
unleaded gasoline saying you they want
to get rid of cars exactly it's just
it's just it's incredibly cynical I can
understand the strategy there because
you want to make it sound like they're
attacking Barack Obama and but look at
this this is amazing look at this guy
who's attacking Obamacare too it's not
just Bernie Sanders at all who wanna
will get rid of Obamacare from Medicare
for all it's this guy who is willing to
do the same thing it's what oh my gosh
back in the fall of 2018
there's Barack Obama endorsing at least
two major campaign ideas Bernie Sanders
why isn't Barack being honest about the
fact that if you do Medicare for all you
have to have a three-month period where
no one's allowed to get health care
wasn't it like a four month period I
don't know oh yeah he is something like
a four to six month period or something
like that the dr. lie
I can't believe Barack Obama is
attacking Obamacare in that way it
really seems aggressive and I will say
this too for those people who think that
that Joe Biden's plan has a better
chance of passing he wants to expand the
public option P for ace HCF this is the
partnership for America's health care
future this is an industry group that is
against Medicare for all on Joe Biden's
plan we strongly believe every American
deserves access to high-quality health
care we agree with the majority of
Americans who believe the best way to
achieve this is what is working and
while coming together to fix what isn't
unfortunately Vice President Biden's
proposal for a new government insurance
system through a public option would
undermine the progress our nation in
other words ladies and gentlemen the
fight is going to be had the fights
gonna be had so you're gonna enter into
that fight saying we want what we want
or you can enter into that fight with
like we're willing to take a fraction of
what we want but the opposition is going
to be exactly the same the opposition is
going to be exactly the same this is a
simple question of physics you've got a
knock down a steel door
do you take a hammer or do you take a
ramrod which one do you start to
approach that hammer that door with
first I mean Joe Biden's really digging
deep into the hoping to reach the people
who are not paying attention about
politics it's also very poor timing this
is what's fascinating about this
right now 35% of Democrats were paying
attention to the debates I don't know
how many are paying attention to the
primary but I guarantee you it's about
half of what it's going to be in just
two and a half months in September early
October we get close to Iowa by the time
you get to Iowa you're gonna have
probably two and a half times more
attention paid on the primary Joe
Biden's out there and he's trying to
appeal to those people who are not
paying attention to politics which is to
say like these guys want to get rid of
Obamacare which is like literally the
equivalent of saying like how can you
take away from hardworking Americans
$7.25 that they're making when they try
and pass this new bill to raise the
minimum wage they're taken away their
minimum wage now and then gonna replace
it with some other thing that's
basically what his argument is you want
a $15 minimum wage and why do you have
to do this by taking away what they have
now it's also bizarre the way people
talk about the public option because is
it Medicare for all just a really really
good public option that would put
private insurance companies out of
business the the public option they're
talking about I don't know exactly how
many people would be eligible to for it
with Joe Biden but the public option is
not open to the public you need to prove
eligible for it so it's not even a
Medicare buy-in like it just seems like
a sneaky way to get out of having a real
public option Medicare for all is not an
option it is a public system you don't
have you're not going to have most
people are not gonna have
other options it but the right doesn't
talk that way
cuz the right says everybody has access
to health care so everybody will have
access to supplemental care all you'll
need is enough money otherwise you're
going to have Medicare for all which is
going to pay for all of your health
insurance it's going to pay for
everything they all of your health care
all right we'll save oh boy we got to
get going
folks I'm sorry can't get to all the
calls tomorrow we'll open up the calls
early I promise I apologize we're gonna
just do news and I'll do a bunch of IMS
and then we'll get out of here bad Sam
yeah first day back you got to give me a
little break here Gabbar formally from
Chicago rest in power comrade Willem van
sponson I think that was the guy who
tried to attack a immigration center
yeah I'm I just started checking out the
manifesto that he left it's uh pretty
interesting yeah MV Scott every person
that attacks a OC gets their ass handed
to them same is gonna happen a Pelosi
don't you see I catch more fish with my
fly rod than I do with the spin Pole
just sayin
mylas McKinsey consultant Sam I was
driving to work this morning listening
to the AM quickie when I nearly hit a
mattress in the middle of the Cross
Bronx dude next time how about a heads
up bull Prague did you catch the story
of the 69 year old anarchist being
killed while attacking a Washington's
Ensign center William vanspronsen yes we
were just talking about that Tommy D - I
think Pelosi and her ilk including the
big donors would rather lose as
milquetoast centrist and win as true
progressives I think that's
true Adam remember by the end of the
week we won't be talking about how
racist Trump is but whether Democrats
can win when antipholus milkshakes great
bleep forward there's a very famous
often used old newsreel of Himmler
standing outside a concentration camp
staring at the Jewish prisoners as if he
was at the zoo same optics were used by
Serbian general Ratko Milou to vich in
the balkan war with Croat prisoners the
optics used by pence are identical to
the libera cat they would have done this
in so many ways but they chose this
often used propaganda show everything
for this administration does is a test
of the threshold of humanity from its
base it's dangerous yeah I don't know
how thought-out it is but at least
de-facto
Jamey's distracting shoulders what's the
best way to get someone to speed up on
the current situation Central America as
well as the historical context a book or
a documentary I don't know of a
documentary to get cut up on what
history in general Oh actually there's a
Oliver Stone series El Salvador Salvador
as a fiction movie was actually pretty
good even though it has - oh yeah
douchebag lead leads James Woods and Jim
Belushi he did a documentary series that
I actually thought was pretty well done
and then 20th century I figure what it's
called though it's on Netflix watching
things is always easier than reading
things Luke in Cincinnati I haven't seen
many people talk about Yang's automatic
sunset provision on all laws thoughts
I'm not aware of it to be honest with
you but the first thought occurs to me
as not a good idea
yeah just dumb man yeah yang is politics
for people who haven't been paying
attention to politics teacher Jay make
no mistake getting these migrants sick
is the plan they're going to release
these people the community and all the
news cycle is gonna be about the
disease's being spread by migrants Trump
already as said as he wants to put them
in sanctuary cities no human interesting
interview the clash a probe
two American leftist sensibilities is
real for sure remember feeling it when I
found out Zapatista communities ban
alcohol entirely if I understand that
correctly I admit I'm having the same
conflict with today's authors stance
against anime DK and Chicago Sam we all
understand despair you visibly upset
today but you guys are doing more good
than you can imagine yeah the subs and
YouTube members are going to go up by
the way Jamie
Michael Jamie Matt's old and new are
educating people like me to a channel
rage in two languages genuinely
persuasive and not off-putting is
invaluable no joke I personally talked
to at least a dozen of my peer
professional managerial class lives into
supporting Bernie exclusively on talking
points learned on this show in t MBS
even when things get hard and it feels
like work works impact is not enough
please never stop keep doing the work
keep converting IDW nerds and Nazis and
keep educating us so we can spread the
word to our broader social circles we're
gonna win and it's due to you and your
ilk taking personal material sacrifice
to do what is right thank you for
everything you do well I appreciate that
but there's a lot of people out there
who are taking genuine personal
sacrifices and a lot of them are working
at the border or like that guy who was
leaving water for immigrants people
getting arrested former GOP Sam your
understanding of right-wingers is a
little off coming from a former
right-wing or you have to understand how
we think there are general sets of rules
which are shored up by white supremacy
allegiance to Authority and obsession
what we think of our universe should be
organized things like Christianity
economic conservatism and patriotism are
hollow vessels we hide behind most of us
are not intelligent enough to study the
history and values of these things so we
can live with the hypocrisy this is how
a Christian like Mike Pence can view
these inhumane conditions and still feel
like he's a good person
I always remember like at the at 9:12
thing that Glenn Beck thing interviewing
a woman who was like we need to get back
to the Constitution she said to me and I
was like what does that mean she goes
well
this hold church-state thing where it's
separated that's wrong and I said well
you know that that church and state
separation is derived from the
Constitution she said well to be honest
with you I don't know the Constitution
I'm gonna be taking a course in it in
September she said this to me may be
taking a course in in September and I
was like what if you find out that the
the ideas that you have conflict with
the Constitution I guess I'll have to
worry about that then you know it's
never happened before yeah
all right five more algorithmic blazing
unfairness would you rather be in
America's internment camps for migrants
or China's re-education camps for
Muslims I should say that there are
you'll recall it was maybe a month ago
where Mike Pompeo was not calling me
which was calling these reeducation
camps saying that there was a million
Muslims there I mean just contemplate a
million Muslims a million people now the
State Department admits there's 4.4
million getting re educated in
parentheses zero gravitas I don't know
how widespread it is but up here in
Vermont we have migrant justice is a
very active force from immigrant rights
and direct actions producer Laura and
apparently Mike Pence was more offended
by flying from Vegas to nappy-ass in
Indianapolis to witness NFL players
kneel during the national anthem than
witnessing conditions at the detention
camp hash the fash gens brie Pelosi and
party apparatchik holding onto power
they don't see it as deliberately
holding on they see the saving the
stavis status quo being the responsible
ones and so on it's a it's a possible
clutch power and they see it as a
selfish act they've lost perspective
they see themselves as a solution not
the problem so this is not about power
for the sake of power
it's where the good ones I think there's
some truth to this I think there's you
know do
lucien goes a long way I mean she's only
gonna be around for a couple more years
right it's just the reality
III do think that's the case all right
three more Colorado guy one of the
founding grievances of the US was
taxation without representation wealth
being siphoned from the majority and
given to the rich and powerful minority
why in today's age when the same
siphoning of wealth is happening via the
denial of increased wages in blocking
universal health care etc etc has this
disturbing a historical deja vu not been
pointed out for what it is more broadly
PS las américas org is another great
place to donate to support immigrant
advocacy train boy one part of the cost
to Epstein sagar that's got no coverage
is the plea deal happening during the
time when george bush's justice apart
was exerting massive pressure on federal
prosecutors to prosecute politically
motivated crimes am I going crazy or is
there something to this it was in
between like I think mu K Z and and
what's-his-face you I've heard people
talk about that but I haven't seen any
sort of cohesive argument to more Chaco
Bobo I have a listener for over a year
now the first video I saw was a clip
when a caller tried to argue the merits
of the bell curve watching guys trap him
into admitting he was white got me
hooked on the show I just became a
member can I have a shofar sure can
thank you
and the final I am of the day drunk
Gaelic Sam how much of the Pelosi and
other establishment Dems pushing back
just examples of the iron law of
institutions I think you'll find that we
said that early maybe he gave this lady
the iron law says the people who control
institutions care first and foremost
about their power within the institution
rather than their power of the
institution itself indeed see you
tomorrow
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you yeah
[Music]
