majority rum or with
everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat come on Jordy
report with sam Sita it is Friday
February 22nd 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA yes ladies
and gentlemen well I like I guess we are
live to tape why because it's the final
day of our vacation lamenting enjoying
the enjoying the the perhaps
disconnection that we were able to
achieve from the daily grind lamenting
it's winding down but gearing up to deal
with the absolute crap show that is
undoubtedly happening perhaps maybe with
new people entering the Democratic race
this week who knows in the meantime have
a an interview with one of the authors
of a fascinating book based on or I
should say book based on fascinating
research it's called deep roots how
slavery still shapes southern politics
I'm going to be talking to Professor
Matthew Blackwell wrote this book with
avid eat
cha cha reah and Maya sin
really interesting I mean just this
interview recorded about a week or so
ago and some of the stuff blew my mind
and I've been thinking about it in the
days since we recorded it and I imagine
through this whole week this is one I'm
gonna go back and listen to and I rarely
do that because I'm so sick of me but
this is one that I think I'm going to
listen to listen to not even again I
generally don't even listen
I generally can't even remember like
well I've interviewed like two days
earlier
that's how scrambled things get before
we go on vacation but just a reminder
this program relies on the support of
its members you can support this program
by going to join the majority report com
sign up you will get extra content
virtually every day in fact this very
day members will be listening to a deep
archive cut picked out by Brendan we
actually allowed producer Brendan to go
down run around in the vault down in the
sub-basement of majority report
headquarters this is the this is three
levels below where we store the food in
the commissary and and Brendan went down
there and came back up with a bunch of
reel-to-reel tapes and then he wanted to
just go down there he was begging me to
let him camp out down there he wanted to
bring a tent and just stay down there
for like a couple of days I was location
to have a sleepover vacation and you
know sometimes when you say no to
Brendan he just gets so angry and stamps
his feet yeah really yeah but that's
soaking around nevertheless that's why
we let him we let him choose what my
snuff films it down there you can't be
down this long don't want him playing
around with that stuff but so stick
around if you remember if not go to join
the majority report dot-com right now
and you will have access
after you sign up and remember if you
you can't afford the membership send us
an email at majority reporters at
gmail.com we never turn anyone away
because of money so check that out and
take a quick break when we come back
Matthew Blackwell
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Matthew Matthew
Blackwell is associate professor of
government at Harvard University also
one of the co-authors of deep roots how
slavery still shapes southern politics
with evident chiara and myosin Matthew
welcome to the program thanks for having
me
all right let's let's just start with
the the I guess the mission of the book
was to answer the question why is the
United States particularly conservative
on the issue of race or why are their
differing parts of the United States
that seem to be is that was that
basically it yeah I think we kind of we
we were kind of thinking about how to
how to just how to wrap our heads around
the fact that you know of the advanced
industrialized country the United States
there's kind of an outlier in terms of
the conservativeness and in particular
that we have this in one region in the
country that has historically been and
continues to be fairly conservative in
the south and you know it's not you know
what it didn't doesn't take a lot to
recognize that the south also has kind
of an intense history of things like
slavery and and racialized violence and
things like that and we kind of were
setting out to think about what could we
kind of systematically think about how
those two things are linked how what is
there some deep historical reason not
just about you know candidates and polls
and and you know campaign advertisements
but there's something deeper in the
history of America that kind of has led
to the broad political cultures that we
see in the United States and and and the
I guess in implied in that is that our
politics
or somewhat are racialized issues i mean
political issues that are not
necessarily on their face racial in fact
are in to some degree yeah I think I
mean as evidence not just an art book
but in elsewhere in political science
that kind of shows how it's the case
that you know when we think about
redistribution in this country a lot of
people tend to think about you know
where's you know where is the money
going to come from and who is it going
to go to and the notions of you know the
from and to tend to get caught up in a
lot of ideas about race and and racial
groups and so the idea that they're kind
of redistribution itself and of the
court may be a cornerstone political
issue and in States its wrapped up in
you know are the groups that are
perceived to go in the beginning this
redistribution deserving of that in some
way and when those groups kind of when
that that kind of thinking latches on to
race is one of these groups
it could really shape how people think
about redistribution and really shape a
lot of people opposition to
redistribution even in times when it
would perhaps even help their own
personal interest and so you set out to
sort of answer this question as to as to
why there's this type of divergence what
is I mean just define for us this notion
of behavioral path dependence what uh
for laypeople what what does that mean
yeah so the basic idea behind this
behavioral path and this is the idea
that you know regions or areas of the
country they have certain kinds of
institutions be the economic
institutions or political institutions
or some combination of the two those
institutions can kind of set different
localities down a path and the way and
shape the kind of the behaviors and the
beliefs and the actions of people who
live in those areas and those kinds of
behaviors and actions and beliefs can
outlast the initial institutions that
kind of the police are responding to so
you know we can see this sometimes where
it's no longer necessarily just reacting
to the environment but now those beliefs
kind of take on a life of their own even
though they don't necessary
have any place in the current kind of
institutional structure and so we're
kind of thinking about that in the
context of slavery itself in the south
and how kind of a lot of beliefs and
attitudes that were built up in response
to surgery and especially in response to
his aftermath they were they make a lot
of you know they you can you can kind of
see the what the incentives for why they
were developed at the time and they were
developed but where we show is that
those things tend to outlast all of
those institutions by a long ways even
after things like the slavery Jim Crow
and have been you know formally
abolished in the south we still see some
kind of lingering behaviors and
attitudes from those eras in these
localities and you know this is sort of
I guess I mean they're there there's a
there's like a parallel concept right in
in psychology and within the context the
family I mean just for instance you know
that my great-grandparents you know
we're very very uptight about you know
all of us having our passports because
they had an experience where they had to
get out of Germany rather quickly or I
mean or depression-era folks being you
know concerned about money and this is
passed down generation to generation
three or four generations letter later
you can still have people who are really
uptight about money or about their
passports I mean it's it's it's somewhat
analogous to that on some level yeah and
so I mean you think about you know you
know obviously some of that might be
genetic about them just the variations
in people but we also have certain
issues where you know it's going to be
the case you know the way that you come
to these world is somehow shaped by the
you know by the world around you as
you're growing up this kind of idea of
childhood socialization that you know
the the way that your family talks about
money for instance can shape the way
that your interview money as an adult or
the way that you know a narc and our
insensate the way that race is discussed
the way that race is contextualized the
way that people talk about you know kind
of interracial relationships you know
all of those things can't not but you
know but impact the way that you think
Ray's moving forward and even if the
kind of there's a change in the context
of race you know obviously the context
of race into the 1940s in the u.s. south
is very different than the context today
I mean those are just different time
periods with different kind of levels of
say you know obvious institutional
racism but it may still shape the way
you think about it and the kind of where
you fall along the spectrum in terms of
you know being having different views
about race today
okay so let's so you you have this this
I guess this theory that that our
politics today not totally but largely
when we look at these maps and I think
maybe by now people have seen sort of
these overlay maps that that in some
some extent come out of your research
here but what that things that happened
that that the way that the institution
of slavery grew in the United States is
predictive of basically how you vote
today
if that's your the the the theory then
what just tell us the the cities that
you decided to look at and why those two
were sort of the the way to tease to
test this theory yeah so we you know we
the the kind of two example cities that
we kind of focused on this in the book
are kind of evocative of the kind of two
you know two regions of the south
broadly and the first is yeah the first
that we talk about is in terms of is
Greenwood Mississippi and and that's a
place where you know it was it's one
point you know there's a sign in the
outskirts of town says Greenwich top
cotton capital of the world and it was
just a kind of a powerhouse in terms of
cotton productivity in the in the late
19th and early 20th century and it was
real real kind of embedded in the
Mississippi Delta and all of those
things an act has a kind of large
african-american population that's a
remnant of that you know some are gonna
remember that era and so we see the
one of these places that was kind of
deep in the heart of the kind of the
slave culture and the enslaved areas of
the south and we compare that to to
Asheville Asheville North Carolina where
an area that is kind of in the upcountry
that is is really rugged area has it has
a certain perception today but it is
with never a good place for growing
cotton in the 19th century and never had
a serious kind of foothold of slavery
back in the pre Civil War era and we
kind of contrast these two places
because you know neither are
particularly you know neither of these
plays are particularly liberal both are
in view but I think you know generally
they are conservative relative to the
rest of the country but it's certainly
the case that that's a difference
between the politics of these two areas
it's pretty dramatic today and one of
the in Greenwood is still extremely
conservative you know we we estimate
that very very few white people that
live in the county that the Greenwood is
in voted for Barack Obama in 2008 for
instance whereas we we you know
something like 40 to 50 percent of the
people that said in Asheville the whites
and Asheville voted for Barack Obama and
this this there's different were to
being in part to the kind of historical
development of slavery in these two
areas the fact that Greenwood had this
this massive infrastructure built around
slavery and in its aftermath kind of the
Reconstruction period
you also had things like you know things
sharecropping and things like that that
kind of grew up in in place of it and
Asheville never had that same kind of
infrastructure in place and never had
the need for the kind of racialized
politics that became the different some
of the defining characteristics of
places like Greenwood in the in the late
19th and early 20th century so and now
let me just go back because you say both
are relatively conservative you're
talking relatively conservative to the
rest of the country on degree yeah okay
okay the rest of the country yeah one
thing to keep in mind is that we you
know part of me that's partially that's
because we're just looking at you
whites in general or conservative
relative to the rest of the country you
know you know nationally across all
races whites are more conservative but
also just because you know the South
even if you look at whites the whites
and south are a little bit more
conservative and then whites generally
and that's partially because they love
it there are a lot of big cities in the
south it compared to the north where you
have like a large large clusters of kind
of urban young folks that that would
kind of make the north and non south so
much more liberal than the south so in
terms of saying that Asheville is
conservative as well as Greenwood it's
there's a matter of degree and Asheville
is relatively conservative to say I
don't know Brooklyn or something like
that I guess yeah exactly exactly it's
just yeah it's not it's not you you
wouldn't say that it you wouldn't even
never say that Asheville is necessarily
the same it's like it looks like
Brooklyn or you know that Cambridge
Massachusetts or something like that but
it's certainly relative to other cities
in the south it's pretty local so the
the the primary difference in terms of
of the if you look at the voting
outcomes let's say in you know you know
five years ago is you guys trace back to
the existence of slavery has as a
central defining characteristic of the
the locale at that time like what is the
threshold that in your research
determines whether you know Asheville
follows Asheville's path versus
Greenwood Falls Greenwoods path like you
know where what what is the what what
constitutes critical mass for that
difference yeah one thing that's kind of
interesting about at least in the time
period that we're looking at and it
could change over time but at least at
the time creepy-looking yet we actually
see yes you know a fairly linear
relationship between you know what what
proportion you know what was the
relative number of enslaved
african-americans versus whites and a
county in 1860 right and the and
the kind of the propensity to vote for
the Republican Party or to hold to hold
more racially conservative views like
that that relationship is fairly linear
so you get you know kind of as you just
as you increase the proportion enslaved
in 1860 you just see an increase in the
conservative voting and that until we
it's there doesn't seem to be in again
this might change over time but there
doesn't seem to be a real threshold for
that as there's like these kinds of
counties and those kind of counties I
mean we do see you can break it out by
something like you know kind of whether
or not someplace had a you know blossom
25% in greater than 25 percent enslaved
and we do you can see differences there
but it was something that's interesting
about it is that it does seem to scale
in this way so that it's just you know
the denser it was and and the antebellum
period they're kind of the more
conservative the politics are today and
we think that reflects the kind of what
the incentives that that people were
responding to at the time about slavery
and how those things how you know how
important it was to the area at the time
kind of scales and how how many or how
how dense the slavery was in that period
that's sort of amazing that is one to
one away you know if it's exactly one to
one but it's it's literally that sort of
that there are gradations that you don't
need a critical mass that it really is
just a function of just how conservative
you get was really just how it did
explain to me just what what what do you
mean by proportion of of Schley enslaved
people in the county does that mean
the total number the the total number of
in the population who were were slaves
so if you had 98 percent does that mean
that like literally if there's a hundred
people in that county obviously there's
more but 100 people in that county 90 of
them are slaves and 10 of them are in
control yeah so there were some counties
in the district so we're looking at when
we say proportion side yeah we mean the
total number of employees people on the
county divide
total number of people and you be
measured on a lot of different ways and
we've done that work but but yes and so
there are these places that you know you
know that for every for every one white
person there were nine there were nine
enslaved African African Americans I
mean you know just some parts of
Mississippi Delta were just it is it is
overwhelming to see the kind of the way
that the demographics and the you know
the economic conditions and the just a
kind of terribleness of an institution
it's kind of overwhelming you just most
people don't think about it in terms of
how house how we tend to think of
slavery as oh you know the whole set
that's how that slavery but really there
was a lot of variation some places had
basically no slaves and some places had
massive numbers where again it was like
9 to 1 oh it was literally 9 to 1 in
some areas and so yeah ok so and so this
is this is how you get that disparity
within the context of a broader south
that is pro the institution of slavery
but it is it's it's it's it's the
proximity to the practice of slavery I
guess that is the driving factor here
yeah and we find one of the reasons for
that that we find is that it's actually
not just when slavery existed but
actually when slavery went away that so
after emancipation after the Civil War
that the places that relied on slavery
the most that had the mostly that you
know in fact were the whites were
outnumbered the most kind of once the
african-americans were free these were
places that their reaction to
emancipation was incredibly harsh and
they tried to enact all kinds of
terrible kind of Jim Crow style laws and
these things called Black Codes to try
to constrain and restrict the mobility
of African Americans and that in that
period and all kinds of economic
institutions to react to the
emancipation that were directly a
function of them trying to recreate the
kind of economic system they had under
slavery and so that reaction is going to
scale kind of with how dependent you are
as a local area on on slavery Wow okay
so
the the the the reaction is what creates
the sort of the the biggest institutions
are there examples of and I want to talk
about how that translates into you know
sort of I guess attitudes and but but
but as you say that if you have the
highest concentration of of slaves to
non slaves to presumably their you know
their owners or those who are sort of
like enabling their owners and that you
can see that in voting patterns two
hundred two hundred and forty years
later I mean almost right
the that what or two hundred years later
or I guess maybe closer to 180 but what
what how does that match up in terms of
figures is that because you had a lot of
of former slaves leave the area or I
mean how does that translate or are you
looking at the granular numbers not the
results from the the county but how the
white population voted yes that's the
key thing here which is actually kind of
it's interesting to look at because if
you look at a map of how this out votes
and you and suppose it on one of these
maps of the density of slavery what
you'll see it from it is it looks like
that the former that the black belt the
cotton belt that goes down through the
southern states the deep south if you
look at that that area now and on you
know kind of the red blue typical maps
you see on TV and things that actually
pretty deep blue and the reason for that
is these former slave areas also having
replays whether they're net not happen
to be but as a direct consequence of
this are places where there are
relatively dense population of African
Americans a day and so you do see that
if you just look at the kind of devote
it looks like those areas are more
little and they are because because
there are a large proportions of
african-americans but what we wanted to
do is actually tease this out for for
whites because we thought in that those
are people for which we think that this
kind of mechanism was kind of kind of
past the behavioral paths defendants
could really add
and so yes a lot of what we do in the
paper and the book and trying to figure
out you know how can we find this out
for for white folks in the south and you
know we do that in a couple of different
ways one is to get relatively recent big
surveys that ask a lot of questions have
a lot of people so that we can get huge
over samples of southern whites that
kind of really get a sense for the
geographic dispersion of their attitudes
and we also use election outcome data
election kind of vote data and combine
it with some data from the voter file in
terms of turnout by race which you can
get in the south or you could get in the
south when the Voting Rights Act was was
that we're still working and you can use
that information to kind of back out
what you think though the white boat is
in these areas and and so that that's
kind of helped also helped us so we're
really focusing on on white folks and so
we're the kind of idea is that
some of these families that have been
passed down these things over time are
because throughout the generations at
least among among white people on the
south so if if I understand you
correctly it's possible and it it's
actually fairly consistent that you have
some of these areas that are the bluest
areas you know on a county level in the
south have some of the most racist white
voters is that is that is that do I
understand that correctly yeah yeah I
would say that's a fair characterization
of what we're saying and I think it
probably is instructive to kind of think
about you know one thing that's always
kind of helped me is when you know you
think about places like you know we
think of West Virginia in West Region is
kind of like you know border south left
Virginia because of the Civil War and
things like that but is it a useful
comparison sometimes saying about it in
the in the minds of most Americans we
think of West Virginia as being so
solidly red that you know just too deep
deep red very Republican and we kind of
compare that to a place like - Georgia
Mississippi Alabama which we do also
think of this being pretty red but with
very with the kind of blue streaks
literal blue streaks but also you know
there are rep you know there are
Democratic representatives from from
these from those states and I think we
tend to think we I don't know if we
equate them but I think we don't what we
don't realize is actually if you were to
just like all the white people and
Mississippi Alabama and compare them to
the white people in West Virginia I
think what you'd find is that that
they're actually a lot more liberal and
more liberal in West Virginia in era in
you know and Mississippi and you can
actually go in back in history you can
see that and where West Virginia was an
area that actually had when there was
the solid south of Democrats you know
less reading actually elected Republican
governors more liberal Republican
governors and so it's an interesting you
know I think sometimes these kind of
populations of people tend to mask the
kind of underlying individual level
variation in in attitudes is pretty
interesting and I think especially
that's true about the way that race and
masks kind of why can you know the
differences among races can mask some of
the white conservatism in the south
what's always second so that is so the
the individual white voters in West
Virginia are less racist than those
pockets of white voters in those other
states you mentioned so why does that
translate so is in that instance in West
Virginia is it that they're their
conservative views are not a function of
race is that I'm yeah so part of it is
that is that I think we just don't see
it because you know we never get an
election where just everyone and all
only the white men not anymore
we don't get elections or everyone you
know only two white people though in
Mississippi or Alabama you know whereas
that is basically you know given the
demographics of West Virginia that's
what every election is and in West
Virginia and so I think if you were to
hold an election where you only white
people could vote right and we gave him
you knows that we would see that that
the West Virginia right neighborhood but
generally tend to be closed more liberal
on a lot of set of issues than then then
like the white folks in in Alabama
or just are less conservative yeah I
mean exactly so this is all like
relative degrees it's not like we're not
talking about it you know it's not going
to be you know obviously West Virginia
is not like you know Massachusetts or
something like that or even New
Hampshire but it is going to be but it's
going to be relatively a less
conservative and than many other areas
and I think you know something saying
you kind of see that in some of the
politics coming out of place in West
Virginia it's tend to be you know they
they do tend to there's I think more
kind of toying with or entertaining
liberal ideas when it comes to say
unions and things like that then then we
really see in the in the deep south but
what West Virginia now has West Virginia
become more conservative over time is
that or am i is that you know that just
I'm getting confused with sort of just
like partisan realignment a is a
question to be if it is the case
does this mean that race is not
exclusively the or the exclusive or the
even the most predominant factor in
determining how conservative broadly
speaking a population would be yeah I
think it's an important that's an
important distinction and it kind of
helps with the West Virginia case too
because what one thing we do find is for
we found in our previous research is the
following which is that if you look at
areas of the the South that had
legalized you know when had a loud
slavery was legal but had very little
slavery itself you know these are kind
of places along the northern border
States places like West Virginia and you
match them up with similarly rural areas
just on the other side of the border and
then in the kind of quote-unquote north
so places in southern Ohio Indiana
places like that what you find is
actually very little difference in the
attitudes that we see between those two
areas right and that suggests that there
you know there is that there is some you
know there could mean a couple different
things that means certainly it's the
case that you know at least we can't you
know a hundred percent of the variation
in conservative attitude is obviously
not do something like slavery and that
could be because that could be for a
number of reasons it could because there
is like a significant
they're part of conservatives and that
is just part of the belief structure
that that dries people to be
conservative or other kind of life
experiences um it could also be that
their geographic mobility in the country
has made this the trying to tease these
two things out very difficult right a
lot of black and white people moved out
of the South in the first half of the
20th century during the great migration
to places in the north and places in the
West so we did have big Exodus as if
both black and white folks that could
kind of you know some sense if you think
about those kind of those are now
spilling over into other areas and so it
becomes harder over time to kind of see
these relationships they tend to kind of
they tend to attenuate over time just
because you have people moving like that
and so it's a little it's so that it's
hard to tease those two things apart it
could still be the case that a lot of us
would being driven by race it's just
kind of indirectly through people moving
but it's but we can't quite tease it out
without getting a full accounting of
everyone's family history and that's
obviously very difficult right so the
idea is that so then getting back to the
to the Reconstruction era when you had a
County that had a high proportion of
slavery of slaves essentially to to
white folk the the responses were we're
basically to subjugate black people who
are now free economically politically
this goes on through I mean certainly
through the Jim Crow era and so the idea
is that theoretically the lessons that
are learned I mean as you know Hey hey
paw why is it there's a poll tax well
I'll tell you son like these ideas are
then communicated and embedded in this
next generation and they they retain
these ideas essentially right that are
that and even if they move to West
Virginia they still have these ideas
even if those measures aren't there or
they implement those
therefore the same four reasons maybe
that they have forgotten or were never
never first hand experienced as to why
they were doing this yeah I mean I think
you know one thing that is always I mean
for us and someone how I'm going about
doing research like this is that I think
it makes you question a little bit too
degree to which you've come to your own
beliefs as like a true rational person
when you sat down and really thought
about all the alternatives and decided
that you know my political beliefs are
they're directly a function of that
rationality I think it's how all of us I
could perceive ourselves I really want
to come down to a lot of it is being
shaped by by our family history and
their upbringing in various ways and I
think definitely in the south you saw
there there are some really kind of
amazing descriptions of this in what is
now called kind of a racial etiquette
and the way that children were raised in
a way that kind of follow rules of
interacting with members of the opposite
race in the south it was highly codified
you know informally it wasn't it wasn't
always legal but there would be strict
rules about saying when a young white
child was walking on a sidewalk and a
black adult approached them who would
get out of the way right and who had the
right of way in that situation it was
always the young white child and there
were certain ways that young my children
were allowed to talk to adult
african-americans and bees these kind of
structures were so they were heavily
enforced right along with things like
you know children's children's versions
of things like the KKK you know clubs
that students that kids would join as
part of this and all of these kinds of
the this the infrastructure was built up
around making sure that you know that
white and black people understood what
the rules were for interacting and in
particular to make sure that everyone
understood the African Americans were in
a subjugated position relative to whites
and I think that it was it was
overwhelming when you look at kind of
the people that have been historical
work but to figure this out and it's
hard to imagine that that you know
situation like that doesn't color how
you view the world moving forward and
how maybe you talk about race to your
children
moving forward even if some of those
that codification ended in the nineteen
you know or became less prominent in the
middle part of 20th century
it could still be the case that you know
a lot of the people that grew up
learning those lessons might still be
alive they might still be voting and so
it's it's I think that's that's an
important consideration and one that we
think is really important for the
results we find in the book and the
intensity of the racism is tied directly
into the proportion in which that
community relied on on slave labor
because their reaction almost like the
blowback from emancipation had to be
that much more severe and strong and so
they're constructing sort of more racist
social mores to because from their
perspective the threat of loss of power
was that much greater yeah I mean you're
talking about situations where the you
know the local white in a county in the
local white population again might be
out number nine to one so if you just
think about majority vote you know this
is this is that you know that's that's a
problem for a white population that that
really saw itself as being the the only
like responsible group of people to be
able to run society and the idea was
that they would say there if you read
kind of historical accounts and
first-person historical newspaper
accounts of with the white reaction to
emancipation emancipation it was it was
very dramatic I mean they were just they
were obsessed with the kind of labor
problems that were going to come down
the road for them they were obsessed
with the political issues like we're
gonna come down the road and so and
these were these were highly localized
and it was it was so that's that's why
we see this kind of local local effect
how do you measure the intensity of
racism you know relative to relative to
let's say a an area and we should say
the the area follows the black belt
which is literally a description of a
very fertile soil that allowed for the
growing of cotton and and maybe other
you know
commodities that would require a higher
rate of slavery within you know that
area so it's sort of I mean it's I mean
I guess you know we see this in the
context of of other you know if you're
in a for thousands of years ago living
in a fertile area agriculture becomes
your primary you know the agriculture
becomes the primary driver and society
is constructed around that I mean that
that notion exists and so it makes that
sense but how do you measure through
time the the relative levels of racism
from a county that say had nine to one
ratio versus let's say five to five or
you know seven to three yeah it's I mean
so that's I think for us that was the
most one of the most challenging and
he's got the book I'm one of the reasons
why we decided to write a book was
because we thought you know part of it
is kind of kind of data you know data
detective work trying to find a little
bit of quantitative evidence that could
get from whatever source so it looks
like different things in different time
periods so you know when we kind of we
had to look at a little bit about this
in the in the antebellum period and
there we were looking at how different
members of the Georgia state legislature
voted and how did the the ones that
lived in the be kind of high Siberia's
vote compared to the low slave areas we
looked at how in kind of moving forward
more like Jim Crow area we were looking
at how did counties when ratification of
Jim Crow state constitutions this
particular reticulum were up for a vote
and to ratify the Constitution that was
explicitly about restricting the kind of
ability disenfranchising African America
and putting all the kind of Jim Crow
laws on them and we looked at you know
what how did the counties vote for this
and we find that you know the area's a
higher level of slavery were more likely
to vote for to ratify the constitutional
amendment that would deep disenfranchise
African Americans later on meat we got
data on what
over the course of the kind of late 19th
early 20th century then found that as a
proportion of total number people there
were more lunch against of African
Americans in the in these areas relative
to the blow slave areas and then moving
kind of steadily moving forward in time
we can we can start to use we can use
once the disenfranchisement of Africa
merit is complete we can actually use
just a vote shares need areas because
those are just basically white elections
and so we can look at how they voted in
terms of national elections in that time
period and and then fast for we can
fast-forwarding you know over time to
today we can start to look at things
like big surveys that are being done by
the national election survey done by
political scientists in Michigan and and
then another surveys it's now kind of
even bigger and we can look at questions
that specifically ask people things like
you know can you how Worley do you feel
about this group you know on a scale
from 0 to 100 and asking about you know
what do you think about black people
what do you think about white people and
we can look at just the difference
between those two numbers as a measure
of kind of racial preference and then
and then today I mean now there's
political science is trying to get very
sophisticated about how it measures kind
of views on race that don't necessarily
are kind of more say hidden then the
kind of obvious racism of biological
racism in the past and so we use some of
those kind of more subtle measures in
the in the in the current time period in
these in the surveys in the last few
years but I mean it's just for us it was
all about where could we get to
different data sources to piece it
together to kind of to try to trace this
out over time because there's not one
there's no one data source yes no one's
making the poll from the past 200 years
what are your added nodes right it would
be great if the sensitive asses but they
did not so we have to rely on just kind
of finding things as we want okay so I
have to I have to sort of I guess major
questions to ask you left one is the
persistence so I mean you you've talked
about you can and you said earlier like
you know you could see that this is
linear like you can follow the
trajectory of this and I imagine you
know when you say that you can measure
the incidence of lynchings and I would
presume probably
the to the extent that that data is
available you know in the 20s it may
have been a little bit more public or at
least you know a newspaper reports like
the incidents are the size of the Klan
in a specific area I would imagine that
in and of itself is a provides the
durability like-like-like
each era provides its own sort of
reproduction machine of these attitudes
it a is that the case and B if it is the
case are there areas where that falls
off like there is is there nothing that
can then break that other than sort of
distance you know generational distance
from from that slavery yes I mean we we
try to take this up a little bit it's a
tough question like how did you know
what is the you know like one class
that's once very early on we're reading
this like what's the half-life you know
the kind of radioactive half-life of
this like when should be expected to
kind of go away and so we try to look at
that a little bit and it's a difficult
question just because it's hard to
compare some of these these measures
over time but one thing we do see is
that when we look at things that are
outcome measures where we see that the
federal government has really gotten
involved and taken action the where
things like voting rights things like
kind of educational inequalities things
like even income inequalities all we see
is that those types of measures the kind
of black-white wage gap the black-white
education gap and the black-white kind
of turnout gap those things used to be
really heavily correlated with slavery
back in the early part of the 20th
century all right so it's kind of the
same story we've been telling about
these things that you saw that's both in
terms of attitudes but also in terms of
the kind of inequalities between whites
and blacks now even though those
inequality still exist between blacks
and whites but they're actually much
much less correlated with slavery than
they were in the 1940s right and so that
speaks to the fact that part of what
happened was that the federal government
actually went in and had some really big
interventions things like the Civil
Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act of
1916 in fact on
flattening the the relation the kind of
how local some of these effects are on
some of these outcomes right and so
that's we see that is like an
interesting animal of a success but an
interesting kind of way that when the
federal rumen actually got involved and
did something they actually had a pretty
big impact but we don't see that on if
things like these attitudes the
relationships that we see between
slavery and attitudes in the middle part
of the 20th century are not that
different than the attitudes relation
the attitudes and inflated we see in the
early part of the 21st century and to
some extent that we think that's kind of
speaking to this idea that it's hard to
change the kind of hearts and mind and
there we don't we don't really know what
that's going to look like moving forward
and so we'd like you know it could be
the case that these things just kind of
March and get kind of they dissipate
slowly and slowly and slowly then the
other hand it could be the case that
kind of entrepreneurial politicians are
able to kind of latch onto some of these
political divisions and actually kind of
reactivate them in some ways and I think
it's hard to know how that allows I mean
did you give you a sense how all sort of
terrifying in a way yeah yeah well to
give you an example if I understand you
just just to restate federal
intervention is a fairly effective means
in which to make some material
differences and I've been presumably in
the worst case scenarios right because
that's where you're most likely affair
but in terms but despite these material
differences attitudes have a persistence
that is incredible it seems like and and
the the the that persistence and that
durability is also a function of people
out there who know that it's latent and
at anytime can sort of re-up its
virulence yeah that's that yet and so I
think that's that's totally correct and
I think one you know outside of the
context of the South one thing we one
piece of paper and economics that showed
that they related voting for the Nazi
Party in Germany in the 90
the 20th century was related to black
death era pogroms and anti-semitism like
you know in good 12th century hundreds
of years of persistence and again I kind
of shows you I think what's interesting
about that example is not only is it
like not we don't necessarily have this
thing where just everything goes away
but it could be that there you know
again kind of entrepreneurial
politicians that can take advantage of
these kinds of divisions and reignite
them and I think that's something that
you know we tend to think of everything
as progress is marching forward and
things like that but I do think that it
doesn't you know there are ways that it
could go in different directions and I
think there's something to watch out for
is time marches on okay my last question
for you is largely outside of your
portfolio I think but is it seems to me
to be highly implicated in your research
what about the converse like what about
those areas where you had a 9 to 1 slave
to you know a slave owner more or less
what were the implications if it's if
the attitudes that were so ingrained
that are so we're developed then in
response to emancipation and presumably
slavery right I mean to justify it these
are they they're two sides of the same
coin
we're so durable in white people what
about the attitudes that would have
necessarily come with being subjugated
in black people yeah it's a you know we
don't we've looked at this a little bit
but I mean part of one thing that we
want the issue that we that we've kind
of faced with studying kind of
african-american views on this and the
kind of how that we think there's
obviously a huge legacy of slavery for
african-americans I think but the the
kind of the thing that makes it
difficult to study for us is that you
know for white folks we can actually
either we can people you know had right
exactly they could vote they did things
in society which would indicate their
attitudes and black people largely
during that period
have no ability to articulate that in
the public record right well not that
but they the unit is a variety of ways
that whites could interact with society
and and for any ways that they could
interact with the the slave the slavery
end and the and the issues of in
post-emancipation whereas
african-americans had basically
uniformly they were kind of uniformly
treated by these institutions right
basically you know the massive
proportions were enslaved you know so
it's not like there was you know there
was a big group of african-americans
that were not enslaved that we could
look at how did they--how did their
attitudes form over time if they didn't
interact with slavery whereas with white
folks we definitely have these areas
where they just didn't interact with
slavery all that much and so there's
more it's it's we think that it's almost
like it's it's so the impact on on
African Americans are so overwhelming
that it makes it actually difficult to
kind of study it's hard to figure out
what what would it look like for them if
this institution didn't exist I mean
that's almost like a crazy question even
to even wrap your head around I think
that's what makes it a difficult thing
to study having said that I think you
know there are there is evidence that
that african-americans have higher
degrees of what's called linked fate
where they tend to think about what's
good for the group is is good for me in
terms of the descriptive representation
and things like that and we think that
that could be in part driven by a this
kind of interaction the way being
subjugated in this way I in in this
manner definitely seems like something
that could be to those kinds of
attitudes or for a long period of time
at the very least your research shows
that the legacy of slavery particularly
how it impacts attitudes individual
attitudes has an incredible amount of
durability yeah it's it's we were we
were surprised and we kind of threw the
kitchen sink in and it's still it's
still there and so we're viewer you know
it's kind of just it's it's definitely
something that we were surprised by to
some extent it's hard sometimes we feel
surprised by it and sometimes we feel
like it's just completely obvious so
it's just hard to balance those two idea
that such you know such an important
institution
and and yet it's 250 years you know it's
as hard to wrap your head around that
Matthew Blackwell the book is deep roots
how slavery still shapes southern
politics and I guess if you had room
American politics we will put a link to
that at majority report radio.com thanks
so much for your time today really
fascinating alright thank you so much
for this
