[Music]
let's play this date about John Wayne
apparently over the break some stuff was
revealed about John Wayne
now I throughout the past 20 or 30 years
there's been a bra like a very vague I
think sort of awareness that John Wayne
was probably pretty retrograde type of
guy and but apparently a new John
playboy John Wayne Playboy interview has
it's not entirely new I heard about this
before it okay I believe in white
supremacy quote okay so I mean it's been
out there but it's somehow it's
resurfaced that twitter got to it
twitter got to it it's on social media
and Wayne is cancelled I mean in many in
many respects this is sort of like you
know mirrors the conversation about how
you know in March of 2016 he still had
Bernie had even trouble with name
recognition at that time you know social
media has changed the dynamic of how you
know what genuine public exposure means
so John Wayne's Elvis legacy is being
relitigated but I think like you know we
see this from time to time whether it's
with like classical you know musicians
or authors probably gonna see more of it
from rock musicians I think really I
think there's probably a lot of stories
from the 70s and 80s that are wait
remember but I mean you see this with
you know reassessing you know classical
you know works and you know but so it
comes out the John Wayne had some pretty
racist views that he was holding and Fox
for some I don't know what possible
reason sometimes you get the feeling
that on Fox they're just like let's just
see if we can do this
they're out there trying to defend these
views in a really bizarre and not only
is the not only is their argument
bizarre but the idea that they want to
have this argument is bizarre I'm not
even clear why they're wasting a bad
argument yeah exactly yeah they're
they're hurting it or it says Indians
were selfishly trying to keep this land
and he's glad we took it from them and
then he says this positive a lot of it I
like how they just sort of skates over
like the Indian like the Indians they're
trying to get us her taken their land
but then he says something really bad
yeah go back to the beginning again it's
really this is from the laura ingram
show and who's this guy Raymond Arroyo
yeah they had to bring on a special
correspondent to promulgate this opinion
because it was so bad
Norodom says Indians were selfishly
trying to keep this land and he's glad
we took it from them and then he says
this with a lot of blacks there's quite
a bit of resentment along with their
dissent and possibly rightfully so but
we can't all all of a sudden get down on
our knees and turn everything over to
the leadership of the blacks I believe
in white supremacy Duke said until the
blacks are educated to the point of
responsibility now Laura what I don't
like about both of these stories is
we're judging the past in light of
shifting moral ethic and cultural codes
of today we can't do that is it for one
second now some of you may think like
wow when did he say this in 1925 did he
say this in in the late 1800s
instruction era did he say this did he
say this like what what what far-off
distant temporal plane did he say this
1971 I was as old as my son I could do
addition at that time my son is starting
to read I am not that old
in 1971 I got news for you it was a
fairly backwards racist position to say
like we have to educate the blacks
before we give them any type of
leadership role we're not gonna get on
our knees and those Indians they just
they were so selfish for keeping all
that lame is that like five years after
the Voting Rights Act this is six years
after the Voting Rights Act so this is
the argument this is the defense that
it's the past you're judging the past
based upon the standards of night 1971
it's like there was it now there was no
cars at that time there was no means of
communication other than the Pony
Express it's absurd but here they go
this is and this is what we mean by
they're ruining a good argument I don't
think it's a great argument but it's at
least an argument right like I mean yeah
it's hard to judge maybe the actions of
like you know bigotry in you know 1800s
1700s but can't do that either defacing
statues or pulling them down so and I've
said this before I'm gonna keep saying
this this is what the Taliban does the
Taliban used to rip down historical
markers destroy churches Isis did the
same thing does the same thing they
don't want any vestige of what was well
it's even if it's bad they don't want
any vestige even if it's good they don't
want it but these are two iconic right
measures of America my own way on
wassail at least through them they're in
a mirror laughs they're impugning
America and if you want to settle a
racist score it probably said before we
go into this next part what are they
talking about tearing down statues like
John Wayne no one's trying to get John
Wayne fired from a job because John
Wayne is dead and it's not like and
there is a material difference between
being loud 'add because of your work in
trying to maintain slavery versus
someone being criticized because in
their personal life they were racist
there's no bringing down the statue of
his reputation well that's the thing is
that there's nobody's tearing down two
statue anyway I mean I'm there I'm sure
there's a couple of John Wayne statues I
think the Burbank Airport and I don't
know if I would be like you got two
unnamed abhar bein at Burbank Airport
because not the reasons why he was you
know deemed worthy of an airport name
really were not founded on his personal
bigotry maybe on the structural bigotry
but not his personal bigotry but there
to somehow squeeze this in to like this
is like tearing down the statue of a
general who fought and it led an
insurrection so that they could keep
humans as basically pets I'm like Isis
destroying statues like Isis found a
problem at it like this mosque is
problematic so he's a super problematic
well they're running on empty you know
all they have is this culture work
 that's true but here is and
this this is the way they call it's the
pathetic culture war it's their culture
war and here is this guy trying to say
that like you're judging on the past and
here he is gonna walk into if you listen
carefully he is going to be guilty of
essentially like the same type of of
racism that we heard from in some
respects from John Wayne these are two
iconic images of America John Wayne I
must say laugh at least freedom there
Mary left there impugning America and if
you want to settle a racist score if you
want to go settle scores talk to Jesse
Smollett go talk to the governor and and
lieutenant governor of Virginia they got
plenty of scores to settle there pause
it now now here's what's interesting
about that if you want to settle a
racist score and I'm not a hundred
percent sure I know what that means but
he he cites that Jesse Smollett now and
I will be honest I had no idea who this
dude was I hadn't even heard the story
and granted we were on vacation
I didn't even heard the story until it
was debunked and I'm ready
sure I know what the story is now except
for he claims that he was attacked by
some Trump supporters and they made that
it was a racist hate crime and it turns
out that it was not and he wanted to
fight them and maybe had Monkhouse &
syndrome or whatever so I get the like
if you want to settle a racist score go
talk to the guy who fabricated it but
then he says the lieutenant governor of
Virginia and race is not a part at all
of that guy's controversy he is accused
by at least two women of sexual unwanted
sexual advances in one case sexual
assault and the other I think rape but
it has nothing to do with race it just
so happens that he's black and so this
guy just immediately sits like well if
you want to talk about you know settling
racial racial scores let me just pick
two black guys one who has a sort of on
point but just another guy who's just
certainly in the news possibly a rapist
yeah be afraid about that but that is
their pathetic culture war as it were
they named it very accurately so thanks
guys they were super accurate yes but on
ironically
