[Music]
all right let's uh let's do we got le
like three I think we'll do one more
sound one call and one I am how about no
we'll do that one tomorrow
I saw a Pete Buddha judge talk to Al
Sharpton several months ago and I said
I'm starting to feel like Pete Buddha
check the only other interaction he had
was when he fired the african-american
police chief in his City but if you
thought that was awkward look at mayor
Pete talked to workers no no sorry you
gotta rewind that that's that is
unbelievable the question he asks here
the people need to hear this question
how long do you feel like strike fun can
I guess long as it takes yeah pretty
good took money in the bud it's been you
know twelve years since our that's right
oh my god he's basically asking them how
long they're gonna strike for so there
was a meme that somebody made of Buddha
jej emailing GM saying exactly so they
couldn't find out how long they're
planning how long do you guys think you
can like what kind of indictment and
look Democratic Party is definitely not
a traditional labor party in any type of
Molde but however it is a party it has
had an alliance with labor unions and
really at certain times obviously during
the New Deal and the 60s delivered a lot
of great things and you know this is the
friendly quote like that this is the
Wonder Boy of the Democratic Party elite
and this guy mean we are at the point
now like Bill Clinton was terrible for
organized labor but my god did that guy
know how to be like so how's the strike
going I mean this guy uh he looks like
it's like dude you're not like you're
not on it you know I can't even think
what the analogy would be like nobody
should look that uncomfortable talking
to prospective voters in your primary
guys are just out striking why do you
look so uncomfortable man look I will
take somebody with good policies and bad
effect over someone like a Bill Clinton
type how about nine out of ten times but
we have one who has both right now so
what's the problem and how about both in
the other direction like I mean his case
his effect reveals his policies what I'm
trying to say well it isn't just like
look if you yes I totally agree with you
if you well although there's a great JFK
story and I read this in a proper JFK
biography and this is where you really
actually get some of JFK's charisma he
was in West Virginia talking to coal
miners in the 1960s like could
you imagine and one guy finally you know
raised their hand they say have you ever
done like an honest day's work in your
whole life JFK looks at the round and
he's like I don't think so I guess and
they all laugh and they are all like
well I guess you weren't missing
anything and then they just get back to
like what they need which he was
actually at the time mostly happy to
commit to so it was like that right like
and and there's a power in that honesty
and level of self comfort that really
diffuses a lot of stuff because it's
honest but like Budaj edge you know I
mean part of the reason Clinton was good
is there's a part of Clinton that should
have known better because of his
background in some ways but like I don't
think Buddha judge has a me he must know
labor unions exist his dad was a more
this professor but I mean he just god I
always forget about that has no I mean
that's just yeah I mean Kamala I mean
the fools fell off a cliff
I looked up Buddha judges labor plans
and actually like if you took his name
off of it they know there's some good
stuff our or $15 an hour plus index to
inflation and then a ban on right to
work which is our very most important I
mean I think I want to start seeing them
you know Rashida said 21 they shall
follow her or 20
unless it's important but it should be
20 25 ban right to work that's a big
deal but uh but the thing is is like I
don't you obviously can't trust him on
that stuff and he doesn't have the you'd
need more than just plans frankly to
appeal to people like that you know he
commits like he does strategy he doesn't
have a class analysis of how the economy
is structured he doesn't know about
labor capital he thinks of organized
labor as one more special interest group
that he has to pander to exactly final
call today you're calling from a 406
