wherein we will play let's play one more
clip of Donald Trump being a complete
just I mean the the I can only
imagine the the sense of you know
someone like Jerry Brown walking around
being you know a normal human being and
all the other people there obviously as
well being a normal human being being
aware of the human suffering that's
going around being aware of the
implications of climate change and how
in it is likely that what they're
witnessing is not a one-off incident but
a a continuance of a trajectory and a
glimpse into the future of what's going
to be going on in California and then to
be sitting there with this who has
no human empathy but a an intense desire
to appear as if he knows what he's
talking about but exercising not even
the slightest bit of effort to to do so
III you know I've been in some vet
rather uncomfortable situations where
I've been sitting around people I don't
like but I've never had to do this
frankly here he is
this is him talking about him being in
pleasure right is that it yeah they're
in a they're in a place called Paradise
California here is Donald Trump trying
to remember that you don't really see
the gravity of it I mean as big as they
look on the tube you don't see what's
going on until you come here and what we
saw at pleasure what a name right now
but when what we just saw we just left
pleasure turn la Perlas and what we just
saw at paradise is just you know it's
just not acceptable
right pleasure paradise do different I
can see why I'd make the mistake it
starts with a P it starts with the P
here is Donald Trump also showing his
ignorance as to he's already earlier
said you know Finland doesn't have this
problem why do we have this problem
Finland like we already expressed as two
to three times more precipitation or no
it was at seven times more precipitation
during the months of May to October
which will I mean for those of you who
are Trump supporters that much rain in
precipitation will make the starting
forest fires that much less likely and
the intensity of those fires much less
so because things aren't as dry here is
Donald Trump addressing the likelihood
that climate change has implications for
creating essentially really dry
environment in California that would
lead to intense forest fires
I've seen this devastation though change
your opinion at all on climate change
mr. president no not one way climate
we're going to have
and a lot of things have been working
very hard and I think you're gonna see
something very spectacular over the next
number of years but I mean this guy has
won macro for all these things we're
gonna have great climate things it's
already the climate it's getting better
well that's his favorite mode this is
the same mode he was in when he was
throwing paper towels yeah Berto Rico
strutting around getting to wear the
coat the USA hat it's so much about
containment for him as well like the
idea that we can make safe for us right
the forests are gonna be great they're
gonna be safe it's happening it's
already happening but probably six day
we I would say probably three weeks six
to three weeks three to six weeks great
for us happy safe for us and he you know
in that moment where he's close to Jerry
Brown right lessons have been learned
lessons have been learned nobody knew
about fires until I became president
it's a constant balancing act between
saying what he even his he knows he
should be obligated to say and also
covering his own tracks yep
