there have been you know continued
developments on the the investigation of
Donald Trump and you know putting aside
all of the sort of I think criminal
indictments that you could roll out
against Donald Trump and the Trump
administration at this point you know
and the investigations are happening in
the Southern District of New York in
regards to the inauguration it seems to
me that is going to be a rather fertile
ground for prosecutors there's a
question of course whether one can bring
an indictment against the sitting
president but certainly and and the
Southern District of New York operates
you know with more independence in your
typical US Attorney's Office but
certainly the Department of Justice is
aware of it so the this past week we had
or I should say at the end of last week
Matt Whittaker took the stand he
basically applied for a job with the
Trump administration after his acting AG
run is over and then this week the
Senate supposedly it was reported found
no direct evidence of collusion Donald
Trump you know was very excited about
this but it's a nice you know bumper
sticker no direct evidence of collusion
but I don't know that it means that much
from a legal standpoint does it it
doesn't collusion is not a legal term
and it's in fact it's one of those you
know I know when I see it kind of thing
which you know or maybe it's the you
know depends on what the meaning of
collusion is you know for most of us
observing this this you know whole
scandal from the beginning it's clear
that the trumpet the Trump campaign
committed collusion there's there's no
doubt in my mind from the way I define
it and the reason I know this is because
they took a meeting with Russian people
that were presented as working on behalf
of the Russian government which was
trying to help Trump win it said so
right in the email and that they were
bringing official documents and
information about his opponent they took
the meeting
Payne chairman took the meeting the
son-in-law Jared Kushner took the
meeting Don jr. took the meeting and
they talked and they went back and forth
as it turns out they did have hacked
emails there were you know they were
disseminated that's a collusion now
whether or not that's a legal you know
evidence of conspiracy we don't know yet
we're going to find out if the Special
Counsel puts together a case and makes
that case that those meetings and that
stuff that happened with the campaign
rise to the level of a criminal
conspiracy now that's not the same thing
as collusion which i think is obvious
actually happened but everybody's
playing games with these words right
Trump's been screaming no collusion no
collusion and in this past week the the
NBC reported that as you pointed out
that the the the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence had determined that
there was no quote direct evidence of
collusion or / conspiracy everybody way
oh my god you know look it's all over
well you know first of all that
committee does not have access to the
kind of information that top secret
information that Robert Muller has nor
have they interviewed the people nor do
they have the documentary evidence that
might lead to that conclusion so forget
that you know that that's just something
Richard burr the head of that committee
has been saying this for months by the
way there was nothing new in this you
know I haven't seen the evidence of
collusion he said it back last fall and
by the way Richard Burr everybody should
go read an article by Rangoon Minh and
just security duct work to read about
Richard burrs involvement he was a trump
campaign as a foreign policy adviser who
covered up the Russian involvement all
throughout the campaign and beyond he
was one of the people downplaying the
information he was getting from the
Intelligence Committee we don't know how
much he was he was sharing with the
Trump campaign at the time all of this
is very dicey so he's kept a lower
profile than Devon Nunez but he's been
playing a similar role which is very
much like the role that Howard Baker
played during Watergate he was lauded as
a great hero for saying in the hearings
what did the president know and when did
he know it well the reason he said that
was because he was
to get the point across that the
president wasn't involved all these
other people were doing the bad stuff
and it was only evidence became blonde
you know dispute that he suddenly turned
into a big hero and by the way it turns
out he was feeding the White House
information this whole time so that's
where we stand with that thing but there
was another thing that happened that's
very interesting which is that there was
a hearing held at the end of last week
on the mana fort
you know guilty plea as to whether or
not he lied to prosecutors and they
released a transcript of that it's
heavily redacted but you can read
between the lines and one of the things
that became obvious in reading that is
that metaphoric met with this Russian
agent who he had a long relationship
with met by the name of Constantine
Khalil neck in New York in August of
2016 which was right in the heat of the
campaign right after the the Republican
convention and he met there and at that
bit it appears from this transcript that
they believe that the prosecutors
believe that he exchanged highly
confidential delicate polling
information and handed it off to this
Russian agent so this is if that's the
case and we have very clear evidence of
not just collusion but a conspiracy and
if that's the case then you know we're
talking about quid pro quos now there's
a reason why this is very interesting to
people like marcy wheeler who follows
this stuff you know in great detail her
point is is that if it's the case that
manna fort was just doing this for his
own purposes right he had a bunch of
dead and there was money that was owed
to him and so he's paying you know on
the sly he's giving the Russian stuff
and Trump didn't know anything about it
if that's the case and Trump didn't know
anything about it why is Trump defending
men afford this is a guy you would
automatically just throw into the bronze
box you had any decency
you know because you'd say hey this guy
betrayed me he didn't just betray
America he betrayed me personally by
giving my inform I'd you know
confidential information to another
government that's just terrible the
Republicans would be saying that Richard
Burr would be saying it Devin noticed
you know all these people would be good
oh my god that is Sean Hannity but
they're not saying that
and so it really does it's just one more
little piece of evidence of a president
and all of his minions acting guilty I
hit every note the way and the only
thing I would say and and and and I
think at the end of this we're
definitely going to see at least some
you know I think in some respects the
the relationship is going to be criminal
but not necessarily as sort of as
intriguing as we might think it's quite
clear that Donald Trump has been up to
all sorts of unlawful activity for
decades right and gosh knows what he is
afraid of someone like a Paul Manafort
who he's dealt with in the past might
have on him that may or may not have
anything to do with with with Russia I
mean let's what we should put that out
there and so I mean I think and that's
not in any way sculpt Ettore Donald
Trump I just think that there is going
to be I think there is just so much more
to this than then then meets the eye
that sometimes that those type of
assessments it's quite possible that
Paul Manafort that he's protecting Paul
Manafort but it may not be you know for
the you know the the reasons that we
think it is right which is possibility
nevertheless that is that it's not an
exculpatory statement about Donald Trump
they are clearly hiding stuff and they
are clearly afraid of stuff that's going
to come out one way or another and I
guess we're going to have to wait and
see don't think it's going to happen
this week but but who knows and Heather
as always really appreciate your time
this week
