[Music]
we just mentioned that Donald Trump
brought this up and I guess that was on
Friday he brought up on Friday this I
guess this threat that we are going to
take undocumented immigrants after we
hold them for 20 days and release them
in sanctuary cities has some way of like
Jaime said you know making a kid who
smoked two cigarettes smoked a whole
pack simultaneously and get sick except
for that's not how it works I think with
undocumented immigrants I think it will
give people an opportunity to see like
oh these are just people who want to
come here and work and take care of
their families I guess we'll see
but then the White House walked back
from that policy because of course aside
from it maybe being illegal I don't know
it's also just a stupid policy that
sounds like someone on a talk radio or
right-wing talk radio show had come up
with and then was afraid that someone
would see the transcript and just like a
lot wanted to melt away
the White House backed off it and then
Trump went out and said he wanted to do
it again I think by tweet so Sarah
Sanders had to or Sarah sander Huckabee
I guess had to explain to Chris Wallace
what the hell is going on is the
president serious
does he really intend to ship thousands
of immigrants all across the country to
cities like New York and San Francisco
and a lot of other places certainly
we're looking at all options as long as
Democrats Chris continued to ignore the
crisis at the border continue to refuse
to sit down with the President and
Republicans in Congress and come up with
the solution to stop the national
security and humanitarian crisis and the
number of illegal immigrants that are
flooding across our border then we have
to look at all options across the table
so that the town
right there on the border aren't taking
on the entire burden and that we're
shifting some of that burden to places
who constantly claim to want to have
open borders and want to have an open
city so let's put some of those people
into their communities and into their
towns and and see if they are okay then
with that same impact again the big part
of the the question and the big thing we
have to look at here is how do we stop
this from being a problem in the first
place we shouldn't have to be putting
people and moving them all across the
country to spread that out we should
have a border that's strong a border
that secure a border that functions the
way that it's supposed to that's the
president's number one priority that's
what he'd like to see happen and that's
what he'd like Democrats to work with
him to solve I continue to be unwilling
to do that we're certainly looking at
all options okay I want to pick up this
specific option though about shipping
migrants to sanctuary cities the
president tweeted last night that he has
the government has quote the absolute
legal right to do so but as has been
reported this was floated by the white
house brought over to DHS and they said
repeatedly that it was not legal to do
so and also they said counterproductive
take a look at some of the objections
that DHS raised they said Congress has
approved no specific money for this
purpose I says it would be quote an
unnecessary operational burden sending
them to sanctuary cities which don't
cooperate with federal enforcement of
immigration laws would make it harder to
round them up later and it also might be
an incentive to more illegal immigration
so I guess the question is how do you
overcome all of those problems again
nobody thinks that this is the ideal
solution but until we can fix the crisis
at the border we have to look at all
options this is one of them whether or
not it moves forward that's yet to be
determined this was raised at a staff
level initially and pushed back on the
president wants us to explore it again
so that's being done oh my god a
thorough review but again the big thing
we don't need so so this is hilarious
the president won't let go of it and we
keep trying to tell
that he can't do it that it's the
dumbest plan ever
that staffer won't be invited to the
meetings anything that's right
I mean it's it's an absurd policy but
good take the money from the wall and
rent buses take all these people to
sanctuary cities and maybe this is the
grand compromise we will be there to
welcome them yes don't listen to ice
President Trump you should do it it's a
great idea they're disrespecting I knew
it you might want to think about
abolishing ice given that level of
disrespect to a totally unbelievable and
sad don't they know that they're your
ice whose counterproductive wait a
second excuse me
