[Music]
wanna just the idea is that you know
you've got someone like Cory Booker who
is now like I don't know is he polling
like three or four percent and so
they're trying to now reorient Booker
tries to come out with a big gun control
reform and it it doesn't really get the
attachment got some attention we
mentioned it briefly and it's it's it's
a great policy proposal this is sort of
hand in hand I guess with his criminal
justice reform but it's fascinating to
it to watch these politicians who don't
have a a track record that is as
expansive and as as deep and as
consistent as some others attempt to
position themselves in a way that is
both unique but also against Trump but
maybe in the case of Booker it really is
like I'm just gonna be against Trump
maybe to the detriment of even trumpism
which is let's face it republicanism and
here is Cory Booker and this is
reminiscent of Joe Biden trying to
answer why we shouldn't have Medicare
for all because somehow that lets
employers off the hook which is just a
bizarre formulation one may work but
it's bizarre nevertheless here's Cory
Booker with his bizarre formulation of
why particularly in the wake of the
Supreme Court basically today saying
that Apple at least is open to a
class-action lawsuit because of its
control over its
AppStore that the one of the cofounders
of Facebook has come out and basically
said time to break it up there is been
an increasing awareness of what the
constant economic concentration does to
society and here is Cory Booker
seemingly completely unable to address
this question in a coherent fashion
Chris Hughes who helped co-found
Facebook has now come out to say that it
should be broken up he says that it is
unprecedented in unamerican to have this
much power in one company where do you
stand on breaking up facebook I don't
care if it's Facebook the pharma
industry even the agricultural industry
we've had a problem in America with
corporate consolidation that is having
really ill effects it's driving out the
independent family farmer it's driving
up a prescription drug costs and in the
realm of Technology we're seeing small
compass small one or two companies
controlling a significant amount of the
online advertising so should they be
broken up we need them again I believe
in process and we should have if I'm
president nine states I will have a
Justice Department that uses antitrust
legislation to do the proper
investigations into whole industries
accountable for corporate puzzles so we
think he's just outlined the real
problem that we have and then when he's
asked well should we address it he
basically says well I don't know as if
there isn't been over a hundred years of
experience both in trust-busting and in
breaking up this type of of
consolidation and the contrary where
antitrust has been completely defamed
but the fact is is that the process
exists it is completely a function of
political will
it is completely a function of political
will the reason why the Justice
Department has not broken up these
companies and has done very little of
this stuff
since the 80s is because that has been
the dominant political will there has
been a change in the perspective of what
constitutes a monopoly we have the exact
same process the exact same tools as we
had 30 or 40 years ago 50 years ago the
only thing that has changed is there has
been a change in political will and when
that question is put to cory booker he
basically says it shouldn't be about
political will and instead he tries to
make it as if the the increase in
awareness of this problem and the
commensurate political will to do
something about it is whimsical
industries accountable for corporate
consolidation
Lizabeth Warren's already out there
saying break up Facebook break up Google
and III don't think wake up Amazon right
but I don't think that a president
should be running around pointing at
companies and saying breaking them up
without any kind of process here I do I
think it's a massive problem in America
corporate consolidation absolutely it's
about making sure that we have a system
that works it's not me and my own
personal opinion about going after folks
that sounds more like a Donald Trump
thing to say I'm gonna break up you guys
manure II know we need to create systems
and processes compared the Elizabeth
Warren I most certainly did not
she's the one that's saying well again
she has let her discuss and debate her
positions I'm telling you right now we
do not need a president that it's gonna
use her own personal beliefs and tell
you which companies we should break up
we need a president that's going to
enforce antitrust laws in this country
and I will be that person you know this
is really super suspect because if you
look at the history of people who broke
up these companies they name these
companies the whole point of this and to
in some way imply when the question was
promised on Elizabeth Warren that she's
going around because she has a personal
beef with Jeff Bezos or she just doesn't
like the way that Zuckerberg in
dresses or something it's very
vindictive I mean this is this is pretty
stunning stuff and he is there is a
process but the point is is that there's
been no political will it is really just
a question of how does the executive
branch want to approach this and he is
hiding the ball here here is a reminder
for you why he might this is a guy who
particularly when it comes to finance
had very little problem with finance but
also I think has a similar problem and I
think he just has a broad-based
allergy towards seeing corporate
corporations as fundamentally
problematic that need that that they're
the way that they exist in our society
is a political choice here he is talking
about Barack Obama when Barack Obama was
going after bain Capital's vulture
capitalism this kind of stuff is
nauseating to me on both sides it's
nauseating to the American public enough
is enough
stop attacking private equity's it was
see this is how we know that Jonathan
che it's argument is right
because if Americans were really just
voting based on ideology and who is the
most conservative cory booker would be
closer to the top and Warren and Sanders
would not be second in third place well
I don't know if that's chase argument as
much but I think he's I think he's just
I think he's declaring mission
accomplished just a little bit too early
screenshot that headline folks yeah III
mean because I mean here's the the the
bottom line is the only person who I
think is clearly defined really in this
race at this point is Bernie Sanders
both to his his detriment and to his
benefit put up that that chart
and you can see here this is a data
progress did a poll which is sort of a
fascinating poll who would you consider
on who would you not consider voting for
so Joe Biden twenty percent of the
Democratic electorate and I think this
is like the well tied for third or
fourth-largest percent say they would
never vote for him but forty nine
percent say they would consider voting
for him which is also the highest and
that's a thirty twenty nine percent
swing Bernie Sanders twenty eight
percent say they would never vote for
him I think that's the highest thirty
six percent say they would consider
voting for him the person who has sort
of the the you know the the most room to
grow here it seems like is Elizabeth
Warren thirteen percent would not vote
for her
forty percent would now I don't think
any of these numbers really have a huge
bearing on the chances of someone
winning because the fact of the matter
is is you have so many candidates
running that you can have a candidate
who thirty percent will say I will not
vote for and in under any circumstances
36 percent considering to vote for is is
is very high but I think Bernie Sanders
is probably the most defined simply
because he ran three years ago two years
ago and it's quite clear what his
platform is I think you know Elizabeth
Warren it's it's clear to us what her
platform is I don't think that she's
seen as much Joe Biden I just don't
think that people have a real sense of
what Joe Biden is running on I mean even
if it's like the the even just the the
more partisan questions of like I'm
sorry I think Republicans or people
forgive me Father I have sinned I think
a lot of Democrats have come around to
the
awareness that Republicans are very
problematic and when they become more
and more aware of Joe Biden's positions
in the past I think it's going to become
more and more problematic for me yeah we
also have to remember that he's lost two
Democratic primaries already and just
because he's friends with Obama doesn't
mean that he's going to win I also want
to see the methodology of these of this
poll because a lot of the time like
remember that one where it came to light
that they didn't talk to anyone under 50
well that was all they only use
landlines like those ridiculous yeah I
think look the that that poll was was
correct I don't I I mean I don't think
this is a question of methodology on
these polls
I mean I've a you know I think it's I
think it's simply a question of where in
May and there really hasn't been other
than just the brand Joe Biden any
examination of this guy now it's quite
possible this same thing could happen
like as soon as people who see people
judge on the stage they're gonna fall in
love with him but I think that it's I
think it's unlikely that Joe Biden is
going to be able to retain the sort of
the the general well-being with you know
or wealth the general I guess good will
of people when he starts to explain his
positions I'm worried it's gonna end up
like Hillary and Bernie in that there's
gonna be signs that people are
responding to reality with him and as a
candidate being out of touch with
reality but it's not gonna be fast
enough to get him out of the primary and
he's gonna win the primary because he is
he's tied with oh but he's tied to Obama
right now and that's a big answer but
still very early to like I looked at
another chart Obama was way behind
Hillary at this point in time during the
2008 cycle he did not pull ahead until
January of 2008 right though right
and and I think I mean I think the big
thing I don't think that the the the
Hillary Bernie thing is is a good of an
analogy because frankly in the primary
she was very substantive and I think to
a certain extent
[Music]
she moved quite a bit towards Bernie's
position then tacked back in the in the
general or at least in terms of what was
what what she was running on I don't
think it was a question as much as
people didn't people had a misconception
of Hillary Clinton I think you know
certainly there was a an effect as the
more she ran the there was some element
of like people had a lionized version of
her when she was Secretary of State it's
much easier to appreciate someone
whether Secretary of State as opposed to
sort of like you know presenting their
ideas about a whole host of things and
so what we'll see but
