[Music]
but let me just start with this before
we get on to because I had said the
other day that Democrats had no real
immigration plans on the table and both
William Castro and Elizabeth Warren have
pretty vigorous plans much of Warren's
was borrowed from Castro I mean
according to her but nevertheless
they've signed on to those but before we
get to that two stories about our
concentration camp plans and programs
the customs Border Patrol will not
provide flu shots for immigrants who are
being detained in our concentration
camps at least three children have died
in these detention facilities over the
past year from complications arising
from the flu that is the first time in
ten years than any immigrants who we
have been detaining have died in our
custody there were more that have died
but three were specifically in part from
the flu and we are not providing them
flu shots
because supposedly we don't hold them
long enough which of course is absurd I
don't know how I mean it's just it's
absurd it's absurd it's inhumane I I
don't know what else to say about it
except for the idea that we are holding
them only for short periods of time the
the Trump administration wants to deal
way with that as it stands now
when we detain immigrants and and this
has changed somewhat over the past three
years it used to be we would not
separate children from their parents
unless the parents were shown to have
committed a serious crime in the
crossing of the border ie they were they
had drugs they were abusing the family
some other violent crime and then kids
would be separated from the from the
parent because that's what we do even we
in this country as well the Trump
administration then changed their policy
and instead of issuing civil violations
coming across the border without papers
which is the way that it had been
exercised basically for decades they
considered it a criminal charge and
therefore based on that separated
children from their parents there has
been an agreement since 1997 called the
Flores settlement agreement that was
based upon a wide-scale
lawsuit a class-action suit that was
brought against the US government on
behalf of migrant children under the
auspices of that agreement the federal
government is now allowed to hold
children more than 20 days they must be
licensed care programs there are
specific requirements in terms of
Hygiene and access to sanitary
facilities and medical treatment and
contact with family members under this
agreement well the Trump administration
has decided we are no longer going to
follow that we're no longer going to
follow that agreement now there's gonna
be lawsuits and supposedly they're gonna
go in front of a federal judge before
this new regulation essentially that
they're doing this new edict it goes
into effect
they'll find a judge who Trump is
appointed and they will get an okay on
this I'm quite convinced of it they will
pick the judge they will make sure that
the judge signs off and then we'll see
court cases it's just horrific and it's
just it's horrific
they are doubling down on everything
it's totally horrific and this is how
concentration camps turn into death
camps like Ryusei starts with neglect
exactly ryu sees texas tweeted the US
death rate and children from the flu is
about one in six hundred thousand so far
three children have died out of two
hundred thousand people held at
detention facilities along the border so
already the death rate is a nine i think
nine times the normal death rate from
the flu and as someone else pointed out
and frank didn't die in the gas chambers
and frank died of typhus in overcrowded
conditions so this is a this is a
terrifying and intentional way to start
killing people yeah check out the three
arrows video how societies turn cruel
for more on that yeah I mean this is
you're absolutely right and this is and
this is part of the program it's just
one more element to make these
concentration camps miserable ostensibly
to either a scare immigrants from trying
to come to America or be allow their
base to justify in their minds that the
parents are subjecting them that them to
this it really is disgusting
it really is disgusting
