with Sam's visa the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any ELISA they are unanimous in that
hate for me
patron we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex soma chart a
report with sam cedar it is Monday June
3rd 2019 my name is Sam cedar this is
the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today activist author documentary
filmmaker Astra Taylor on her new book
democracy may not exist but will miss it
when it's gone also on the program today
twelve victims and shooter dead
the latest mass shooting DOJ and FTC
looking at Google over antitrust issues
[Music]
poll shows impeachment rising as the
third most powerful Democrat in Congress
Clyburn says impeachment is now
inevitable meanwhile Trump in the UK
being Trump in the UK and new report the
affordable care act helped to reduce
racial disparities particularly in
cancer treatments
Democratic hopefuls in California focus
on Biden while some abandoned small
donors and the nonpartisan Congressional
Research Service reports that the Trump
tax cuts flopped unless you are already
super rich attempt to take back that
Arthur Laffer Medal of Freedom all this
and more on today's majority report yes
ladies and gentlemen welcome
it is another week we are ready in June
sort of shocking that we are here just a
reminder for what we've got coming up in
this month we have at least two
Democratic debates well know two
Democratic debates they'll be back to
back the first half of the 22 candidates
or 25 or 27 35 candidates will go up on
one night and then the other half on the
other night of course not everyone will
make those two debates and it's unclear
to me at this point I'm not sure if it's
public even how who will will be
determined who's on what stage III
believe that that's going to be very
very important in terms of of impacting
the this race there was a report out
Theodore Johnson was writing about this
from the Brennan Center in the
Washington Post a lot of Joe Biden's
support from African Americans is
basically comes down to a function that
they believe he can win and African
Americans black people have a very very
strong interest in getting rid of Donald
Trump in a way that other people may
well I don't know how didhow you compare
that but the sense of of potential for
backsliding
on issues of race and civil rights is a
major factor in the determination as to
whether they will support Joe Biden
largely just as a function of whether he
can win there are obviously other
attributes but this is a a prominent one
and it's not inconsistent with what
we've seen in the past and support for
Barack Obama and the black community was
very very low until he won in Iowa in
2007 and that's when you started to see
Clinton support
I wouldn't say crater but certainly
diminish and people going to Obama when
there was a sense that he could win so
one of the things that I think is going
to be it's going to be a play a huge
role with Joe Biden is that either the
emergence of someone else who can be
seen as winning as easily as Joe Biden
or Joe Biden being seen to be less
invincible and one of those things is
going to be I think momentum coming out
of the debates and really what happens
in Iowa and New Hampshire those first
two states so we shall see also I just
want to get to just some two Corrections
and a little one other thing here one is
yesterday we headlined a story that a
North Korean a senior North Korean
official who was ostensibly the Envoy to
the US talks was killed and that there
was some type of purge there are now
reports saying that that purge was not
accualy accurately reported that maybe
it didn't happen at all it's unclear but
certainly it turned out I don't know if
that was a hoax or what the deal was or
if there were other people who who may
have been purged and not there was
talk that there were multiple people
purged but it is clear that that King
Yong Kim Jung Cheol who was Mike Pompeo
is counterpart with the United States
was not perched he's been showing up in
public at the time I have to say kudos
to Brendan because when Brandon first
heard that story he said this is weird
why would we done admit that he screwed
up in any way by taking it out even if
it was to blame other people so let that
correction stand also we played a clip
on Friday I think it was on Friday of a
reporter from Inside Edition questioning
a pastor on the purchase of of whose
plane was it tell apparent Tyler Perry's
plane and why you had to buy cuz it was
just Tyler Perry made it so cheap it
made it so cheap so cheap I had to buy
it I mean I had to we didn't we
neglected to mention the name of the
reporter it was Lisa Guerrero she is a
reporter with with Inside Edition does
apparently a lot of work like that
and so if you have kudos for that
interview make sure that you reach out
to her we've put a link in yesterday's
YouTube thing maybe we should put that
in today as well to her to her Twitter
feed I want to say right now kudos for
that interview there you go and I'll
probably get into this a little bit
later but I got some response and I'm
curious what people think about this
that I wasn't actually hard enough on
steven crowder for his blatant
homophobia and his I'll take some of
their app I didn't know that he was a
AIDS crisis denialist he has multiple
videos of like the AIDS crisis was like
that it affected gay people so bad is
basically exaggerated I didn't know that
at all either yeah I mean here's the
thing some Holocaust denial level
right there and I don't want it I don't
want to spend too much time on this
right now because we've got to get to
our guests but just briefly
you know when I look at that I see
somebody doing something similar to what
I'm doing just you know without the
content but just sort of the the shell
the structure and I I'm just I was just
like it sort of flabbergasted like how
does an adult actually do this in 2019
how does like an adult person do this
and do it in public as a job and and I
think on some level like I was just
because I don't think the guy from Vox
who Crowder is basically say gay bashing
but I mean sort of right I mean at least
rhetorically he doesn't care about
steven crowder and i mean he's a fully
grown adult and you know he's but the
thing that I started to think about and
based on some criticism that I got
Crowder is clearly aiming his show at
kids and by kids I mean like teens right
and I mean I think that that's become
much more clear to me he is exploiting
their ignorance in their youth and
whatnot that's why he can go and debate
college students and it doesn't make it
look you know people don't his audience
doesn't look at him like this and it's
also probably on some reason why they
have the whole cigar and sophisticated
liquor thing because frankly as a 12 or
13 year old boy I can tell you like that
looks like what an adult does man babies
yes and college students look like
grown-ups right exactly and do you
remember the campaign we were gonna do
with you
well way so I just let me just get
through and so but the thing that is
really when you become aware of that he
is going on and not only you know there
there I can't remember the report and
certainly writings the things like Will
& Grace that sitcom which I I never
watched really but I don't watch I
didn't watch any of them frankly but the
patience of that if you're a
twelve-year-old boy living in you know
in some rural area or some parts of the
country where gay people had not been
accepted you know during that era we're
huge in terms of what it's saying that
like look regardless of where you going
through now and that in society at large
you will be accepted and literally
Crowder's doing the opposite and it's I
don't know if Crowder's where this but
teen suicide rates for for kids who are
gay for kids who are transgender or feel
that they you know are not living the
they they are not the gender they were
born with or assigned to is real teen
suicide rates I mean they're high and
it's a real phenomenon and to mainstream
and legitimize and and frankly encourage
that type of gay bashing you know it
should never have been acceptable but
particularly you know now when there is
like you know we are hopefully several
decades away multiple decades away from
some measure of enlightenment is really
reprehensible I mean it's just
disgusting and so I didn't mean to
soft-pedal that and maybe we can talk
more about it in the second half of the
program but it really is gross but it's
but it's beyond gross it's it's horrific
in many ways and I think I was just I
found it so hard to absorb in this day
and age that you would do a show that
you know a staple of which is the just
the out-and-out gay bashing is pretty
stunning I mean the producers name is
not gage
I know everywhere and the juveniles
crazy but it's but but it's the the
point I guess I'm making is like to me
it just destruct me is so juvenile but
then I was like but it's worse than
juvenile because he's not a juvenile and
he is a role model for juveniles and and
that's what makes it so horrific hey man
you got to meet those fourteen-year-old
boys where they are yeah I guess so you
could probably do it with video games um
folks you may think that you don't need
life insurance yet but if you have loved
ones who depend on you you need to have
a plan I certainly never thought about
life insurance until my kids were born
my daughter was born I ended up getting
some term life insurance that's got her
covered well past I went further than
college for her because I anticipated a
second child didn't realize would be
such a gap but I still got him under the
wire so he's covered through college if
that's what he wants to do but it's it's
intimidating if you've never even
contemplated thankfully Ethos makes
doing the responsible thing easy with
the ethos you can get covered in like
ten minutes
can even sign up right from your phone
there's no pesky paperwork no pushy
salespeople you just choose a policy
fits your needs you don't waste time
deciphering the fine print because ethos
treats you like a person not a risk they
work with you to make sure you have the
right policy for your lifestyle and your
budget they have a dedicated customer
support team that's right here in the
United States may help with any
questions you might have
visit ethos life.com click on check my
price to get started on the quick online
application you can ensure your life
today by going to ethos life.com slash
majority to apply on I online sharing
your life and providing your family with
financial security has never been either
easier that's ethos eth OS live.com
slash majority and you're ten minutes
away from your estimated rate make sure
your family's future is safe no matter
what
that's ethos life.com / majority also
there's many times particularly when I'm
not with the children where I forget to
eat dinner I don't want to go out boom
whatever it is you realize 8:00 a.m. you
need a breakfast burrito
you need some red wine 4 p.m. sometimes
maybe in the middle of the afternoon
depending on what's going on kids drive
you crazy add a hyper pro friend or
whatever it is at in the morning or at
night you got a headache
Michael maybe you like peppermint maybe
some peppermint essential oil yeah there
you go
well post made it post mates is your
personal food delivery grocery delivery
whatever kind of delivery service all
year round no more trips to the store
anything you're craving post mates can
deliver within the hour 24 hours a day
365 days a year I don't know how to do
this the largest on-demand network in
the u.s. they offer delivery from all
the restaurants grocery convenience
stores traditional retailers you could
possibly need simply download the app
for iOS or Android for free browse local
restaurants and businesses and track
your delivery in real time and for a
limited time post mates is giving our
listeners $100 of free delivery credit
for your first 7 days when you use the
code report that's the code report for
$100 of free delivery credit for your
first 7 days when you download the Post
mates app try it out folks this is the
time to do it
anything you need anytime you need it
post made it download post mates and
save with the code report
lastly we don't all have the opportunity
to go to a silent silent retreat for a
week
of us need it some of us need it but we
don't know have that luxury well the
World Health Organization's name the
health epidemic of the 21st century do
you know what it is
um I'm gonna guess that it is a stress
yes exactly
tremendous amount of stress in our lives
every day
Michael's super calm but that's why
we're carpenter parting with calm it's
the number one rated app from meditation
when you meditate your brain chemistry
changes Michael came in here he's like
completely almost too chill he's
floating yeah he's floating but we had
the very opposite of a silent retreat
you guys you guys don't worry as soon as
I saw the the Geordi DiGiorno treat
tweet I was back no Michael you probably
know this because they probably told you
but meditation has been shown to slow
down the release of stress chemicals
into your bloodstream and the like
cortisol and adrenaline yes gives you
much-needed relief with calm you'll
discover a whole library of simple
guided meditations on themes like
anxiety creativity and focus they even
have other resources to help you relax
like sleep stories that's what I like
music and more I found those sleep
stories are pretty good I obviously I
can't do the one with the what do you
call it the lavender fields but anything
else is good you get a psychosomatic
reaction exactly goodnight hot chew so
if you're stressed take a deep breath
and get calm right now majority report
listeners get 25% off a compromise RT
that's calm CA LM calm slash majority
forty million people have downloaded
calm find out why at calm calm slash
majority all right we got to take a
quick break when we come back we're
gonna be talking to Astra Taylor about
her book democracy may not exist but
we'll miss it when it's gone
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program activist author documentary
filmmaker odd latest film is what is
democracy out with zeitgeist films and
the book of the kiss the companion book
democracy may not exist but we'll miss
it when it's gone astray Taylor welcome
to the program glad to be here
this is low-hanging fruit in terms of a
question but I guess it is I have to ask
what is democracy oh my god he got me no
I mean what is democracy I you know it's
it's interesting to flashback to when I
first started filming the documentary
and imagined myself being put in the
position of the people I stopped on the
street you know what would have been my
answer then you know where did you start
when did you start the shooting the
documentary so I wrote the proposal for
it all the way back in 2013 and got the
green light started filming in 2015 so
you know I now I would say democracy is
the rule of the people the demos the
demos of democracy the demos have cratis
which is you know power to go to go back
today at the ancient Greek you know and
of course the the Greeks didn't invent
the process of democracy but they gave
us that word and I think it's a powerful
word this idea that the people rule I
also like Aristotle's definition which
is democracy is ruled by the poor
because the poor are always more
numerous than the rich right and so if
we're talking about the majority making
decisions then it's not rich people it's
not oligarchy so that's a nice way of
just drawing the line between what
democracies should be in the in the
situation we have today let's talk a
little bit about your experience at
Occupy because I would imagine on some
level the the idea of this if if not
necessarily inspired out of out of
occupy but was at least informed and so
your experience there but just talk to
us about that because that was I mean it
seems to me that well I just start with
that and then I just want to talk about
you know why occupy
and when it happened yeah I mean I
occupy wallstreet you know so fall of
2011 it was a response to a movement
around the world calling for real
democracy so you know it's inspired by
the Arab Spring and there was the
movement of the squares in Europe and in
places like Greece in Spain and and well
beyond
and so I I got involved in the Occupy
movement in fact I co-founded a union
for debtors called the debt collective
that is still active and I recommend
people check it out the idea is to use
debt as a form of economic leverage to
change our financial system but that you
know occupy was a movement that I think
rightfully was rightfully criticizing
the status quo at that moment right the
banks had gotten bailed out the people
of Gunn sold out the system we have is
not democratic you know put the issue of
class front and center the 1% versus 99%
so I think occupy was a real game
changer in many ways and yet it was sort
of in its DNA committed to a vision of
democracy that was direct as opposed to
representative and this in the beginning
was really beautiful because you'd have
these Mass General Assemblies sort of a
dusk and you know people were using the
human microphone and and it was very
powerful but but it was not a functional
mode of running the movement let alone
running the whole society so I think
what Occupy you need for me let's go ok
well hold on we're talking about
democracy but what do we mean we know
what we're against we're against the
concentration of wealth we're against
the exploitation of the environment
we're against the idea and citizens
united that you know money is is is
speech but what what do we mean by the
word and I realized how little we had to
fall back on in terms of basic political
theory and philosophy I mean we you know
most people had it kind of like middle
school high school operating you know
our level of understanding of sort of
civics right
and so it threw me back on this question
what do we mean by democracy what do we
want that led me to make this film and
to write the companion book we talk
about it as being you know democracy as
being
by the people like I mean the my
experience I mean I guess my sense of
what was happening at Occupy at the time
was that you know all these type of the
these type of events or you know not
events but just sort of like his
phenomenon have like a half-life and
some level that that half-life I think
was was sped up frankly by by Michael
Bloomberg and maybe some you know
coordination across the country of of
tactics but be that as it may
part of the problem was on some level
was sort of like it was very difficult
to deal I mean I remember going down
there and having friends tell me like
we're having real problem with this
committee or that committee because it's
it's being dominated by two or three
people which was ironic right that it's
that Democratic but there ends up being
people who sort of I don't know take
more of the slice of democracy in that
moment you know and there's just a
different type of currency haha go ahead
no I like your phrase the half life I
mean to me I went down to occupy you
know in there and the first day and hung
around there's those early weeks and I
thought okay this is gonna burn itself
out right this is this has a sort of
inner clock that's that's it's going to
reach us in so I'm very surprised that
we're talking about it today you know
years after the fact but there was
something in that in that commitment to
direct democracy into democracy by
consensus there was a fatal flaw would
you just put your finger on which is
when you're operating by consensus and a
small number of people can veto they
have incredible veto power and so what
seems like it's gonna be you know you
utopian and democratic actually turns
into its opposite because it becomes a
sort of dictatorship of the grumpy few
or maybe people who are there to derail
things purposefully so you know what I
took away from that so the book is set
up as an investigation into the
contradictions or tensions and I think
are at the heart of democracy and you
know so the entire book is very much
attuned to the question of economics the
fact that we do you know we we live in a
situation within ten
concentration of wealth and and
attention to the fact that capitalism is
I would say inherently undemocratic in
the sense that it concentrates wealth it
concentrates power it concentrates
ownership right so then how can you have
have people willing themselves as equals
but with that you know that's a sort of
thread through the whole book but each
chapters about a paradox so one of them
is the tension between consensus and in
conflicts right like when do we aim for
a total agreement in a group or when do
we just say okay this is our differences
are irreconcilable we're gonna have to
fight it out there's not you know one
there's not one a one-size-fits-all
answer for every situation so the book
looks at these things these tensions
that make democracy just really
difficult to actually enact so we can
give a simple definition democracy is
the people rule but how we actually do
that requires a whole robust system of
supports it requires constant
revaluation and reassessment and we have
to hold these things in balance like
when do we aim to all agree and have you
yeah unanimous decision and when do we
just say okay that's not gonna happen
we're gonna have to use adversarial
procedures to make it through why do you
think I mean these they're there is a in
the fact that occupy happened at that
time right that there was like a I mean
it sort of fell I mean it was certainly
in the air I mean I remember you know
just in 2010 trying to pitch people on
the idea right now is sort of insider
outsider like establishment
non-establishment you know that there
was a sense of like so many people had
been left out of even the supposed
solution to this calamity and mostly
people who were responsible for it were
able to sort of like they were the first
people to turn around go oh we've we've
got the fix for this but it seemed like
there was a lag time what what do you
think accounts for that timing and the I
guess the the like there was a lot of
things happening in that fall was it was
it that people are getting inspired by
each
or what yeah I mean there what there was
a lag time when I when I hear you say
there was like time I'm thinking there's
a lag time in in terms of responding to
the financial crisis I mean I think
we're still living in the aftermath of
2008-2009 and and so for me you know
occupy was on the one hand it was like
totally necessary in the sense that in
those years immediately after the the
banking the banking sector implodes
exactly as you say the people there to
put it back together again are the
people responsible for it and they're
getting these massive bonuses and then
the folks agitating in the streets are
the tea party right and that just was so
ridiculous egregious and so you know
people people have been feeling the
squeeze they've been feeling you know an
economic pinch right we had been we all
know that since the 70s you know wages
have stagnated you know we've been
covering up for that stagnation with you
know easy access to credit so before
deeply indebted and so I think on some
of the looks like okay something like
occupy had to happen but I think it it
needed that global context of all these
other movements in order to sort of
motivate people to take this step that
seems kind of ridiculous which is like
okay let's all go hang out in a park
which you know it's not a strata
strategy that can transform the system
but was a strategy that got attention
and I think did you know it's - it's
kind of a cliche to say it but change
the conversation I think the question is
you know what what what people need to
do once that conversation is shifted
right so that's sort of the the problem
of democracy that we're in now which is
how do you actually build power for the
people how do you transform democracy
and you know what I say in the
introduction in the book is you know the
challenge of the you know late 19th and
20th centuries were to the challenge of
democracy was extending the French at
the franchise in franchising all of
these people all these populations who
had been excluded by formal democracy I
think the challenge for our time is
extending democracy beyond that limited
political sphere
to other arenas of our lives
democratizing the economy above all and
you know you and that that is a
strategic a strategic challenge that you
know something like occupy was point it
was pointing towards the need for that
but didn't have the tactics or the
strategy to actually do it yeah do you
think they're there I mean and and then
I want to move forward from this too but
yeah but because I just this this the
whole phenomenon I think is interesting
you think that it there there is a set
of strategy and tactics out there that
occupy could have grown into or you know
had adopted that would have had a
different historical arc I mean I I've
asked myself this many many times
particularly you know or was that simply
like that had to happen it had to end
and then you have people like yourself
who go out into the debt collective but
it also turned into sort of like I think
you could find a lot of people who are
involved in occupy in DSA groups around
the country Bernie Sanders I think 2016
campaign doesn't happen if it was not
for what would occupy injected into the
bloodstream I mean I think there's a
there's a myriad of things like that
we're sort of the the fallout creates
all different types of of movements as
it were or do you think there was like a
set of strategies at one point that that
that could have been followed that could
have I mean the the I think the the the
Committee on they gave feedback on the
21st century glass-steagall
people consider that document on on what
to do with the banks to be the most
comprehensive and prepared document that
came in period from anywhere and so what
I mean do you how would you answer that
question I basically agree with your
your summary of that it it kind of had
to go the way it did because you know I
think there were lots of us who are
involved in occupy essentially not
because we totally agreed with its
anarchist tactics but because it was
this thing address
saying economic crisis right so you know
you don't get to just pull the perfect
movement out of you're out of your purse
right you just you have to have to go
where the people are I you know at the
time wish wish there was a kind of
speedier evolution and I think there
were these signs that occupy the sec
group who did the Volcker letter I think
that's what you're referring to you know
other groups that were focused on
foreclosures and home evictions I
thought those were really promising but
there were were there was definitely a
resistance to making demands - making
demands of state-of-the-state Tilly
collaborating with unions and so I think
there's a big shift right now and you're
in and you put your finger on it the
people who have gone into the burning
campaign who have gone into DSA in a way
you know the work we're doing with the
debt collector for saying okay we we
have to make demands we have to make
demands of the state and we have to make
demands of our financial institutions
you know we have to not just be
uncomfortable but actually to try to
govern to remake the machine that's
running over all of us right to not only
just be the resistance right but to try
to be a real a real force in this world
and and you know it's a tough I think
it's a tough process because the left
was so obliterated I mean that's that's
why I was sympathetic to occupy with you
know there was there weren't
organizations for young people to join
to learn how to do the hard work of
organizing you know unions are a weak in
this country right so people don't have
that tradition to fall back on so I'm
happy I'm happy that you know we we are
that that protest energy hasn't totally
dissipated and that it does seem like
people are learning from the sort of
problems of Occupy and hopefully you
know the thing is now now we'll just
have new problems to contend with
because they never go away all right one
last question about Occupy just because
I'm sort of fascinated but like when I
think back and in 2011 and we actually
did took the show down there I think on
the like like the first Monday maybe
which was after the weekend and maybe it
was raining or maybe it was the first
Friday and we couldn't do it because it
was raining
and but we were back down there and as
far as I can tell
even then which is only now eight years
ago people were not there was not a lot
of talk necessarily mean there was some
talk of anarchists there a little bit
but not not no not hugely and they would
but there was not even a lot of talk
about like socialists if they you know
and the just in terms of socialism and
how it has become a an identifier that
primary candidates in the Democratic
primary eight years later are like
afraid of almost saying like I'm not
socialists like you know like that's a
contentious thing to say now what would
I mean what was your sense of that being
there I mean and because I think you
were there a lot more than I was during
that time just physically but what do
you think that opened the door I mean I
feel like that time was like a hinge let
you know and maybe it was a generational
thing or I'm not sure yeah well I want
to I'm gonna say two things on that
because I think it definitely did open
the door when I think back to the you
know what could have happened sort of
thought experiment of occupied to me the
failure isn't with the occupiers who
again were stepping into this void right
this void of the left and doing what
they could they had images of people
protesting the street so they protested
in the streets you know to me it was a
failure of the establishment to
recognize what was going on in that
moment and respond to it with force and
conviction right because what you saw at
Occupy was exactly what you just said
which is you know these people were not
like diehard anarchists or you
necessarily always people with a sort of
coherent left-wing aetiology there were
people whose houses had been foreclosed
on you know who were drowning in medical
debt because some tragedy had befallen
their family who had gone to school like
they'd been told to do their whole lives
and are weighted down with unpayable
student loans I mean this was this was
an massive indication of the discontent
that we're still still dealing with
today right so to me I think you know
the problem wasn't with the movement
itself it's the it's the fact that the
the people of power just actually
couldn't metabolize it you know I wanted
to continue to stick their heads in this
and I think that it's a it's a I never
would have guessed that democratic
socialism would become words that were
saya Belen the mainstream the way that
they are now I think there were
definitely individuals there who were
you know identified as a socialist or
Democratic Socialist I mean you know but
what what surprised what I think we
could not have foreseen is that that
would actually catch on I think the
Bernie campaign is absolutely part of
that I think the left can't take all the
credit for the rise of socialism because
one thing is you know part of it is just
the abject failure of capitalism to
provide for people's basic needs right
so and and so when you have a generation
that is in debt for education that can't
find stable employment that doesn't
think they're ever gonna be able to
retire that sees a climate catastrophe
on their horizon they're gonna start
doubting the system that they've been
told is the be-all and end-all of you
know of of human human capacity so I
think part of the weak you know part of
the credit goes to the failure failure
of capitalism and also to the fact that
the right has branded just basic social
services as socialism right so we're in
a point where you know if Fox News is
gonna go around and say you know hey
being able to go to a doctor as
socialism then it starts to sound pretty
good so I think all these factors are
playing in and I think the left actually
needs to catch up and seize this moment
we can't actually take too much we
shouldn't take all the credit for it
it's like what there is is there sort of
shift there's there's an opening we're
still in that hinge moment as you
described it and can we actually
organize it and this goes back to this
is part of why I was thinking through
these issues in in my in my book and in
my film because I think this is a moment
where you know in crises have always led
to a kind of Renaissance of thinking
political philosophy where there's some
sort of
emergency or civil war and/or conflict
and new ideas come about and we're kind
of in that moment now where because
there was this massive financial crisis
and and the rise of the right I think
people are going they're questioning
things they're questioning everything
and I think we need to nurture that
questioning instead of going into an
easy nostalgia whether it's the
nostalgia of the right who wants to make
America great again or the nostalgia of
the sort of centrist Democratic
establishment who just wants to make it
2015 again moving I guess forward at
least through your book to a certain
extent I'm sort of interested in this
sort of the the and you set up these
different dynamics like you said the
tension between expertise and mass
opinion and you write about the the
anti-tax revolt in California which
ended up with Proposition 13 and then
you know I'm as a kid I remember when
this was adopted by Massachusetts like
three or four years later and just one
year went to school and half the stuff
was gone like there was no more sports
teams there was no more you know art
class and in California in particular
there's been you know certainly through
like the 80s and the 90s there was this
sort of you know populism I guess right
like that but it was not I don't know if
it was necessary it was driven by non
democratic forces it seems to me but
where do you get that that sort of like
talked a little bit about that tension
between sort of the expertise and and
the the sort of mass opinion which can
be manipulative always feared democracy
sort of elite critics is that democracy
you know there's no barrier to entry
it's not like you have to have a
democracy degree and then you get to
participate so I think democracy does
always have this risk right that
well people will get swept up in this
the old idea people having unruly
passions and not being virtuous and and
you know that democracy will sort of
self-destruct I mean Plato in his famous
text Republic warns that democracy
always devolves into tyranny what I want
what I highlight in the film in the book
is that he says that the conditions for
that devolution are oligarchy the
intense concentration of wealth and what
happens is you know the city splits in
two and it's the rich versus the poor
and that's what creates conditions for
these plutocrats or these elites to to
create these sort of faux populist
moments right that we're kind of living
through now so I mean I think we have to
in what I'm trying to do with the
question of the debate the the tension
between experts and sort of mass opinion
is to say that we have to work to create
a philosophical public right and and the
the risk of that argument is that
there's almost as like cliche idea that
education is what will save us often if
that's what I noticed going around with
the film when you'd say okay what's you
know what how can we fix the wrong
people would say education and I try to
be a bit more critical in the text and
say education for what right what what
is the curriculum people are being
taught whose interests are being served
there's a very moving scene in the in
the documentary which I should say that
people can stream it's streaming on
iTunes and Amazon and on canopy which is
a service most libraries have but where
I interview these kids from an
inner-city school in Miami they're like
12 or 13 and essentially you realize
that what the curriculum that they're
getting the Democratic curriculum
they're being taught is one of basically
being told not to engage democratically
so they recount the story where they're
asking for this school to heat up their
food they want their lunches to be warm
and they're just completely crushed by
by the teachers and so you know this one
kid says very movingly like yeah they
talk about democracy but they talk about
sort of like government they don't talk
about us actually being able to have a
voice in the school or us having power
so
you know I think I think we need to
challenge the the cliche that that
education is what will solve solve all
of our problems on the on the pop on the
prop 13 thing I think you know I write
about that at length because it's such
an interesting example of effective
activism and the left doesn't pay
attention I don't think we pay attention
enough to right-wing movements and and I
I look at it because you know it was a
genuine it began as a genuine revolt in
California where people were having
trouble paying the property taxes and so
some people in fixed income older people
who'd bought their houses long ago
started to lose them and what happened
is this sort of charlatan guy was able
to mobilize around that genuine problem
and yoke it to a sort of anti-tax
ideology and then Reagan Ronald Reagan
who's you know would incorporate this
into his run for president and it was
sort of a foundation a foundational
conservative move and put anti taxes
actually on the national agenda and why
I admire the right as much as I disagree
with their politics is that they
understood that they they weren't they
shouldn't just refused they weren't just
like okay we're gonna refuse to pay our
taxes what they did was they remade the
rules through a referendum right and
they remade so the modes of governing
and I think that's the step the left
needs to look towards did not just say
again you know resistance or will be
uncover Noble or will put our bodies in
the way of the gears of the machine but
how can we actually tackle those
structures of power how can we actually
remake the system so that it's more
equitable and soda and more democratic
and so it's actually in the chapter
that's on the distinction between
spontaneity and structure like yes
democracy needs the spontaneous revolts
and these moments of protests like
Occupy or you know where we're in the
streets but we also need to structure
our system to make it have outcomes that
we want but that's that's sort of a
central dilemma isn't it because what
happened with prop 13 was also very
similar to what happened was basically
the Tea Party movement in many respects
right
it starts with this sort of like notion
of like we're not gonna bailout the
homeowners because and sort of this
energy that's out there right this may
be what is a legitimate anger is just
subtly channeled but the subtle
channeling happens because there's
someone with a tremendous amount of
money who's basically like looking at
this fertile you know piece of property
and just sort of saying like I'm gonna
seed over there and I'm gonna see it
over there and then stuff grows there as
opposed to where they don't seed with
money and there's no one on the left
there there's not an analogue on the
left for that we're like okay we have
all this energy we're gonna make it
completely you know it's going to be
decentralized the the decision-making is
you know that structure it seems to me
that money what it ends up doing is it
it creates a structure without imposing
one and it allows a sort of central
authority to sort of create that without
it make it seem like it is being created
because it's just a matter of like oh
well people are going to you know
migrate to where the resources are and
that's where things are gonna bloom you
know the areas that are getting watered
essentially yeah I mean both of those
things you know these movements are
definitely related that the tax revolts
of the late 70s and 80s and the Tea
Party and it's true like you know we
can't dismiss both of them as totally
just nothing but astroturf there was a
genuine or what there was a genuine
component and then you're absolutely
right institutionalized money
conservative think tanks and operatives
we're able to latch on and take those
discontent and harness it to their goals
which is to dismantle the state and and
you know they got a big return on
investment right because if you decimate
taxes that's money in your pocket and so
I think the left has the left has more
difficult conditions to grapple with on
two fronts one we don't get that same
return on investment
right because we're not companies just
looking to lower our our bills and and
get more money into our coffers but I
think we're also we are trying to push
the state to actually deliver social
services and so the right is just you
know gets to be nihilistic because they
just want the state to shrink down to
you know to at the point they can drown
it in the bathtub
whereas we want the state to actually do
good so you know we are we have a
tougher a tougher road but I do think
that something like the texture of all
it's instructive because there were
there could have been different
solutions offered to those homeowners in
need for example could it have been that
if you were on a fixed income you know
the law just said okay your property
taxes actually your your property taxes
hold tight but you know a company's
property taxes are gonna go up right
instead of treating up every entity like
it's the same as the law currently does
could we have started a conversation
about why our homes the places we live
has to be speculative investments that
we hope will rise in value right so why
you know that is part of the pathology
of the American Way is that our house is
our asset I mean and not led to the
financial crisis of 2008 right so why
not talk about homes that are actually
made for their use value to live in as
opposed to being an asset that
appreciates you know Saudi commodifying
housing social housing and you know so
the left has to take some responsibility
for not not speaking to people's needs
and not offering solutions that you know
might have shifted the conversation and
and this is why you know we have to we
have to get organized we have to do that
work because you know the it's a cliche
but it's true it's like yeah they have
money but we have people and and the
right has always feared that since the
beginning of democracy and they still do
which is why they're always trying to
sort of reject the rules and and
mitigate the power of numbers so you
know we have to we have to do the hard
work of democracy it's not it's not an
easy thing and writing this book
convinced me of that even more it's a
challenge so so how close are we to it
being gone and
is what's going to or what could
potentially replace it
Oh replace the system we have democracy
as it were yeah I mean well I mean it's
it's ask you know like a democracy on
some level for us now is you know one
part aspirational you know multiple
parts sort of like difficult to pin down
and but as you know you can you know it
when it's leaving I guess with the title
right so the title of the book is
democracy may not exist but we'll miss
it when it's gone to get to that sort of
to capture my own ambivalence the fact
that the system we live in is so far
from what I believe that democracy is
and and you know lots of studies bear
this out right that regular people have
almost no say over the policy is they
govern us
I need we we know we know when it's
being taken away we know when things are
moving backwards I mean just look at the
news around abortion in the last few
weeks I mean it's like devastating to
witness I think that we we I know we're
in a state of emergency and I've been
talking about how we need to get
organized and I do as much organizing as
I can through through you know my work
with the debt collective and through
being involved in electoral politics but
I also think we need to stop and think
right and and to actually reflect on
this word that we hear all around us
that is invoked by people who are
anything but democratic and that's why
you know I made the movie and wrote this
book it's like what well I think I think
if we are going to have a chance of
fighting for democracy revitalizing it
evolving it expanding it beyond the
limited political sphere into these
other areas of a life areas of our lives
then we have to think about what the
word means what does democracy mean and
you know it's it's striking to me how
how few of us do that how little time we
devote to it to this this word that's
everywhere so that I think would be my
my sort of you know first challenge or
hope for people is to actually you know
reflect on this concept and what do we
want from it because that if we don't do
that then we're not going to be able to
to sort of make progress and and deepen
and expand it and
and two I think have a chance of getting
us out of the mess we're in Astra Taylor
the book is democracy may not exist but
we'll miss it when it's gone and the
film is what is democracy thanks so much
for your time today we'll put a link to
both those at majority dot F M really
appreciate it okay thanks for having me
[Music]
all right folks gonna head to the fun
half in just a moment just a reminder
this program relies on your support you
can become a member by going to join the
majority report calm when you do not
only do you support this free part of
the show but you also get extra content
every day and you'll also find the you
get on the app have this opportunity
search majority report app which is free
to everybody but you log in as a member
you'll be able to search all the way
back could search as a kadhi park you
can search Occupy Wall Street go back
and listen to those early days when me
and old Matt went down to Zuccotti Park
with a battery-operated mixer and
literally like walked around like a
one-man band
I had it all like hanging off of me it
was hilarious there's some videos I
think of it too but I like was walking
holding a battery-operated mixer and we
were broadcasting through like a phone
or an iPad or something boy boy have we
upgraded though the technology we have
actually now I could do that it would
sound broadcast quality almost come back
to the zip here and pop it back out but
I got to watch some of those yeah I mean
it wasn't you know it was rain and then
of course it was like oh shoot I had the
wrong cable and then there was a lot of
that but we were down there early I
think I gave I feel like I think it
started on a Friday maybe a Saturday
morning and we were there a Monday
morning
but it was raining and then we came back
on Friday do you remember you were you
were you weren't there yeah I wasn't
there yet no mm-hmm I was there no gosh
I didn't work on the show yet never mind
but so folks can check that out it only
with Tim Poole I'm funded yes well Tim
Poole no I remember was the cameraman
for a guy can't remember his name right
now who was actually I want to say I
can't remember who it was who went on to
do some like some good YouTube stuff
actually and they had a falling-out at
one point I think when this guy realized
like Oh Tim Azad and but I don't I don't
know and but at the time Tim was just
doing shooting the camera oh yeah Tim
Tim guest lecture to NYU course what for
one day that I had which was a value for
money if you try I was gonna say have
you ever done like a like a calculation
about four hundred and fifty bucks
oh wow on the same company that has an
abode of a campus hashtag get Matt's
money back go violets Wow so that is
legitimately not cool also folks just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off of your coffee
it is Monday tomorrow's Tuesday Michael
has ended his vow of silence he is now
speaking be so laid back
tomorrow guided meditation and uh he's
so sleepy now yeah and we're no longer
we're gonna we're gonna try to be Indian
instead of urban on the show now as a
big big change in focus that's the
binary yeah several large cities that
will be by urban yes
no more elegant we can send Michael away
for another week where all he does is
talk you all yes just just show me the
Dave Rubin video I couldn't even take go
on a week-long riffing Richard we
combine the rec hall will be playing
videos of all the right-wing shows this
is what we do every day so I'm back in
the riffing life retreat of the majority
report team vs Hasan makes his
debut we are in fact going to be talking
everybody Barry Weiss will be here and
we're just gonna have everybody's just
gonna get up you're just for mine it's
like not really Nando Vela just tweeted
me a tweet of Steve Pinker quote
tweeting Andrew yang saying that we need
to acknowledge the people's genetic
predispositions influence their politics
and Steve Pinker was like something the
effective you know Oh amazing to see a
candidate acknowledging these genetic
predispositions and nanda was like this
is designed for at underscore Michael
Brooks but it's like yes to totally
pissed me off and remind me of how
utterly fallen and messed up our world
is and all of the people I truly don't
like including I'm sorry Andrew yang
meditation has not made me softer on we
have no tradition in this world where
people focus on genetics ya know it's
just totally no traditionally it's
totally gone I love that with everything
going on and we have to learn about twin
studies yeah and I love this is and I
also loved Adam eight Johnson's the
sheer energy it takes for him to not
openly come out as
race science advocate could power Las
Vegas for decades but anyways this is
all true and getting me back into the
rift zone and then Milton al-ahmadi who
is an amazing journalist I don't who
editor black star who's going to come in
and we're gonna talk about Uganda Libya
and a whole bunch of others that we have
a huge amount to get to so 7:00 p.m.
we're back live tomorrow for patrons I
just want to let people know that the
second video elicits history has been
released in the history of Medicaid and
states rights which a myelin Michener
and then also the first one that was
behind they're gonna be behind a paywall
for a month for comrade and above
patrons because they are what's making
it possible to invest in it with Vick
Vienna but after a month we release it
publicly on YouTube because we do want
we want it to be like early advantage
for patrons but then everybody watch
these things so that elicits history of
Jesse Jackson and the rainbow coalition
I couldn't be more proud of and it
actually I didn't actually know this but
Ryan Grimm is a new book out where he
covers some of the same terrain in the
modern history of the Democratic Party's
gonna be on the show he's gonna be on
the show awesome
I'm sure so and then Bill Fletcher
winger will Fletcher jr. is the featured
person on this and he worked on that
campaign and was a strategist for the
rainbow and is brilliant and so go check
that out on YouTube and also the elicit
histories of Hezbollah and conversation
on capitalist realism patreon.com slash
T MBS and see you tomorrow Jamie this
week on the anti Fattah remember when me
and Sam got in an argument about where
neoliberalism came from and Sam thought
it was mostly the result of bad people
who has some bad ideas and enforced them
I thought it was largely over determined
by a crisis of capitalist accumulation
that continues to this day
well turns out we were both right that's
so nice when that works out that that's
right uh this week on history is a
weapon number four we have released part
two of history as a weapon on the 1970s
featuring Matt Chrisman of Chapo Trap
House wherein Matt
Shawn finished their extended look into
the 1970s by answering the questions why
did car tourism fall apart over its
internal contradictions where have the
politics of personal virtue taken us why
was Reagan the man of the hour
and why was clintonism his enduring
achievement how did neoliberalism become
the economic consensus and what the hell
is happening now that its entire
political and economic edifice is
collapsing all of this and more on part
two of history as a weapon number four
out now for our patrons patreon.com
slash the anti Fattah do you know what
Margaret Thatcher said maybe seppuku
faux but they asked her what her
greatest achievement was she said Tony
Blair that does not surprise me damn
those Brits got they got the they got
the humor yeah speaking of brits on
literary hangover for patrons a second
episode of Orwell airs coming out George
Orwell's episode such such were the joys
about his time at st. Cyprian
preparatory school as a kid it wasn't
printed in his lifetime because it was
too libelous indeed there's a Orwell
commented to his publisher itself saying
unprintable libelous until a bunch of
people are dead
and what's funny about it is Orwell gets
a lot of you know everyone's like Oh st.
Orwell he always tells the truth
he lies about a lot of people even like
without changing their names for a
political purpose he's trying to
basically say that schools sending your
kids miles and miles away leads to abuse
which it does and we all know it does
but or will definitely exaggerated it
and use real people's names to it so
it's kind of interesting Orwell the
propagandist Orwell the messy all
right folks
definitely time the patreon for that
take quick break fun half six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty
[Music]
laughter Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you
nervous a little bit yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right but dude dude dude
dude dude dude you want to smoke this
joint yes do you feel like you are a
dinosaur exactly I'm happy now so
win-win it's win-win hell yeah now
listen to me two three four five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow don't you see everybody's taking
their dumb juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make under a million dollars come here
not paying Q's me
 you you alright gonna take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to I see some people
Shitler what suction No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back the fun half ladies and
gentlemen of the program welcome to it
and here's a guy got to wonder why they
let him out of the office to do
interviews and sometimes sometimes
they're much Jonathan Swan yeah well I
was gonna say sometimes those insiders
cash in some of their chips and now you
don't know exactly what precipitates
something like this you don't know maybe
it suggests that maybe where this guy's
getting his information from is
somewhere other than Jared Kushner and
there's somebody else in the White House
who not too displeased that he did this
i I mean who knows I'm out this is all
speculation on my part one can never
know but it's always fun to watch
someone like Jared Kushner squirm a
little bit
and the degree that his face can make
expressions right it's true there's like
a quality of like it does feel like he
has been sort of like just wrapped in
gauze and then they let him out for a
little bit and but here he is this is uh
Jonathan Swan on axis show on HBO
I know interviewing a Jared Kushner
about his daddy and lava Alexandria
Ocasio Cortez
she calls she has cold I'm sorry
I know people hate it when I interrupt a
clip thirty seconds in or four seconds
in but we should just go back I just
thought it was worth noting that the
Swan introduces this question
attributing this to AOC because nearly
55 percent of the country probably has
said at one time or another over the
past couple years Donald Trump's racist
but he attributed it to AOC I guess that
maybe I'm not sure exactly why but we
always like to peg something to someone
famous because it gets a second click
okay Alexandre Ocasio Cortese she calls
she has called President Trump a racist
have you ever seen him say or do
anything that you would describe as
racist or bigoted so for the answer is
no absolutely not you can't not be a
racist for 69 years then run for
president be a racist and what I'll say
is that when a lot of the Democrats call
the president of racist I think they're
doing a disservice to people who suffer
because of real racism in this country
was birtherism racist um look I wasn't
really involved in that I know you were
mm-hmm was it racist like I said I
wasn't involved in that I know you what
hmm
was it racist um look I know who the
president is and I have not seen
anything in him that is racist so again
I was not involved in that did you wish
he didn't do that like I said I was not
involved in that that was a long time
ago the other issue that often gets
brought up in this conversation is that
he campaigned on banning Muslims would
you describe that as religiously bigoted
look I think that the president did his
campaign the way he did his campaign did
and I think you wish he didn't she wish
she didn't make that speech I think he's
here today and I think he's doing a lot
of great things for the country and
that's what I'm proud of
there you go John I just love that it's
so obvious but like yeah I would say if
somebody had not had a racist record for
69 years that would actually be a pretty
strong indication well to be fair I know
what you're talking yeah okay there was
a couple of times where the DOJ had to
give
yeah I was going there so he had 69
years - a couple I was mid 1971 really
are the little races 67 other years yeah
races 60 out of 69 years is pretty good
I'm gonna say that by 88 when I'm
sending flowers to Robin Givens
pretending I like Jesse Jackson's no
because to be fair - and then of course
there was that whole Central Park 5 but
if you just
okay so 67 - a day - okay so 66 years
and 364 days to be fair Jared can't
remember cuz it was so long ago all of
the birtherism and so he's discounting
that - where was he at Columbia at that
point I just loved the idea that was
already graduate yeah I love the idea
that he's just gonna sit there and say
what's weird to me is that he's got the
gumption to say this guy's not racist
like he has a taste for a moment I
almost said unequivocally something like
that yeah okay
I'm not gonna go that far uh he's not
racist and then he can't just say like
no I don't think the birtherism was
racist I think he was just asking a
question the best spin by far questions
be racist he was just ready no Sarah
Huckabee Sanders oh no of course not and
then the other thing is like he picked
up on his dave rubin by saying like did
the problem with saying that his racism
is racism is that it takes away from the
power of racists who might like actually
lynch somebody or you know shoot
somebody like we need to be on guard for
that if we start saying that you're
racist just because you're promoting a
racist ideology then people are probably
gonna let the stuff like where people
commit murders because of racism they're
gonna let that slide that's the theory
there I guess what's the German word for
a face badly in need of a milkshake
milk milk shake shaking Walton - gotta
have one
Milton Deutsche just wondering I like I
also just you know who had the best spin
about this Trump's racism was and as as
you know generally was the case Omarosa
was great and she's when she's like he's
racial not racist
that was really good because that was
exactly that was that had a superfish
that had like a dumb person's idea of a
smart person feel to it where it's just
like you could see people riffing on
that for weeks like knows right racial
all they're really looking to do for is
to make you have to stop and think about
it for long enough for them to make that
and that works in that and that that
totally worked
oh this is great since you're talking
about milkshakes
Matt gets and I have friends who were
from this area Pensacola Florida yeah I
think he's around there public can
congressman Matt gates was leaving a
town hall in Florida this happened over
the weekend on Saturday and gates is one
of these guys willing to say just about
anything now I'm going in fours and go
on Infowars and this is the way that he
is making his his hey in in in Congress
this is why we know his name frankly you
know there's four hundred and what
thirty five Congress people get elected
every two years which is my
understanding a shout out Business
Insider yeah thanks for that tip
we never talked about that story where
the editor of Business Insider the world
editor or something he's got this it's a
big world it's a big big portfolio
apparently did not realize that Congress
people were elected every two years and
all of them had to run for election
seems like a lot of work it's a lot of
work so I'm at gates the way that he
stains stands out when he tries to build
his career whether it's going to be a
post congressional career in politics or
in business whatever it is he's got to
be there now one of the things about
Florida always hot nothing better than
to cool off with a delicious milkshake
here he is leaving his his Town Hall in
Florida oh and there's the milk shake it
so it goes over his shoulder and onto
his hands oh and then he's got the
companies pointing to where it came from
well yeah there it is over the shoulder
gets into his onto his hands that's a
well that's actually frankly it's a nice
spiral that is a beautiful pass I mean
the NFL people say oh it's not
appropriate to throw milkshakes at
congressmen and I you know that's a
separate debate but you really got I
mean because look at that person over
the defenders head exactly which is the
the police officer and it lands right
into gates right yeah he throws drop-off
doesn't do that but that's that's really
well done I mean is in terms of a toss I
mean you got a and is that are we clear
that that's a milkshake or it's it's
soda an unspecified drink I'm seeing
anything could be a milkshake if you
believe hard on them that's right there
you go the person the woman who threw it
believe has been charged with battery
battery so there you go know that that's
the price you might have to pay right
unless
you have the classic like oh I spilled
my milk shake I didn't mean to do and
you know what's funny is if this gets
this meme gets widespread enough you can
start to just have your milk shaking
near some of these people and they'll be
nervous enough and you won't even have
to throw it right it's also a good way
to save on calories you know the
structure of the milkshake never tastes
as good as the first half anyway always
hard to deny yourself the full milkshake
it's too much dairy though and then also
look there's also spit-takes now I'm not
I'm not recommending it but it is quite
possible that you could be in a
situation where you're drinking your
milk shake and let's say a certain
politician is lyttlefish Cystic says
something that just blows your mind a
spit-take is a very natural reaction
that one could not it's almost it's like
involuntary involuntary exactly that was
the word I was looking for going to the
phones call him from a 2:06 area code
who's this where he come from
um I am calling from Chapel hello Priya
what's on your mind um so I was just
calling I guess I had a question as well
as like a good well anyways about Nancy
Pelosi and this will you know not
impeaching thing and I I just uh I was
wondering someone says is that some way
but can we like impeach her or like not
impeach her but like do something that
puts like she has some skin in the game
to this point her biggest concern is
like ostensibly you know purple
districts that exist but like really
it's you know like her donors I mean I
don't know what she's doing or why but
it just feels it feels like she needs to
have some consequences like you think
donors well I mean I don't I don't know
I just feel like while what would she be
doing like I don't exactly know what the
hell is that what the hell is going on
like I just think that it's so
delusional so oh yeah I mean it seems to
me I'm not saying that it's not our
donors it's just I would be surprised if
it's her donors I'm
maybe maybe it is but I haven't seen any
reporting to that I mean it's a much
more obvious seems to me answer is a
combination of trying to protect those
members in a purple district and and
just general temerity and learning the
wrong lessons from from history and
making a calculation that it'll be
easier to ignore the the calls for
impeachment than to to respond to them I
mean so I mean if you want to impact
Nancy Pelosi very unlikely that you're
gonna get a movement to impeach her I
think more likely to call your various
representatives and tell them you want
to go forward with impeachment inquiries
because that's gonna put pressure on her
look at me today Clyburn over the
weekend came out and said that he thinks
impeachment is that we can move on with
impeachment that the house is going to
eventually impeach Trump to me look two
or three weeks ago I said it seemed like
Nancy Pelosi was turning and to a
certain extent that zigzagging but this
leads me to believe that that that this
is that's what's happening this is the
way it would happen the you know the
leadership would start to say this stuff
floated and and this is the way it would
happen at something really quick to this
okay um okay sorry um because I was just
learning if there's like a mechanism
where people because I feel like even in
the caucus like she is known for having
a really strong hold on her caucus and
nobody even you know everyone has to
like kind of go along to get along kind
of thing and I just I mean even like
whispers of that someone saying you know
what I mean like just getting that
narrative out on a populist level or on
a you know on a whatever level I feel is
your congressperson like kids
village dialog yes Jay Paul is probably
where does jayapala and I haven't heard
I'm gonna get she's fine yeah I wouldn't
imagine but I don't know she's for it
but I don't know she's like vocal I
don't think she's you know like said it
formally or some damage she says start
the beginning of it yeah she says start
the beginning of it well I mean you know
okay every call that jeyapaul gets is
gonna go into is gonna get logged and
when Jay Paul says to Pelosi three weeks
ago and three weeks from now gives a
reason to impeach if she says the calls
are increasing I'm getting more calls
and if you have someone who you know
that you know who lives in a district in
another district call them and tell them
to call their congressperson I mean this
is the way it will happen it will simply
you know polling has shown that
Democrats have the number of Democrats
are interested in impeachment has gone
up by about four points from when it was
at its low and part of that I think is
that when Pelosi came in they pay tamp
down the impeachment stuff and so a lot
of Democrats just do what they hear and
now it's becoming more mainstream and so
again and so that's the way it happens
can I can I just add real quick preview
give me just just just 30 seconds um I
think with Pelosi my read on her is that
when you look at like her health care
advisor who's undermining Medicare for
all as an example and some for other or
Pago that's where I would look at her
donors and that sort of angle on where
she fits
I think Pietschmann is a genuine I don't
think it's right but I think it's a
strategic position that she's learned
from her experience and to be fair it's
quite a bit of experience and unlike a
lot of other prominent Democrats some of
its successful like she actually has led
to some victory she isn't just like you
know able to elect herself
and pretty much fail in all the regards
but so I think the angle of approaching
her on impeachment is very different
than on other areas where she really is
in my view definitely just like a
corporate 1% Democrat or whatever that's
her donors that's the more you know
interest and ideological thing but I
think impeachment is totally just
strategy and if she could be moved and
convinced I bet she'd be she'd move oh
yeah
Nancy Pelosi is at bottom opposed to
single-payer health care she is not
opposed to getting rid of Trump right
wants to get rid of try I think it's not
gonna go away with impeach no no he's
it's a question and I think that's the
other big thing is is what cuz yeah
right he's not gonna go away that's the
question is it where is it politically
effective to go through that process and
have him get acquitted in the Senate
does it humiliate him and stoke our side
or is it you know in so enraging that
you have like a 1998 effect with clinton
and i'm sure that that's what's
preeminent in her mind definitely last
word priya some but with someone made
the point that you know like they're
already energized like i don't know what
she thinks is going to happen but they
are already energized and we've seen
what happens when we are not energized
and i don't see how you can take the
lesson that we have the biggest band in
congress like her highest pool right
ladies ever was when she you know
basically shut shut comes up with the
shutdown like i don't how you take these
lessons and get them so incredibly wrong
but it well I mean Priya I listen I I I
agree with I mean I would that someone I
think was me who said about the the
Republicans are already motivated but
it's not look it's not insane to look
back in 98 and say Bill Clinton's
numbers went up it's not insane I think
it's a Miss read on the situation at the
time and I think it's a miscalculation
but and but it's not insane but I think
what she needs this is one of those
perfect situations where it's like you
know she if you called in and and the
numbers of
Kratz who want him impeached was at 95%
and there was you know 45% of
Republicans or you know fifty or sixty
five sixty percent of independents then
I would say to some type of Manchurian
Candidate see going on here why isn't
she doing this but we're not there yet
and so if you want to really drive this
whole and Priya if you want to drive
this that's what has to happen you need
to move public opinion and I appreciate
the call
I just manages to add to I think yes not
only my read on impeachment is that not
only are there already totally motivated
I don't think it makes any difference
with them and the types of like people
who may or may not vote or persuadable I
frankly don't think it affects them one
way or another I think it's gonna come
down to pretty bread-and-butter stuff it
could but I really think I mean I think
there could I think there could be
definitely a certain amount of that I
don't think impeachment is a slam dunk
in terms of helping but I think what is
really clear is that not impeaching has
far more danger because not only do you
risk demobilizing
the Democratic base but there's also the
sort of this notion of like we're not at
the election now there's 14 15 16 more
months 17 more months you create a
vacuum there's gonna be a real problem
and Democrats have nothing to fill the
vacuum with they all the bills that they
had arranged that they were going to
pass that are not gonna actually get
enacted anyways have been brought up
apparently they're running out of bills
it which is ridiculous ridiculous but
but nevertheless there's only so much
that can happen I mean sir you know they
passed that what do you call it that the
HR 1 which was a huge omnibus bill
covering
all sorts of like corruption and in all
sorts of different things they had
medicare-for-all hearings over the past
couple of weeks barely made a blip the
point is you're gonna create a vacuum
you there's you know you can bring up
postal banking and pass it you could
bring up this and pass it and no and the
press is not going to pay attention the
public's not going to pay attention none
of its gonna be enacted they wouldn't
even do those good bills well I think
it'd be the solutions to those the point
is is that you're gonna create a vacuum
and the way that's gonna get filled is
the DOJ is can start investigating
you know whomever and and and Trump is
going to be on offense the entire time
I think they should you know I think
they should keep stacking those votes
both on the merits and also definitely
on a bunch of things that can be more
like narrowly tailored to create really
bad votes that will make good campaign
ads but is the other point you're making
that like it's it's also there is
something and this is a question I think
particularly for people who are you know
frankly less disillusioned with or you
know with the process which is like if
people are basically institutionally
saying that we're just not going to do
that then just embrace the fact that
you're you are basically saying that we
should run essentially just on an
election majoritarian model and that
nothing else really matters because you
know you know what I mean like look if
you're gonna okay we can beat him in an
election and that's sort of it but there
are other mechanisms in our system if
somebody is like I'm not even making
great hell I know I'm not you making me
I don't know I'm trying to make no just
add to also the institutional point that
you know you I think you've said it's
like you use it or you lose it right no
I'm not even making I'm just making a
pure political argument in this instance
yeah is really just like if you're not
dominating the headlines with the only
thing that could dominate the headlines
now right which is public public
testimony inquiries series of like you
know updates on the inquiry we have this
we have that we're developing now the
you know democratic
staffers say they're developing six
instead of five impeachment indictments
or seven like the if this isn't their
nature a bores a vacuum where the
iran-contra hearings really I mean they
didn't impeach Reagan over it but I have
a sense that in the last couple of years
of his administration his approval
ratings did starts to tumble and he's at
least publicly remembered for those even
like in pop culture and it will a lot of
it was because they were on TV and it
was like oh my god you have all these
like crazy criminals and like quasi
intelligence operatives running these
illegal wars for you that was a very
needs to happen but it was also really
smart media strategy yeah it's a dry run
for the general election like certain
themes come out there in terms of like
all these different articles of
impeachment that you would be
formulating and you'll get a sense of
what's gonna stick in the media on some
level and and we should add you know the
Benghazi hearings were a joke they were
a joke the first time they were a joke
the second time they were joke the third
and fourth and fifth time that the
separate investigations happen with
Benghazi but they ultimately led to the
email scandal that ultimately led to in
many respects the the Comey letter you
know I mean the there's there's all
sorts of of stuff that could come out of
these things you never know but well on
the tip of being scared that it would
like shore up from space cuz he could
like say oh no I'm being persecuted by
the radical left like he's gonna do that
no matter what he doesn't need an excuse
to do that I don't think he'll do that I
think that if they don't impeach him
he'll like you see he's a guy who only
talks about his victimization when it's
actually happening I don't wanna I don't
want to overemphasize just like the
praise the restraint of Nancy Pelosi
yeah she's there's been times if she's
bad but there's still attempts she's
really great
hey um speaking of 2020 you know who's
still in the race John Delaney
what's that whoo-hooo making his big
let's acknowledge who john delaney is a
twitter food john delaney no no wait a
second if john delaney across john
delaney the pro NSA guy who used to act
on an amazon sitcom maybe that could be
a good cabinet member John Delaney is a
former healthcare executive he is a
former congressman - I didn't realize
that but he's still a congressman no no
he was in California what would
represent America Maryland and but he
went on to make two hundred and thirty
some odd million dollars is his net
worth or something to that I'm because
he's smart smart guy and he got in he
would see the first person to declare
yes okay
which puts lied to the phrase sometimes
first-to-market isn't there or maybe
does prove first and mark is not
necessarily always the best position you
want to be in but however all that said
john delaney
has outdone himself he shows up at the
California Democratic state convention
2019 and he thinks how can I get any
coverage oh I know but we need as
Democrats to build an economy that works
but it's got to be with smart policies
medicare for all may sound good but it's
actually not good policy nor is it good
politics I'm telling you
I'm telling you they're talking three
[Applause]
we we should have universal healthcare
[Applause]
literally sweaty palms
[Applause]
we should have universal healthcare free
money for everybody reversal health care
yeah we should have universal health
care but it shouldn't be a kind of
health care that kicks a hundred and
fifty million Americans off their health
care that's not smart policy hmm it's
not particularly smart analysis I have
utilized Zoo is that smart politics well
I mean it would kick 176 million off
their health care on to a better health
care right I guess okay I should say not
lying being Eileen right eating I did I
also love the freight what he keeps
saying
I'm telling you and it's like they're
telling you you don't want to miss lower
boulder code that telling us goes both
ways brother this is what my dad used to
tell me we're looking at at policy you
don't want to go from the frying pan on
to the plate well there's something like
that anyways
I mean that is he like former health
insurance industry people just indulging
his fantasy to get less than one percent
because he just wants to run for
president I you know what one has to
wonder like he's going out there and
he's like I've got to break through the
noise but darn it that was a little too
much at least people know who he is now
that's what I'm saying like IRA
totally forgot that guy was even running
and now I now I know it's funny to see
in real time the phrase we need
universal health care become completely
discredited in the minds of an audience
because he was trying to do that to
bring them back and like yeah we don't
believe you you right like yes
we've heard the it is amazing how that
is now that's why I was saying is you
get in the middle of it just cuz alright
 it
free money for everybody all right I
have you people back who hears from
California anybody he goes psyche rips
off his jacket the reveal of chase shirt
sorry Joe I was big an no way
how the whole reason I'm running for
president is because I worked as an
executive in that parasite industry and
I have to make up for it
you know if he Wendell Potter
I wouldn't vote for him but I'd give him
a couple a couple of nice segments how
awesome would it be if he just said like
do guys joking joking guys look I know
I'm not your first second third fourth
fifth or sixth choice but I'm not a
total you think I would come to
the California Democratic convention
filled with committed grassroots
activists who care about human
well-being and tell you that
single-payer was bad policy and bad
politics come on have a slight amount of
respect for me this is how awesome would
it even though I look like a sort of
crooked accountant in a Coen Brothers
movie could you give me a little credit
they've got it like they're in their
strategy session saying like oh well
let's see if you can just go and prove
to your donors that you're just willing
to walk away from California Oh they've
got a lot of electoral votes or they've
got a got a lot of Delegates whatever to
go to the phone's column from a 5-1 to
area code who's this where he calling
from I'm in Austin I'm sorry say that
again Tammy Tammy in Austin welcome to
the program Tammy hey Sam so I was
listening to your interview with
dissident peasant yes yes ah yes thank
you I recommend it to everybody because
it's sort of like he does with you what
you do with authors and it's for younger
people are really I'm your age Sam three
younger people it's a really good kind
of review of that period but I wanted to
do a to share today Tammy did I if I
plugged in on the show yet did I I don't
think about oh all right well you know I
didn't I'll do it tomorrow if you did I
didn't hear it I listened on Friday I
didn't want to make this call on Friday
because Freddy was you know Nelson well
anyway I didn't want it I get nervous
before I call but I just at the
beginning of today's show you did some
Corrections and I'm not a hater I'm a I
listen to the show
I even called in before but um there was
one mistake it's really glaring mistake
that I took pretty personally about your
um your interview with Jeff in Georgia
here's what she said
word for word no blogs nothing it just
felt so isolating there was no dissent
there was no avenues for dissent there
was no blogs there was nothing this was
you talking about the 2000 election the
lead-up to the Supreme Court decision
and we fall out afterwards
where were you live in then Sam were you
in Cali then I was back and forth
between New York and California okay
well what I wanted to say is there were
blogs and there was dissent
I know because one of the blog's was
mine and we bloggers were were actually
sort of networked together
people like BART cop right anybody our
age I remember I remember
Rose rose had fringe folk she had what I
did in the war there was Jamie I forget
what the name of her site was but she
had her democracy dog with her we were
at the federal building constantly we
marched in the streets of LA but more
importantly we in 2000 our efforts with
yes yes Janine was thereafter named in
2000 was there's people yes okay and I
had a site call well it went through a
lot of names but I eventually settled on
a really short one which is kuttu ke who
like coup d'etat to K like 2002 to K
dot-com it got a lot of traction we did
a lot well just this is what I want to
say because you said to her back and
forth between the east and west coast in
the in the little bit of time we had
from the inauguration of George Bush and
by the way our blogs did post videos of
how people responded to his inaugural
parade we did but all of these bloggers
all over the United States crossed
posted each other had links to each
other our blogs weren't just blogs they
were calls to action
locally and nationally we had merch I
would go to I would go to the federal
building and people would be wearing my
shirts right but here's the thing in the
very short time we had with the very
limited resources that we had no Twitter
no Facebook none of the kind of mega
phones that you have now we managed to
put together a bicoastal voter March in
March of 2001 two months after he was
inaugural less than two months after he
was inaugurated rose rose from
California flew all the way to
Washington DC to speak there I flew up
to San Fran's I was living in Southern
California I flew up to San Francisco to
speak there we got incredible turnouts
on both coasts we made it where George W
Bush Dick Cheney nobody from that
administration could go into any city
where our blog's had a presence to do
anything without having protesters
outside and a lot of them were wearing
my t-shirts and rose roses t-shirts and
what I want to say is because our blog's
existed before people called blogs blogs
we've been written out of history and I
know you didn't mean to offend or
anything but in your interview with Jeff
you wrote us out of history again a lot
of those sites are gone now because they
were hosted on you know hosting
platforms that crashed when the internet
crashed in the late 90s I was lucky
enough to be offered digital immortality
by Mark perkell who also hosted Brad
Friedman of Brad blog and Bart cop and
all these other people who will our
sites will never disappear they will be
there forever and they are the history
of that time which was an important time
it was before Netroots nation but we
were active real okay I I mean I I
apologize Tammy I mean I was not I mean
I knew some of those blogs in 2002 and
three in in in 2000 and
and hey I imagined that there were but I
think like in terms of the the impact
but I but I don't mean to write you out
of history and that we have corrected
the record thanks for listening and for
all of your viewers who don't live in
Texas and are lucky enough to live in a
blue state I just want to let you know
that Texas decided to stop licensing
plumbers so now if you live in Texas you
get the fun of having somebody come to
your house saying they're a plumber to
hook up your gas and your water and
stuff like that who maybe is never ever
a plumber before Wow
well that that's got to be that's going
to be quite an adventure
yeah it's gonna make for some real
fireworks especially when it comes to
the gas lines Oh a cheese all right
Tammy I appreciate the call hang in
there
thanks for the correction I appreciate
it I stand corrected ladies and
gentlemen stand corrected
so John Delaney got up and it sounds
like there was some a be testing on
messages at the California Democratic
primary John Delaney I got up and said
Medicare for all is bad policy he got a
love when someone sort of speaks with
the condensate condescension of like you
guys it may sound good to you but you're
not looking at this with any type of
depth medicare-for-all is bad policy
because all these people get kicked off
of their health care and we want
universal access well it doesn't even
realize that it sounds good to them
because he calls it bad politics as well
well I mean he says it may sound good he
said it may sound good to you which does
Bulai that notion that it's bad politics
cuz if it sounds good why would it be
politically bad but the way his that he
was that condescending about it like you
don't understand the details of this now
let me just give you really one of the
most moronic
quarter-inch deep reasons why we
shouldn't do Medicare for all so that's
the a test it didn't work out so
well that was the boo let's go to a/b
test of another message this one
delivered by Bernie Sanders at that same
California Democratic convention
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
people
when it comes to abortion there is no
middle ground
now I know that all sounds good I know
that all sounds good but it's bad
politics folks there's a bunch of
enraged grassroots delaney supporters
holding middle ground right and policy
signs one of the smart policies smart
policy sign in Bernie's face what about
the smart what about the smart policy
outpouring of the grassroots this is bad
policy but policy slowly bad policy it's
bad politics and I drove out here in my
used Honda to say that as a grassroots
normal person who's in no way behold it
to the health insurance industry and by
the way it is great that he said that
about abortion and I would like to see
people hold up Bernie's policies and his
stances on abortion against biden's and
then try to call Bernie supporters
Bernie bros but you don't hear that as
much this time around do you I'm not
hearing the Bernie bro stuff that much
if you follow their Lena Maxwell on
Twitter you might I I have not I have
not well I do I think I do follow her
but I don't I don't see it as much I
just don't think that's gonna be the
theme I think the it's Biden is the one
that people you know it's not like I
mean a part of the problem is that Biden
support is almost explicitly Biden bros
I mean that is almost the one of the big
selling points but as I mentioned as we
get closer to the debates we're starting
to now see the outlines of the tax that
people are going to take and if I'm Joe
Biden and I'm on Joe Biden staff the one
thing I'm doing every day as I am
praying that Joe Biden is not on the
same stage as Bernie Sanders but
particularly I am praying that I am not
on the stage with Elizabeth Warren
because of Elizabeth Warren's profile
because of what actually drew her into
politics as opposed to policy largely
Joe Biden in his agenda and so
if I'm Joe Biden everything I'm doing
now is trying to I'm getting voodoo
dolls I'm getting I'm doing to all the
things that you do to like throw salt on
your back everybody's all mark green
oh yeah so that Elizabeth Warren is not
on stage with me in here I think what
we're starting to see is it going to be
a preview of what she's going to be
doing during the debates and we're gonna
see a lot of people start that train
their fire on Joe Biden in one form or
another but the question is how explicit
is it going to get how quickly and here
is Elizabeth Warren at that same
California Democratic state convention
only changes we can get are tweaks and
nudges if they dream at all they dream
small some say if we all just calm down
the Republicans will come to their
senses but our country is in a time of
crisis the time for small ideas is over
so that's the beginning hi Joe she sees
you Joe also incidentally not only the
time for small ideas or delusional
thinking about Republicans maybe also
being a bagman for the credit card
industry for decades wasn't so hot
either bro that's coming go at him by
name Liz you know no I know she's
sequencing it I that's very fun to watch
her lay that out
I wanna skip to the part where she's
actually using his name exactly yeah
column from a 306 area code who's this
where he calling from it's a wet who
Jerry Jeff from regret Jeff from Regina
what's going on know what I wanted to
talk to you about Medicare for all our
universal health care I'm just curious
in Canada here where we live sorry where
I live
basically it got passed when a couple of
problems is Saskatchewan and Alberta
kind of got together and developed a
plan and implemented it and then it was
very successful so federal government
saw that
several other provinces joining in kind
of federal process like that we had
universal health care feral Canada so I
was just curious if you thought that's a
path forward for America where like if
you had you know Florida and it's a New
York or starting on Florida California
New York you know past universal health
care would other states be able to jump
on and basically like various would that
be a path forward for the US as well it
does it's that model is the analog the
analogy is not perfect okay because I
mean if you get a big state like maybe
like California or New York Florida
maybe but it's it's it's just hard to do
you need to like expand the risk pool to
a large extent and it's just there isn't
necessarily the money there in these
states to be able to do it you can try
and you can add to it if you could get
if you had help from the federal
government which you won't get during a
during a trump presidency you might be
able to do it I mean that was certainly
the the hope when the ACA launched was
there was contemplation that Vermont
would have single-payer the governor
there did not prep and I specifically
remember John from San Antonio calling
in about that saying they're not talking
enough about the raising the taxes
because it's gonna come as the shock to
everybody when it gets introduced and
they need to sort of ease people in and
explain this dynamic now Bernie has done
that I I wouldn't know how to quantify
it but people's understanding of that
dynamic has changed dramatically in the
past two or three years because of
Bernie's campaign frankly it's
conceivable it's conceivable but you
know the the problem is is that so much
of this is ideological
it would be helpful though I mean it
wouldn't hurt but it's not gonna have
the same import you know but but yeah I
mean I think you know Vermont tried to
do it and then they got cold feet
California New York have sort of like
sniffed around it a little bit but
really more what you're gonna get is a
sort of incremental expansions of
various programs so it I think it has to
happen nationally there can be different
like sort of pilot programs different
places but ultimately it's gonna be it's
gonna have to be something that's
national but I appreciate the call we
talked about how that developed I think
in Saskatchewan with with ghee Lawson
one time back I can't quite remember
let's see come from a three one four
area code who's this where you come from
give me one second what take your time
all right six John it's saying well this
again fake Joe I was just one yeah
fake John yeah okay I called it before
we talked about whether or not a
government was necessary for a central
government was necessary to issue
currency anyway here goes my shows that
you oh thank you sorry um yes I was just
wondering you guys sort of use the term
neoliberal relatively pejoratively and
I'm not sure that the term is
necessarily deserving of that I mean I
think it depends on well that's
consistent with our ideology
consistent with our ideology that it is
pejorative well so that's the part that
I'm not necessarily sure about right so
cause look you get someone like Paul
Krugman who you could certainly
describes as a neoliberal but you can be
sort of Pro universal healthcare pro
welfare sake Pro sort of social
democracy and simultaneously think that
throwing still be free trade and well
know neoliberal I mean the way that I
you know the way that I mean I think you
know neoliberal has had a very like big
loosening of its definition but I think
ultimately from my perspective what it
means is you see market the market as
the premier and in many instances the
exclusive mechanism to deal with the
distribution of income with the
distribution of services and and the
production production and that all
answers lie with the market now you have
someone and I don't know if specifically
if Krugman subscribes to that but there
is you know broadly speaking liberals
will call for mitigating the government
to mitigate the the the cruelty if you
will of the market and I think you know
maybe I think that mitigation of cruelty
is good I think that also you know sort
of an ideology that is cruel is probably
that's the first hint for me that it's
bad now I'm not saying cruel in a
pejorative way but if you take it that
way you could take it I mean you know
like so yeah I mean but also I just
think that great Jimmy a thing that
people don't realize always about
neoliberalism is it's not just about
letting the free market do its thing
neoliberal governments are extremely
active in taking measures to prop up the
market at the expense of human needs
well the other element of this and
if you really go back to like Mont
Pelerin these guys like Hayek and von
Mises and whatnot although Hayek and
Mises had a split between them about
this and I can't remember who was it was
who on this but Hayek was probably
better that the idea was then not only
should we just have the market but we
should also yes have government function
to support the market in that way and
sometimes certain players and they also
have an international scheme too that
would limit the sovereignty of and be
anti-democratic specifically so that
markets can function without the
constraints put on it by by you know
governments or liberals or whomever and
this was that's actually a really good
way because your example of free trade
really illustrates that because the
objection to trade agreements whether
they're NAFTA or Gore or the Pacific
trans-pacific partnership are based not
on some like platonic idea that like oh
one region grows barley or another one
grows flowers and they should be able to
like you know send ships and planes to
each other and trade goods right the
objection is that these rules are
written in such a way in a highly
bureaucratic highly top-down highly
governmental way in fact highly
bureaucratic way to favor the interests
of financial services industry
pharmaceutical companies specifically at
the expense of labor the environment and
consumers so even just the frame of you
know calling those agreements free trade
deals is actually it's not very high
it's highly this latest capital can move
my labor can't Abraham and and standards
are specifically universally set now in
my ideology I support setting universal
standards but I want to do it on behalf
of labor so my objection is not to the
notion of some forms of universality but
they aren't just local and loose and
everything flows their bureaucratic and
controlling and in that sense neoliberal
but what would that said I don't know do
you perceive that as being pejorative
yeah I mean I think I agree with all the
things you're saying I just so like
earlier for example when you're giving
they're like Margaret Thatcher Tony
Blair sort of guitar analogy and you
were essentially labeling Tony Blair's
neoliberal right or like sort of third
way politics is being a product of
neoliberalism and I think a lot of those
right but the the British still have a
universal health care system they still
have a lot of public literally just
historically they are literally a
product of neoliberalism because even
the ones third way leaders not Tony
Blair at all
but Tony Blair is a politician of the
right but someone like Gordon Brown who
is Blair's partner who I do think did
absolutely want to do what he conceived
of as his best to save some forms of
social democracy in that economic
climate the whole project of the Third
Way is accepting all of the fundamental
assumptions of the Thatcher Reagan era
and then saying can we preserve a few
slices yeah how do we let air out of the
tire so it literally is a product of
neoliberalism and that's definitely not
pejorative maybe this is what Sam is
right it's overused but that's like a
historical description of where that
politics comes from Anthony Giddens who
is the intellectual guru of these guys
would acknowledge that first and
foremost yeah okay what I would say is I
think that when you're using the term
maybe be a little bit more explanatory
cuz you know you can put everyone from
like Hayek in the Chicago economist to
Paul Krugman and those guys like
basically can't stand each other you put
me in a room with well I mean but it's
not great all right all right here I
would say two things one I do think the
term is overused it's thrown around
to just mean anybody who somebody
disagrees with on the left that happens
quite a bit like on Twitter and whatnot
but it's also possible that Krugman and
whomever hate each other but they do
share a similar you know they're they're
operating on the same plane in terms of
the way that they look at the economy
it's just that they have different ideas
about you know what should be done
whether you know one person you can have
one neoliberal saying yeah the market
dictates that people don't have health
care and guess what they're there
they're out of luck they should do
better in the marketplace
Krugman can say well the market is such
that people aren't going to have health
care so as a society we're obligated to
you know provide some type of safety net
as it were and maybe valid mechanisms to
help it happen which is or even
non-market mechanisms but the idea is to
preserve the market and the way that we
preserve the market is you know to add
this sort of like we have a little bit
of a backstop I mean that is those
people both are you know I think can
both share a neoliberal perspective but
have different ideas on how to maintain
it and hate each other for it and that's
still you know we're just talking about
a different thing where we would abandon
the market in this office at you know
various rates and different velocities
and different distances but we're all
very I think comfortable doing that but
that is part of the tricky of that word
cause it's totally overused but it also
is like another fact that we literally
we are in a neoliberal world so we're
all too liberal to a degree that's been
the template upon which the whole world
is operated for decades anybody when
Nixon said we're all Keynesian right now
right that's what it's been like where
anything is that right underlying
economic assumptions are in there like
rational agents and somewhat efficient
markets and that stuff like I agree but
I think that you can get there are
people who would say like the government
should supply food and clothing and
housing and
like that John we're going over the same
we're going over the same time territory
oh no I'm sorry all I want to say was
that it's the government if the
government provides all that stuff then
if the Free Trade Agreement dies impact
the labor market you're talking about
yes okay someone was just a job but
you're not depriving them of access
health care or food or housing things
like that so Ben right you could be able
to do liberal and that's that's all I'm
saying
yeah okay I think I agree with you now
that I better understand what you're
burnt that's what we wanted to get to
appreciate the call I was very
neoliberal at all I came out into the
Jordan sense no I think I think he came
around good and if we didn't clarify
them for him we certainly did for other
people so you remember a couple of weeks
ago we played a clip of a billionaire
going to a Morehouse College and
announcing during his speech and it's
always the last refuge of a guy who
can't come up with a really catchy
speech and that is - at graduation that
is to pay off all the loans of everybody
in the audience and everybody's walked
away that's the best speech I've ever
heard and the guy didn't have to really
say yes you did a little cheating but if
you got it flaunt it that's what I
always say anyways and you'll recall
that we suggested that this is
problematic and insofar is that it it it
identifies the problem but offers a not
even a band-aid a like almost like a
tiny tiny band-aids like a band-aid
doesn't even cover the it's actually
giving the wound but it's it's it
identifies the problem but then gives a
false solution which sets us off on the
complete wrong track sort of does a
mission accomplished sort of routine
exactly it in fact lets the air out of
the tires but we still have the problem
of the air in the tire and here
apparently Fox News had a slow
Newsday and so they circled back around
on on on Giada's credit criticism of
this I don't know why it took them ten
days to get to this but apparently did a
slow news day and they're like remember
the ratings that we got about now you'll
recall the original clip clip kilmeade
not only you know like sort of made it
out like wrecking accidentally
recognized the problem of student debt
by saying like all these people they're
gonna it's gonna be great for them but
also then accidentally read off this
story of how this billionaire attributed
his success to the busing program that
sent him to a good school in a white
neighborhood kill me could not get past
the the opportunity to extol the virtues
of white people without realizing that
he was actually extolling the necessity
for busing and the problems inherent
with our the way that we fund public
education segregated yes but here they
are a circling back around to criticize
the criticism of this Wow billionaire
Robert Smith's incredible generosity
under fire believe it or not right in
the New York Times saying quote a gift
like this can make people believe that
billionaires have taken care of their
problems and distract us from where
other ways which others in finance are
working to cause problems like student
debt our next guest to responded with a
new op eds revert Smith's philanthropy
Wall Street Journal columnist populist
contributor Jason Riley Jason how could
something so nice be perceived so
negative well it's a sort of sign of the
time syrup how polarized we are every
act gets to be politicized even acts of
generosity like this and this was just a
very generous thing to do about four
hundred college graduates says I'll wipe
out your student debts and instead of
just patting this guy on the back and
saying thank you he becomes a target of
criticism right because all these kids
give this to moon pay so if it doesn't
solve the problem of the fact that
there's tuition right and income
inequality positive in second I got you
know like all I can job for I see this
brian's honor here it doesn't solve the
problem of tuition or income inequality
but
I can see is like like what I see this
is just like wow everything is so
corrupt I mean just like they're doing
this segment ten days later the guy had
nothing to write about he's making up
basically that Judas actually criticized
the guise of individual as an individual
like oh you should get the pat on the
shoulder instead he's getting you know
it's getting pied essentially like they
can't even like honestly look at the
critique itself and it's so desperate
and so but continue I love it pays off
it doesn't solve the problem of their
factor there's tuition right an income
inequality right and he's a billionaire
he's the wealthiest black man in a
manner a self-made according to Forbes
right comes from a pretty modest
background started out as a chemical
engineer got a new investment banking
and then started his own private equity
firm about 20 years ago and has been
tremendously successful and he gives
away a lot of his money and this is one
of the ways he does it college
scholarships now he's paying off student
daddy that's a lot for inner city kids
exposing the nature and music and so
forth and he's in a long tradition of
wealthy philanthropist in this in this
country going back to john john d
rockefeller and JP morgan and and and
Julius Rosenberg who Rosenwald who ran
sewers robach back when it was the
biggest retailer in America they all
gave back they all gave to communities
to help the less privileged and tickly
educational causes so I hope he ignores
these critics because he is in very very
good company but Wow you just identified
a bunch of people who created enormous
societal problems yeah and then tried to
wash away their brand but even I know
that is Jared articies point well know
right even if even if they have a true
cause these problems even if there was a
even if there was some way where a
billionaire could amass their money
without it being indicative of a larger
structural problem but they themselves
somehow garnered all this money well my
point is buying a billionaire is that
well yes
I understand but even if they even if
even if it's somehow it wasn't a
structural problem but it is even if
they had
amassed their money in a way that was
completely benign
and-and-and hurt no one and denied no
one of resources in some way which i
think is probably impossible but I'm
just stipulating for the sake of
argument the create the criticism is
still valid the criticism is a a
structural one the criticism is all the
things that are positive about what this
person did is really an argument for how
detrimental the rest of the debt is for
the millions of other people and the
we're just staring in the face of all
this potential benefit that could come
from this and the only reason why at the
end of the day we're not offering this
to other people is because of those
people who have all that money and don't
want to lose it in some fashion or
another now Elizabeth Warren made the
point the other day two cents on every
dollar over fifty million dollars on
that wealth it wouldn't lose that much
but it would pay for all that stuff well
comrade kill me it gets it he does this
that's like his that's like kill needs
like segments like like Rachel Maddow
used to do and like talked me off the
ledge or talk me down segment this is
kill me like save me from myself talking
back to the right I have a conscience
can he help send me a lifeline when I
just sort of think through things in my
own I realize it's kind of messed up to
commit genocide against the Iranians and
we need to do something about wealth
inequality can we get a guest to help me
out on that now look we haven't talked
about Christian Gillibrand's run for
office on this program since probably
the day that she announced and we're not
alone I think everyone has not talked
about her campaign since the day that
she announced but it's not necessarily a
a statement as to who she is as a person
or even as a politician necessarily it's
just that it's hard to see a reason for
her candidacy
in in light of all the other candidates
that are running but with that said not
as bad as Beto who actually could have
something else to do that would be
helpful for the things that he's
ostensibly running for but be that as it
may we have a bunch of Democrats who
have gone on to Fox News I think that
the I think there's an argument that
they shouldn't be doing this I think
there's an argument that they should be
doing it I don't feel terribly strongly
about it when it comes from two people
running for office and particularly
specifically as a group doing it but
they all have felt obligated as they
should
taking the opportunity to crap on Fox
News and in various different ways
Kristen Gillibrand decided to do that
and it's interesting
I don't recall the other candidates off
the top of my head Budda judge Sanders
has any wells appeared on Fox News
Democratic candidates getting the push
back their beds here now I don't know if
that's just because like they can't
allow this to happen this time they
realize a pattern or they realize a
pattern or if it's like it'll be easier
to do this with a female candidate
because I certainly know Fox's formula
those older viewers those older male
viewers love to see younger women get
admonished on the on I mean they they
that is a I can I can assure you that is
a city porn for them literally a formula
that is like that is what they call in
the business of macro so I don't know if
that's what what was going on here but I
thought Gillibrand did a pretty good job
and I thought Wallace was about as
Craven as I've seen him in a long time
on this here it is that Fox News Town
Hall Christian Gillibrand and Chris
Wallace is hosting and I he must have
been
somebody must have said to him like look
if you want your bonus this year you
better do some work for us as Chris said
I am a retired nurse Pediatrics actually
so I dealt quite a bit with preemies
what I'm asking you senator is what is
your position on late term abortion or
last trimester abortions well thank you
for serving our community and helping
our babies particular our preemies who
deeply need the medical care they have
my view on women's reproductive freedom
is that it should be a woman's decision
to make these most intimate
life-and-death decisions for themselves
a woman should be able to decide when
she's having children how many children
she's having and under what
circumstances she's having and what we
have created unfortunately is a false
choice and a false narrative and Chris I
want to talk about the role that Fox
News plays in this because it's a
problem I can tell you before President
Trump gave his State of the Union Fox
News talked about infanticide there Jim
fantasize doesn't it doesn't exist
senator I just want to say we've brought
you here an hour we have given you we're
treating you very fairly I understand
that baby to make your credentials with
the with the Democrats who are not
appearing on Fox News you're going to
attack us I'm not sure it posit for one
second I want to go back expected oh no
not nothing close to this I mean this is
this is unprecedented with these but I
mean think of what he's stipulating here
that is unsaid as he says we invited you
here as if like they want it both ways
at Fox we're just a news organization
like as if they've really gone out of
their way to prove that we're not
partisan that we have you here well why
do you need to do that like it's not
like a news organizations like it's a
favor right like no can you imagine like
NBC saying like we've done you a favor
by allowing no of course not nobody
would be weird for them to think it's
only because everybody knows in the
universe that Fox is
husband will be basically the Republican
communications arm and so the fact that
they invited her here is a big
concession on our part we're even
getting in trouble with the president
and so just go back a little bit cuz you
know that's that snuck out but good that
may be to make your credentials with the
with the Democrats who are not appearing
on Fox News you you're going to attack
us I'm not sure it's frankly very polite
when okay we've invited you here I will
do it in a polite way but it's well I
just I just
why don't we instead of talking about
Fox News why don't you answer some
question the debate about whether or not
women should have reproductive freedom
has turned into a red herring debate and
what happens on fox news is relevant
because they talked about infanticide
for 6.5 hours 6.5 hours right before
President Trump State of the Union
mentioned it thirty five times that is
not the debate of what access to
reproductive care is in this country it
doesn't happen it's illegal it's not a
fact and I believe all of us have a
responsibility to talk about the facts
the facts are that women in this country
have had a constitutional right for over
thirty years to make this fundamental
life-and-death decision and this
president has emboldened legislators in
thirty states to begin to criminalize
that decision criminalize the decision
of whether or not and when you want to
have your children criminalizing the
doctors with a 99-year sentence if they
are offering abortion services and
providing the care that women need why
should male legislators across this
country decide when you're having
children how many are children having
and under what circumstances I don't
understand it it's a human right it's
about having bodily autonomy it's about
being able to control your physical self
it's undermining every human rights
civil rights that we could have so let
women make these most personal decisions
for many people it's a moralist
for many people it's a medical decision
so why can't they make it with their
doctor with their families with their
husband based on their own faith how
they believe and what they feel it is
that woman's right there you go I mean I
it might have also been worthwhile for
Gillibrand to say you're a pediatric
nurse do you guys commit infanticide do
you think that's legal
how many infanticides have you write
exactly I mean but it was interesting
that Chris Wallace was like that
motivated pathetic I mean it could be
that they gotta do it they had you know
I mean Bernie was more gentle about it
but he dunked on them and the only judge
and Mbutu judge what I'm saying is it
escalated with each step so there must
have also been a signal from the top of
like you know the next candidate that
comes out here and reminds us that we're
a fascist propaganda organ you better
you know and also goes to his whole self
concept that he doesn't you know cuz
clearly he's invested in the idea yeah
that even though he's on this horrific
propaganda network that he shouldn't be
subjected yeah of questioning but so we
made I just think about radicals what it
is extraordinary though to just say like
it because she's made the point well
that it's not just like you're promoting
anti-choice policies you're lying in the
most extravagant flagrant terms all
hours a day on the highly rated cable
cable news network I think that does
have some effect on our politics well
but it got a very good answer out of her
I must say like I was impressed with the
performance that she gave I think a lot
of people see her as kind of an
opportunist who goes wherever the wind
blows and that may be true on some
issues but not on this one right no I
agree so there's a lot of back-and-forth
with Iran right now and it seems like
things have calmed a little bit Pompeyo
is out there saying that the Jared
Kushner is not gonna get us Middle East
peace
what and yeah I know disappointing
everybody should not really thank you
know I should not have bet my kids
college education fund on that trade
sports line I know that the odds the
odds were just so good though I couldn't
help myself but here is a interview with
the Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif
Mohammed Zarif and basically what's been
going on here and there was a report the
other day that former Obama officials
were basically trying to send message to
Iran
don't take the Trump bait there's
there's two different dynamics that are
happening obviously Iran has domestic
politics as well as the United States
the United States it appears that there
was basically a on a level just below
Donald Trump every move Donald Trump had
sort of just accidentally appointed a
bunch of people who wanted to have a war
with Iran and when he found out that oh
wait a second all these guys are trying
to have a war with Iran I don't want a
war I really honestly think that was
like a moment in a meeting with like
with with Pentagon officials where they
said well President Trump the the
likelihood of a conflict with Iran is
increasing and so if that is your agenda
what I don't want to do that I just want
to be tough and well they said well
there's probably a danger here and maybe
you should signal to them that you don't
want to actually have work okay I don't
know what it's gonna be tough and
meanwhile Iran is like we're looking to
exact they need to also show that
they're tough in light of all of the
sort of aggressive steps that the
Americans are taking and that's this is
the fear that everyone has on both sides
that those who need to posture will
accidentally stumble into a war and so
Iran is still on
mission and they came out and said
basically you know with with an assist
from North Korea that John Bolton is dim
and problem but it's not going to end
there President Trump says he wants to
talk he has invited running officials to
give him a call how likely is that it's
not very likely because talking is the
continuation of the process of pressure
he is imposing pressure this may work in
a real estate market it does not work in
dealing with Iran if you did come back
to the negotiating table would you trust
the United States would you trust
President Trump the last experience was
not very optimistic and does not provide
an optimistic perspective for a future
agreement so this is what I believe is
happening to the international community
that is people think twice before they
talk to the United States because
because they know that what they agree
today may not hold tomorrow now this is
not just I think telling in terms of
someone who we perceive as an adversary
I think this is probably true of all of
all the international leaders I mean it
would be absurd of them to think
otherwise and it's you know what I've
said this many times before but even if
you were to get that our next president
was to be this sort of very gracious and
institutionalist and less belligerent
individual who had no drama and whatnot
and came to office as a foreign leader
you still have to say like there's
something wrong with this country
I mean electing Donald Trump after
Barack Obama and then electing a
blankety-blank after the after Donald
Trump let's hope all that says to me as
a world leader like this country is
unreliable there's something wrong
with the people there and what it says
in an Iranian context very explicitly is
you know I always say this but it's
important history that when the supreme
leaders signed off on doing this process
and it's a we innit that's a bad
translation it's like he he is the
ultimate authority but people like the
president in the foreign minister have
actual power and that was part of the
you know there was momentum to do this
and he signed off on it and he basically
said you have like you can do it and it
will never work because the United
States gonna fundamentally never be
trusted
and so he's just cashing that every I
know this spirit Oriole but doesn't it
seem like they're working together like
not working together but like their
offices are a lot there is a huge
convergence of interest always between
the right in Iran and Israel and the
United States well this is true Zhou and
everyone of all ya know but but but
particularly no but I mean particularly
in how you know their enmity affects
their domestic politics and their
foreign policy and you could have said
the same thing with like Castro and Bush
like I mean and and other US leaders but
like the way Castro was you know gonna
maintain powers like there's an outside
threat I mean this is all love that it
all you know this is the you know the
last refuge although sometimes you know
it and this is when it's like look like
Castro they did want a deal and they
made it with Obama and that's another
thing Trump ruins that we played you
know pay less attention to but that's
another huge setback of Trump and even
and the right in Iran as as as
demonstrated by the supreme leader or I
should say what's ironic is Iran
actually has a center-right which is
really kind of what rouhani is a
moderate and there's a center-right that
was willing to pragmatically go for this
aqua Dena jog wanted a deal sure no no
and so you know these are mutually not
at all though they can go both ways a
scenario right for someone like that is
to have an administration that doesn't
necessarily want to deal but it's not
gonna preen about it absolutely then you
have nothing politically to sell
domestically it's just you're
ineffective you're you're ineffective at
getting a deal when you know you want
one
if the other purse the other party is
you know doing something that's
belligerent then you can come back and
just stir nationalism and that is that
is the all right we have the final call
the day come from a 504 area code I'm
sorry folks did not have all the time we
wanted to 504 call who's this where you
come from house with me yes it is you're
the final hi oh sorry okay
my name is Jasmine Paulson Louisiana I
just wanted to thank you real quick
first family from the jimmy dore your
text oh yes yeah that was that that was
a close one
yeah I just I just wanted to talk real
quick about impeachment
so the I just seen what you thought the
effect of that was versus like Kenda
Cavanaugh hearings like with the
Cavanaugh hearings was that like an
ill-effect on like the 2018 midterms at
least Hardison it was and how how that
would affect just like how that how that
how that effect yes I mean look it's
it's it's hard to say what the net
effect of the Cavanaugh hearings whether
I mean there's an argument that it that
it activated people the counter-argument
to that is we just saw the greatest
midterm the mid the greatest midterm
victory by any party in terms of actual
votes that we've seen in our recorded
history so it's it's hard to say that
the Cavanaugh hearings hurt the the
Democrats if there's a state where you
could show that that changed the
trajectory of in terms of like the
Senate race I'm not aware of it but I
think I think I think to the extent that
you had someone like Heidi Heitkamp come
out maybe that was sort of like a Hail
Mary but I also think it's a mistake to
equate the Cavanaugh hearings
with what the you know impeachment
hearings would look like you know the
the analogy would be more like we're
gonna impeach Donald Trump because of
the fourteen women who came out or
twenty women who came out with charges
of sexual assault against Trump this is
going to be a very different a very very
different scene and I don't think that
really you know with Kavanagh the
question was are you going to get this
guy on the Supreme Court the question
what Trump is really gonna be if it's
set up properly by the Democrats the
question is not whether Donald Trump is
going to be remain in office I think if
the Democrats are smart they enter in
and say very explicitly whether whether
Donald Trump will remain in office will
be a decision by the Senate Republicans
but we're going to make a case to the
American public that he is unfit for
office and see if the Republicans agree
with the American public and that's what
impeachment means it doesn't mean
getting him out of office because that's
going to happen in the Senate and that's
going to be up that's Mitch McConnell's
decision but so I don't know that it's
an apt analogy and and it's also I don't
know if you can assess really well I
think another effect the Cavanagh
hearings may have had considering the
fact that most a lot of Americans
probably don't realize that impeachment
absolutely will not remove Trump from
office like they think that maybe it
could is it made people more fatalistic
about things
it showed that these people the right
wing which is currently in power can get
away with whatever they want and our
system of checks and balances doesn't
work on them so I think in that sense
it's probably made people cynical about
impeachment a lot of the lines that they
understand it yeah I mean I just wonder
I mean I agree like as far as like I'm
teacher it like I mean I think they
should just do it you know just a
mistake of like rule of law like I mean
they just need to that some people can
need to be held accountable right but I
was just kind of curious about the
Cavanagh stuff and just real real real
quick I just want to see that any advice
like I'm in a deep red a deep red state
like so deep red that the Democrat
Democratic governor you know signed off
on anti-abortion law so I'll just see if
you had any advice as far as I elect
orally or just like activism wise but a
source or anybody in those kind of
states Democrats just make to the call
right thanks appreciate the call I would
say the best thing is to move no I'm
joking
I just wanted to say that no I mean I
think look you gotta you get a build
locally you you know it's it's a very
difficult situation but everything is a
dynamic and if you have the impact of
weakening you know people's perspective
they're on certain things then then
you're still adding to the general
welfare I heard a friend of mine who is
in strategy said once he had a great own
image where he's like what you need to
do is you need to find the tip of the
spear and like it's like the most
effective thing to dislodge somebody
else's position or to introduce the idea
or products or whatever it is so you
know I just wonder like when we give
advice like that because obviously you
would know infinitely better than us but
it seems like in certain places like in
West Virginia it was teachers you know
like that there's there's energy there
for strike for populism so where do you
think might be the most persuasive area
for people to really respond to a left
message in the face of what they're
dealing with I mean maybe it's abortion
maybe it's a you know I just noticed the
story real quick and did a governor I
think in Tennessee knew new disclosures
that he was behind the scenes working
with Volkswagen to suppress labor union
organizing that might be a whole other
layer of making people angry about
something weren't paying attention to
before all right so I will say there are
unique challenges to organizing for the
left in red states versus blue states
and I don't know this person's political
orientation exactly the socialist Rifle
Association might be a little too
radical for them I don't know that does
exist in large swaths of the South but
also like there is a DSA in Louisiana
there are several different chapters in
different parts of Louisiana and in red
states it's sometimes easier for a real
progressive or Democratic Socialist to
win a Democratic primary and actually
speak to material interests of the
people so there is work to be done well
if the Democrats can't keep Republicans
out of those seats they're not going to
keep DSA people out of them either
alright folks that's it for the calls
gonna do ten items and then get out of
here and attorney Andrew you may have
covered this at the beginning of the
show but what is everyone's opinion on
why Warren dodges on Medicare for all I
know she's a co-sponsor the bill but on
the campaign trail she doesn't run on it
and she always pivots to lowering costs
through a number of solutions while
bringing everyone to the table one
theory is that Massachusetts is home to
like every health insurance than
socialist tendencies I mean I I don't
have an example of that off the top of
my head I would say both those sound
possible it's also conceivable to me
that in the context of the primary she
just doesn't think that it he it is it
differentiates her enough I don't know I
still think a false belief and process
and not having a grassroots strategy the
funny thing is is that from a process
standpoint she is less of an
institutionalist and Bernie is on
certain things I've never seen that on
healthcare and maybe that is where some
of the local state interests do start to
come in the same reason that she always
votes from military increases because of
Raytheon it's also conceivable that if
you think you're not gonna get through
the primary or until you get through the
primary you wouldn't want to alienate
those people but it might have more
value to do it afterwards I don't know I
don't know what the calculation is also
Budaj
idea to pack the court to 15 judges hey
while acknowledging the judges have
partisan leanings but then saying that
we should give five seats to a political
judges by picking
the other 10 is peak liberal nothing
matters except finding a solution that
smart candidate oh he is for people who
are so totally up their own ass another
oh it was a horrible Oh Colin from
Nebraska hey I'm our crew my congressman
held two Town Hall last week
unfortunately my question a climate
change wasn't asked luckily someone
asked him about this
when will the u.s. colonize the moon the
congressman said he's not sure we will
do that but he's glad that private
sector bit Jeff Bezos is going into
Space Research hashtag priorities e JJ
cool not to really each mid argument but
Jiang puts forward the argument that
Pelosi is against impeachment because
they want a fundraise off of Trump do
you think that has legitimacy I don't
know why you wouldn't be able to
fundraise with all the stuff that would
come out with impeachment that doesn't
make sense to me also I think Sam has
milk shape or paint on his arm paint
yeah paint
this goes to data for progress pointed
out that the number of progressives who
sat out the 2016 cycle was greater than
the Trump margin yeah wait did you get
me that thing you were gonna pull that
for me that date of progress thing I
don't I don't see oh maybe I missed it
oh yeah yeah he doesn't do any titles on
his thing that's the problem with that
stubborn air comes out printed my
reading that's wrong or does this data
really validate the Bernie bro issue or
perhaps the success of the Russian
propaganda effort on the left well I
don't know if I would say I mean I mean
look I it both and more I mean recall
and I was certainly guilty of this
people were telling I'm like 99% chance
the Hillary Clinton's gonna win and I
think a lot of people were like I'm not
gonna go out over that
there wasn't it wasn't the margin also
decisive in the number of people who
didn't vote either way they just left a
blank for president I think so yeah
Newman new human looks like it's time
for the 90s rags-to-riches sports comedy
comeback Major League Baseball general
manager sees an aunt of milk shaking and
puts them in as a starting pitcher but
it was really more of a football throw
Ivana tinkle Donald Trump jr. just liked
a video where it shows a fight between a
white and black kids in high school and
it's been presented as a fight between
races and political affiliations it has
no audio just a fight to spark
commentators about right-wing press the
Second Amendment I did that about a
fight in the UK I think to remember is
weird
stale Nate just took your advice and
asked Westboro Baptist Church protesters
if they wanted my milkshake didn't throw
it just asked as I drove by just in case
they needed a refreshment Frank and
Buffalo how nice of John Delaney to sack
himself at the California Democratic
convention for Joe Biden Biden would
have received those same boos if he
talked about health care pajama boy hey
did you guys see that a little kid who
raised twenty two thousand in Texas fund
the wall nothing like drinking hot
chocolate in Texas in June to own the
libs space bear John Delaney is Twitter
lecturing the left on booing one night
one night lemonade stand alan dershowitz
spoke with Michael Tracy about Muller's
statement last week impeachment Tracy
also asked about Bernie and whether
first Jewish Kennedy nominated from
either major party would give the Dersch
any happiness or contentment Dersch
proceeded to label Cornyn an anti-semite
and identifies Sanders support of him is
utterly disqualifying Dersch explained
that a Jewish candidate supporting a
British so called anti-semite would give
new meaning to the self-hating Jew and
made a point of describing Sanders is
being born to a Jewish family it
reminded me of both there's a which is
opposition to keith ellison his DNC
chair who he condemned his association
for Lois rant Farrakhan and Ben
Shapiro's whole jano spiel M V Scott
impeachment should be used as a campaign
tactic for 2020 the fact that Pelosi
doesn't get his sheer incompetence
indeed Winnipeg Craig just asked for
wondering Regina is the capital of
Saskatchewan which is our equivalent to
Georgia so Jeff from Regina is kind of
our
from Georgia also you say you did an
interview with a Canadian guy named gay
way to play to stereotype buddy
thief picks fossil fuel companies likely
need to be naturalized for
decarbonisation Democrats should lay the
groundwork now for when the time comes
indeed and the final I am of the day
[Music]
Space Invader Joe hey guys like Joe Joe
Biden I'm from Delaware was wondering if
you could talk about another fellow
Delaware in the horrible Chris Coons I
have mentioned in the past that he wants
to get rid of the fellow he wants to
bring the filibuster back wasn't bring
it back in the Senate let's bring that
back yeah see you tomorrow
[Music]
no son
I'm gonna get
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
