[Music]
around here you're calling from a six
100 area code who are you calling from
hey this is John in Philly
hey John what's going on not much I'm
calling because I'm an undergraduate
student right now and I'm studying
political science yeah and I have this
yeah yeah and I have a professor
actually I have two political science
classes one of them is about the EU
awesome
well it would be awesome but I had this
professor this is a magic land -
thirsting because you have a did you
have a pretty strong view of world you
know global politics anyway she teaches
about the dynamics of the EU but she she
has this very blatant you know kind of
right-wing sort of bend like you know
like kind of like The Economist right
magazine right so you know I just ate
these things as if then yeah and she
states you know certain things that are
actually very biased and I would argue
wrong about different countries on the
EU you know in the single market mmm-hmm
and she states them as fact and it
really pisses me off
um well she said she - hold on I'm
nodding out for a second little Jordan
Peterson drug I was in there for you
well that's actually funny because she
she assigned Steven Pinker books Wow she
does not sound like my cup of anything
so what's your question you got a
professor but you know it's good man
sometimes you gotta just get the grade
yeah I get the grade and learn the and
by the way learn how the enemy thinks
absolutely okay well here's one question
I have for you about some of the things
she's said she she blames Greece for all
of the economic issues that they face
she said that they spent too much in
that basically what the EU is doing you
know strangling them and implementing
austerity it
is right and that they deserve it Jesus
so I would say I mean that's just so
nuts i I don't cuz I actually to me my
understanding is like it's it's like
it's very conventional opinion now that
I mean I mean here here's like a really
brief gloss on Greece I haven't been in
I haven't thought about in a while but
basically to the extent you could blame
Greece it is not for their social
spending it's because they do have you
know there's corruption there's in
efficiencies whatever now
the center-right the european core
benefited from all of that
like I'm not remembering the specific
deals but like yeah they invested a ton
of money in Greece because they thought
they were going to get a return on their
investment but they already didn't say
no to it that's true they needed it but
even on the upfront they did write like
a lot of this like Oh Greece was so
profligate well you mean buying like you
know buying building equipment from
Germany doing you know probably helping
goldman sachs facilitating deals to go
private like the whole there was so much
money that was generated out of even the
dysfunctional you know practices this
was predatory lending don't get it
twisted your percent a win-win for the
ones doing the lending because they get
a return on their investment that's
great if greece can't pay it back guess
what it's on the backs of the Greek
people in Greece is for a really
long time
totally and but and also when you read
you know like very even like very FACA
son he's a hundred percent right there
like it wasn't even a monetary question
it's a political question it was like if
we torture Greece that will threaten in
Italy or another country from asserting
you know debt relief or protections of
its workers which by the way and this is
another thing I'm sure your professor
does not understand is doubly dangerous
because what happened in Greece and I
I'm not I have some sympathy for cereza
I don't I don't know how much room for
maneuver they had I mean they definitely
failed and they shorted hard they failed
but they were under a lot of objective
forces and
pressure right but what happens is
serezha totally submits continues
utterly gutting Greece and so this
flashpoint of hope of like an actual
left gets destroyed and discredited
guess what political party and he
actually recently miscalculated some
Matteo is sidelined but if you look at
Matteo a actual neo-fascist in Italy he
was just total swagger with like
the EU I'm gonna tell us how to handle
all the labor policies crazy
it's the becomes the right-wing forces
that are able to level accurate
critiques at the European policymaking
community and then that reinforces the
populist right-wing wave that's so it
 like breaks it right so it's all a
disaster your professors a fool yeah but
get the great yeah yeah I mean she I I
have a tendency to you know whatever I'm
thinking kind of shows up on my face so
she'll be saying some of this and
she'll look at me and all my face will
be bright red but I mean then maybe she
has a crush on you man maybe she's just
like messed it up I would take maybe we
could debate that later I would take
this as an opportunity to yeah maybe bad
so you can win an argument with her cuz
even I've had this I know I think I'm
debating whether by the end of the year
I like know that I'm right but I still
can't win an argument because he's just
the best arguer in the frickin world and
it really inspires me to learn more what
Sam is like arguing at the oj defense
team it's like I guess technically
you're right
one small bit of advice right was yell
there when you're arguing with somebody
like that especially a teacher from a
class the more they're talking the
better you're doing so just ask
questions you know that they're gonna be
hard for her rather than having to you
know going near that's exactly what I
would do if you do if you read like what
actually happened in Greece and even
just read like verified because his
account don't go in and quote very focus
and argue just formulate questions that
you glean from that that she's gonna
find a very hard time
answering because ultimately she's just
gonna give you a political answer right
like ultimately yeah I mean it's just
gonna stick you well I mean to be fair
on some level it's all just simplistic
kind of views like that's sort of my
point it's like part of it really does
just come like at some point you're just
making a normative decision of what your
priorities are and that's true of
everything problem with economists is
they always try to pretend they're not
doing that
anyways I appreciate the call man thank
you oh and check out episode 29 of the
anti fada if you want a sort of detailed
investigation of what what happened with
the Greek debt crisis nope glad Matt is
back but can we add Brendan to the mic
[Laughter]
Wow why did you wait till so late in the
show I'm busy booking for November and
getting all that done today well I'd let
Matt go away to New Orleans like this is
not being back well he's letting me on
the mic now so this is a reciprocal
relationship folks yeah this is yeah I
appreciate appreciate him he's not just
sitting around twiddling his thumbs when
the show is live trust in a certain
sense you have a wonderful day right but
I'll see you again soon
