[Music]
meanwhile the New York Times has come
out with they have a project they're
rolling it out there's gonna be more in
the future but I guess they've come out
with like a big spread in the New York
Times Magazine and it's basically
looking at and I haven't had a chance to
read any of it yet but it sounds
fascinating and to a certain extent like
we mentioned on the in the in the
discussion about meat and the role it
played in the development of the United
States etc 'xs in vice versa
we've had multiple interviews with
people about cotton there was two or
three books I think that we recovered it
and it's it's fascinating the
development that cotton and when you say
cotton you are also saying slavery
because cotton became such a huge
commodity because labor costs way highly
labor-intensive process was free more or
less for the develop in it had huge
implications well apparently there's
stories like this about slavery in terms
of the way that it impacts all sorts of
different things yeah I think you I
would be surprised if you didn't see it
shape housing policy not just housing
policy shaping certain things it shaped
the way that we do the supreme court
it's shaped the way that we that states
organized in terms of voting rights etc
etc all sorts of different things actual
stuff Jim Crow era I mean slavery
impacts everything and it continues to
this day
which if you really look at how the
implications of events two or three
hundred years ago impact all sorts of
other things it shouldn't be a surprise
but apparently examining slavery for the
right in this country is it's like a
bloodletting it's I mean you've got
conservatives freaking out freaking out
right
like how come it's one thing to talk
about slavery but why does race have to
come into it you imagine saying that and
being a sentient human being a sentient
sentient human being there was one guy
who I saw on Twitter who said something
to effect like well slavery is not
unique to America
yes he's solid solid yeah good stuff
here's Newt Gingrich New York times 16
19 1619 of course was the the arrival of
the first slaves in the country 1619
projects should make it slogan all the
propaganda we want to brain you wash you
with is a repudiation of the new you
original in New York Times motto like
why this deep investigation into slay is
slavery is so threatening to them
contrary to its stated goals says
Benjamin Weingarten he's some I think
Cato guy maybe it appears to be the
purpose of the 1619 project to D
legitimize America and further divide
and demoralize its citizenry like what
does that even mean D legitimize America
do we get our country snap revoked like
does it deal edge it Amaya's it to say
it was built on slave labor
like what honestly like what does that
even mean what does it even mean I don't
even know what that means
all right but here is Jesse Watters
popping off with his version of this
from fox news a new expose by the New
York Times says that your lawn is not
only contributing to pollution and
climate change but it's also racist the
piste saying quote these lawns come on
the backs of slaves it's grueling
endless work by the 1870s we also see
American culture slowly start to embrace
lawns for the privileged masses so I
guess when my dad made me mow his lawn I
was his slave oh my god
exactly it's that's really the point
that's their news they'll take this one
quote from this massive like thing about
lawns I Lana's racist now your time is
crazy I am sure there's there is a story
behind that I mean I you I do remember
like those lawn jockey things do you
guys are you old enough to remember
those I've seen those yeah they're in
books they're those are pilot I saw them
on lawns when I was ill had those in
lawns when you're old in the 70s I only
seen white ones I didn't know they did
like versions oh yeah that's wild
oh yeah okay yeah I guess the lawns do
got some racialism oh my god yep yep yep
I remember those well there that says
Jesse Watters what he thinks about this
jeez oh my god I can't take jokes
anymore
God we can't even have a lawn jockeys
anymore
I mean it is it's so telling though
isn't it that they that they would be
this nervous about an exploration of
slavery well they don't want and again
it it's not even just like them the
moral dimensions of it because they they
just don't want a historical
understanding of anything I mean
particularly slavery and race but really
anything I mean you just look at their
goat like look at how the whole war on
terrorism and Islam was always covered
right it's it's evil it's a magical
comic book story it's not a history
that's there that's their their core
it's crazy mythology ah a historic eyes
don't mythologize that's the leftist
project
