[Music]
so the plan was for today was it was
gonna take a lot more phone calls during
the free half of the show we were just
gonna do a little bit of news and then
we just got this sort of onslaught of
the president is seemingly I mean the
only thing I can imagine with what's
going on here at this point is that he
is worried about his Christian
fundamentalist base I mean assuming that
he hasn't just completely lost his mind
which is you know it's a big assumption
at this point the change in mine in
Greenland so is in play but i-i've got
to think that there is at least as
Buzard is some some broad sort of even
tactical response here to something that
they must know internally in terms of a
problem if you look at the polls over
the past couple of days he is bleeding
support from his base never mind college
educated men and women which have
deserted the Republican Party in broad
strokes non-college educated women are
deserting him significantly right now
white women I hope that goes without
saying
because it's only white people who I
mean broadly speaking who voted for vote
for Republicans I mean that's just a
statistical fact
and there's easy start anything with the
wife there's even some I mean so he's
he's bleeding support and I gotta
believe that what I've just told you is
public from Fox News poll I got to
believe that there's internal polling
that suggests that he's losing some of
his evangelical base and that's what
this this is the only thing I can
imagine what that's about because what
I'm about to
to you in in a two or three act play
here little a novelette is is it's nots
I just don't know who he thinks he's
getting with this at this point if it's
not trying to shore up the evangelical
base which really I mean obviously they
are died in the world Republican voters
so they want a justification for not
liking brown people other than just sort
of the blatant like you shouldn't like
brown people but he also is trying to
activate their Israel their love of
Israel and it gets more religious as we
go on here is Donald Trump talking about
ill on Omar and receded to live and then
getting on the Jews a little bit for not
being with the program to let them man
including the four I'm talking about all
four but these two that wanted to get in
Omar and to leave and I think would be a
very bad thing for Israel but Israel has
to do what they want to do but I would
not cut off aid to Israel and I can't
even believe that we're having this
conversation five years ago the concept
of even talking about this even three
years ago of cutting off aid to Israel
because of two people that hate Israel
and hate Jewish people I can't believe
we're even having this conversation
where is the Democratic Party God where
have they gone where they're defending
these two people over the State of
Israel and I think any Jewish people
that vote for a Democrat I think it
shows either a total lack of knowledge
or a great disloyalty alright thank you
very much everybody
now a lot of people have taken this a
lot of different ways some people have
said well he's saying that Jews are
disloyal to America and here is Rudy
Giuliani clarifying for those
- rudy guiliani says trump accuses
Jewish Democrats have great disloyalty
the New York Times this is routine for
the New York Times in J Street but
really disappointed a representative of
the anti definitely definitely
definitely because they're all saying
maybe in this I didn't read the time
specifically right up on what their that
well they're all saying that this is an
old anti-semitic trope they're accusing
Jews of disloyalty and but here's
Giuliani clarifying POTUS that's the
president United States is referring to
disloyalty to Israel you see what the
president is saying is that Jews we all
know have a loyalty to America but they
also are supposed to have a loyalty to
Israel it's both countries in other
words there's another way you say like
Jews as you know have a dual loyalty in
other words they're wandering people
they don't got no loyalty to America so
which is real - he's talking about ball
they ever do yeah - right they're
supposed to and so this is like him
basically saying like you know Jews are
supposed to be cheap and some of these
Jews aren't even cheap let me put it
this way let me put it this way let me
let me give you a friggin comparison
what if there was a law that that
Rashidah whatever came out she said Oh
incidentally I hate the Jews so not only
do I help owes Israel but I want to get
rid of all money lending operations in
the country and if a Jew were to support
that would that be very supportive of
his own people you answered me that time
I don't know the answer so in other
words a Jew himself would vote against
money lending operations so what the
president is saying is that you as a Jew
if you were to vote against say
exorbitant credit card interests as an
example you would either be stupid or
disloyal
how much both simple care this game so
there's Donald Trump I guess trying to I
don't know what he's trying to do there
but he accidentally I'm trying to start
the jig's of this I exactly he's trying
to Negus into starting the checks it is
there you go so and and and and let's be
clear whoever he to whatever country
he's saying Jews are being disloyal to
he's talking to 80% of the Jews in this
country and probably there's other
countries where that kind of message
coming from the President of the United
States is a bit worried wait a second
eighty percent of use opposes
now yeah exactly what kind of loyalty is
that I thought the Jews was supposed to
be smart right exactly very least
supposed to be good with money supposed
to know how to work the numbers all
right so there's Rudy Giuliani
clarifying things for us oh boy more
Claire mom so completely unrelated
completely unrelated to the story of
Donald Trump saying that Jews have dual
loyalty and when they don't it's a
failure on their part what network is
this this Newsmax TV invites on or no
this is he's a regular show there so in
the wake of this Wayne Allyn root goes
on to his Newsmax TV show now Wayne
Allyn root if you're not familiar with
him was a Fox News I don't know if he's
a paid contributor but he goes on there
quite a bit he's the one who broke the
story about Barack Obama being a gay
Muslim he is also the one who broke the
story about Heather hires killer being
paid by George Soros he also broke the
story I'm trying to think what else what
other stories did he break I can't
remember exactly what other stories he
broke here but nevertheless he bro
a lot of these top stories as you go
wanted really a real I want I think we
should save it but he had some very
interesting insight about the Moller
investigation oh that's right yeah I
think we have audio of that in fact
let's play some of the audio of the
Muller investigation thing just so I
give you a sense of who Wayne Allyn root
is in terms of like being a this is from
right wing watch of course our friends
over there I think Jared Holt right is
that it and here's that Wayne Allyn root
he's gonna lead in on the Muller
investigation men are from Mars Women
from Venus and Robert Mueller's from
Uranus that's the plan he must be from
this guy in my opinion I'm gonna say it
right in national TV it's penis envy
that's what it is
this guy is jealous it's like going back
to high school there were guys they okay
I mean I think I think Robert Muller is
cognitive stuff about yeah that seemed
like yes big dick energy I'm just gonna
say the Heather higher stuff and user
the Heather higher stuff is is more
offensive
I think obviously by far as stupid and
then yeah the the gay Muslim stuff so
this is Wayne Allyn root and this is
what he had to say now here he is and
and I should just tell you for those who
are not watching the the crawl on the
chyron says Jon Voight slams who does he
slam just let it go a little bit for
slams radical left and just that's as
breaking news that's breaking yeah
praises Trump as a man of truth in love
so that's that's breaking news so they
going to play that across the thing and
so here he is you can call a John Wayne
Allyn root if you want or Wayne Allyn
root if you want to all you got to do is
dial 833 war talk and here is here he is
in the wake of Donald Trump's comments
yesterday um don't forget I don't if you
haven't watched the show I happen to be
Jewish by birth and 75 percent of all
Jews vote Democrat and they don't like
Trump and this is the greatest present
for Jews and for Israel in the history
of the world not just America Trump's
the best president for Israel in the
history of the world
and the Jewish people loved him like
he's the king of Israel they love him
like he is the second coming of God and
then America American Jews don't like
them they don't even know what they're
doing or saying anymore makes no sense
but that's okay he keeps doing what he's
doing he's good for all of us but for
Jews good for blacks good for gays he's
good for everyone in America wants a job
Barney think okay now I should just tell
you I don't want to get too pedantic
here I was a religious studies
I think co-major or I can't remember but
I I did study that in school in terms of
the Jews we don't believe in a second
coming we don't actually even believe in
a first coming we don't believe in a
messiah as a god-like figure I mean you
can be a messiah just means you're like
a really smart dude essentially or you
know that you just come in and maybe is
there word again right smart man but not
I mean I guess presumably you'd have to
be Jewish but I'm not even sure about
that we have a king or a pope well there
was a time back in the day where the
Hebrews did have kings but not really so
much anymore now why would we spend time
at the beginning of the show on some
lunatic Wayne Allyn root who is a total
lunatic who exists on the margins of
society who is clearly bat-crap crazy
maybe it's just a grifter whatever they
have them on Fox News to promote this
stuff and you know who who watches
WorldNetDaily except for absolute right
wing nut genders actually like prime
news with us right well there's one
other there apparently is one other
viewer and he quote tweeted Wayne Allyn
root in fact he wrote thank you to Wayne
Allyn root for the very nice words quote
president Trump is the greatest
president for the Jews and for Israel in
the history of the world not just
America is the best present for Israel
in the history of the world dot dot and
the Jewish people in Israel love him
he's like the king of Israel they love
them like the second coming of God but
American Jews don't know him or like
them they don't even know what they're
doing or saying anymore it makes no
sense that's okay if he keeps doing what
he's doing he's good for the all Jews
blacks gays everyone and importantly
he's good for everyone in America who
wants a job there's a second come on
oh no Wow Wow
now the WoW the WoW is his comment and
of course this is from the president the
United States has either instructed
someone to transcribe ordered the
transcriptions - out cupped I mean
someone probably helped him do this but
the president the United States it's not
just retweeting he is literally over the
course of three tweets quote tweeting
this absolute lunatic look at what
brother Zion once said on YouTube
anybody who hates Obama is a white devil
with a corroded it's s written parade
anybody who wants a job Devils blacks
African Asiatic men love Obama Wow
that's all right now transcribe it
myself
Steven I love the quote that this that
this has to be this has to be a function
of them feeling like their evangelical
support is caving it's the only thing I
can imagine I mean or just I mean that
is a real miracle though right look it's
it's it's unbelievable it's unbelievable
- the incredible disloyalty that Jews
are displaying by not supporting Donald
Trump and voting for Democrats Bernie
Sanders as you may know a bit Jewish
himself but if you are Jewish
I gather to be a loyal American you got
a vote for Donald Trump and Republicans
well let me say this to the president I
am a proud Jewish person and I have no
concerns about voting Democratic and in
fact I intend to vote for a Jewish man
to become the next president of the
United States
Halla there you go that's awesome
now again according to Rudy Giuliani
Bernie Sanders was wrong it was not
about loyalty to America it was about
Jews failing to live up to their
expected dual loyalty that they have for
both Israel and for America and are not
placing Israel properly enough in the
decision-making matrix when they vote in
terms of you know supporting the
right-wing Israeli government so nice
statement Bernie but wrong sorry
so look brothers Sadat acts Asiatic
African one anyone who hates Obama must
be grafted by a pig everybody who loves
him or those who want jobs no matter
devil or full human Wow
[Laughter]
