so ari let me ask you this how is it
that the Supreme Court can be taking
these two cases one from North Carolina
one from Maryland when they punted on
Gil V Whitford which was the case out of
Wisconsin now did they they didn't they
I guess did not have the opportunity to
see the results from the 2018 election
where you had 54% of the people going to
the polls voting for a Democrat and
Democrats winning only thirty six of the
hundred seats in the Wisconsin State
Legislature that I mean just off the
back of a you know off the top of my
head that means that each Democrat who
voted had a vote that was worth only 66%
of every vote for a Republican I mean
how is that did do you let me put it
this way do you think if Kennedy had
seen that result that maybe this would
have been a more compelling case for
them so it mean there was evidence
though that was very much like that in
the Wisconsin case already because it
happened in 2012 and 2012 Democrats got
something like 40 52 percent of the vote
in Wisconsin and we're only able to get
30-something percent of the of the seat
so this has already happened was
continent and indeed in another case
they heard in North Carolina just
recently something very similar happened
so Democrats in North Carolina got 49%
of the vote so it wasn't quite a
majority it was very close to majority
Democratic candidates for Congress in
North Carolina got 49 percent of the
votes but Republicans got 75 percent of
the seats so dramatic basically it's a
50-50 state but one party's getting 75
percent of congressional seats and of
course they also come in to election
fraud when it won another seat there and
so and and what's amazing live in North
Carolina cases is a guy who drew it the
state reprobate just admitted what he
was doing he said I'm just going to give
you a quote he said I propose that we
draw the maps to give a partisan
advantage to ten Republicans and three
Democrats because I do not believe it's
possible to draw a map with 11
Republicans and two Democrats right so
admitting his criteria is
give me a map that's 10 3 then he says I
admit this is a partisan gerrymander
which is not illegal so it's like okay
well clearly you think that the Supreme
Court's just gonna bail you out here
because you're you're stating your
attentions in an incredibly honest way
usually you try to make up some sort of
execute right as to why you were
gerrymandering here's your saying we're
gerrymandering this is what I want to do
I want 10 10 Republicans and I want
three Democrats even though North
Carolina's a 50/50 state and so that
case is now before the Supreme Court and
yeah well the Maryland case didn't seem
that disturbed to go ahead the Maryland
case is one where the Democrats
supposedly gerrymandered for political
advantage yes
well they didn't supposedly do it they
definitely did do it
Democrats have done this too they don't
they haven't done it as badly as the
Republicans have and they don't control
as many states as a Republicans have but
Democrats did it too in Maryland they
took a district that was basically a
rural Republican district they drew
66,000 Republicans out of the district
they moved 24,000 Democrats into the
district they moved it all the way up to
Washington DC suburbs from rural
Maryland and they created a very
reliably Democratic district and the one
that is 7 to 1 now Maryland's
congressional delegation is 7 to 1
Democratic to Republican now Maryland is
a blue state but nonetheless that is
still well beyond I think what what
Democrats should have there it's
interesting so you had two cases before
the Supreme Court
you had a North Carolina case where the
Republicans were gerrymandering and in a
case of Maryland were the Democrats were
Jerry granitic now of course the Supreme
Court's conservative justices seem
serious about the Democratic
gerrymandering in Maryland
John Roberts was based like how could
you discriminate against Democrats now
that seems like the height of cynicism
to say that you're going to potentially
strike down a democratic gerrymander in
Maryland but not a Republican one in
North Carolina but what my feeling is
that
any sort of opinion striking down
gerrymandering will be good for
Democrats even if it's one that strikes
down one of their districts because
it'll say that the Supreme Court will
say there are some limits on this
process and then Democrats can use that
in the future to challenge to challenge
other Republican chair manners at least
that's the only hope here because the
justices basically said when when we
count with the same stats that you did
Sam where you said oh how could you have
a situation where it's 54 percent
Democratic because they only get 36
percent of seats what the conservative
justices said well what do you want
proportional representation
they said this is 72 times Wow oral
argument proportional representation
report I was writing it and I'm like how
am I like there write this phrase I just
kept writing PR after a while because
they just kept saying it so many times
and so like they have invented this
crazy boogeyman to try to justify these
insane gerrymanders and and that's the
problem here and in Kennedy was didn't
do anything but there's no sign that
Brett Kavanaugh is gonna be any better
than he is
all right we have about two and a half
minutes left the other concern it seems
does that there's indications and
correct me if I'm wrong that not only
does the conservatives on the court feel
that it is there is no amount of
partisan gerrymandering that can in any
way abridge someone's you know right to
vote or equal protection in terms of the
the value of their vote but they also
are starting to indicate that they do
not believe that the state any state can
in some way outsource the decision to
how to draw districts to an independent
commission right because the the that
they are saying not only do we not think
it's impossible to abridge people's
right to vote but that we can only have
a system that invites that yeah so this
is another really interesting part of
the oral arguments which is that Neil
Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh
talked about how states were adopting
independent redistricting Commission's
as a reason why the Supreme Court didn't
need to get involved they said well if
these Commission's are going to exist
why is the court need to get involved
the states are solving it for themselves
the problem is that in 2015 the Supreme
Court heard a challenge to Arizona's
independent Redistricting Commission
which draws commissions in a
non-partisan way for congressional seats
and four conservative justices voted
including John Roberts to gut that
Commission so the ultimate siddik could
say that what the Supreme Court's
conservative justices are trying to do
here is say a we're not going to hear it
because we're not going to do anything
about gerrymandering because already
states are drawing Commission's to solve
the problems but then we are going to
turn around and gut those very
Commission's as an infringement on state
legislative power that would be an
unbelievable act of cynicism and
hypocrisy by the conservative justice
but here we are I mean they seem to be
invoking I was going to say I was going
to say I will we'll have you back on
when they make that very decision which
would this Court would not shock me but
we're out of time Ari Berman we'll keep
our eye on this I know that we will we
will hear about the these cases one way
or another by by July and we'll have you
back on to discuss at that point what we
do next if if we are doomed to have
these type of completely unbalanced
federal elections are a Behrman always a
pleasure
