[Music]
this is Donald Trump echoing basically
what Turkey is threatening Turkey is
saying if you even use the rhetoric of
occupation which of this 1,000 percent
is if you as the Europeans use this
rhetoric we will open up we will
basically turn over three million Syrian
refugees into Europe now the story
behind this is this is a partnership of
the Europeans cut a deal with Turkey to
absorb about 3.6 million Syrian refugees
fleeing the Syrian civil war now in
Turkey number one they're living in
mostly very bad conditions and there but
they've also you know as communities do
they've proliferated across Turkey and
Istanbul and so on so there's a
political volatility to it and there is
a rising xenophobic sentiment toward
Syrians in Turkey as well this is a very
classical European move right like let's
instigate something have an incoherent
but hawkish policy then sort of diss
curse humanitarian concerns and then
hopefully outsource the problem
somewhere else
now the migration situation overall in
Europe is different and in some ways
more complicated I think that would be
foolish to not acknowledge that however
there's a whole set of deals like this
and even if you look at the work with
Omar al-bashir the former Sudanese
leader who was one and internationally
for war crimes goes from being a pariah
of the sort of do-gooder international
community and rightfully so to somebody
that is being worked with closely to
terrorize African migrants and keep
migration flows from moving from Africa
through the Mediterranean
so air Dhawan is basically saying if you
even use rhetoric I don't like about the
slaughter that I'm commencing in in
northern Syria in Kurdish areas and
again there's nothing I mean it's
happening right in front of your face
and in 2018 the same thing happened in
Efrain except it was the Russians that
sold out the Kurds instead of the
Americans now freeing the Kurds gave up
on more quickly because it was more
geographically isolated and they chose
to withdraw but they went in they
slaughtered civilians they brought
people out of their homes and the idea
was frankly to re-engineer the
population so it wasn't a
kurdish-dominated city and they cut a
deal with the Russians who had been
partnering with the Kurds in that area
the Russians sold the Kurds out and now
Donald Trump and the Americans sell the
Kurds out this is Donald Trump echoing
in his own way some of the same talking
points that air21 has except this is
with specifically with regards to Isis
captives Steve Isis fighters escape and
pose a threat elsewhere well they're
gonna be escaping to Europe that's where
they want to go they want to go back to
their homes but Europe didn't want them
from us we could have given it to them
they could have had trials they could
have done whatever they wanted but as
usual it's not reciprocal you know my
favorite word reciprocal that's all I
want I don't want an edge I just want
reciprocal and it's not reciprocal Steve
it's not a fair deal for the United
States and when President Obama took the
PK key you know what they when they
bring in PKK that's a tough deal because
that's been a mortal enemy of Turkey so
when you bring them in into a
partnership it's a tough situation
because it's tough for Turkey it's
probably tough for them that they
they've hated each other for many many
years for hundreds of years I mean it's
an amazing when you look at history and
you look at culture but you look at the
length of the time and the fighting for
so long
it's always clear this war odds
Pataki on the phone with ya in that
thing about they've been fighting these
battles for millennium that is vintage
Iraq war like a minimize the Iraq war
that's it well that's also that's the oh
man
israeli-palestinian conflict it's just
intractable it's nobody's fault there's
just history they're just living in
history man oh the Israelis just bombed
the UN school I mean no that's been
going on going on for two I remember
that yeah 2,000 years ago the Muslims
bombed the UN school so you know look
again let's just do a little bit of
primer the Kurds are systemically
oppressed in Turkey they have been
historically in fact there was actually
some real reforms with both negotiating
with the PKK and introducing some basic
cultural autonomy and rights for the
Kurds in the first era DeWanna
administration's that abruptly started
to shift in 2015 because of another
piece of the story here the HDP which is
a social democratic party which
advocates not only for kurdish rights
but also really for social democracy and
labor and feminism and ecology in Turkey
they performed very well in elections
since them there their leaders have been
made political prisoners by the air
Diwan regime and they've been
criminalized as a party and there is no
meaningful opposition to this because
the other you know the traditional
Turkish parties everyone is not a
traditional Turkish leader he came from
the emergent Muslim wing which was
violently opposed by the Terek the
Turkish secular Ataturk tradition but
the Ataturk tradition does not has has
even more deplorable policies towards
the Kurds in fact it was reported today
that every single former living Prime
Minister has called up or president I
wait no prime minister everyone I
believe is the president now he had
served as prime minister that there's
been some sort of rejiggering of roles
to expand his power but former Turkish
leaders have called him
and affirm their support for these
operations there is a uniformity of
nationalism and brutality to the Kurds
and Turkish politics again has the PKK
going back in decades of struggle
engaged in what we could call terrorism
and I'll say really specifically
terrorism in my view is is a targeting
of civilian targets period and and and
we have to say that that is wrong just
as I mean we have to say that that is
wrong by the way period and that of
course implicates the United States as a
major global war criminal it certainly
implicates Israel it certainly
implicates Turkey it certainly
implicates India probably not a single
major nation-state and groups of people
resisting have an absolute right even
under international law if they're
dealing with a foreign occupier which I
guess in in the pka's case it would not
be but they certainly have a moral
legitimacy in fighting occupying armies
and engaging militarily and gorillas and
a subversion that way III have no
problem with that whatsoever and I think
if you're sitting in somewhere like the
United States and you're passing
judgment on that I think that that's you
know delusional and ridiculous targeting
specifically of civilians absolutely
needs to be condemned categorically no
matter who's doing it and the PKK has
done that at certain times however their
broader claim is correct the Kurds are
oppressed period and also the PKK and
the SDF are not precisely the same thing
there are as overlap there is shared
directional leadership from all Jalan by
the way is in prison so there is some
operational constraints on supposed
uniformity of this coalition here all
Jalan is in jail he is in a Turkish
prison in fact oddly enough he was
allowed to release a letter by air to
one a couple of months ago before the
mayoral elections in Istanbul but he is
not operationally in control he has let
his followers know that his intellect
actual his political ideology is shifted
radically because he read a
brooklyn-born Vermont living anarchist
named Murray Bookchin and one of them oh
and that has significantly changed the
experiment in row Java and we can absorb
by the way I don't understand when
people you know this whole language of
perfection is crazy to me yes literally
nobody is first of all no thing is
perfect I guess like unless we're
talking about platonic forms or
something okay or stuff yeah all right
oh look at Big Shot Aristotle over here
later yeah
Plato said it was perfect it was perfect
so and you know do the are the Kurds
savvy at PR have they made mistakes you
know you know did some people over
romanticize them obviously but is this
an enormous ly positive development in
an experiment in the overall grand
scheme of Kurdish autonomy and rights as
well as political innovation obviously I
mean that's just undeniable in terms of
reality I mean it's amazing when you
look at history that's what I'm saying
exactly so when you when you look at
history you know it's amazing a certain
sense so you know I think that it's very
important at the very least now to not
echo Turkish or Trump talking points
about what's happening well we are
literally mid slaughter now if people in
the United States who were supposedly
supportive of the Kurds in a genuine
sense and not just as partners against
Isis and people like Marco Rubio could
care less about the slaughter or the
political experiment it goes without
saying and and you know all of the
mainline Democrats and everything else
then yes as Marc Ames pointed out you
would have to look at supporting a
broader diplomatic process which almost
certainly would involve some type of
partnership with Assad again even as
Assad is a war criminal the reality of a
lot of these situations is that
agreements are gonna be established
between people who have blood on their
hands that's what the former South
African president Thabo Mbeki said in
2012
at the outset he said you know the
international community comes in and
let's be real it is usually Europeans
demanding an arrest of primarily
Africans but in this case it is people
rightfully saying yes Assad is putting
down a rebellion he's committing crimes
against humanity he runs an
authoritarian regime all of these things
by the way are undeniable i I don't have
any time for you know trying to to
whitewash the nature of the Assad
government that's ridiculous but he also
has a serious coalition and constituency
behind and that has been endlessly
proven and some of the Opposition was
leftist and organic that was crushed and
smoked out and as well as the popular
uprising and then the classic pattern in
the CIA and the Gulf states end up
funding a huge amount of money to
far-right Muslim groups with a agenda
that certainly if you were religious
minority in Syria you'd be terrified of
not just of Isis that's also reality so
an embeds
when he was negotiating in back-channel
negotiations to end apartheid if the
international community came in and
arrested FW de Klerk and other apartheid
leaders would they be right to
definitionally if you had the apartheid
regime you're guilty of multiple crimes
against humanity but Sabo was like I
can't have them go they're mine ago she
ating partners this is a political
process we need to actually establish a
deal here and you know similarly in a
real actual situation that may be the
only pivot point and and you know and
that was of course would be blocked by
the United States because that's still
u.s. policy to have this regime change
effort even under Trump even as that
actually hasn't even practically been
the policy going back to 2014 and 15
when all of the military effort turned
and focused on Isis so it's incoherent
bottom line is is that this is an act of
Turkish imperialism this is horrific on
a humanitarian level and we should have
solidarity with
the RO shava Kurtz
