sadly I don't think Americans broadly
speaking have enough understanding of
the dynamics that are taking place in
India but we have obviously for since
the you know British occupation of India
we have this this tension in India
between some Hindus and some of the
Hindu population and the Muslim
population and the Christian population
and it has been a relatively uneasy
I guess coexistence one could say and
Modi is elected in 2014 he comes from a
background that the very least seems to
be Hindu nationalist friendly he was
restricted entry into the United States
because of his participation or at least
failure to stop the 2002 Quadra Gujarat
riots which led to some mass killings
when he was elected in 2014 he was
obviously allowed admission it to the
United States because he's now Prime
Minister sorry so take it from there
what does this have to do with Tulsi
Gabbard so interestingly a lot apart
from the funding that I told you about
so in 2000 only 2011 some of the garbage
earliest donors were executives of
organizations that are the US
counterparts of Hindu nationalist
organizations in India that is one thing
the other thing is Kofi Gabbard has has
shared the dies and has been on the
platform of a lot of these Hindu
nationalist organizations operating
within the United States including the
OS BJP which is the oversee strength of
the BJP which is more this body whose
sole purpose is to is to influence the
in desparate population to vote for the
BJP in India so not always BJP members
when
to India to campaign Indian Americans
went to India to campaign for Narendra
Modi's election much before it happened
and poopy gathered at one event in
Atlanta Georgia praise them for all
their efforts in campaigning for Modi
Express picture now not just that the
national spokesperson for the been
national spokesperson called the RSS in
2013 even before Lucy Gabbard was even
before during the Modi was elected to
power in 2014 in 2013 for the artist met
with Lucy Gabbard he later was present
at his acting thing I was very intimate
wedding in Hawaii with a person gift
from Allah and Modi you know apart from
that all these signs were also a
closeness to not just Hindu American but
the nationalist segments of in the
present in the United States who are
actively lobbying cornering the Modi and
for his politics so show me give me a
sense of what the US government's
perspective is so we're not talking
about we're not talking about the actual
parties that exist in India when we talk
about their representatives here but
we're talking about their almost like
their cousins their cousin or sister
groups that are us-based that send money
back that sends support back that may be
involved in strategic planning what is
the US government's perspective on these
groups because we have you know we
certainly have had sort of analogies on
some level right where we have groups
that are supposedly supportive of Hamas
or groups that were supposedly
supportive of the IRA and we're not this
is not to say these Hindu nationalist
groups are are terrorist organizations
but we're but give me a sense of
relative to those analogies where where
do these groups fit in and what is the
American government's perspective on
these groups that are based in the
United States well Sam
PHP which is a very significant
international group in India is termed
as a militant religious group by the CIA
last year to Isabelle Randall the RSS is
filmed as a as a nationalist
organization by the CIA and the V HPA is
for instance the V HPA is this American
counterpart now everybody from including
the president of the HPA to a lot of his
past and present executive members have
donated to Tulsi Gabbard and she has
shared the stage with on unlost
bhp even events with a lot of bhp
executives and and they have actively
fundraised for her so the US government
perspective is to see they're all 501 C
organizations they're all registered as
religious and used as their tactics
action standing at all the benefits that
any other 501 C organizations get in
America they're legal in that they're
legal but they are affiliated in that
they are the sister organizations of
these very problematic groups in India
that are also termed as militant
religious organizations by the CIA
so you know it's it's more its murky and
it's not as clear-cut but with that said
Tulsi Gabbard has these relationships
she's both has a public relationship or
she has in the past you write about her
her willingness to sort of like a top
line at one point the I think it was she
would be chairing the 2018 world Hindu
Congress or organized by the V HPA and
the RSS and then she quietly withdrew in
2018 in the beginning of 2018 or mid
2018 all right well let me ask you this
because we only have about a minute and
a half left as she ever like addressed
these questions as she ever had to be
held to account because I imagine in
Hawaii this is not a prominent issue and
like you said in terms of of large Hindu
or
Indian populations within America IIIi
don't you mention Hawaii's not one of
them so I imagine this is not something
that comes up you know local media is
not necessarily sensitive to this has
she ever had to address this stuff so
internationally when when the reporting
started coming out and it's been coming
out since 2015 mine was just one of the
people who think I was very recently
nota not religion yet servicing this is
bigotry and calling and you know as I
get donations from Hindu individuals and
the first single in Congress well nobody
is questioning that and all minority
populations can organize and vote for
their candidate that's welcome we're not
talking about him to Americans we talk
about some nationalist elements within
every religion and together has done
that by saying that you know the people
questioning my ties to Hindus are bigger
than our races so that is her response
which is basically she's she's it's a
classic political diversity tactics and
I I really expect her to address the
substance of the reporting that has done
not engage in such tables retarted well
I suspect if she goes she gains any type
of prominence within the Democratic
primary this is going to be one of those
questions that she's got to have a
strong answer for and in the meantime
Sonia thank you so much for your your
coming on and discussing it with us and
your reporting
