[Music]
one other moment where Louise Whitaker
is questioned by Veronica Escobar she's
a Democrat from Texas and I think that's
a room border district there's a new
policy we talked about this briefly last
week where called remain in Mexico
it basically says to refugees we are no
longer you no longer come to the states
to go through the process of declaring
or seeking refugee status you've got to
stay in Mexico now I get knew the
problem with this is that to the extent
that a lot of these people have
relatives in the United States they know
that they they have a place to go while
they wait to find out their disposition
in terms of their refugee status
it is also significantly safer in the
United States for them there is a reason
why these people travel in caravans it
is because they're afraid to travel as
individuals and the fears can range from
anywhere from I would imagine the gangs
that they are trying to avoid in their
home cities and countries perhaps the
domestic abuse that they have suffered
they're trying to avoid the United
States basically issued a new rule that
said you can't come in here that we're
gonna set up an office in Mexico where
you apply for asylum it is the most
radical change to asylum practices that
we've had in this country in the history
of its country here is Veronica Escobar
asking Matthew Whitaker about it the guy
who would oversee this process from the
DOJ the Department of Justice oversees
the executive office for immigration
in review will the Department of Justice
ensure that asylum seekers have access
to counsel in Mexico in order to allow
them to prepare for their hearings yes
or no we're going to continue to follow
the policies of a tea or that are
currently in place will you facilitate
assist help ensure that asylum seekers
have access to legal counsel in Mexico
yes or no congresswoman there is a very
well-defined process for asylum seekers
to obtain counsel and we're gonna
continue to follow that I sure would
occur even while they're in Mexico as
the acting Attorney General I cannot
make an assurance especially regarding
what happens in a foreign country I mean
I I know you understand that and this is
part of the reason why this is such a
terrible policy another so in other
words US statute say that we we have to
provide a legitimate system for
adjudication which involves providing
some form of representation for these
folks and the way that we're avoiding
that is like well our hands are tied
it's happening in Mexico why is it
happening in Mexico cuz we moved it to
Mexico that's basically what we're
seeing there oh you know that's it's a
real shame apparently they don't have
the the capacity in Mexico to deal with
this but there's nothing we can do we
don't control Mexico hey we're all for
legal immigration in the Republican
Party
totally I'd like to take this
opportunity said I spoil immigration
thank you very much oh my God he's such
a tough guy so Jeff protect me like a
football player big guy
