[Music]
alright lastly let's just check in on
this Judge Napolitano because obviously
there was and I'm still winding my way
through the Muller report it is quite
clear there's a couple things about the
the Millar thing because obviously there
was we had a little contention here and
we're gonna have Marcy wheeler on some
time I think coming a week or two as
soon as we just worked the scheduling
out to go over what we now know is in
the Mahler report and there's a couple
of things clear obviously nothing has
changed in terms of the way that some
elements of the media some elements of
the Democratic Party you know played
this at least in terms of the the Muller
investigation we still don't know what's
in the intelligence investigation and I
suspect we're gonna know more the bar
obviously from an intelligence
accusation is lower than it is from a
criminal investigation but there was a
couple of things that were quite clear
in the wake of the Muller report one is
that there was evidence of collusion but
not enough to substantiate a conviction
there was and by collusion because there
is no criminal definition of collusion
which we have also you know been aware
of for a long time the only thing that
could have been charged would have been
if the Trump campaign actively worked
with Russian government officials to do
what Russian government officials did in
the campaign so if they like here's a
computer that you could use to go and
hack into Florida's election system oh
really thank you bro I love it all the
computers are you guys should target
these Facebook groups that would have
been necessary to prove based upon the
conspiracy charges what what clearly did
happen according to the Muller report is
that the campaign was aware of what the
Russians were doing and the Russians
were aware that the campaign wanted them
to and were willing to do stuff and it
was just one of those things where it's
like two people realized they have
aligned incentives and we don't need to
do anything we just have the guy go out
and say keep doing it Russia if you've
got those thirty thousand emails that
would be good and Russia can say we like
you know what the Trump's the making
deals right we make meat making deals
it's that this is more just like the
sort of the type of corruption that we
rail against every single day like Joe
Biden going to a Comcast you know
lobbyist I mean it's it's basically that
kind of stuff
one would think that as the head of a
presidential campaign you would say like
hey you're a foreign government you
really shouldn't be doing this as
opposed to like keep doing it so the
obstruction charge we also know that
Muller explicitly said we can't charge
anything we can't charge the president
with anything because of the DOJ office
of legal counsel so there is a
constitutional process to deal with
these things
what is that constitutional process well
go read the Constitution it's called
impeachment it's called Congress to look
at it so bill Barr did subvert what
Muller wanted to have happen and
anticipate it would happen which would
be that the obstruction charges would go
to Congress there's obviously a lot more
in the report but those are the big
takeaways in terms of those two issues
the other in terms of the critiques you
know and I'm looking back to the
I wouldn't call what happened with
Michael Tracy in any way enlightening
other than his that it was gonna take
spend ten minutes to tell me that he
didn't he was agnostic about the
starting of this investigation that he
thinks is actually like World War three
starting now
but if it was the case that Donald Trump
was specifically acting more you know
belligerent towards Russia than
necessary because of this pressure
because he was reacting to the pressure
from the Muller investigation which he
must have known would completely
exonerate him because he knew that he
didn't do anything
then I guess we would see you know
broader overtures or more peace now
would be breaking out now that it's now
that the public is exonerated him or in
some way the idea that this was a gift
to Donald Trump the Democrats and the
news media gave Donald Trump an
electoral gift is not borne out by any
of the data Donald Trump's favorability
rating is about as low as it's been the
number of people who have voted vote
against him is about as high as it's
been the number of people thinks he was
lying about Russia and that this report
makes him look bad as bad as high as it
could be the idea that this was a gift
of Donald Trump if that's one of your
talking points as to why there should
have been nothing but skepticism around
this investigation I'm sorry
it just doesn't bear out this
investigation has uncovered a tremendous
amount of corruption this investigation
would not have done so likely were not
for the premise in which it was launched
there wouldn't have been a special
prosecutor
I mean so it's uncovered a tremendous
amount of corruption it's also
continuing to do so there are many other
investigations that were thrown out that
were basically placed out of this
primary investigation so if this
investigation do not have happened you
would not have found these other
investigations you would not have had
these other ongoing investigations
obviously there were excesses in the
media coverage but largely it seems to
me that and I don't think those
critiques are invalid but it's it really
is like obsessing over the graphics and
the music used for the invasion of early
Iraq war that the media is using yeah
disgusting wrong shouldn't happen part
of a bigger problem a societal disease
etc etc but there was also the war was
also you know for a highly problematic
and if you start to look into the
substance of this stuff I think it was
always you know sort of ridiculous to
assume that that that the Trump campaign
had the facility to help Russia in their
involvement in the campaign whether you
think it had any material impact or not
I mean I guess conceivably we still
don't know why the polling data was
given to a guy with connections to the
Russian government we'll never know
because manna fort lied about that
and we don't know why it was necessary
for manna for to lie and pretend like he
was you know working with the government
when in fact he was feeding information
to the Trump administration
we just don't know but III don't know
and if you don't believe me why not
believe a guy who would be extremely
skeptical as to whether there was law
breaking that took place and whether you
can actually be charged with obstruction
if you can't prove an underlying crime
so when the president asked his former
adviser and my former colleague and Fox
KT McFarland to write an untruthful
letter to the file knowing the
government would subpoena it that's
obstruction of justice when the
president has corey lewandowski his
former campaign manager to get Muller
and fired that's obstruction of justice
when the president asked his then White
House Counsel to get Muller fired and
then lie about it that's obstruction of
justice when he has to under gaen to go
back to the Special Counsel and change
his testimony that's obstruction of
justice when he dangled a pardon in
front of Michael Cohen in order to keep
Cohen from testifying against him that's
obstruction of justice why not charge
him because the Attorney General of the
United States would have blocked such a
charge because the Attorney General of
the United States is of the view that
obstruction of justice can only occur if
you're interfering with a criminal
investigation of yourself but that's not
what the obstruction statute says and
that's not what law enforcement police
and that's not what prosecutors do
prosecutors prosecute people who
interfere with government functions
that's what the President did by
obstruction where's this going to end we
don't know but I'm disappointed in the
behavior of the president his job is to
preserve protect and defend the
Constitution of the United States to
uphold and to enforce federal law not to
violate it if he had ordered his aides
to violate federal law to save a human
life or to preserve human freedom he
would at least have a moral defense to
his behavior but ordering them to break
federal law to save him from the
consequences of his own behavior that is
immoral that is criminal
that is defenseless and that is
condemnable now that is Democratic
congressman no wait a sec I'm sorry that
is MSNBC host no wait a second no that
is Judge Napolitano on Fox News and in
fact they wouldn't even let him shoot
that in the building apparently they had
to shoot it out in the street on Sixth
Avenue both grab the intern I think I
knew who I want to shoot him Muller
anticipated Congress looking at these
questions of obstruction and bill Barr
who was picked because he did a 19 page
memo describing why obstruction could
not exist in this contact without even
knowing the facts as a matter of law
can't exist because if it's the case if
it's the case and now a trump is
refusing to let any of his people
testify in front of Congress it
basically the argument is basically if
Muller was not allowed to give this to
Congress and the Justice Department says
you cannot indict a sitting president
basically what we have is a situation
where there is ZERO legal accountability
for a sitting president
nobody has ever asserted that well maybe
Nixon but nobody has ever asserted this
in their right mind has ever asserted
this and by by preventing Congress from
looking specifically at that obstruction
case that is the subtext of the argument
now Congress is going to hopefully
continue to investigate and I hope we
get proceedings
I mean look impeachment is a process
right do I think they should have an
impeachment vote anytime soon no and I
think they should continue and
investigate because let the American
public see what really have a sense of
what's going on and see if they come
around on impeachment because you it's a
political
and at the very least holding them to
account by investigating making this
stuff public personally I am very much
in favor of impeach the guy once he's
out of office in 2020 2021 I would feel
much more comfortable about saving the
impeachment hearings for that but
