Mark Zuckerberg trying to make a an
argument that that that that that
technology is empowering and here's the
this is I mean this is to some extent
what he's saying is true but you also
need to realize that he's saying this in
service of maintaining an oligarchy
right it is like you we're gonna give
you here's the deal we're gonna bake
this big cake and you're gonna get some
crumbs from it and that's more than you
had before because it is true that it
democratizes things like Twitter and
Facebook and whatnot that democracies is
sort of the the the discourse a little
bit I mean you have platforms they get
created but at the end of the day the
power it what it also is doing it is
allowing the concentration of power so
that that discourse becomes less
relevant in super important questions
it is a Fifth Estate alongside the other
power structures in our society then you
know people no longer have to rely on
traditional gatekeepers in politics or
media to make their voices heard and and
that has important consequences and I
understand the concerns that people have
about how tech platforms have have
centralized power but I actually believe
that a much bigger story is how much
these platforms have decentralized power
by putting it directly into people's
hands it's it's part of this amazing
expansion of voice that we've
experienced through law and culture and
now technology as well all right you
know what's interesting is it yes it is
it has enhanced people's voices but he
doesn't really make it clear on how
they've enhanced people's power because
he says on one hand the bigger story is
not these massive concentrations of
power because I'm sitting atop a
billions worth of
of dollars and an asset that can change
all of this and I can actually switch a
lot of stuff by just futzing with the
algorithms the bigger story is that
people now can have their own personal
brands and can can talk and be heard and
that may be a bigger story for the
individual on some level right like for
me yes like I am on YouTube and that's a
conversation in like 2008 that's not
what it is today
exactly there's no you know that's like
like the you know the Chamber of
Commerce selling small businesses
meanwhile these small businesses are
being eaten up by monopolies that's not
the conversation people are having today
and and let's not forget those voices
what he packages as free speech was
actually free content for him and that's
what how he was able to build his power
and monopolize this industry if I wanted
to start a Facebook tomorrow that
wouldn't happen if I wanted to start
anything tomorrow on a technological
platform it would either be eaten up
right away or there's just no way to
raise the capital to be able to complete
they're just sorry tech entrepreneurs I
hate to break it to you you missed your
opportunity like that's where we are
today
the headline for him is that he figured
out how to make money off of the things
people do in the course of their
day-to-day lives in a way it's a form of
primitive accumulation right he's it's
like it's like the gold rush he's broken
new ground there was a sector of life
the capital had not yet found a way to
intrude upon and extract value from and
he figured it out so when you might be
normally sitting around talking to your
friends around on the internet
whatever whatever these are social
reproductive activities you do for free
he's figured out how to monetize it and
make us all his workers basically the
key adjectives he used is traditional
gatekeepers because he can't just write
the word gatekeepers and he's got to
worry about the time where people stop
looking at Facebook as this new tech
thing and people realize that oh that's
just another gatekeeper in itself will
you just pull up some audio of Donald
Trump jr. because these guys sound
almost identical it's just the
Zuckerberg sounds like Donald Trump jr.
would if he was on ecstasy where I just
didn't feel like
he's got a little bit more sort of like
breath and a little bit more feigned
excitement like I'm gonna try and make
you excited about this new frontier that
yeah here we go play play plate now wait
to play Zuckerberg and then play play
Trump he looks like a Star Trek in the
world yeah it is a Fifth Estate
alongside the other power structure is
in our society okay now do it when
you're the father and your son's
entire career is dependent on that right
Onew Shawn that's what he's just a
little bit more angry Inc and he's not
trying to sell he's trying to incite
people yeah
all right we got time for just a couple
of phone calls and then we got to get
out of here folks
