[Music]
speaking of concentration camps it to be
fair these are not concentration camps
that are housing migrant children they
are just large open-air prisons that
because concentration would would imply
that you have gathered people from
around the country and put them in as
opposed to sort of like just arresting
them at the border and shoving them in
it's a it's a ice doesn't rest people
all over the country that's true but
they don't put them in these detention
these child detention centers that now
you'll recall there was a large
expansion of child detention centers
under the Trump administration largely
under the auspices of of John Kelly
now John Kelly was the adult who was
brought in to curb Donald Trump's most
heinous impulses and of course he was
one of those Republicans who was an
adult and adult Republicans that's what
they're good for they're they're good
for corralling the crazies in their own
party and as much as John Kelly had to
sort of pretend that he was all on board
with this huge program of of kidnapping
children and taking them from their
parents or expanding the unaccompanied
minor children eight definition and a
number of people that we were housing in
parentheses and the way that we expanded
the definition was to take children from
their parents and then define them as
unaccompanied as opposed to children who
show up at the border without their
parents and we expanded the population
of these people within the our prison
systems by basically scaring any of
their relatives who in this country
might pick them up and
take care of them during any type of
judicial process that would determine
these kids fate now one might ask like
wow this is a real burden on the
government well of course it's not
because we just pay other people to do
it now of course it's a burden on the
taxpayer and but we privatize these
institutions in fact there's one company
Caliburn International Caliburn is the
parent company of comprehensive health
services which operates the homestead
facility in Homestead Florida this is a
and three other shelters for
unaccompanied migrant children in Texas
in fact they're the biggest company that
does so they almost have a monopoly on
this could they have a more Orwellian
name comprehensive health services is
the only private company operating
shelters and it became one of the most
dominant players in the industry last
August had secured three licenses for
facilities in Texas totaling five
hundred beds and in December the
homestead facility began expanding from
a capacity of 1250 beds to 3,200 they
received federal contract records show
the comprehensive received at least two
hundred and twenty two million dollars
to operate homestead itself between July
7th 2018 and April 20th 2019 so that's
one of four
of facilities it's the biggest one that
gets two hundred and twenty-two million
dollars to operate over the course of
one year not even one year ten months
and could receive much more up to three
hundred forty-one million in payments
between now and November now being out
of a May and November for continued
operation of the expanded site boy how
do these guys do it where do they get
the technical expertise or the ability
to secure this money from the government
one can only want oh what's this
huh on Friday Caliburn international
confirmed to CBS News that John Kelly
former White House chief of staff and
adult Republican adult had joined its
board of directors nice gig if you can
get it create a program to increase
client client base that's what they call
them they're all clients the market
share and then go walk on that board and
now I'm sure there's a lot of work he
does he was just spotted riding around
on a golf cart on the facility that's
that probably takes a day I mean a Board
of Directors typically my understanding
is you will have three to four meetings
that you must attend in a probably
fairly nice retreat area where you get
to hobnob with your friends or other
business folk for a day or two they fly
you in they put you up they pay you
hundreds of thousands of dollars per
meeting that you attend and you sign off
on stuff I'm sure I'm sure he's making
sure I'm sure he's doing a lot of due
deal you guys making sure that these
kids are taken care of ethics that's the
number one word I'm concerned about
exactly during a tour in February a
program coordinator at Homestead told
CBS News that the older children prefer
cavernous digs
because this is a halls shared by as
many as two hundred seventeen year old
boys in rows of beds about
shoulder-width apart the program
coordinator told CBS that they like it
they say it's like a slumber party are
you kidding me
so there you got folks it's like Oh
grotesque a slumber party
that's the sound of the swamp being
drained there was you could admit
there's very little on the public record
to suggest that this is an obscene human
being I believe this was from the not
unbelievable the Coast Guard graduation
that was in safe there's certainly
things not like this on the public
record indicating where this guy was
coming this is Kelly at the Coast Guard
graduation ceremony in 2017 Trump has a
sword Trump has a sword he's been given
a sword
he sits down next Kelly Kelly leans over
you said on the presser yeah guys good
stuff really good stuff
