let's go - oh this is funny you remember
Dave brat Dave brat was the was the Tea
Party guy who took out Cantor I can't
even remember his name Eric Cantor Eric
Cantor was the whip it was some people
have compared essentially what a OC did
to Crowley the what happened with the
Cantor in brat in Virginia and the
difference is I think AOC is going to
have some durability right and I don't
think you're going to see two or four
years from now a Republican beating her
in a congressional election Dave brat
not quite as politically adept it seems
to me here is Dave brat attempting in
know this is what's let's first do well
yeah let's do that one first here's Dave
brat trying to reach out Virginia one of
those states and there's a lot of states
but Virginia is one of those states
that's been hit hard by the opioid
addiction problem and here's Dave brat
going trying to make it seem like he can
empathize with this and understands that
it's a problem and that a lot of these
people probably you know we're just hit
with a tsunami and here he is trying to
show that he's got empathy we don't have
video that's right it's just audience
audio yeah okay so Dave brat talking to
an inmate at a Chesterfield County Jail
this is a part of an addiction support
group and here he is the inmates
describing some of the difficulties that
he's faced my daughter
negative and I think I'm feeling maybe
nothing's easy prey what do you think
I'm a congressman all I see for this
guy's off have steaks with glasses
full of it now we got I got daughter
she's got to deal with that crap on TV
every day right to get stuff anyone that
thinks no one out there's got some easy
life right and you got it hard I'm not
I'm not dismissing it right you got some
fears real anxiety coming up with a job
whatever and what you got to find a
support system there you go there is
Dave can we listen to that again because
this is pretty amazing this is a guy who
is there to show that he cares about
this and he is saying you think cuz I'm
a congressman I'm going out having a
bunch of steaks which I would be willing
to bet anything that yes he is going out
and having a bunch of steaks but it but
even put that aside like the idea he's
like you know my daughter's got to look
at these attack ads and you got anxiety
like worried about a getting a job and
stuff like that what you have trouble
because you've been criminalized for
addiction well you should try being a
public figure yeah exactly
you know I mean it's as if like you know
a poured a brat right this is how Eric
Cantor lost is his primary he was like
so stuck in Washington your let's play
this again this is Dave brat talking to
an inmate my daughter pause it pause it
did you hear what he said
I missed this the first time you know he
said you have a hard time no he said my
daughter you think you have a daughter
are you sure go back to the beginning my
daughter
I think now feeling maybe nothing's easy
Brady what do you think I'm a
congressman all I see these guys off
happen steaks Luis bollo I got daughter
she's got to deal with that crap on the
TV every day right to get stuff anyone
that thinks no one else there's got some
easy life right and you got heart I'm
not I'm not dismissing it right you got
some fears real anxiety coming up with a
job whatever and what you got to find a
support system right so instead of any
help from the government you know I'm
here to tell you you need to find a
support system are we sure that's not
plagiarized from Tony Robbins that is
that is just amazing I just want to stop
by stay hello tell you I'm going to
steal some cachet from you to show that
I care and that's it as far as my care
goes it's just like you need some help
bud trust me on this you need some help
how do you think my daughter feels when
her black friends ask her why I'm
suppressing votes
I'm joking my daughter's a black dranzer
yeah the implication being you know
we've all got a tough buddy so just you
know buck up and and the phrase nobody
has an easy life is interesting in the
time of a Gilded Age I was gonna say
this is like people image have imitated
Trump on the campaign trail but this is
like a very subtle sort of take on it
like yeah I've got a real rough the way
that trumps you know doing deals is a
burden I don't I don't even have to do
this so what do you do if you're Dave
brat and you're running you you don't
seem to have any political skills that
translate to normal people right like I
mean with you're going and you're you're
talking to someone who's suffering from
opioid addiction and every probably all
the fallout that that entails and maybe
all the circumstances that happens into
that moment and you tell them like
everybody's life is hard for me it's
hard for my kid to see the attack ads
against me and I'm not having steak
every night and maybe you got to find a
job whatnot
well what do you do if you've got
nothing to offer except for sport groups
you've got to try and demonize your
opponent and what is the way that
Republicans demonize a person running
for Congress well it's of course you
called them you say they're Nancy Pelosi
clones because it reminds people that
hey this woman is a woman and that's bad
and comes from a place where there's a
lot of gay people hmm
and that's bad California right and
that's what's behind this smear so here
is a Dave brat trying to call his or I
say not trying repeatedly calling his
opponent her name is Abigail Spann
burger and this is and and she has a
pretty good response I I don't know
what's gonna happen in this election but
Dave Brett seems to be outmatched Nancy
Pelosi Nancy Pelosi Pelosi Nancy Pelosi
the Nancy Pelosi liberal agenda and if
you look at blue states can I finish the
question if you vote for Abigail span
burger the result will be
Nancy Pelosi liberal policies across the
board on every single issue
[Music]
my question again whether congressman
Brett knows which Democrat in fact he's
running against I am NOT Nancy Pelosi
and I am NOT President Barack Obama I am
a woman who grew up in Henrico County
who grew up in this community who was
taught service hard work and a
commitment to the belief that the
American people can be anything and we
will lead the way in this world it is
absolutely hypocritical that we would
have someone stand on stage talk about
fiscal responsibility after adding one
point nine trillion dollars to the
deficit after voting against hurricane
relief after voting against the omnibus
bill after voting against budget after
budget because he didn't want to add to
the deficit however when it came time to
get forty two billion dollars in tax
rates to pharmaceutical companies there
he was
I want to serve this community it's the
community that made me who I am and I
asked for your vote on November the 6th
Abigale standard er that's pretty good I
mean unless they had that debate in like
a Democratic Party headquarters which I
don't think they did I didn't go so well
for Dave brat 538 has it as a toss-up as
well yeah I think he could be in some
trouble
I mean his name's Dave brat it did more
do we need folks tell it to tell it to
that's the next ad actually Cantor
sounds like he's like it sounds like
it's close to canker like canker sore so
that's true this is how I this is how I
predict his people are always going to
say that he won and her people are
always gonna say that she won what's
that in the debate yeah in that exchange
these people are deranged well yeah I
mean I but at the end of the day
somebody else is going to be watching
it's not just there's got to be some
people who haven't made who haven't made
their mind up yet or haven't decided to
vote and that could be yet all right
let's
let's go to the phone
