[Music]
last night Bernie Sanders had a town
hall on Fox and we're gonna talk more
about this later in the program but I
think that Sanders managed to do two
things he managed to both and to do this
almost simultaneously and we're gonna
play some other clips that will I think
really really exemplify this and I think
both these things were were equally
important not necessarily for his
campaign but for just the the the the
politics of our country one was he was
able to pitch very effectively to an
audience that seemed to be sort of
surprisingly excited not just open but
excited about these policies and to
simultaneously undercut the credibility
of Fox and this was you know and this is
no small feat he was not kissing their
their their patoot s-- as it were but he
also was was just making his pitch I
mean I think that's probably Bernie
strength is that that he seems to do
that no matter where he is frankly but
and you know some people think that's
you know he's sort of to mono maniacal
in that respect but quite effective in
this context here is basically Bret
Baier I don't know what to do like this
was this did not go the way that I think
Fox News plant
here's Bret Baier doing the old show of
hands let's try and intimidate Bernie
and then all of a sudden like if Bret
Baier was a turtle let's put it this way
you wouldn't see much of his face after
this people this audience
this audience has a lot of Democrats in
it it has Republicans independents
Democratic socialists conservatives I
want to ask the audience a question if
you could raise your hand here a show of
hands of how many people get their
insurance from work private insurance
right now how many get it from private
insurance now almost okay you know of
those how many are willing to transition
to what the senator says a
government-run system Wow there's 180
million people on privative let's see
what they would be Laza for one second
transition now I like there he's just
like not going to acknowledge what the
results of that were I'm just going to I
mean that is pretty that honestly like
that moment where he just like
immediately pivots to like that didn't
work well let's go to the other damning
statistic we have that's very
intimidating I was just trying to
illustrate what a non-scientific sample
looks like right exactly this of course
despite my setup like that this was a
balanced crew of everybody it seemed to
be one for one everybody wanted to get
rid of their their insurance all right
so pick it up from here and and they
were smart they did not cut on on Brett
to his the look on his that must have
been on his face when he was like age
cuz you know if it was like now you've
got a tough sell senator Sanders you see
though better convince these
good-looking a little rough yeah this is
just another statistic I can throw in
there but good there's a 180 million
people on private alright let's see what
that they would be lost right or - or
just a fair question just go to face
front good thing I know it's what the
right wing throws out so let me answer
it all right
millions of people every single year
lose their health insurance you know why
they get fired or they quit and they go
to another employer I was the mayor for
eight years you know what I did what
probably every mayor in America does is
you look around for the best insurance
program most cost effective ensure you
change insurance every year millions of
workers
wake up in the morning and their
employer has changed futures that they
have maybe they like the doctor is up
people are nodding their heads okay so
this is not new every year now what
we're talking about actually is
stability that when you have a Medicare
parole it is there now I'm not even
gonna just mention that you got faced
Brett right if you could at least give
me the courtesy of debunking your tired
exhausted stupid talking point I mean
it's sort of really sort of stunning
that like you could not have you really
get the sense that Brett Baier and we're
gonna play more of these clips later in
the road cuz they get I think like Brett
and Martha and I can't remember her last
name
McCallum get increasingly more
frustrated I think as the evening is
going on because it is not going well
for them and there's no way when they
head back to the commissary today and
they're in line at lunch and everybody
gathers around the commissary at Fox
they're gonna the people are gonna be
giving them sideways local it's funny
what I found about job Martha what I
found funny though that particular
dynamic is that it was more frustrating
I think for Brett because he still needs
to maintain the semblance of being a
straight reporter and Martha was more
willing to just be like oh this isn't
going bad so let me like turn the guns
on write it because she's a little bit
more on the overt opinion side I mean
they both failed but I think Brett's
tension of like is absolutely not going
the way it's supposed to but I'm
supposed to also pretend right I don't
know he with it I don't care right that
little laugh he did after brains like I
know that's what the right wing's throw
noise like hey you know he wants a Bic
oh you sly I put the chances and it's
now 12:15 p.m. Eastern
I would put the chances of of Hannity
going up to Bret Baier right now in line
at the commissary and like just going
looking at him and just taking is like
you know whatever he's got the rice
pudding he probably pulled from the
commissary thing and he's just taken it
he's just going good job so mad and
here's Donald Trump in like this is one
of those things where you just like oh
the tweet itself is not that crazy and
then you realize like it's insane that
the President of the United States is
writing this
he writes so weird to watch crazy Burnie
on fox news not surprisingly bret baier
and the audience in quotes was so smiley
and nice very strange and now we have
donna brazile question mark so it makes
sense like I can't handle it I've get
likes my show and I'm used to now
watching in Fox and see and I mean it
does he's he's I can't tell if he is
tweeting this as an audience member or
if when he says and now we have Donna
Brazile if he's talking about like as a
member of the administration of Fox I
feel like it's viewer I see himself as a
good I think he sees himself as a viewer
who gets to have input I'm a man of the
people just the regular Fox News viewer
man pulling rank okay I didn't watch it
but Donna Brazile did not make an
appearance on the program last night no
no this is a completely this is this is
him trying to this this I mean if you
really start to think about it
this is and I don't know if he does this
consciously or not but this really I
what he is surprising what he's
surprised about and he's saying not
surprisingly but what he's surprised
about is how well Bernie did here
because the implication is that the Fox
Fox is getting soft right that they were
too smiley and nice Bret Baier was and
the audience was too nice the referee
let him get away with everything
the fact that it the fact that they had
now have Donna Brazile on their shows
how soft Fox is getting and that they're
actually what he's basically saying is
Fox is rigged
Isis totally rigged they could have
called him a crazy Jew
 Bernie I'm gonna watch MSNBC now
had to watch MSNBC now they're the only
ones that treat Bernie fair
