[Music]
all right let's play these two other
clips these are also from Alexandria
Cascio cortezes conversation on NPR this
morning this is why she explains the
concept of and again this is another one
of like really is NPR not under okay
externalities should be in the general
discourse but it hasn't been because
we've lived in neoliberal nonsense lands
and Alexander Acacio Cortez explains to
NPR what externalities are and what
economics does not measure as you know
congresswoman one reason that people who
are politically conservative are
skeptical of efforts to combat climate
change is that it sounds to them like it
requires massive government intervention
which they just don't like are you
prepared to put on the table that yes
actually they're right what this
requires is massive government
intervention it does yeah I have no
problem saying that why because we have
tried their approach for 40 years for 40
years we tried to let the private sector
take care of it they said we got this we
can do this the the forces of the market
are going to force us to innovate except
for the fact that there's a little thing
in economics called externalities and
what that means is that a corporation
can dump pollution in the river and they
don't have to pay for it and taxpayers
have to pay for cleaning up our air
cleaning up our water and saving the
planet and so we've already been paying
the costs except we have not been
getting any of the benefit and so what
we're here to say is that government is
not just for cleaning up other people's
mess but it's also for building
solutions and places where the private
sector will not there it is so and it's
also what's funny about the the pretext
of that question is it's it belies such
a fundamental lack of faith and
democracy I mean there's a substitute
words you could use for sort of
government in that sense is the ability
of a polity to solve big problems and
not be at the whim of extractive private
entities that have an incredibly narrow
and high
short-term sense of interest which is
quite literally making the planet
uninhabitable and but there's also
definitely a visionary and moral
dimension to this and she'd really
weaves these quite well here she is
contrasting the green new deal with the
white nationalism of Donald Trump do you
feel that you know how to take the great
fame that you have won over the last
several months and turn that fame into
power no I think that part of where I am
right now is that I'm learning I think
that really what I hope we're able to do
as a party and as a nation is rediscover
the power of public imagination I think
that this is a very special moment and
frankly that is something that that I
think the president did do in that he
was able to take his profile and say
here's this hugely impossible thing that
seems ridiculous but I'm gonna seriously
push for it and for him that's his wall
and obviously I can I'm diametrically
opposed to it but I think that the
reason he's so attached to this thing
despite the fact that it's not what
voters want despite the fact that it's
not what the American people want is
that it's the only vision he has he has
no other picture of America except in
America with a huge wall on the southern
border and I think that what we have a
responsibility to do is show what in
another America looks like okay let's
take all of that political energy all of
that resource that would go into
building a massive second medieval wall
on our southern border and what if we
actually took all that concrete and
poured it into roads what if we took all
of that engineering and dedicated it to
New Energy what if we took all of that
but actually invested in something that
will have payback
and a return on our investment for the
American people exactly and also a and
it's great to that she doesn't um people
have gotten so burned out on hope he
changing rhetoric because it's been
attached to insufficient and sometimes
even just really bad policies it's great
that she's still keeping that kind of
visionary dimension with the actual
substance of a real transformative
democratic New Deal agreeing to deal and
yeah I mean what a catastrophic racist
and stupid vision Trump's vision is
let's I'm confident who will win out she
should get a she should work up by FDR
impression and I don't know how we're
gonna I can't let us hoon I don't know
Steve but it's a dumb
question
hey Steve how about you get the out
of my office and then record ten minutes
about how long the trip is to the
congressional cafeteria we were
listening to this full interview and
prepped this morning and it was like the
classic like dumb middlebrow NPR filler
before they started asking her questions
about like spending or whatever like how
are you to pay for it it was all like
the window opened revealing the slight
ray of sunlight in the dynamic freshman
congressman shot the up and do your
interview is a big part of Alexandria
costumes routine as she sits I'm the
furthest you get through this yeah I
know it's cuz the CIA's like keep as
much of this about things besides
politics as we can right yeah yeah and I
mean and you're just sitting there just
like just like oh my you're the wind up
is so ridiculous that you're like
sitting there like oh my god can you
 get to your your your dumb
deficit question already at least okay
talk about the deficit just do something
cuz well with AOC don't you want to ask
how she's gonna afford it it is
interesting because like previously
those questions I don't ask the
Democratic politician that because
they're gonna have to like repeat some
pablum that is gonna irritate us but now
it's
yes get to that question so that the
Democratic politician can actually
answer why it's a dumb quite she'll
explain why it's a dumb question if you
just get to it quickly Jay cool hey
Michael do you know much about El
Salvador's new president in the a buckle
or F thoughts and
