[Music]
but I tell you what we might win the war
against back pain you may remember
Sebastian Ghul caja as a guy with very
interesting academic background I worked
for him yes I was a political
commissioned officer he was a
politically commissioned officer for
Donald Trump I mean actually honestly he
really is and then his his father and
his family had some super interesting
political connections his wife - his
wife I think is in the government now
but she also worked to think with David
Irving as a research assistant and I
believe they and I also believe that she
helped strip funding for groups like
Christian pickle Amy who helped D
radicalize right-wing terrorists why
would she want to do that and you're why
the Trump administration would do fund
something like that very interesting
very curious so um but in some ways
Gorka really is I mean well a lot of us
were saying like hey he should get
deported because of possible connections
to extremist organizations it also may
be just because frankly hungry hasn't
been sending their best but he really is
the quintessential American in the sense
that this guy is
yes he's ridiculous he's silly he has no
idea what he's talking about the fact
that he could go tour the country as a
quote-unquote terrorism expert tells you
basically everything you need to know
about the horrifying scam on the war on
terror and the security industry in
general but man is the guy a hustler and
after getting booted from the White
House booted from Fox News having a talk
radio show which is not exactly a growth
market except when a comedian Chris
James is pranking it he does not like
those hilarious pranks that our buddy
does Gorka is here to save us all and
this is actually beautiful because you
could be a Muslim and benefit from this
check out sebastian Gorkhas latest
offering sebastian go to here for relief
factor and first of all let me say that
i have never before endorsed
reliever father-and-son owners of relief
factor asked me to endorse their 100%
drug-free product I absolutely couldn't
say no there are simply too many people
like me who are struggling day after day
night after night with pain from aging
exercise or just everyday living yeah
definitely not exercise would be my
guess everyday living I would like to
take everyday living Alex do you have
trouble key down move your Mustang the
art of war license plate everything is
it sudden - I don't know and of course I
only said yes because after years of my
personal lower back pain I am now
pain-free my quality of life it's really
long time it's like the best thing in
the world
I'm out of pain and chances are you can
be in less or no pain - by ordering this
that's a very lawyerly statement there
I've had an aid all out of it you could
be maybe a little bit cleaner now you
might also potentially in a certain
scenario benefit as well
asterisk results may vary hey and
chances are you can be in the lesson
will no pain to buy or during the
three-week QuickStart Pete and Seth
Talbot have discounted it to only 1995
go to relief factor calm or call eight
hundred five hundred eighty three
anything and he is turning over the
tables in the swap and he is turning
over the tables of black pain I knew
this day would come
but I didn't expect it so soon my first
day without back pain
the rats the hyenas start to eat each
other yes sorry if we don't get through
enough calls for watching the Sebastian
pork fish oil addict Sebastian Gopi here
for relief let me say that I have never
before endorsed a pain relief
disc but when people shaft Albert the
father-and-son owners of relief factor
oh yes those they're 100% drug-free plot
now 100% drug free to me seems like 100%
placebo but nice I've also been taking
an incredibly heavy opioid regimen as
well it might have something to do with
why my pain has disappeared
hey FDA you see me home see me rolling
FDA I absolutely couldn't say no there
are simply too many people like me who
are struggling day after day night after
night with pain due to aging exercise or
just everyday living and of course
hosting a nationally syndicated AM talk
show when we talk about Lou the rules
and the Muslim only said yes because
after years of my personal lower back
pain I am now
pain-free and chances are you can be in
less or no pain 295 chances are you
might feel a little bit less pain death
was like this will totally help possibly
[Laughter]
Seth and his dad said that this was
definitely not scraped from an oyster
tin
[Laughter]
superpower we are now a hyper power the
era of The Pajama boy is over the era of
the fish oil salesman is I had a mera
Lagos summit wow I can't wait for the
second commercial when he's like if you
like me sitting at a desk all day
talking on the radio your lower back may
hurt hi I'm Sebastian Olga if you're
like me and you're embarrassed by
constantly having to ask your wife to up
your allowance for your Mustang that
stress goes straight to your lower back
someone's to get those for Sam we won't
tell them you buy them it's official and
it's so good because I I hurt and now
the pain is gone and it might possibly
help you lower back
[Laughter]
if you're lucky it could and what I do
is I go and I sit down I have an ice
pack and then I swallow the fish oil
while I apply the ice pack and pain free
okay seven dad don't worry we'll keep it
moving I'll spend about five on this one
[Laughter]
