from a to 1o area code
who is this where you're from how much
do you bench good afternoon Sam John
Santonio John from San Antonio how much
can you bench I have no idea okay yeah
so I'm gonna start with a different
opening because you know you kind of
irked me a little bit so why should
Bernie defer to Warren his numbers are
better than hers and head-to-head
against Trump they were there his polls
are better in the Democratic nomination
polls that have been out so far he's
more popular than Warren nationwide he
has a larger following he's already won
22 States last year there's no reason
why Bernie should defer to Warren I like
Warren I think when Bernie wins the
nomination she would make a great vice
president but you know there's really no
reason why she should divert her and I'm
wondering why you think that he should
alright well first off I don't know that
I said I think that she should he should
defer I think he will defer to her I
think he wants to defer to her I don't
think he ever wanted to run for
president in the first place in fact the
reason why he jumped in so late was
because he was waiting to see what she
was going to do so but with that said
the only thing that I the only the only
and I'm more or less agnostic on this I
mean I think people if they want to run
they should run I have no problem with
that I think there is a strong argument
and I guess we'll have a better sense of
this right in the midterm that a women
and their energy is driving is driving
the a lot of what we're seeing in terms
of enthusiasm and voters getting out and
voting that would be the only
you know that would be my biggest
argument but but ultimately I think he's
gonna you know gonna defer because I
think he doesn't want to run well meant
what makes you think that uh he's got a
book coming out before the midterm I'm
not saying that he wouldn't run if she
doesn't run and I'm not saying that he
doesn't want to be a an important figure
in American politics and I'm not
convinced that he wouldn't want a maybe
a cabinet position or maybe if the
Democrats take back the Senate to be in
charge of the begging you know me you
got to contemplate from Bernie's
perspective like being president it's
probably not you know the best job that
there could be for everybody and I mean
certainly Warren didn't want it last
time around she was perfectly willing
being a very strong presence in the
Senate and having you know and she was I
think wanted vice president see just
because she wanted the resources I mean
why do I think he doesn't want it
because he didn't want it last time and
he ran only when Warren wasn't running
and he ran as an issue candidate wasn't
until late in the campaign where he
thought like oh I have a chance at
winning this I should take it but I
think his natural inclination I just
don't think he's a guy who's grown up
and I don't think she is either frankly
who has been like it's my lifelong
ambition to be president most people who
run for president it's been like pretty
close their lifelong ambition to be
president you know but that's why we
like Bernie sorry to interject but like
he's not doing it for his own ambition
he's doing it for us
and a lot of people are gonna be very
disappointed if he doesn't run I agree
with everything you just said you know
right tell it to Bernie I mean it's just
like I I'm not saying that he shouldn't
run I'm saying my sense is he won't I
don't know maybe maybe it's just wishful
thinking but I just explained it like
he's been do
taking steps to like beef up his
foreign-policy chili dog he's making all
kinds of appearances without a duck he's
got his head in the game
without a doubt and and I think that if
Elizabeth Warren doesn't run that he
will run but I think that from his this
is complete speculation on my part maybe
I'm wrong but I think his calculation
it's certainly what his calculation was
in 2016 is and it's in the only thing
that would be different now is that he
has even more reason to want to stay in
the Senate because he's actually like a
guy who gets who is like a leader in the
Senate
I mean he's and so he has a tremendous
amount of power without the hassle of
being president and if you are
interested in pushing your agenda I
think he looks at Elizabeth Warren and
says she is not going to be an obstacle
to pushing most of the policies that I
want and well I mean that that's just my
I still speculation my part but that's
just my con on on foreign policy I mean
they are very much idiots with each
other and also you know Bernie has led
the way I mean you know I love Warren
I've read her books I was you know on
the before Bernie said he was gonna run
you know I was on the press but I mean
I'm just giving you my analysis of what
what Bernie's thinking is I I am totally
open and you know I think in terms of of
like the issue sets like I would be much
more enthusiastic about Warren if she
had some of Bernie's foreign policy
positions but I am not convinced that
that she would be as closed off to them
as someone else would be and I would
also say like I'm also not convinced
that you know for Bernie like those are
still secondary
there was a reason why I didn't have
anybody on staff for the entire campaign
practically who didn't have any foreign
policy experience he didn't he is taking
steps to fix that though like he had a
great I know it in the Guardian about
farmer I know cosign by Yanis Farah
Farkas I know but I just back I actually
his original interest going back to the
eighties I know it's more oriented I
know the face all I'm doing you're
arguing with you're not arguing with me
all I'm doing is stating fact bargain
with you and you're you're trying to say
they know the foreign policy would be
enough for him to stay in and run maybe
you may be right I mean I would be fine
with either of them but I would vote I
would definitely vote for Bernie over
her because from I mean from a leftist
perspective his relationship to the
Democratic Party is much more
antagonistic he would heighten the
contradictions within the party and
maybe even create a real rupture from
the kinds of politics that they have
been practicing for decades uh it would
it would be amazing but she she would be
fine too
I'm sure yeah I just don't think that
we're gonna have that debate to be
honest with you
well I guess we'll see I think either
way it goes they don't both run that I
agree with Josh I think it's great have
Biden and all of those people run but
create some Lane preferably on Bernie
but for Warren as a backup of actual
bitly Center left to Social Democratic
candidacy John I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you
no it's all right didn't upset me I mean
it's just you know I didn't think Bernie
is he's gonna run he's gonna run I agree
John got our revolution he's got this
he's got a book coming out he's got
everybody behind him all of his
supporters from 2016 and more and and I
just think he's gonna run he's gonna be
more okay his numbers are better right
now October 1 2017 I'm wondering 18 note
it John I know you'll remember this day
I'll bring us yours back man
I know I'm wondering if she's gonna be
as possible
wondering what if you're gonna be
broadcasting live on the night of the
midterms yeah sure
had thought about it but boom good job
we will talk about lot John we will talk
about that because if we do do that I
would love your you know to have some
formalized involvement John if you're
interested but all right thank you all
right but if that's gonna be the case we
we better probably better start lifting
a little bit I want to know what your
what your benching if we're gonna do
that
everyone Trump one we were in the studio
yeah I remember best oh no I forgot it
alright alright obviously that was just
a weird wait of what guys remember that
time here rally in here we were talking
and then we were just like wait what
he's won he won the presidency and
everybody's going on and I think we got
it I had forgotten it until we had
contemplated doing the midterm raven
head 1997 so do you all think or what
jenkins predicting could be true
Warren Bernie Harris and I think
Gillibrand what's he saying that all of
them are gonna run like I say I don't
think we're warning Bernie run bring it
on
