all right Maria Bartiromo
she's freaked out about Twitter she's
freaked out about this and that and now
at Lee Carter I mean there is something
just amazing about literally sitting in
Davos where apparently in the in the
span of one day the AOC tax proposal I
think was literally like booed at a
session of Davos right at the same day
they also had in some type of
organizational consultant do a exercise
where they pretended that they were
refugees and they crawled on the floor
and got into the experiential space tell
me all right so this is actually still
happening this thing that of course
should be absolutely thrown into the
trash heap of history which actually
ironically it already is we're just
still wasting money on it this is marina
Barton Roma she's in Davos with Lee
Carter to the lessor and they're
bitching and actually what maybe I
should say maybe not maybe he'll turn
out to be cool though I doubt it
Oh leak oh yeah it's definitely Lee
Carter the lessor ok Lee Carter lessers
day is a Republican pollster I believe
and they are gonna all have another
conniption about a Oh see what we
speaking about money I mean a oh she had
the idea to tax anyone with ten million
dollars at seventy percent do you think
that's gonna go over how does that go
over so it goes over well with a segment
of the Democratic base and we actually
have a new poll that shows most
Democrats would be willing to vote for
her to consider voting for her for
president if she was old enough
obviously she isn't president for
president and we actually have a second
poll that's coming out later this week
that that asks people how they view the
idea of socialism and Young Democrats
actually view socialism a little bit
more positively than they view
capitalism so this is this is a there's
a segment of the population for which
this is you know the right direction to
take things this is really interesting
Lee Carter what do you see from your
dials in talking to people about
socialism versus capitalist know what
I'm gonna say is that if we dismiss
Acacio cortes and socialism right now
it's at our own peril it's very much
like what happened in 2015 when people
are dismissive of Donald Trump coming in
saying that his policies were overly
simplistic
they were missing and lacking substance
that they wanted something deeper and
they outright dismissed him I think that
people who are dismissing this is
something that's short-sighted
absolutely aren't getting why people are
rallying around her and around these
policies there's a lot of hopelessness
out there there's a lot of people who
want a better life and this sounds like
an easy way for them a quick fix and
something that sounds like a different
new way of doing things and I think that
if people want to win against this
they're gonna have to take it seriously
and understand why it is that so many
people are gravitating towards these
policies into her or explain the
effective of socialism explain the
effect of socialism versus capitalism
Marie I want to point that out it's a
great liberal lie that the people in the
Republican Party need to push back on is
that somehow the rich are rich enough to
fund all these grand spending plans by
these socialists and by these people on
the far left they're not they most
certainly are read each years Oxfam
report on the shrinking ever shrinking
number of like 25 people owning more
than most people on earth as an example
I don't usually go in for this type of
thing as much but hat tip to Jamie and I
and like clapping hands emoji were not
liberals
you said it yourself were socialists and
we don't want to just tax it we want to
take all your
so yeah but what is astonishing about
that and actually she's still Lee Carter
the lesser but she's sort of okay as
particularly if you're a Republican you
should be listening to her strategic
advice although I don't know how you
circle that square but that being said
um you know what is funny about it is
there's no doubt that especially in the
center not in the periphery but in place
like the United States if these people
in the oligarchic class had come
together and actually said you know what
we get it there needs to be some form of
public health care there needs to be
some provision so people don't graduate
into a completely depressed job market
there needs to be some sense of
continuing mobility at least for these
sections of essentially the white
population that have always except I've
always expected it the extreme poverty
Xand repression we need to continue to
push into the peripheries of race and
geography and class you would probably
not I mean I'd like to think otherwise
but you probably would still have a lot
of people who would be I think a bit
more to the left
and hopefully a bit more socially
progressive there for ian's and towards
the Democrats but there wouldn't be a
socialism conversation if they weren't
so pathologically predatory and
committed to stealing every single last
bit and I think one of the interesting
things right now in a beef inside the
elite is I think there are some members
of the elite you know if I'm George
Soros who all give credit for George
Soros is a liberal and George Soros
understands that there's an element of
luck to his life and he understands
there needs to be a social safety net
but if he sat down with his fellow
oligarchs it would be him and Warren
Buffett talking to the cokes and the
Mercer's and all and being like you
 morons like we literally
were getting away with having multiple
homes and being billionaires which no
matter how good a person you are just
shouldn't exist it's incompatible with
life on earth and democracy but we were
getting away with it
we could fly anywhere we wanted in the
planet we didn't even we didn't need to
carry our passports with us we can
influence any government we wanted
and all we needed to do was keep people
in the dominant you know parts of
society continue to be able to rise into
the middle class we needed to up the
ceiling for everybody and we needed to
be seen of as like basically decent non
pernicious people but you idiots
needed to steal every single cry like
you'd sit down in your 15th home and
think about how you could take headstart
out of a kid's mouth and now they're
looking at socialism
