[Music]
here's Roca Hana we were talking about
this UAW strike here's Roca hana
explaining why medicare-for-all is how
it empowers workers and and and
ultimately you know look again like that
wrecked interview they destroyed their
own business model they weren't aware of
it that they were doing that but they
destroyed their own business model to
disempower unions to disempower labor
and so much so that their competitors
did the opposite and so ultimately while
medicare-for-all will enhance labor it's
also bound to enhance business in some
fashion because they're not gonna have
to deal with this you're not gonna have
to be running a separate company that is
with an entire skill set that has
nothing to do with what you're doing I
want to talk to you about this auto
workers strike in Detroit in the context
of health care in the context of your
candidate Bernie Sanders because he says
that under Medicare for all companies
that negotiate health care with union
workers would have the pass on any
savings to those workers that they might
receive after all Americans shift over
to the Medicare for all coverage because
these workers would be shifting largely
from Cadillac private plans to Medicare
for all but I wonder looking at these
Auto Workers we know that discussions
are very tense today they don't have a
whole lot of faith that their employer
is going to do things their way or is
going to stand by them as they should do
you think that do you see how maybe they
personally might be skeptical that their
employer is not going to do this in any
way other than kicking and screaming
I do but here's the sad thing Brianna
these auto workers shouldn't be having
to fight for basic health care what they
should be fighting for is increased
wages and the reality is unions have had
to scrape just to get health care
coverage what senator Sanders
saying is we're gonna make sure everyone
has healthcare coverage so unions can
work on getting better pay and better
working conditions and we're going to
force the employers to honor the
agreement with the unions and compensate
them for the extra health care benefits
that they may have negotiated in the
past I mean it's it's a fairly easy
dynamic to understand if we had scarcity
for let's say like milk and cheese and
eggs in this country and it was
inaccessible to people for whatever
reason you'd see employers who have the
ability to secure that stuff say like oh
well so much for wages but you're gonna
get milk and cheese plan I just want to
reiterate that and there are plenty of
things that it does not cover right I
mean it's even once you have that it's
incredibly expensive like I'm still
getting bills and phone calls from the
NYU Langone Center from this cancer
scare that I had last year my kids go
through that too and it is I I keep
getting bills for like $13 that then end
up like metastasizing because you got to
pay each one it's just the it's like a
second business it's nuts the while it's
a racket here is uh Sarah Nelson who is
the flight attendants Union chief we
interviewed her at Netroots nation this
past year also you can go back and hear
an interview I did with her Ring of Fire
it was the flight attendants who
basically dropped the hammer during the
government shutdown and told Mitch
McConnell you better start up the better
you better start up the government again
because otherwise you're gonna find it
impossible to fly around the country and
she tweets out a note to anyone who
wants to use union members as a wedge to
oppose Medicare for all because remember
this like unions they negotiate for
health care or they provide health care
through the unions different
which sector in or what industry and
there's some talk of you know trying to
to tell union members like you're gonna
lose your your Cadillac plan but she
makes the point UAW has one of the best
plans in the country but management can
still use it to hold workers hostage
medicare-for-all puts power back in our
hands so she as a labor leader
understands the genuine dynamic that's
going on yeah it's it's not rocket
science like one more analogous example
when you give people who can't afford
food money to spend on food there's been
studies about this they buy more school
supplies for their kids just things of
that nature frees you up to work on
other stuff
