everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat da majority report
with sam c de it's Friday October 25th
2019 I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael
casual Friday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrial Juanes Canal in the heartland
of America downtown Brooklyn USA on
today's program Daniel bessner
professor of international relations at
the University of Washington
historian were talking about cashmere
what's happening in South Asia the
tension between India and Pakistan the
potentially most dangerous place on
earth and then Daniels recent Jacqueline
deep dive on the differences in foreign
policy between Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren then no michi constant
joins us in studio to play sound and
laugh and laugh and laugh and heavily
criticize pinku de jedge who is the
absolute worst
Thibodaux judge might be called to
testify in a trial related to systemic
racism and police brutality in his
police department in the college town
that he runs good at this very good
could not come a moment too soon Buddha
judge also wants well he wanted
apparently now he's quote-unquote
clarifying more justices like Anthony
Kennedy we'll talk about his actual
disastrous Supreme Court plan even as
Bernie Sanders says I'll go full Russ
automail Ringgits book but that's just
me that's just me coulda left it outside
of my own and could have left out
Ginsberg Oh outside of my own well fair
enough
but both far better than Kennedy Oakland
school board votes the squad closed
schools drawing protests and vicious
police repression turkeys air Dewan
calls on the US to hand over the Kurdish
commander of the democratic forces in
northern Syria the Pentagon is planning
to send tanks and armored vehicles to
Syria's oil fields sometimes UN was but
then you you have to start other boys
it's just as part of an investigation of
Russia probe is criminal in nature a
personal familiar with the probe says
White House officials are expected to
back up a diplomats testimony over
Trump's push for a Ukraine probe into
the Biden's
India's allowing Kashmir to hold local
elections even as the lockdown continues
Iraqi police opened fire to disperse
protesters on Baghdad streets and now
even Hezbollah is getting called to
account for neoliberalism in austerity
in Lebanon Chile unrest continues as the
UN Human Rights chief is dispatched
protesters stay on the streets again
against austerity House Democrats along
with Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts
vote for him not the Kennedy kid unveil
a bill to protect climate refugees very
important piece of legislation
a federal judge holds Betsy DeVos in
contempt
even as a administrator of the student
loan system quits and says basically all
of them should be forgiven you come at
the Queen you best not miss vote
for Bernie Sanders full student loan
forgiveness ACLU says one thousand and
five hundred migrant children were taken
from parents by the Trump administration
and the ACLU celebrates a settlement
ending in unconstitutional efforts to
silence pipeline protesters in South
Dakota and Bernie Sanders puts forward a
radical marijuana legalization and
reparations plan at 4:20 no less all
right
your boy all that and more on the on
today's majority report Bernie Sanders
is back fresh off of the mega rally in
Queens with AOC here he is on Jimmy
Kimmel explaining why we need to have
full health care for everybody
period on these subjects I think you are
very blunt and brutally honest almost to
the point where it's shocking to see a
politician say yes this is going to make
your taxes go up but in law in the big
picture I think that it will make it
cost you less right look here is the
reality we are the only major country on
earth not to guarantee health care to
all people as a human right I believe
that health care is a human right and
not a privilege and what that means
we need all that we need to do people
make this more complicated than it is
Medicare right now is the most popular
health insurance program in America I
want to expand Medicare to include
dental care hearing aids and eyeglasses
and then what I want to do is lower the
eligibility age first year from 65 down
to 55 then to 45 10 to 35 and then we
cover everybody and when we do that
there are no more premiums you're not
paying any more premiums
no more co-payments no more deductibles
no more out-of-pocket expenses and
virtually every person in this country
will save money on health care because
we are currently spending twice as much
per person as the people of any other
major country and the reason for that is
that the function of the health care
system today shock of all shocks is to
make the drug companies and the
insurance companies incredibly rich well
I don't think that's the function of
healthcare so
if you are paying just as an example if
somebody was self-employed today is
paying 1520 thousand dollars a year in
premiums and out-of-pocket expenses
that's all God well they may pay seven
or eight thousand dollars more in taxes
there are twelve thousand to the good
and that's what we have got to do we
have to do what every other country does
is make sure that anybody can go to any
doctor they want whenever they want and
not worry about the cost of health care
perfectly put this is something that
he's been fighting for with clarity and
consistency for 40 years he's absolutely
right and I just want to say I mean
notice the difference here I with
Warren's resistance of the tax framing
question because it's a fundamentally
right-wing way of asking the question
however and of course it's still unclear
what her actual health care plan is I've
actually even heard that it might
involve a v80 which is extremely
regressive but that turns out to be the
case she stopped so many circles around
it that it's really concerning to me I
mean yes and there's some sound that
we'll get to in the latter part of the
show I'm not I'm not clear where she is
on this issue
I'm sure she'll put forward something
that's better than the status quo Biden
has put forward something that's better
than the status quo but I want to just
say that getting tripped up the the
refusal and the transparent concern
about oh well if I say there will be
middle-class tax cuts it will be clipped
a tax increase it will be clipped in an
ADD and played in November that's true
but you get caught in playing these word
games and going around in circles about
that one specific word even as again I
sympathize with her resistance to it but
Bernie right there it's clean yes you
might pay seven gram more in taxes
you'll save several you know at least
maybe even more you know several
thousand in private health insurance
costs boom done simple it so you make
the same point you bring the same
clarity but you also you know you
invite the look of being a sort of
prevaricated politician and I think you
know again this is one of those issues
you go back literally to the 1970s he
was making exactly the same point he was
right then he's right now he's
absolutely right about the
implementation
I remember when Sanders bill Gunn
unveiled and the Jay Paul bill got a
veiled in the house even the sort of Vox
--is of the world at the time are like
okay this is how you do it these are
real policy proposals they're profound
they're not that difficult to implement
at all and there's a clear timeline ah
and again it covers absolutely every
single person fully including mental
health dental health and eye care that's
what we need yep and when you get out in
front of the question like that little
twerps like mayor Pete can't make an
issue out of it like no you're not being
honest about the cost like yes you are
right exactly and then we can go to a
dishonest little twerp like mayor Pete
and we can say how I care for all who
wants it is a public option which you're
not being clear about how it's going to
compete how it's gonna work with the
broader regulatory environment for
insurance companies it's still gonna
leave millions of people vulnerable and
overcharged it almost certainly will
continue you know a rate of people dying
premature deaths after several year
decline it looks like uninsured rates
are starting to move back up a bit so
you have to explain to us mayor Pete why
you still want to leave millions of
people vulnerable and underinsured
and also why you know you talk about
being young and thinking about different
things I mean mayor Pete is giving us
the progressive option of 2007 how about
we go with the progressive option of
2019 that's someone like Bernie Sanders
has been right about and clear about for
40 years folks there's no other way of
saying it well let me see actually
all right yeah no I think we should
probably do yeah we should just do ads
yeah support for today's show is brought
to you by 3rd love with more than 80
sizes including their signature half cup
sizes third love designs bras with
breast size and shape in mind for a
perfect fit and premium feel we have a
testimonial that will really show you
how great third love is I like that they
don't have a zillion options so it's
easy to choose something quickly the fit
is great I usually have to return most
bras I order online even though they're
in my size I ordered two and both fit
that almost never happens super
comfortable for everyday bra but not as
boring as most t-shirts bras subtle cute
details so I don't feel basic this is
hands-down the most comfortable bra
you'll own with straps that won't slip
and tagless labels I you know I can't
speak to the bra but I hate the tag
Leslie I take this is good credibly good
concept of tag lessness tag lessness is
another testament to the superior design
quality of third love not to mention
lightweight super thin memory foam cups
that hold that mold to your shape best
of all every customer has 60 days to
wear it wash it and put it to the test
if you don't love it you can return it
and third-level washington to donate it
to a woman in need and third love knows
there's a perfect bra for everyone so
right now they're offering our listeners
15% off of your first order go to 3rd
love.com slash majority now to find your
perfect fitting bra and get 15% off of
your first purchase that's third love
comm slash majority for 15% off to day
today's show is also brought to you by
Blink 'us
if you feel like you don't have enough
time to read all the books on your list
you're not alone bling kiss is an app
that compiles key takeaways from
thousands of non-fiction books
everything you need to know is condensed
into down into 15 minutes and you can
read or listen to it with the app
blinkin is really unique and it works on
your phone tablet or web browser you'll
find everything from health and
self-help to history and business books
included in blankets libraries I am
totally following Sam's lead on this and
I am reading business and optimization
and self-help books like by any number
of wood authors including another 4-hour
workweek I checked out the seven Habits
of Highly Effective People and then you
know actually we'll get to them later
but even something that like I'm not
gonna read all of it but it's in the
zeitgeist Michelle Obama's new book as
an example it's extremely convenient and
great to use and I mean there's just
literally only some hour or so many
hours in the day and there's total
information overload so this gives you
the condensed guide you need with
plinkus you get unlimited access to read
or listen to a massive library of
condensed non-fiction books all the
books you want for all one low price
right now for a limited time blinka Staz
a special offer for our listeners go to
blankest comm slash majority to try it
for free for seven days and save 25% off
of our of your new subscription that's B
L I and K is t-dot-com
slash majority to start your free 7 day
trial and save 25% off and get titles
like the 7 Habits of Highly Effective
People by Stephen Covey how to win
friends and influence people by Dale
Carnegie the 4-hour workweek by Tim
Ferriss
becoming by Michelle Obama getting
things done by David Allen the power of
habits and emotional intelligence by
Daniel Goleman one of my faves alright
everybody we're gonna take a brief break
and we will be right back with Daniel
bessner
you
majority report Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Daniel bessner he's
author of a fantastic book which I
recommend everybody order and read to
help you understand the world were in
democracy in exile han Speier and the
rise of the defense intellectual now
that sounds like a heavy lift and it is
in the sense that you'll learn a lot but
it's an incredibly readable and engaging
book which is not necessarily something
you would expect from the pile professor
of American international of history oh
my god I'm gonna mess it up Daniel the
pile professor of American what American
foreign policy at the scoop Jackson
School at the University of Washington
and also I guess you would expect it in
this end a regular contributor and on T
M yes Daniel thanks for being here
thanks so much for having me Michael
let's talk about Kazmir a bit always
apologies if I'm mispronouncing that we
know that a couple of months ago now the
Indian BJP government tore up the Indian
Constitution and implemented a crackdown
and news blackout with reports of
numerous vicious human rights violations
in Kashmir we also know that this
actually also correlates with in and
believe it's Assam which is another
region in India with a demand that
Muslim people establish proof of
citizenship and residency in India that
this all fits into this bigger extreme
right Hindu true Hindutva agenda as
represented by Narendra Modi and the BJP
and also though that this story goes
back to the founding of the modern state
of India and that Kashmir is already one
of the most milt if not the most
militarized region on earth there's also
a geopolitical component with Pakistan
and that's heated up the last week with
fire being exchanged between Indian and
Pakistani forces can you kind of give us
a big-picture rundown of the
dynamics that play in what might be the
most dangerous part of the world right
now sure so the first thing to probably
recognize is that when people talk about
modern nuclear exchanges in the
literature on nuclear exchange they
generally refer to the most likely place
christos an exchange to be in South Asia
and the Indian subcontinent and
particularly between Pakistan and India
and so most of the models have done on
what would be in the effect of a nuclear
exchange have been done on basically the
exchange of about 100 Hiroshima level
bombs and according to the most recent
analyses as far as I'm aware were you
know relatively weak nuclear bombs in
terms of 219 exchanged in such a way
there'd be a probably a global famine so
one of the most important things to
recognize and why people listening to
this and Americans in general should be
concerned with what's going on is
because it has a profound potential to
totally affect geopolitics so it's a
really important issue the relationship
between India and Pakistan so that's
just the first thing to highlight when
you're talking about this region
generally but in terms of taking maybe a
bit of a more median historical view is
that I think it's important to think of
what's going on now as the process of
State for nation-state consolidation so
basically if you think about the fact
that India and Pakistan were founded in
1947 you know at the idea the outcome of
a century or so such a class of British
colonialism you can see that these are
relatively new new states some of the
first post-colonial states in the world
and what you see here going on is that
what what would Modi as I think is
trying to do is trying to bring a region
that has long been an excuse to arm the
Indian military and to basically keep on
going with the war against Pakistan
under firm control of the Indian state
so one way to think of this is that this
is the end of a long process of state
consolidation that is that is actually
rather common when you think about think
about state formation for example think
about let's say the first 80 years of
the United States 1776 - roughly the
Civil War so
these are a period of state formation so
I think it's important to think that in
terms of that and what's going on here
secondly what you have what you have
here is the creation of this sort of
national mythos ideology organized
around in dota as you just as you just
mentioned so it's also crucial to Modi
to justify what he's doing by
consolidating the Kashmiri by his
essentially consolidating his control of
Kashmir and this is something that's not
only going on in India but also going on
in Pakistan with the relatively new
prime minister in brawn Khan cricket
hero of the 1990s in the last year or
two basically also consolidating the
control of the so-called current
agencies right what had been
semi-autonomous reasons are now being
put under increasing control of the
centralized Pakistani state so on both
sides of the india-pakistan divide what
you see is this process of state
consolidation within this larger process
of sort of geopolitical enmity that
having that has existed between the two
states from the beginning and that is
important because even though you know
we all see arete eclis want world peace
the sort of ended enmity between the two
countries has been a justifying logic
for the militaries of both countries in
order to increase their own power and
their own hold over over the basic
government structures on both of these
so it's going to be interesting to see
what happens going forward particularly
as we enter really a new era of really
post Cold War geopolitics seeing the
emergence of not only these new
right-wing authoritarian governments but
also new forms of alliances that would
have been impossible during the era of
the Cold War the one that really comes
out leaps out at me is the one between
the pseudo one at least between Israel
and Saudi Arabia right previously
unthinkable alliances are now as the
logic of the Cold War received as people
come to power the war in totally formed
by the Cold War these sorts of new
logics of geopolitics are being are
coming into play and I think you're
seeing that right now with what's going
on between India and Pakistan it'll be
interesting to see what happens
in the future and it seems to me I mean
let's just actually go to Pakistan in a
minute but in India too that when you
talk about this state formation it's a
specific shot at the narrow consensus
right so you know it's always dangerous
because you're stepping you're skipping
a lot of history and of course you know
even after the founding I mean the
founding of independent India and then
partition with Pakistan led to any I
mean millions of people's deaths then
you have a you know a history that
includes Indira Gandhi declaring Martial
Law
sterilizing poor and lower caste people
in the 1980s after she's assassinated
because of her rights violations of the
Sikh community she's literally
assassinated by her own bodyguards who
are Sikh the Indian conch the Congress
party looks the other way while there
are days of pogroms that are you know
just mass murder of Sikhs and then you I
think and then there's this other thread
line of BJP RSS and Hindu nationalism
going back to like the 20s even you know
the person you know Gandhi's assassin is
at the very least connected to this
politics but that being said you did
have at least some other countervailing
tendencies in India of a certain certain
commitment of a as an example an
incredibly progressive Constitution
written by the you know Dalit
untouchable I'm but Kaur who converted
to Buddhism and rejected the caste
system and was a Marxist Nehru who did
have some clear commitments to open
society so that when Modi is doing this
it's also when you talk about that state
consolidation it is a violent rejection
of what had been a certain like founding
consensus of the people that had
liberated India yeah and I think that's
right and I think you also have to
understand at least friends from my
colleagues who study this is I'm
basically repeating what they said to
Neela Kali and radical government Rajan
two great scholars of the university of
washington my sense of talking to them
is that some of the proto BJP had also
been victims of the sort of 70s martial
law of these emergency emergency laws
and this is in a sense a direct reaction
to what you're just speaking about that
that these are dialectic essentially of
Indian politics seems to be operating in
a serious way right now and of course
it's important to recognize that India
is an enormous country and enormously
complex country with different regional
traditions and different regional
governments and so it's in some sense
difficult to think to speak totally
coherently of the unitary Indian Indian
state in the way that one might speak
about in other areas of the world but I
do think that what we're seeing here is
the attempt to centralize now that that
type of power but particularly from the
GL about geopolitical perspective what's
interesting to see is what what this is
going to mean particularly for Indian
China relations right you already see
Pakistan has has long been associating
with China and as the United States
probably begins to retreat from the
region you know and who knows who might
be in Afghanistan for another 50 years
but my guess is next 5-10 years the
United States will maintain some sort of
rump force but will no longer be much of
a power player in the region
particularly as it's in the last 20
years the geopolitical constellation is
totally changing in South Asia
particularly as China continues its
quote/unquote rise
so you're going to it'll be interesting
to see how India tries to balance
against China as it begins to assert
itself more and more in the subcontinent
itself and in East Asia and Southeast
Asia in particular so you basically have
what's most interesting to me as a
scholar of international relations is
the emergence of a new post post Cold
War order we don't quite have a name for
it but basically the the geopolitical
order that that existed for the last
thirty years and when the United States
was the unquestioned hegemon is going to
be something different coming forward
what that is I don't think anyone on the
ground knows but I think you're seeing
it it's early formation right now and
again you see it with this sort of
consolidation of hold of the hold over
Kashmir
this consolidation over the curve
agencies in both India and Pakistan in
the subcontinent you see as someone
coming to an end perhaps I mean only
time will tell but coming to the end of
that early period of state formation you
know the first eighty hundred years of
states are generally very violent and
very destructive you know ours ended
with a civil war and you know the
continued violence of Jim Crow and
things along those lines I don't want to
mitigate that but also you're seeing you
know the end and what might be
considered to be the first stage of
state consolidation and state formation
going forward in the post-colonial world
in Pakistan though I mean is it is that
really I'm wondering in the Pakistani
case because there's conflicting reports
on what Imran Khan represents right and
again to you know this is also
incredible simplification but just to
try to get a little bit of grounding in
Pakistan I mean you have a state that's
founded by actually you know certainly a
Muslim and a but a very kind of you know
I guess you would say in the parlance of
today a very moderate liberal Muslim
whose argument for founding Pakistan is
well if you watch that and boro a movie
it's really about his own personal
ambition others wouldn't say that you
know it's actually just a deep concern
about basically the civil rights
position of my of Muslims and in an
independent India um so you have these
conflicting tendencies and it seems like
in India Pakistan as we talked about
today going back to the 80s is one big
thing that happened is that under
general zia-ul-haq who took power in a
coup that got rid of um Bhutto who was a
actually you know again a very someone
that I think we could really easily
problematize in terms of his record but
was certainly had some socialist
tendency and rhetoric a huge amount of
charisma there's a story of Bhutto that
was I loved especially just because of
the flip he did we're in a meeting
apparently with JFK Kennedy said you
know mr. Bhutto if you were in the
United States
I'd have you in my cabinet and
butoh looked at him and he said if I was
the United States you'd be in my cabinet
a child I always liked that that sort of
flip but um you have the Bhutto family
and then you have the Zarif family and
there's a lot more history to get into
but let's just say that they represent
different political parties slash kind
of patronage network dine dynastic
politics um and I think people are
probably certainly familiar with someone
like benazir bhutto she extraordinary
amount of charisma and physical courage
who was assassinated and then there's
the military formally being in control
of Pakistan as is the case with
Musharraf and then this sort of you know
say really a deep state would be the
word right um particularly led by the
inter-services intelligence which is
always at the very least I mean is
dominating Pakistani foreign policy
particularly with regards to Afghanistan
India Saudi in the United States as well
as China obviously but anywhere that
there's some type of guerilla operations
or counter insurgency there at the
center of it so and then cutting across
all of these is different conflicts
about the idea of what Islam is so it's
just very complicated and when you talk
about consolidating mean is Imran Khan a
consolidator or is he the population is
so disgusted and burned out by the old
politics and the relentless you know the
corruption the austerity the
neoliberalism the feudalism I mean
really everything that's bad it's fused
right and these different Pakistani
tendencies he's charismatic he
represents something new but is he
really just the new you know charismatic
vehicle of the same military
intelligence apparatus interests well I
think from my understanding is it's
believed to be that he's associated with
the military so in some sense he does
represent he does represent those
interests and I think it's the right but
I do think the charisma and the
quote/unquote populist energy that that
he brings does have the potential to do
something new for
country of Pakistan especially
considering its new its new geopolitical
decision visa V of India and visa be
China so I think that is what he's
really trying to do is trying to situate
the Pakistan in a truly post American
South Asia what that looks like is going
to be difficult to know because I think
it depends a lot on the essentially the
developing Chinese Pakistani
relationship and what that trade
relationship looks like and what that
military exchange relationship looks
like but essentially he has to balance
and I see it he feels that he has to
balance against India and a meaningful
way particularly as Modi takes
increasingly horrible anti-muslim
actions within India itself you know
that their rejection of the particularly
the Muslim culture will lead you know
that goes back to the Mughal Empire you
know and this you know the the embrace
of the Hindutva and everything related
to that so I think he's in a relatively
difficult position and I think
everything that you're saying also
highlights the difficulties in general
as a general intellectual problem of
applying you know in Western
intellectual models of a nation states
in terror and imposing them on
territories first a formal imposition of
these this particular model of state
formation that is the nation state on
the post-colonial world which happen for
a variety of reasons but in terms of
analyzing if there are so many different
divisions within these societies and the
state is weak in some areas and very
strong in other areas that's difficult
again to think about how to speak of
these societies or rather these
nation-states as unitary actors because
as you suggested with the various
interests going on here it's difficult
to actually know what's really going on
but I do think there is an attempt at
least from what I can tell to try to
consolidate the state's control over
areas where it had formally ceded ceded
some form of some form of organization
and control particularly in the current
and the formerly semi-autonomous areas
of the current agencies but to me what
will be most interesting again from an
IR perspective which is really you know
not an expert by any means on from
Pakistani or Indian domestic politics
but from an IR from an IR perspective
what are these country do at the United
States in particular begins to recede
from the breach and you know uh and this
new post post Cold War logic and I think
the next few years are going to be
crucial to figuring out what exactly
that looks like particularly as each
both India and Pakistan reacts to China
and then this leads to the question of
what is China going to do in the region
you know the United States has long
asserted control over its entire
hemisphere particularly in Latin America
and that goes back hundreds of years at
this point it's China going to try to
attempt to do something similar in the
region or is it going to continue to
just balance against India make inroads
with Pakistan try to dominate basically
Korea and Japan and Indonesia in some
sense through economic means and trade
means or is it going to try to do
something more aggressive I don't think
it will but that's that's really an open
question we haven't seen extremely
powerful China in the modern era yet
Daniel Wester you have a new piece in
the Jacobin where you outline the real
profound differences between Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and foreign
policy which very much relate to not
only our you know aspirations as people
with a socialistic viewpoint and a
desire for greater solidarity and a post
hegemonic world of all kinds whether the
United States or China but also with
real practical ramifications in terms of
you know handling these potentially very
explosive situations in a way that's
I'll actually say like prudent and safe
spell out the differences for us sure
and so I think what's important to
emphasize that first is that when it
comes to declared policies there's
actually like a bunch of similarities
between Bernie and Warren know they both
say they want to end and what's more
they both say they want to reduce the
influence of the military-industrial
complex on foreign policymaking they
both say they want to develop trade
policies that benefit labor at the
expense of
but also I think this is what has led a
bunch of people who are only you know
understandably casually watching this
this competition to basically say that
there's no difference between them and
if there's no difference between them we
should vote for the female candidate and
I appreciate that if there are truly no
difference between them but the problem
is that when you actually dig into what
they say and I put on my intellectual
historian hat here when you when you
read what they say when you read their
text when you read what they their
vision of foreign policy that they
express they actually have rather
radically different understandings of
what the United States has role in the
world is and not to put too fine a point
on it but in brief I think it's fair to
describe Warren as a rather traditional
American nationalist one might even say
American Exceptionalist at some point in
one of her foreign policy speeches she
says something along the lines of her
she will be dedicated to defending
America's interests first and foremost
in the world and Bernie I think really
taps into a much older tradition of
social democratic internationalism or
Democratic Socialist internationalism
however you want to put it that goes
back you know roughly a century plus in
the United States so where Warren in all
of her foreign policies essentially says
repeatedly I'm here to defect that
Mehra's defend American workers I'm here
to defend American interests I'm here to
defend American labor and American
business of course she also says that
wasn't as far as I know something that
Bernie has never said Bernie very much
talks in an internationalist key so he
very much said that the intra his
interest is not to only defend American
workers but basically and the what he
called the race to the bottom when it's
campaign calls the race to the bottom in
the international economy where American
workers have to compete with Vietnamese
workers or Malaysian workers who are
making very little money with very few
benefits so what he wants to do he's
speaking in a really internationalist
way which i think is crucial considering
that we still live in the era
in an era of incredible global global
interconnectedness of globalization if
that's what you want to refer to it as
and it's not really possible at least if
you're a progressive and you take as
your foundational philosophical position
that all human lives are equal to think
in the explicitly nationalist terms that
Warren does that in that if you truly
adopt a left-wing politics which to be
the foundational position is that all
people again are equal you need to think
in an internationalist way that that
that that takes the lives of people
abroad as seriously as you take the
lives of American as a matter of
Americans and I think you actually saw
this in the most recent rally when
Bernie said you know look to your side
are you willing to fight for someone who
you don't know who's not you and that is
the argument of his foreign policy his
the argument of his foreign policies
that we need an international
progressive movement in order to
basically solve the challenges of the
day and Bernie identifies the major
challenges of the day as being global he
repeatedly talks about climate change
and global inequality and these he is
right to say are only going to be solved
through international coalition building
and what he calls a global progressive
movement where were in as far as I can
tell is still thinking in the
traditional sort of nation-state
centered way of the Cold War on post
Cold War eras and I think this is
probably due to the fact that farm
policy isn't a major interest of first
it never was in fact I would
characterize Warren as being very
similar ideologically to a 1950s era
Eisenhower Republican like a liberal
Republican as someone who studies that
era that is what her policies read like
most to me you know she thinks
capitalism is good but some bad
capitalist has done some bad things she
thinks the United States should
sometimes go to war but we've gone to
too many wars because some corrupt
people has done some corrupt things
while Bernie adopt a very fundamentally
different understanding of both foreign
policy and the United States's role in
the world let's and let's really spell
out I mean first of all in fact it is a
leadership role and the framing of it
has major implications so actually
building a frame around solidarity verse
is sort of a national self-interest
argument I mean as one example uh and
Ryan Grimm actually brought this to my
attention and Ryan Grimm is certainly
you know sick I mean more you know
certainly more Pro Warren than me so it
was interesting getting it from him but
even when Warren has spoken very little
on civilian casualties now all of them
speak very little on civilian casualties
but you know Bernie at times has
certainly talked about the toll of us
just abuses and civilian casualties
abroad when Warren has and it's
extremely and frequently she'll always
frame it in terms of the bad public
relations perception for the United
States that is created by as an example
all of the people the US military is
killing in Afghanistan so as this gets
practical and you also point to in your
piece I mean one we know that right out
of the gate this is the one area you
know there's all these arguments about
theories of change whether or not we
should have a more ambitious or more
limited agenda on you know major areas
of domestic policy but we all know is
that when you walk into the White House
and this is actually another piece of
your work it's this is a big problem
structurally but as it stands now the
president has a vast bureaucracy and a
huge amount of power over foreign policy
which you know if anything is not
mitigated by Congress it's it's probably
mitigated and mediated by the military
and intelligence apparatus which is you
know obviously profoundly dangerous and
undemocratic but so these perceptions
and how they look at the world manner
usually and I think to drill into it
specifically let's talk about climate
change and how it does relate to at
least the notion that we need some type
of transnational coordination to tackle
a common problem versus this notion that
you know and again this is in the
context of Warren voting for Trump
military budget increases and Sanders
voting against them that we can kind of
like green upgrade the military and I
and just as I asked this there's a you
know the kind of moral objection sure
but there's also sort of like you know
how green
and Walmart everby component to this
right like yes you can enough sure you
could you know let's have tanks that run
on hydrogen fine but at the end of the
day having a vast global killing State
is going to eat up a infinite amount of
human resources even if you make it
slightly more energy efficient which by
the way the Pentagon has actually been
working on doing for quite some time the
Pentagon is you know better on these
issues in other parts of the federal
bureaucracy but get into the drill down
of not just the philosophical difference
but the enormous practical implications
of we need to sit down with fellow
stakeholders to deal with the climate
crisis versus let's have solar-powered
hovercrafts yeah I think that's very big
and an important thing to emphasize is
that if we're at the United States is
focusing on its you know seven hundred
plus billion dollar military budget
they're not focusing on other things so
important things to emphasize is that
when you have this global military state
it actually takes not only resources but
energy away from doing things like
solving climate change and you're never
going to solve climate change through
including military for a variety of
reasons one that isn't going to really
stop anything but two and probably most
importantly it's going to signal to the
rest of the world that the United States
isn't serious about transnational
organization or international
negotiations so I think one that was
difficult for us to appreciate from the
United States is how much the rest of
the world distrust us for a variety of
reasons because of basically everything
we did during the Cold War and
everything we did after the Cold War
where it was made clear that what u.s.
leadership event was not that we were
going to you know interact with other
nations and try to guide them in a
quote-unquote positive direction but
that we were going to tell other nations
what to do so there's an enormous lack
of trust in the United States that
maintaining the global military state is
never is just you're never going to
overcome it if you maintain the eight
hundred bases I don't care how clean
energy and efficient they are so that is
probably the most important way in which
warrants basically as far as I can tell
status core mission is going to prevent
solving these international problems the
first step in solving climate change is
reducing Americans military bases by
showing the rest of the
world that the United States is going to
take them serious seriously as
relatively equal negotiating partners
particularly China and particularly
India which as everyone knows are two of
the largest global emitters in the world
I think the top three are India China
and the US and apologies I got that
wrong but I'm pretty sure that they're
in the top five
definitely so we're going to need to
negotiate with these countries and we're
going to need to negotiate from an area
of good faith and this is why I think
it's actually very critical the who is
president because as you suggested at
the beginning of your Thomason comments
in question is that the president it
basically is literally a king and in all
of the areas of the federal bureaucracy
in federal state making capacity foreign
policy is probably the area in which the
president has has the most discretion
for a variety of reasons in the last 70
or so years foreign policy Authority it
is increasingly centralized not only
around the presidents but in the White
House itself the National Security
Council is an incredibly influential
body of foreign policymaking as we've
talked about before on your podcast and
so this is the area I'm probably more so
than any other area unless the president
pursues the policy of the executive
orders which has you know its benefits
and drawbacks and we could talk about
that that's that that Bernie or Warren
is going to be able to make an enormous
difference and I think that's important
to recognize because Bernie clearly has
a long-standing decades-long
anti-imperialist credentials in a way
that Warren just is not I I don't mean
to keep on you know the trashing company
I just don't think that she cares much
about foreign policy and I don't think
she's really thought about it that much
it's never been part of her political
vision or her political or her political
perspective so I think it's actually
really important to look beyond just the
pure the pure policies that both that
both recommend and to really think like
what is their vision of the United
States's role in the world that is to
say that is not to say that if Warren
gets into office I don't think she would
she would I don't think things would be
totally the same I imagine that she
would probably stop intervening as much
I imagine that she would try to
negotiate
agreements that actually benefit labor
over capital but I also imagined that
she really wouldn't get rid of any of
the bases so I think that she would keep
this structure my guess is that Warren
would keep the structure of American
foreign policy relatively intact while
making changes in the superstructure of
the policies whereas Bernie at least
could begin a process of changing that
structure and I want to emphasize that
this is probably a decade's long process
you know add what I always say is rome
wasn't built in a day right but it also
wasn't taken apart in the day and so I
think what you need to do is you need to
elect someone like Bernie to at least
begin the fundamental structural
transformation that is necessary not
only that we you know keep on diverting
resources from welfare to weapons but
that were able to negotiate with
international partners in a meaningful
way to basically take on these problems
of the global Commons climate change and
global inequality yeah and as a final
question I mean as part of that project
that Sanders is bringing to the table
there's you know people like Matt does
as an example and I would say you know
in the broader intellectual sense like
Adam akechi atchoo and you who are
taking the next phase of a left wing
critique and this is another reason why
it's really important that people order
democracy and exile hand spire and the
rise of the defense intellectuals
because you're actually working
programmatically and I think that you
know that's another thing that's
happening around Bernie as well which is
that if there isn't an active effort to
at least start to rethink these things
then you just revert to bureaucratic
type and that's the same people who
implemented these disasters of the last
several decades so I just before you go
could you just touch on that sure so
basically why what I think my book
actually relates directly to this
because the reason that I studied a guy
like Hans Speier who is one of the
architects of the national security
state in the mid 20th century is that I
wanted to see what were the ideas and
assumptions that actually animated the
destruction that we have now because the
structure that we have now was
essentially created during World War two
that's when you get you know the first
permanent
again two agencies you get the first
permanent intelligence really
professionalized intelligence apparatus
and after World War two in the National
Security Act of 1947 you get the
precursors for the Department of Defense
you get the formal creation of the CIA
and you get the creation of the National
Security Council
so what I wanted to do by studying
Speier was to figure out why someone who
actually started his life as a socialist
thought that the creation of these
institutions was necessary to world
peace and it essentially had to do with
his particular vision of geopolitics
that emerge from his experiences first
with fascism and then with basically
Stalinism during and after World War two
and when you actually look at the
founding moment of these institutions
these institutions I want to add that
continue to define what American farm
policy is you see that almost all of the
assumptions that the people who make
these institutions who built them had
and no longer hope right the United
States is the overwhelming military
power in the world
it really faces no real threat despite
what the foreign policy establishment
would have you believe and in fact we've
gone to such an absurd degree that we
have roughly 800 faces comparison
depending on who you ask
the 20 or so Russia has or the 1 to 9
that China has so this is ridiculous the
Imperial order that the United States
has created today is ridiculous and the
assumptions that made that order created
that made sure that order was created in
the first place no longer hold and I saw
that by examining this whole inspire
thing and I related to today in my book
so I think that's what's really critical
is that we what we really need as an
organized less is to begin a project of
not only ideological transformation and
you know seizing of the means of
production as crucial as that might be
but also thinking in an imperial way in
terms of the imperial son nothing can
get in paralyzed thinking in terms of
the imperial structures that we have and
and thinking about how to transform
those structures prober Metin
programmatically to have a project of
institutional reform so let's say you
know we're not going to have it if
Bernie wins and he answers in 2020 but
let's say in 10 years but in the next
four to eight to twelve years that the
left wing actually has a project of
institutional reforms they know we
actually should abolish the CIA and
replace it with this or not even replace
it with this and just say we don't want
to
global intelligence apparatus at least
organized in the way that it was a
policy NSC because it's too
anti-democratic Ambala sleazy ID to
because it actually makes the military
too much of a foreign policy maker so we
need to be thinking in the structural
terms and this is what I tried to get at
in my book and I think this is the
crucial project going forward and we're
really at the beginning of it we're
really in an inchoate stage of it but I
think you're going to see it happen more
and more going forward as a social
democratic less continues to assert
itself in American politics and I just
want to add to I mean this is also the
answer to people who you know will slide
into my timeline with sometimes
legitimate and sometimes just whiny and
pedantic like what about Bernie you know
he was bad on such-and-such and you know
the answer to that is is well you know
in some cases like with Libya yeah he
was and the second and bigger and more
relevant point is we're in a context now
where first of all unlike any other
candidate he can revert to type which
goes back to fighting Reagan's dirty
wars in Central America in the 1980s
when you know he's the mayor you know
this is totally unparallel and also that
because we do think structurally and we
do understand the movement and the
structure of a campaign that this is the
opportunity to start taking those baby
steps and of course there's a huge
amount to do and of course there's way
more that needs to be put on the table
but do you actually start that movement
or not and that's really the very basic
and very fundamental question yeah and I
would just add my guess is that that
movement wouldn't even begin to get
going with more of course I don't think
she cares about it I don't think she's I
do not think she'd expend political
capital unchallenging the military which
is what you're going to need to do
you're going to need to challenge the
top brass in the military you're going
to need to expand expense re a fair bit
of political capital and I don't think
she has the interest or concern with
that I just don't I don't see it
solidarity not put solar drones the book
is democracy and exile han spire and the
rise
defense intellectual the United States
in the world honestly I can't emphasize
not only first of all this is a book
that I read cover to cover which is
increasingly difficult in today's world
and this is a fantastically fun book to
read because Daniel best nur is actually
a very very good writer in addition to
being a shaper of young minds at the
pile school at the scoop Jackson school
at the University of Washington I always
love that you teach there I find that
hilarious and you can hear him regularly
including our illicit history two parter
of the RAND Corporation and the defense
apparatus forty MBS Daniel I appreciate
it thanks Michael you later thanks
man
take care I guys really do I'm Matt if
you read that book know what's on my
list okay because it's not on you it's
not an audio I think it is or not it
actually already read it I really would
order that book let's put a link of it
in the in the show notes I was gonna say
the first step so that not that might be
in eight years we can have the
Constitution amended so in LA no mark
and run for president no Mickey C air
she's arrived is she on cam is skated
yeah MT a hellhole that I feel like it
just gets exponentially worse why you're
in New York political Pro it's hashtag
Cuomo's MTA I feel like we need to
revive that a little bit with it the MTA
board chair like was out its kind of
back in now there's a lot of controversy
he's supposed to be the Guru fix the MTA
or the other subway systems around the
world but he can't fix this one cuz I
don't know maybe he doesn't have any
money to fix it because we won't tax the
mother-effing billionaires of this city
example really don't let anybody
complicate what's simple I'm so sick of
it I'm so sick no it's not tax the
freebies is it literally just would
there's like especially if you're
actually in New York right just go on
that very same subway wait for your
transfer for
thirty minutes go for like there's a
several block radius on the Upper East
Side then or you go to Tribeca like you
could literally go physically where the
money is right that we just need to take
back to put into this that's it you have
an Occupy MTA we are wheat are we
starting a movement right now I think we
might be there we go whispers about how
we need a new militant and radical
transit riders Union in this town so
most did you guys catch that oh yes
right yes when they the way they
occupied the station and then wave
people in for free yeah that is called
the fare story has a very long history
and also check out Matt and i's DMBS
video reviewing people's subway hopping
techniques so there was some local
actually was really disgusting this
local news I don't remember which one in
New York they went out and they found
people hopping turnstiles to shame them
no oh yeah that was so disgusting and
what was actually and it was fun because
you know like some people it was
depressing like they hid their faces and
it was disgusting but it's also in New
York so you had a lot of like like who
the are you right you cop are you
cop who are you I don't know you Lola
and so an eight but they what they
unintentionally did was they showed all
of the security footage of different
people like jumping like basically what
we did on TMDs was we reviewed technique
we're like okay we got the duck method
got the straight-up jump I will say that
whenever I may or may not have done that
I was a jumper you're a jumper
I do the door yeah I door the door
barely even count it's like a nice
passive way to evade the fair that can
still get you a ticket anything I got
one my way out of it and I was like you
know first up they're expanding this now
they have the money to buy effing ads on
the subway being like oh by the way
thank you very professional I use the
leftward and this is the know you were
not supposed to and this is the second
time that you have it's very hard very
well done I have to put on my TV persona
properly sworn on television except for
c-span accidentally and that was that
went a little bit viral wait I think I
remember you cursed that that Brian lamb
guy that would have been funny
it's just that boring I don't know
what's his name
there's so like yeah it's Brian looks
like a I'm sure he's a nice guy but one
of those like random like my comedic
vision was that you were on one of those
like good morning welcome to c-span no
Mickey consoles with us they're calling
on the Democrat line from Cleveland City
and then onika is like what I love is
that even if you did curse one of those
guys out they'd still be like well all
right white spirit let's go back to the
phone Brian lamb would be the worst
person to play poker
Brian lamb would Brian Brian lamb
probably has like 50 mil stashed from
poker winnings just like like I know
your blood the most inscrutable host of
a lie his face I have never I you know
what not only have I never seen him
break his face I literally used to and
extremely immature of me I used to watch
montages of people prank calling c-span
why is that immature I thought you were
prank calling well no comment but uh I
used to watch montages of people prank
calling c-span and like he just never he
would just be like seems like a prank
call no Michael yeah yeah right just
like there's Michael Brooks with me
black nationalist Obama impression okay
go back to the lines you're calling from
New Jersey on the independent line
fluorides killing all of us Brian all
right what do you think about that it's
fluoride killing Lois next that guy
actually is super admirable I didn't
realize how cool he was started breaking
 Amon is a guest it's like what do
you think about that there's no chance
he would yeah yeah that'd be great if I
like anyway for the postgame and do a
bad segment if I get any worse than the
flu like all we're asking no political
opinions just teach us how to have a
straight face when we're doing Collins
right like I lose my temper I snap at
people when they call in you know maybe
not you I didn't when I had a serious
show I never know definitely him yeah
definitely Michaels I snap it all
whatever I snapping people I don't know
if I snap at people I think I maybe
don't have an unending infinite supply
of patience you know and I watch I was
watching cuz I I was watching a Dziedzic
clip recently and it was great from this
old vice profile and he was like what I
like to do is I like to start like a
debate five minutes early and then and
so that even if someone comes on time or
they're only two minutes late they feel
a little bit guilty and the guys like
why do you want people to feel guilty
goes so they don't ask stupid annoying
questions just like go back to the OL
fair hoppin shall we say the individual
fair strike that we fall carried out on
an individual basis people that really
mad at me when I tweeted about getting a
ticket for fare evasion I was like oh
hey I just got a ticket in the Morgan
Avenue station if you're there watch out
there's cops hiding around the corner
people got so mad at me you're like hey
pay the fare Jamie they made it all
about me and I was like okay
nerds first of all it's not about me
it's about warning other people
second of all public transit should be
free it's a human right the freedom of
movement I'm not apologizing
at the Morgan Street stop wait did
people actually really get I don't like
ratioed are you ready back to life fight
that off and let me just say this if you
ratio Jamie for warning people about
cops being at the Morgan Street shop
stop shame on you you gotta be ashamed
maybe they're not from New York I feel
like something that's outside of New
York don't really understand the
criminal justice issues related to this
the fact that like they keep raising the
fares and service just gets worse I mean
I went home the other night this was the
signs don't even match like now they
have these signs and they're like you
get on the N train you have to go to the
bottom platform like number one there is
no bottom platform number two like where
am I going I don't know how to get home
can you imagine me a tourist thank you
where am I
I appreciate all the flat screens
they're installing that occasionally
show like a timetable but for like 90%
of the time you look at them it's just
an advertisement right yeah exactly and
Holograms my station was shut down for
two years which was great they opened it
up subway still doesn't work still not
running normal times but we have like
freakish Holograms at the Astoria at the
30th Avenue stop it's it's not a real
hologram it's just like this virtual is
it Wolf Blitzer god-like live from the
subway station the same health care
question again wait Matt what do you
want to show us this is this is an
all-time tweet by majority report
producer Darcy Shah Retd Liz asked you
what are these three new super tall
super skinny billions at NYC and Darcy
responds their giant filing cabinets
used for money literally true that's
absolutely Chicago I guess she moved who
is Liz Phair since excellent guy Ville
oh my god
was she legendary great musician from
the 90s and she's still around but she
had a very very iconic
album called exile and gavel and like
nightly like or account its fizz lair
not Liz Phair that's very funny why do
people complain everybody's questions
now you work at the majority port don't
you make enough money no I don't I work
part-time at the majority report and I
spend the rest of my time doing
organizing work that I don't get paid
for and working on my podcast which I
love very much but doesn't make me that
much money yet so they think I mean I
get this to like even if you know
there's a Google you google your name
it's like you know salary legs whatever
they do to women especially if you go on
Fox News there's like a whole leg
section there's a there's an account
that zooms in on your legs and there's a
montage I got a new Google Alert one day
I was like okay I don't know the foot
people are comrades though remember when
they proved that that nude wasn't Aveo
see because the wiki feet people are
like the feet don't match we've studied
her feet not even close
not even close I've been looking at
Puerto Rican woman's feet I'd lied for
decades let me tell you they went
through my Instagram I'm like 15 years
yeah I just know it from doing this job
when I used to like have to look up Fox
and Friends clips on YouTube the person
I'm like there's somebody who just goes
through Fox & Friends and for any time
like like women have legs out they just
clip that part it's weird and there's
music in terms of pay because they also
will say you make five million dollars
here should monetize the foot pics I'm
not but number one number one you could
make 5 million a year and still be
warning your fellow citizens right I
mean I guys you there's that's just such
a public way anyone be a snitch
libertarians just they might have been
ya know I got into it with some of them
because yeah yeah
Galaxy brain take that I saw from this
was that I am a Marxist and yet I feel
entitled to the fruits of other people's
labor for free and they're talking about
like the people who work at the MTA to
be fair Brennan was drunk when he wrote
that buddy that brother was just like
she feels she got a right to the conduct
his work it's she own is some
frigging I'm a gas Maoist party
meanwhile she's stealing from the
conductor that is not how I like
Brendan's new alter ego
let's play some let's play a little bit
of sound then we'll go to the fun half I
really let's just do these these uh pair
of a ah see and Ilan Omar reaffirming
why they've endorsed Bernie Sanders so
when is he going to do you know when
he's going to Detroit with rashida I
think is it this weekend yeah I don't
want to say that unlike screwed up I'm
pretty sure sure because they can like
actually officially put out yeah on her
social media accounts I mean it's not
hard I mean you know the same research
skills that let you to look up know
Mickey's feet it's an endorsement so a5g
five mil a year huh I had no idea yeah
well they are I mean the funeral is
taking place and I saw them at the
funeral and that doesn't mean they can't
jump on a plane but wait for Elijah
Cummings yeah oh did we miss the clip I
should have asked about this there's a
hysterical clip I don't know who the
gentleman is we have it of the guy
skipping McConnell alright yeah we'll
get to that later
all right here is AOC and who they don't
like to hear this on MSNBC oh this is
painful oh how dare she be committed to
her political commitments these
endorsements are part of the work that
we have to do in the house very
frequently someone will
oh we can't pass a green you deal we
don't have support for that Oh
medicare-for-all is quote/unquote
unfeasible because we may not have
support in certain areas of the house
well if we want to change that then we
need to be changing we need to be
changing the math of the house and we
need to be protecting those folks who
are leading and are taking political
risks in order to serve the people of
the United States of America and so my
work first and foremost informs the
other work that I do to organize the
electorate but it's it is important to
acknowledge that in order to pass a
transformative agenda for working-class
Americans we gotta have the numbers and
we gotta have the leadership in place
and so we have to play in both if we're
really gonna change this country and if
we're serious about that absolutely and
here is Ilan Omar
she was at this is the Progressive
Caucus Action Fund and you know there's
also a clip which I guess we didn't pull
pull with our Mehdi Hassan where she
really made this point very strongly as
well and she actually even acknowledged
her own gut check when he told her that
she was basically seeing a little bit of
a different tune a year ago this is Ilan
Omar
the struggles of working people
he has been someone who has fought
alongside and for marginalized people in
this country for many years and I
believe that he and I share value and a
vision for the America that we all
deserve and we'll do everything that we
can to build the movements that will get
us there I'll make you what do you think
about these endorsements I think they're
um you know they came at a perfect
moment when the press was really trying
to shove it down our throats that there
was no electoral path for for senator
Sanders which is abundantly you know
false it's just I mean the polls are all
over the place they're not it's not you
know one day like people judge is
winning Iowa which makes absolutely no
sense mm-hmm so it came in a really good
moment I mean at the end of the day
they're gonna need folks to turnout in
states like Iowa New Hampshire and they
I believe that it's pretty tight I don't
think there's a big margin there I think
they oversample older voters i all the
polls pretty much over example older
voters and some of them are a little bit
more skewed um you know he needs the
young you know young voters new voters
to register and I think that these
endorsements from the squad are
motivating to young people and you know
and hopefully there'll be surrogates
that can run around the country and hmm
you know not just campaign in their
districts but other districts
encouraging young people to register to
vote encouraging young people to get
active however they can and tell their
friends and families of course you know
tell your parents that's I think key so
it's your parents have a talk with your
parents I saw somebody push this out on
Instagram have an intervention about
Biden even intervention about other
candidates to tell them you're not
coming home for Thanksgiving unless they
vote for Bernie my parents would be
happy about their little breathing Greek
sovereign debt crisis again
finally I can eat some friggin cranberry
sauce guess what we had a conversation
yesterday um can I mention that yes yes
so my grandfather passed away recently
and thank you I
in his 90s last of my grandparents used
to live with me um I didn't know that
there was Memorial because I was not
shared on an email list yeah so you
think okay so you're like oh that's
pretty
effed up except the reason I was not on
that email list is because many of the
members of that list are Republicans
some are born-again Christians who also
believe that Obama was a Muslim and so
when that whole thing was happening I
was very vocal about Obama not being a
Muslim and other you know conflicting
stories that would be and doing like
this double stuff it's a lie and it's
not a problem I'll be picturing like a
bunch of like I mean I go to my own
ultra stereotype so like some guy owns
like a Greek diner being like no no you
don't understand Oh Nicki I mean why you
want to live in Obama Saudi Arabia she's
crazy
[Laughter]
Wow I just want to say we didn't pull
this because we didn't want to talk
about the same subject again but John
King played those same clips of AOC and
ill on on CNN and ran some footage of
fly girls from in living color in the
bathroom because no I'm kidding he was
the guy who said that hey these are herb
and his faith apology yeah don't take me
out of context it's like don't even try
it
I'm surprised no way you're gonna get me
on that one anyways we're gonna die
today me close the jar Susan about a
non-urban mm-hmm electorate all the
things she throws at her there's a lot
more room for them to run okay we're
gonna do plugs and we're gonna know the
fun half but uh no Mickey there's a new
project you're working on oh yeah let's
talk about it I was told by someone
following me that I have to hide my
headphones okay
watching is this better audience my
headphones have been hidden everyone's a
critic
I know I got an alert on that an alert
yeah just hide your headphones not for
my family actually so yeah very very
very exciting it was the school in
Indonesia
anyways cover your headphones this is
really exciting so I'm part of this
coalition of women who many have run for
office in the past some are in office
some have lost office or you know have
run and and not succeeded and then we
have activists and labor leaders and
policy leaders and organizers and
artists but we're all progressive women
and we've come together to start a new
organization called matriarch and it's
it's a group that is supporting
working-class progressive women across
the country running for Congress
starting with Congress and the goal of
the group is to fill a space because we
think that economic justice and
intersectional issues are not
prioritized when supporting women
running for office but also if you're
working women running for office you
most likely don't have access to wealth
you don't have wealth it's very hard to
raise the money so that other
institutional organizations take you
seriously so we want to help really from
the ground level a lot of these
candidates help recruit candidates to
run who have labor backgrounds who are
connected to their communities but we
also think that more women I mean we see
with a squad did clearly and in just you
know a year but more women who come from
you know these backgrounds from who are
working-class who face real obstacles
who are in the frontlines of every
injustice that they can run in those
issues they connect to their communities
more they're more electable and of
course the more courageous once they
enter Congress and so if we want to get
to parity if we want to prioritize you
know women's related issues and more we
have to start talking about economic
justice criminal justice climate justice
labor rights I mean these are the issues
that have been fought for and led by
many women often on the front lines
early on but they're also on the front
lines especially women of color
especially you know immigrant women
undocumented women they're they're
really being hit first and
so we're seeking candidates we just
launched like minutes ago or so go to
matriarch pack calm if you want to throw
in a few bucks that helps because we're
trying to raise money to help these
candidates early on and and help them in
other ways too so there's a lot of
infrastructure support we're gonna do
that um you know it's not just that it's
hard to run for office when you're
working class it's hard when you're
taking on the establishment because
they'll often throw other things at you
so we're really excited very very
excited and I just tweeted it out to
make sure I think that the Twitter is at
matriarch org so follow them so it's
like Emily's list if they were actually
good that's a great interpretation is
not good there's a lot of problems there
we want to get this to blow up we're
taking nominations so if you have Canada
if you know someone who should be
running for Congress there's still some
time we'd love to consider them and then
after the new year we're gonna release
our endorsement list and it's just an
awesome group of people so share tweet
throw some bucks at us because we got to
get these candidates some early money
ground support money thank you for the
plug awesome check you out the of well
actually excuse me become them the
majority report today majority dot F M
slash become a member that's how this
whole thing happens that's why we're
here today that's why Sam is able to
sleep off a hangover right now or
potentially still be arguing with
somebody at the blackjack tables about
the yield curve on social security dream
do you see check out majority report dot
FM also go to just coffee co-op
Fairtrade tea coffee or chocolate get
the majority report blend on the Michael
Brooks show this past Tuesday we had on
John iadarola and artesia ball
throughout this coming Tuesday
jam-packed show crystal ball
Harvey K is gonna be in studio and then
I'm just about to record an interview
with Kshama Sawant after this I'd like
in general if people can to support her
uh she's an incredibly important
politician she's done amazing and
courageous work on the Seattle City
Council she's one of these through lines
whether we're talking about the Chicago
teacher strikes so on
she helped open the door to where we are
at now I'm very eager to interview her
but I'm in this case you know it's it's
very action-oriented I want to see what
we can do to help Sakr secure her
reelection in the City Council she's
extremely important that's all on
Tuesday
patrons already have the full interview
I just did with Adolph Reed jr. the man
is a genius uh I was incredibly humbled
by how much time he gave me talked about
the managerial class essentialism and
neoliberalism touching on everything
from the 60s through the 90s to South
Africa to get where we needed to go
Adolph Reed is amazing that interview is
for patrons first and next week my
interview with Slava Dziedzic will be
for patrons first that was a lot of fun
patreon.com slash t MBS get the whole
thing subscribe on youtube
michael brooks show on youtube we're
about to be at eighty four thousand subs
want to get to that one hundred thousand
and very close to her first three
thousand patrons so thank you and also
snag your tickets November 23rd World
Cafe Philadelphia live show artesia ball
drop Emma giggling crystal ball it's
going to be so good folks so fit it's
gonna be really good how do you pick the
sidious that's a good question we just I
don't know me and my agent just talked
about it honestly a lot of it is patron
lobbying he's listening I listen I'm
listening he's connected he's connected
to the folks you're just like a
modern-day Bill O'Reilly I throw it
around doing the live events yeah lemme
Miller go to Philly yes Bill World Cafe
he's like a socialist now - I don't know
it's all right wasn't he like tweeting
out like favorable stuff or it was like
favorable just or like so if I
understand correctly Bernie saying
though the system doesn't work we
capitalist yeah Bernie Bernie once
agreed to deal because capitalism is
just her in the world is what he tweeted
out but I think he meant he left out
some squirt but ironically as the kids
say yeah this but actually Jamie what's
up so I've got a few things going on
October is a very busy month for us goth
socialists so this week in the free
episode of the anti Fattah we have a not
one but two guests first we have on
sharm kana editor of commune to give us
a little preview and what's of what's in
issue number four as well as a breakdown
of Saturday's Bernie Sanders rally from
an ultra left record perspective
Joshua straw and half of the dark wave
duo as ur Swann then joins us we all
talk about what the kids are listening
to these days we make some music
recommendations and we talk about the
new as their swan record and why Billy
Joel has better politics than Nick K if
that one kind of broke my heart someone
who always liked Nick Cave then today
Friday we have a very very very that's
really true pre me
what I don't want to step on the show
but that's fascinating Billy Joel better
than Nick Cave oh yeah oh yeah Billy
Joel is a Cuomo supporter it's real he
said some pretty anti stuff in an
interview about yeah walking around with
swastikas how come you don't beat them
with a baseball bat Nick Cave kind of
both sides did a little he kind of
equated the far left and the far right
in a way that a lot of Goths socialists
out there did not appreciate but I also
wasn't that surprised because he's just
like this gloomy poetic preacher man who
travels around to sing sad songs so I
don't know what I was expecting from him
but anyway it's kind of like Bill
O'Reilly Billy Joel is just like Bill
O'Reilly it's a very similar from the
same area of Long Island Billy Joel had
family that died in concentration camps
so he understands fascism a little bit
better I guess there's a real debate
happening on the left there was a party
after the Bernie rally in the
neighborhood and we got into some
debates over whether or not like
violence against Nazis is
okay and I'm just gonna leave it at its
fine
World War two I don't know I mean like I
just doesn't seem like it's fine I don't
know why this is even a debate than
anybody is having even the pod save
America guys cheered when Richard
Spencer got punched so I think the
debates not I should tell you something
also I mean yeah maxime Brunel lost so
he lost bad on an anti anti particular
just always I'll tactically but answered
everything I feel like I should just
keep talking over you so today we have a
very exciting I'm excited about it I
haven't even listened to it yet it
showed number five of history as a
weapon with Sean KB and Matt Chrisman
and each of these is a two-parter
because they're just that monstrously
good Matt and Sean are diving into the
historical materialist trenches once
again on this episode they addressed
suburbia and its discontents how has the
unique social geography of the United
States affected its political and
economic development how our class
relations reflected in the built
environment why did the suburbs arise as
a unique solution to social crisis in
the post-war era and what sort of
mentalities and ideologies arose out of
these Millia I'm very very excited about
this one folks and tonight if anyone's
in town and wants to go to a really fun
Halloween party and show and benefit I
am throwing a benefit show at
trans-pecos
in Brooklyn Queens it's kind of on the
borderline we've got as our Swan playing
really good darkwave and is there record
release show and pop 1280 they're freaks
they sound like the birthday party Canal
Street Electronics is Mike bird and from
the awesome noise punk band uniform
we've got DJs we've got comrade Barbie
making an appearance once again
comrade Barbies a very good comrade
doing a drag performance and we will be
raising money for a really cool mutual
aid center in Tijuana called El comedor
and contra viento in Maria is the
project it comes out of it's run totally
along autonomous principles there are no
NGOs involved there's no state involved
they help migrants stay alive while the
state is basically trying to murder them
and we ran some interviews with people
from there
in a recent episode of the Intifada so I
wanted to do something for them so come
out it'll be fun
awesome wait what time doors open at
8:00 fans start around 9:00 9:30 tonight
yeah yeah dancing till late in the night
if you're looking for something super
goth and spooky and Halloweeny to do
come on out wear a costume or if every
day is Halloween for you that's cool to
come as you are
Matt luck yeah
tomorrow hopefully it's gonna be a
marathon recording sessions but I'll be
talking about Salem witch trials in a
historical context and how it was
basically the Puritans had their charter
revoked by England because they were
oppressing Quakers too much in the 1680s
and they're like oh please give us back
we'll be on our best behavior but while
that was going on they killed a bunch of
innocent people accusing them of being
witches and the Mather it so easy on the
quake is really sad so Dee soprano pure
yes so directly after Cotton Mather
wrote a book about how actually the
evidence they used wasn't so bad and
witches are real and I believe and
mistakes were made though so look not
everyone that we killed was an actual
witch but there was one that took my
 Tonio actually witches were
often accused of going after like farm
implements and property that was a big
well this if your college died you'd
blame the local like woman who was
annoying you or like maybe poor there is
no donation for this well was was it
also even more like not to step on this
either but it is interest like annoying
social position class position sure but
like was it also correlated with like
maybe a couple of women were meeting and
talking about changing the way something
was done and then that got transpo was
that sort of thing happening at all -
that definitely happened with like Anne
Hutchinson generation earlier for
instance like she was accused of being a
witch because she was basically like
more basically like I don't want to get
into antinomian controversy but
eventually like she had a
miscarriages DubLi well the bad thing is
like after she was you know speaking out
about you know her religious reviews she
had a miscarriage and they said yeah see
she's possessed by the devil
no she had the evil eye people that's
what my family would say oh yes yeah she
lied that's why she loves we must get
her off we have to get that off of the
email we will all be cursed
Mediterraneans sales person myself four
years in an effort to get people to just
leave me alone that's fine
you just have a blue you can just guess
it takes hopefully um it's you're taking
an energy can be good or bad energy but
just the action of taking an energy from
other people depletes your energy and
cause sickness headaches migraines
dementia yes absolutely now and then
there's this thing in Greek a lot of
Mediterranean countries where us many
many three your you have someone in your
family who can do the thing to get the
evil eye off of you but you can't know
when they're doing it they just need to
know where you are and my uncle does
that no family let me and also let me
just did thank you know Mikey it's
alright we'll see you in the fun half
that wasn't Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
you know you're nervous you're a little
bit upset you riled up yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur exactly I'm
happy now win-win it's a win oh yeah now
listen to me 3.5 times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars come here not
they accuse me you you you
belong all right take quick break I want
to take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
houses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready
to Rosie's Shitler with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half we are all here
it's already been fun
whoa whoa all right guys all right all
right which one of you put the evil eye
on the meeting that is a little too much
fun don't do not pays no Mickey with the
e flies by the way is anybody watching
anything scary we usually do film
recommendations that's a good point
I've got a TV show that's on Netflix all
right let's do it it's French so you
have to read the subtitles but it's
total total literary Hangul it's called
Mary Ann and this is a very good which
sort of TV show Mary Ann like Mary Ann I
would love to watch an on scare
basically just any movie about Marianne
Williamson oh yeah a little she
pro-israel for me but I think Iran to
pro-israel not clear on healthcare
butchy but I mean I mean I get to by the
way I can tell you about another person
who is like a lot of people's number two
or even number one choice god forbid
who's a little too pro-israel for me Oh
Warren likes her Israel come on
did you hear Hillary Clinton um add
Elijah Cummings his funeral when she
talked about Israel when she was like
time when I first saw Elijah I thought
he was one of the people that worked on
my house in Arkansas but then we ended
up working together
is that what she said no people whine
and complain to this day about the
Sanders campaign with Hillary Clinton
and it's like first he goes we're not
gonna talk about your Damn emails
okay no problem let's just get written I
agree it's whatever it's stupid but okay
let's just take off a major piece of
political ammunition then you have no
one in there research department went
you know what Clinton wrote fondly in
her autobiography about prison labor
helping out around the governor's
mansion
she literally all slaves those people
have the temerity to be like very nice
or helpful enough like that unbelievable
literally the one exception to making
slavery illegal it's like oh except as a
punishment like what by the way I how is
that allowed by the character they write
the laws character-building and don't
even look up with what Bill Clinton did
with another inmate who did not have a
mental capacity but um tough on crime
tough on crime at criminal tough on
crime and tough on the causes of crime
about which I mean God didn't even know
he's gonna be executed
Bill Clinton executed a man who asked
that his final meal be saved for later
because he did not understand cept oh is
the hundred percent not a joke he did
not understand the concept he's gonna be
being killed I also just have to say one
last tangent I am I already talked about
this on the show but I was actually
shocked at how sad I was when Elijah
Cummings died yeah I don't know what
there's just he just had a real I don't
know was the story was incredibly
American like yeah that's the America we
aspire to be you know that is the story
I don't think that's the America that
clearly were on the path of of I don't
even know if you ever ever were at that
point like the fact that he was able to
build this extraordinary life when his
own father was a sharecropper I mean
it's it's unusual
it's you know was the his funeral was
very sad there are a lot of people who
got up on stage and told stories about
knowing him in 1968 and in college and
you know been friends with him for 50
years but the Hilary part really threw
me back because firstly she was she was
way more charismatic than I've seen her
in years giving a speech but one part
she said I went on a trip to Israel with
Elijah and there was a lot of biblical
references because of Elijah but she won
on a trip because he had an organization
and he started it was a cultural
exchange program it was it felt like
almost like a plug to Israel it's always
awkward when I show up to a family thing
like at a temple or whatever and they
somehow managed to work in Isreal and
I'm just like trying to be nice and show
up for my family I'm like come on guys
do they really do that oh yeah oh yeah
what's your may I ask what your
background is Eastern European Jews okay
so you're Jewish it's not like you're in
a born-again Christian household where
my family likes to drop Israel and I'm
like it's it's occupation I mean it's
their form of like the rest of the world
will be eliminated when the doom world
comes and we're gonna take that land
right exactly you think we're not on to
you we figured it out you don't think
that the Jews know this aspect that
we'll die and then they'll take our
houses which is ironic speaking of how
the place was founded but let's keep
let's do a few more recommendations
before we we play this clip alright Mary
Ann oh yeah yeah okay
I'm the worst I'm sorry that's fine
anyway and Brendan are you gonna come
back to give your recommendation I felt
bad because you were standing waiting
come come come come on I watched funny
games last night which is you guys in
this movie that's brutal
i watch that's a shot-for-shot remake of
a austrian movie from 1997 australian i
think right there is it austria austria
night okay i don't know maybe it is but
it's about a family of really rich
family of Naomi Watts and Tim Roth
that go off to you know North Shore Long
Island to their country house and
Michael Pitt and his friend do a home
invasion and have been at all these
really swanky houses and just terrorized
them and it's really intense never
pretty it's a pretty tough day Jamie
pick you know not things more disturbing
than reality these days I got to say if
you really want to be horrified just
stare into this rectangle of doom for an
hour and that will do the trick but if
you want to escape from the horrors of
reality to a world that's nice
maybe check out midsummer if you haven't
yet I thought it was really good and I
did an episode on it with Leslie Lee
from struggle session and he thought it
was good to same director is hereditary
which is also very good very scary movie
that you should watch if you haven't yet
from last year I've been watching a lot
of succession lately I gotta say that's
not like no that's alright okay but it
is it does show the horrors of it show
us how capitalism is bad for the
bourgeoisie too and driven by children
it's like see ya nobody's happy in this
scenario even the people who are
supposed to because they're on top so
maybe let's uh let's not and say we did
no Mickey uh whatever I
I watched the laundromat that was that I
thought it was extraordinary I want us
and I wash it was someone from Europe
who I was spending like it was in town
for two weeks and I was spending the
whole two weeks like explaining why I
hated New York's real estate industry
and like running around being like I was
having like meltdowns with them and
they're like why are you so upset like
because New York is disappearing and it
discusses and then I you know went into
the the oligarchs moving their money
into New York real estate to hide their
money and you know how offshore bank
accounts work and like the idea of
American capitalism and it's a very
specific it's happening all over the
world but it is the lens of New York I
see everything through that lens now and
we watched the movie together he's like
oh no I get it I get it
I understand it all and it was way more
nerds eating when they did it then when
you
Street when your die restaurant closed
and five other places all on one day
Jesus I gotta watch that and I don't
have any scary recommendations actually
you know what the most it's a comedy
show but it has some like horror
adjacent I would say is righteous
gemstones and that's great that show is
Danny McBride yeah on HBO HBO yeah oh I
lost my HBO's dad show stealing
basically flawless I mean I can't I late
yeah I don't have enough good things to
say about that show even the way it like
it it balanced even like it also had a
lot of heart to it
I don't know I it was that show blue I
expected it to be funny I think Danny
brides Maclaurin is funny whatever like
it's a good cast but I did not expect it
to be like a even succeed like on
dramatic terms that show is amazing well
this is the critique that they made on
chapo that I agree with which is like
it's based on the Falwell family right
the story about the picture and just the
family itself and the amount of heart
and charisma that these actors bring to
these roles
it is completely more than the utterly
boring ghouls in the Falwell family you
have to totally I would say by the end
of even episode one because of even like
some actually really bad stuff they do
but still takes like physical balls eNOS
I totally let that go like I walked in
being like oh this is they're making fun
of the falls and then by the end of
episode one it's like well this just
isn't gonna be plausible or deny or like
it just isn't gonna make sense if I
think of these people as that like
they're terrible but they're definitely
not them so this is like its own like
magical realist like megachurch family
and we're just gonna go with well what
it is is that's way better that way you
have the McBride trilogy now and I think
this is another point they made on Chapo
but you have the the like sort of
working-class eastbound and down show
you have the professional middle-class
the vice-principals and Renee
upper-crust which is the righteous
gemstones and when you think about that
way it's in an amazing body of work I
the the final scene of it I think I
don't want to spoil anything but I think
is
perfect and it's so good I almost like
kind of wish they they weren't coming
back for a second season Wow they landed
it was a perfect like you know like I
thought like the first season of
succession was pretty mediocre and then
the second season like took off this one
this was like out of the gate did you
guys see the family the one that was on
Netflix about no it was I thought it was
me same thing but the idea the concept
the background I mean I've been trying
to start something like that for a while
I forgot my biggest recommendation
lately which is the Joker movie oh my
god it is so great I liked it so much
and leftists don't let the Liberals and
the right take this movie away from you
there is a lot of leftist stuff in it
and you should be happy to watch it rad
when I see it
very recently I saw it with a couple
friends who maybe didn't appreciate the
movie as much as I did I don't want to
take I don't want to give any spoilers
but there's a lot of uh a lot of class
rage a lot of class issues in the movie
that deserves to be explored what's the
deal with the stairs the Bronx stairs
why is that I sort of tuned it out in a
very pivotal scene to Gary Glitter oh
the the gag the glade get her songs were
like horrified that they would like give
Gary Glitter money by putting its music
in the movie as if Gary Glitter is not
doing fine already for those who don't
know he is a convicted pedophile is a
bad guy really bad guy a good guy but
like the Joker
isn't a great I mean the Joker is a
complicated guy but like you're not
supposed to want to be like him so we
have Dave Rubin thinking that the Joker
just needs to read Jordan Peterson so I
want all of you guys to see I'm gonna
read one episode because Leslie is the
king on this stuff can we get that
Peterson clip because I'll read I am
bull prog Elon and Bernie are holding a
rally in Minneapolis on Sunday November
3rd by the way bullfrog is the person
who made
the song Mr fun Mr fun
he'll on him okay yeah occulus is a
great psychological horror flick it's
also that new place that new subway stop
right I think so yeah she's also freaky
okay this is sad let's just do this real
quick Tomcat hi guys can you ever show
far from my dead stepdad Matthew passed
away last month yes certainly he was a
fine man loved his boxing traveled the
world over his life had stories to tell
even though he ultimately didn't pull
through his sudden illness he was looked
after by our NHS I feel like he was able
to live able to live and the Kari
received how much they tried to save
them at the end is why it's important to
have open borders free health care for
all and our society thanks here's the
shofar
I feel like we between all of the shows
have done such a job on Dave Rubin that
he literally has fleed to the blaze and
I think like we still use Dave Rob Rubin
sound drops and interstitials on both
shows just cuz it's funny yeah
but I haven't been inspired to make fun
of Dave room in there a long time it's
sort of like just a freak that's all so
you just can't recreate the magic of
something it's like sometimes a
relationship is over sometimes you know
a film doesn't mean what it wants do you
need to go your separate ways and get
mysterious to each other again exactly
and I think as they always say distance
makes the heart grow fonder
although the Marianne thing was
interesting well that was his last
moment also I'm not surprised with that
yeah but Tulsi I agree on everything we
talked about that music isn't it sort of
like they want open borders and Tulsi
was just like I look at it as a soldier
and he was like wow look at the soldiers
she was just like I look at as a soldier
who posts workout videos anyways yeah
this is Dave Rubin though talking about
something far more important than the
presidential race finally the answer to
the Joker and a rekindling of my love
for making fun of Dave Rubin okay but
anyone that lives in a in a sensible way
that wants society to function and that
wants people to be helped I mean look
I've got Jordan Peterson swab rules for
a life right over there the point of the
book I mean the subtitle is an antidote
to chaos what what the Joker needed was
an antidote to chaos to bring a little
order to his life not be victim right
it's all the whole movies about a
victimhood mentality this guy's a victim
and then he spreads his victimhood
mentality coupled with his psychological
conditions across society so the media
tried to frame it as this movie was
going to inspire all these all right
white nationalist mean racist people but
the book is the the movie is actually
the reverse of that it's the reverse of
that if you think the Joker is amazing
I'm sorry even Dave Rubin gets it wait I
don't know if he gets it Jamie because
it sounds to me like he's actually
saying like if you're a white
nationalist and you're out there you're
out there working out living a
productive life the joker blaming people
I mean am I wrong here is it the Joker
is blaming society well-treated which is
a good thing what Ruben thinks it's a
bad thing I know I understand that but
I'm saying is he actually directly
juxtaposed Inc the Joker not taking
responsibility with white nationalists
taking responsibility am i
misinterpreting this let's watch this
right it's all the whole movies about a
victim hood mentality this guy is a
victim and then he spreads his
victimhood mentality coupled with his
psychological conditions across society
so the media tried to frame it as this
movie was going to inspire all these all
right white nationalist mean racist
people but the book is the the movie is
actually the reverse of that it's the
reverse of that if you think the Joker
is a bad guy if you think the Joker is a
bad guy then you would never want any of
those things you would want people to
take responsibility for your life in
their eyes anyway okay yeah you would
want I see okay yep I guess that the
Joker is a leftist movie he just thinks
it's bad you know yet he's doing the
Jordan Peterson like cop-out about about
you know the white nationalists are
playing victim also he's a vegetarian
which is all right guys this is maybe
the most horrifying book cover I've ever
seen in my life there's no way I mean
I'll look it up on meat only this house
in toxicology the book contains the most
important information this is Jim
Nuggets his daughter oh look at and he's
behind his daughter okay I'm looking off
in the distance I'm Michaela my daughter
it's a fantastic piece of ass it looks
like a chucked Engelberg there's no is
true this cannot be real
no it's a it's actually for free on
Kindle unlimited right now this is a
actual cover of an actual book are you
serious
the here's the page you can get it
well it's only got seven rating so far
because it might not be out yet guys
this is a cover that someone put out
with their approval and design for real
graphic designers my parents to be like
analyzing her breasts but it seems like
that one on the left is not in actual it
looks like the bra was photoshopped I'm
like I was out sunbathing with my
daughter and her husband's eating only
raw pig meat increases libido
Michaela's oh man you salami yeah but
it's salami exclusively we should
probably superimpose a brawl over
breasts oh wow we got to read the copier
really finely inappropriate use of the
word yikes
can I read can I just say before we do
this I had to read some of Jordan
Peterson's like actual book for my book
and there's this great section where he
explains why he left Freud and realized
there were more answers and young and he
was just like you know and and to his
credit he used to care about important
stuff he used to be obsessed with the
arms race and the idea of there being a
nuclear arm again right and he said and
he goes and he says this whole thing
about how he's one of his cousin's when
he was a little kid and and she was the
most beautiful girl I had ever seen and
all the stuff and then he said that he
had a dream where they were sitting in a
living room together and they were
watching TV or something and then an
atom bomb exploded and and woke up and
and then the and he's like and the
Freudians kept trying to tell me it was
sexual but it wasn't it was about the
apocalypse all right let's read this
book yeah we need to read this copy so
we're we're I just want to keep saying
this we're hot we're really thinking
that this is real that this is this is
on Amazon's website sorry there's a
podcast interview with Eve or Cummins
this is a joke this book contains the
most odd cast interview with Eve or
Cummins
who's that I don't know I don't know
this is a fake this has to be fake
digesting depression this has to be this
book contains the most important
information nuggets by dr. Jordan
Peterson and his daughter Mikayla
Peterson regarding their carnivore diet
or their quote lion diet forever
paperbacks sold Mikayla and her father
Jordan dr. Jordan Pearson they put dr.
Jordan Peterson and every single line
will receive $1 directly this book
offers 11 chapters of revised
transcripts and blog posts by Michaela
Peterson on how they cured their disease
depression and health issues with the
Carrefour diet and how ill people could
start this kind of eating as well this
is that is gross if this is real I mean
I mean they really do believe all of
these things yeah no I think this is
real this is it's independent one star
oh wow
the first review not happy another
pseudo-scientific fad diet riding on the
coattails of her father Jordan Peterson
a Canadian psychologist who somehow
became an internet celebrity for
refusing to use gender pronouns of
costumes so that is a a serious
summation of his career
Michaela Peterson is pushing just what
the world needs another unhealthy fad
diet claiming to be a Nostrum
formalities yeah exactly and got it
right okay this is better five stars
such important information I have been
following Michaela and Jordan Pederson
regarding their carnivore diets for
quite some time it's a controversial
approach due to the prevailing beliefs
that eating red meat is detrimental to
human health and that a plant-based diet
is optimal I acknowledge that the
results for the Petersons are largely
anecdotal however the evidence is
growing across well across a larger
population that a meat only diet is
largely beneficial these people are all
gonna have major headache from for more
background see meat heels cough in
addition I belong to several carnivore
weight only Facebook groups hello Mark
Zuckerberg members try the diet and
report their results many of them have
been very compelling including a weight
loss I found out that really
from depression and mental fog and
addressing type 2 diabetes and
autoimmune conditions overall the most
diet baby put down at pipe and get my
pipe overall health and vitality oh I'm
glad overall health it's really great to
have all this information in one place
[Laughter]
you see that I mean that's disgusting
actually like that's real literally
she's a bad person and his daughter's
bad too there's a lot coming from Matt
cuz it's mostly McDonald's seen a lot of
health and vitality out of that and so
Mikayla and I couldn't keep up with our
schedule of reviewing old George Orwell
so we needed to immediately change your
diet large coke is the same price as a
medium the efficient decision the right
decision to get the larger option and
I'll provide you good energy base for
recording a pocket probaly believe that
sugar is bad for you in large amounts
like that is being overturned by more
evidence every day I've found that I've
actually been able to worried a lot more
books about the Salem witch trials
political scientists go over the 7:04
area code who are you where you're
calling from hi my name is James I'm
calling from the Twin Cities hey James
what's on your mind let's cook him yeah
so I had to two things that I wanted to
talk about you can pick which one
healthcare and the clips you guys did
yesterday with Mark Zuckerberg I thought
they were both interesting things okay I
mean I think those are both possibly
interesting but you there's not as there
one that you feel more strongly about I
guess I think that Mark Zuckerberg well
marks a big tech companies
no I think they get a bad rap but let's
do the healthcare one no no we're doing
no no that's too irresistible you're the
first human being that I've met on earth
that thinks Mark Zuckerberg gets a hard
rap I want to hear it
let's go for it make the case other than
a no michi who's a big fan of Zuckerberg
I've never heard I like to hold yeah no
man you like look you're just signed in
cuz I wanted to see what he was
primitive died yeah sorry all right
James make the case yeah it's not so
much that he gets a bad rap but I think
you know at least during those hearings
yesterday there was a lot of comparing
you know would you allow post from white
nationalist why are you so bad on civil
rights and why don't you fact check
politicians right that was came up
during the clips yesterday but it seems
like you're asking them to hold more
responsibility than you would ask any
other content delivery system
what are you comparing it to in terms of
content delivery system what are you
what do you have in mind
that is an unfair comparison to so maybe
you disagree with this view of Facebook
but you know if a compared to like the
US postal system let's do it do a
ridiculous example right actually I'm
not trying to be difficult but I think
it would help you make your case and us
to respond to it if you don't pick a
totally ridiculous example and you're
right that is a totally ridiculous
example so what would be an example that
you think is analogous to Facebook of a
platform which would be your words I
would call it a media company that
doesn't have responsibility for its
content or the privacy of its users i
which i think is way more important by
the way but go ahead privacy of its
users I'm on board with you I think that
is a legitimate thing where they have
have failed okay so what would be the
hardest thing
I'm trying to think that if a a
television station well let me have to
be a step away right so as a television
Comcast right if there was a TV show on
its network that aired something totally
fictitious like election day is December
25th right you would hold the the the
show that did that right in scorn and
contempt and possibly FEC find but you
wouldn't hold Comcast the delivery well
I actually disagree with that because I
think I should do things like restoring
the Fairness Doctrine which actually
would account for that type of thing in
the media environment so I yeah and also
preventing companies like Fox News and
and others now that are not listed as
news organizations but entertainment
companies so they get through loopholes
by not oh yeah right but not in this
scenario right Fox News would be the the
originator that presenter the generator
of the content not your cable companies
or DirecTV or however you happen to be
viewing the content well Facebook even
Nathan the faulty personal platform but
Facebook is selling the advertisements
the way you know it's when you go to Fox
News Fox News sells the advertisements
that would be comparable to a Cambridge
analytic
right so face Fox News CNN whatever can
deny ads all the time and they do
regularly they deny ads from a parent or
an heir for many reasons
you know factually inaccurate whatever
um so when you look at Cambridge
analytical
they were essentially using the
advertising function they were a they
were a vendor of Facebook's or not a
vendor of Facebook's they were they were
Facebook was a vendor of theirs meaning
they were purchasing space and using the
algorithm tools at the
do to basically adjust what kind of
content was being spread in the virality
of that content which is something that
they were basically taking advantage of
the algorithm which is not comparable to
your the news because it's not like if
you buy an ad suddenly you get like 25
versions of Brian Kilmeade talking about
you know interviewing from Libya like it
right I'd also just want to say too like
I don't I don't see I mean I think the
actual problem with asking Facebook to
fact-check is that they're gonna
outsource to the extent they even agree
to do it to things like the Atlantic
Council who have Pro and bright who have
profound biases that are already
reflected in how they've actually
disincentivized certain really important
investigative sites or even in a site
like Telus or which you know definitely
has a viewpoint but is a really
important source for information of
what's happening Latin America if you
care about democratic movements there so
but the real fundamental thing that I
think you're you're missing is you're
just buying into their premise the
reality is is they are a media company
the whole way the business model works
is yeah in fact no Mickey's right like
selling ads more analogous to the way
fox or CNN sells ads except with way
more precision and sophistication so
they're actually saying that they're
just a neutral platform when really
they're a media content creator and news
provider and in the advertising business
and so the real answer even before you
get to like things I think which is like
break them up and nationalize them
certainly in Google's case is you demand
that these companies hire thousands of
unemployed journalists fact checkers and
editors and you actually start having
news verticals that's the only way it's
gonna work but why you would buy into
their premise I s we just disagree James
and it seems to me like it's dangerous
dangerous if you want to keep having
them have you know look I think the
right critique is how they would take
responsibility and I think that there's
a huge liberal obsession with facts and
a kind of generic confidence that
getting the right information which I
don't
a lot of faith than at all and I think
as that pressure comes these companies
will go to incumbent sources which are
problematic too so that's an interesting
conversation but just saying hey man
you're just like you know providing a
public Commons that's like buying their
 I don't they made these come
late they made the Daily Caller for
instance a fact check right they didn't
have to do such things
that's not just being a neutral platform
that's what I'm saying well that's well
that's what I mean though with the
problem see that's why I mean he's lying
to her in that clip when he says oh we
don't pick them this outside
organization picks them they absolutely
do but that's also why I wasn't so into
a o'seas line of questioning because I
think you can if you just focus on that
realm they will do exactly that type of
thing what you need to do is say the
reality is is that you're a media
company we're gonna regulate the hell
out of you and meanwhile incidentally as
Katie Porter said you can find tons of
people to terrorize and pay horrific
wages to to watch snuff films all day
literally and even as you say you're a
light mobile company and you don't have
the capital and all this other nonsense
you do have capital and you do actually
hire real human beings for things that
you know you're legally liable around
you need to hire real human beings for
your journalistic functions and you can
if you want then to become more like a
conglomerate and have conservative and
leftist programming and hire different
people for different verticals whatever
that's on you but you need to actually
deal with it and have actual people and
we need to regulate the hell out of it
we do need the Fairness Doctrine and all
of the other things should come back not
only for cable but for a platform like
Facebook of media companies and don't
forget that these companies that are
working within their Facebook news which
has shift I mean if Facebook news their
agenda and their model has shifted like
a dozen times in the last you know since
the since the media crisis in like 2008
right um and there are people who sit on
the board of like boards of Columbia
Journalism Review who've been pushing
back for a very long time in finding an
editorial compromise essentially but the
companies that they brought to the table
also happen to be companies that are
investing in pushing through their
platform these are companies
are backed by corporations these are
companies that are working with our part
of the monopoly itself you know you see
more fox news clips then you see you
know the intercept clips for instance
what YouTube's answer has been alright
YouTube profits off of and facilitates
all of this really toxic content now my
answer probably already are I've no
doubt we already are I do not endorse
this message Michael what is your
interests I endorse it for the majority
report I would say I'm Michael Brooke
show I think we're way more nuanced view
of what YouTube's up to and I have a lot
of respect for the company on TMDs but
the thing is is that you know but then
what what they've done now in response
to the controversy is they clearly are
just pushing more like CNN CBS and
they're just trying to basically reify
and reflect just corporate news right
and the promise and the challenge and
the potential of the Internet is way
better and way worse and that needs to
be navigated through policy through
nationalization and I actually think
through things like free speech
principles like I do I'm not a big you
know that's because I see the push to
just ask companies to moderate this
stuff is only gonna shrink what is
available and just replicate cable on
these platforms so I think that's a big
problem
anyways James thanks for the call man
appreciate it I think uh well I hung out
by accident let's play one more clip
I'll call back in what do you guys think
uh Jamie you're a big fan of Andrew yang
what do you guys think of this latest
Andrew yang news
who on that debate stage is closest to
you in terms of your view of the world
who's closest to you in that sense yeah
that's funny you asked that I mean you'd
have to sort of like put us all together
and some kind of like Franken candidate
you must be still wanting spirit who's
perhaps closest to you I will say the
only person who's taken me aside and
said that we need to really worry about
the fourth Industrial Revolution and
because it could potentially tear our
country apart is Joe Biden inside such
an intriguing would you serve on a Biden
ticket you said you were open to
anything I'm definitely open to working
with Joe we've actually talked about it
so that's Andrew yang joining us for
post live was the close up intentional
that was a desmond sugah who has the
left is best YouTube channel there
so Andrew yang who people and his cult
have been whining and complaining and
kvetching and whining and complaining
and confetti and whining again because
we've said from the beginning this guy's
not of the left that $1,000 pay off a
month to accommodate neo feudalism that
a guy who in almost every single
appearance says like well well text
might be a good idea when it's not gonna
happen so let's just how it raised that
much anyway grow so much anyway so let's
just give you thousand dollars a month
which will get sucked up by your
landlord and now medical costs and will
be primarily funded through a V 18 which
is the most regressive tax in the world
I'm gonna open it up in a second but I
just want to say VI T is a very
regressive tax rate and I understand and
I have seen like the graphs that these
people send me where they go you're
totally lying about Andrew look at this
graph and here is the bad things and
good things and Andrews on the good axis
but in terms of reality what he's talked
about with the VA T would still be
incredibly regressive he talks about
high ticket items on things like Amazon
first of all who's defining it right
secondly why is it just think logically
for one
second let's just do a little bit of a
thought process if you're on one hand
saying that we cannot have a wealth tax
we can't do anything about media
monopolies we can't have real structural
reform in this country because these
companies and these individuals are
oligarchs are so powerful that it's not
going to happen why on earth do you
think that those same forces would allow
for the Easter Bunny of a progressive
v80 which is basically impossible
because by the way if you did have a
progressive vit that would yield like no
money because you literally would have
to just be like okay this is for
Maseratis and private planes right like
what does that mean does it mean if you
order five hundred dollars worth of
things on Amazon that that becomes
extravagant spending I mean a lot of
families order basic household
necessities that way so I think between
this and if you've been actually
analyzing and thinking a little bit
critically was a lot of people haven't
uh he's opposed to Medicare for all and
he's vibing with Biden and you know it's
it's well we have to keep in mind here
is this is that part of the election
this is the time of the primary where
the deal-making happens I've been saying
this for a while but but every crowded
field some some are crowded because they
want to block people like Sanders um and
in this case you know I always say to
folks like pay attention to those early
promises like what hooks you in the
beginning I think there are a lot of
folks who became part of the and regain
cult believed in his idea and are just
tuning out everything else because
emotional attachment let go of the
emotional attachment this guy is there
to basically I think they're they're
trying to push Pete out of the way
because Pete is now a threat to Biden so
buy it in him are teaming up is it like
Game of Thrones stuff let's say you
gotta think about this look the yeah ubi
I mean Facebook Mark Zuckerberg is a fan
of ubi yeah it's almost like the
opposite of the tax equation we were
talking about with Bernie earlier where
he's like yeah you'll pay more upfront
in taxes but you're gonna get a whole
lot more in services yang you're gonna
get a thousand bucks a month in ubi but
you're gonna lose a whole lot more than
that in the destruction of the welfare
state and it's it said to me because I
really do believe in
anteye work politics and in automation
and in using that as a springboard to a
better world in a post-capitalist world
I think that's gonna be really important
that's not what this is there are left
versions of the ubi where you can
balance it with universal services and a
welfare state the national welfare
rights organization in the 60s and 70s
is a really good example of that people
mostly women mostly women of color we're
arguing very strongly for it in a way
that really would have moved the ball in
a productive direction because we need
to work fewer hours it's better for the
environment it moves us in a better
direction Oh fu bi for a 20 or 30 hour
work week incidentally I just you know
Jeremy Rifkin wrote a book 1990s called
the end of work and I don't know if by
the way like I think how many jobs are
actually being lost by automation is a
much more contested subject than what
andrew yang says I don't know but it's
not as linear as he says it is it might
be a real thing but it's not like this
that she marks left equation a you know
the alternative which is that it's not
oh no it's it's a factor but even Rifkin
in end of work even he actually
correlated it with like more like
postmodern FDR stuff where he's just
like how again like the basic stuff like
how many places need to have
infrastructure rebuilt how much
environmental projects and then on the
other hand he even got into like why
can't people be paid to be mentors why
can't people be paid for peer to peer
learning I mean there's all of these
generative ways that you could correlate
it with and it reminds me Ben Burgess
always uses the example of like there
was a period in Rome where a certain
class of serf or peasant was like given
a certain amount of grain ration
essentially to stop them from rising up
it's pork
its place is essentially what this is
yeah if you don't know what pork is it's
when lawmakers go back you know
especially the bad ones go back to their
communities and and instead of talking
about you know all the crappy things
they've been doing at the Capitol they
go back they hand out you know checks
for Community Improvement projects they
create a park they write you know
they have an event for $1,000 and invite
the whole neighborhood it's like the
guys in high school that would throw all
the parties and run for president and
then when do-nothing way to do it is
power not pork right that's the
distinction it's a jobs first economy a
jobs first housing first you know
protected jobs up I mean I love the idea
of decoupling access to basic
necessities from your participation in
the labor market that's a very important
horizon that we need to be moving
towards right now and if they're a wade
if there were a way to do the ubi and
it's a substantial enough way so that
would actually reduce people's
dependence on their employers I've heard
it talked about as a universal strike
fund that would be awesome I also think
the amount of political power and will
that it would take to get that kind of
ubi
like we might as well use that to get
socialism it's a complete distraction
and he's putting out there like I
criticized and reing on Twitter and all
the the injurying people came out and
really cool he does understand labor
because he got an endorsement from Andy
Stern it's like well exactly
that's like saying you understand
doesn't Stern have a ubi proposal that
it does like go out guts like the
welfare state did he do a book or
something about an Eastern is trash
don't I mean that's like anymore hey
this has been a breeze but he's been
like the like I used to do labor and now
I'm talking at Davos guy for quite some
time I mean that's like an anti
endorsement I mean also yeah yeah I mean
um you're calling from a 208 area boy
hello
you're calling from a 208 area code who
are you where you calling from hello
280 are you there - oh it is that our
hey hey yeah
208 who are you where you calling hey
sorry I'm on it my name is Sean I'm
calling in from Sumner Washington sorry
I'm on a picket line right now I got a
little louder Oh awesome
how's it going everyone maybe instead of
going all right I could give you ten
thousand a thousand dollars
a joy so we're gonna go ahead and
Eastern they're striking with you guys
awesome please do okay so I'm with the
Sumner Education Association where the
teachers union here with the Washington
Education Association awesome we're
walking out in support of the Sumner
paraeducator Association this actually
makes all the strike is over a contract
dispute they've been working without a
contract for two months our school board
won't turn over the money that they've
gotten are you all familiar with what
the McCleary decision is in the state of
Washington no okay so I'm a clear
decision a few years ago
nothing nothing doesn't matter go ahead
sorry McCleary okay yeah the McCleary
decision was the massive court case in
the state of Washington that founded the
state was not living up to their
constitutional requirements to fully
fund education what it resulted in was a
massive multi-billion dollar
distribution of funds to various school
districts to every school district in
the state of Washington except the
problem that we're running into is that
they didn't provide any guidance
necessarily for how that money was to be
distributed so some of it was earmarked
for salary some facilities but they
leave it up to the individual locals to
negotiate our contract so all throughout
the state of Washington I don't know if
you remember last year there were lots
of teacher strikes going around for
contract negotiations because every
district had to totally blow up their
whole salary schedule and redo the whole
thing
I mean districts want to keep as much
money as they can in their pocket for
their own projects or the administration
plans thankfully so they can have
discretion over it instead of
distributing at the salaries the same
teachers negotiated for our raises last
year and now para educators are not
being able to get there essentially
they're being held up because they're a
much smaller group so when walking out
with them to show them you know
solidarity etcetera awesome this is only
the second ever classified there's a
different certified employees of like
teachers
and then classified employees everybody
else essentially mm-hmm this is the only
this is the only the second classified
union to ever go on strike in the state
of Iowa Wow fairly unprecedented
happening right now why is that do you
think I think honestly I think it's just
because they're they're small groups
most you know every school this chronic
shortage of para educators there are
people who work with the most vulnerable
and the most well the students that have
the most meet individual need may work
in the classroom but I think it comes
down to you they just are smaller groups
and it's harder to organize small groups
especially with the the unique sort of
organizational structure we have here in
school or each building in sort of their
little community and it's harder to get
across you know across the whole
district I think it but it's definitely
picking up speed all around the state
we've got tons of unions just like this
that are organizing and having attained
contract disputes and last year when it
with us teachers going after it it sort
of had a cascading effect and once more
people started getting you know more
contentious there you go you're awesome
thank you for doing that
thanks for calling and letting us know
that your support thanks for giving me a
shot yeah is there support well we've
got actually the Tacoma Longshoremen's
and warehouse workers union local 23 is
out here supporting us we've had people
from the American letter carriers Union
come out they were dropping off snacks
and everything like that but honestly
the the shout out great if anybody's
listening in the Sumner Bonnie Lake
Auburn area in Washington we're going to
be having a rally at 3 p.m. at the
district office at Thunder Bonney Lake
we'll be meeting at st. Andrew's Church
to march over and depending on what
happens with negotiations we will be
back out on Monday hopefully we won't
have to do that but it will be out here
until it's over so material supports
great it's cold it's raining gray we
need coffee we need
hand-warmers any kind of thing that
people can bring send down peace of any
kind of certain can any school district
in Sumner any school building in some of
the money Lake right now has a picket
going on outside want to send pizzas
from other parts of the country how do
they do that where do they send it to I
would say go on the google pick a
building look up the address of that
building calling it's not a metropolitan
metropolitan area right here so the
local drivers should have a good idea
where it is and just have them drop it
off to the picketers out front and it's
in wait and just tell us where the part
of the CI of Washington's and again so
we are in a town called Sumner s um and
the ER right now and the other town is
called Lonnie Lake the O n n ey la ke I
also sent a I am in earlier because we
were driving around it and support so I
didn't have time to call but you can
also read the text there but we're
picketing outside until noon going to be
seven to noon then we're taking a little
bit of a break to recoup and then the
rally the district office building in
Sumner Washington at 3:00 p.m. Pacific
Standard Time awesome thanks Shawn
that's amazing appreciate it
hell yeah solidarity okay thanks for
everything you do I listen to everything
Elaine shows you're I haven't checked
out the mean database yep okay
damn your country lawyer thing has me
dying I can't I can't usually we start
talking about the hypothetical
publication guy so thanks for everything
y'all do thanks for the coverage on
Sanders Libre we'll leave her everything
all right Sean thanks a million men and
we're gonna can we get we got that for
the blog
indeed so there's gonna be ways people
could send you guys pizzas and
everything that's awesome thanks Sean
fantastic bye-bye okay let's take
another quick call you're calling from
an 8 for 7 area code who are you where
you calling from
8 for 7 or either yeah yes I can hear
you
Oh Josh from Chicago hey Josh what's
going on I guess I was gonna give a
update on the teachers strike but I'm
time for us more time but I do have a
question on Lula I read on Twitter that
he might get released can you turn
difficult understandings I'm not plugged
into the politics here but in Brazil but
what is like the status on that is there
actually a chance do you think you might
actually get relief looks like there
actually is a chance and I think it's
gonna be like a week or two they're
gonna know um this is the first time
it's basically part of a larger decision
that would void a bunch of people's
convictions because of this like whole
corrupted lava jato process and there's
some positive signals because like some
of them were talking about some of the
justices so far we're talking about the
military dictatorship one of them
actually read from the intercept reports
on the other hand he's a political
prison like the whole process has been
such that I would not put it past them
to do some type of like broad ruling
that is favorable but carve out an
exemption to keep him in jail like I
would that would not shock me now what
but as it happens like you know if you
go back to 2018 there was a no there was
a decision that I think it was the
decision that blocked his habeas corpus
request and people forget this but like
a major Brazilian general basically went
on Twitter and was pretty much like we
hope you rule the right way so there is
legs there's another dimension to this I
think both and also I would say a u.s.
dimension like it's not normal protocol
that a head of state visit CIA
headquarters like bolson arrow visited
CIA headquarters when he came to DC now
on the other hand it seems like I mean
it's so much closer than her husband and
Lula has already said like I read that
when he leaves he's gonna go and hug
everybody who's been in his visual and
then he's gonna go to Globo which is
like the core like propaganda network
and he's going to lead a demonstrate
in front of Globo so those are like his
first two things that he's gonna do when
he leaves off when he leaves jail well
he's no he said he's gonna have a
whiskey no no he's gonna have a whiskey
definitely said he's gonna have a
whiskey when he himself yeah send him
whiskey send him whiskey all right Josh
you coming to my party later oh he's
gone well Josh was in and out he wants
to borrow the coke shirt so he's gonna
have to come to my party if he wants
that inside baseball the Koch brothers
shirt mess if I the Wyatt cuz not a
quiet coke shirt let's play this footage
so in Oakland the school board has voted
to close down several schools and this
is obviously a vocht a huge community
response on its ass it and put a quote
now from IDI source the board recently
approved a citywide plan which found the
district could close or consolidate up
to 24 of its more than 80 schools that
still serve up to 37,000 students the
plan is to redirect funds to remaining
schools to improve their quality now of
course there's no structural answers to
this in terms of property taxes and
education the broader issues that we
need to do the tackle I was of a mixed
feeling I mean I think in a city like
Oakland there probably is some genuine
like structural things that limit the
city's resources right so I don't know
like some of the rage at this should be
directed statewide and federally for
sure and always at Silicon Valley which
hovers over this whole area just sucking
resources out of the whole bay and
destroying its history and legacy but
these are some of the protests have been
taking place and the police are
literally I mean the ruthlessness that
they're responding to even teachers is
disgusting and should be highlighted I
mean you remember Oakland during occupy
so we're really rural they have a PI
mean if you look at I think if you
Oakland is an example
very I mean like everywhere else but an
extremely racialized police force that
gets deployed on protesters so the
paramilitary approach that they take to
policing that city in a very race
specific way gets mobilized when there's
a protest and I think that overlaps also
with the fact that Oakland has such a
powerful political history too
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Jesus Christ so got a couple more here
around the way
[Applause]
you see my shop like on steroids or
something yeah
[Applause]
or sometimes gonna step in a fish trap
we got a closer angle of that to here
sky he does look roided-up angry that's
what happens when you eat the meat diet
guys this is Jordan Peters he's ready to
use that baton already it's like yeah
he's it's like it just entered a
football game or something you can see
like that's what everyone's reacting to
here just ran right up and shoved her I
think I mean if you google Oakland
Police Department the recent history
there is extremely corrupt like the
point of like I don't want to decide off
top by hand but people can look at them
I mean not for nothing I think we all
know this that the US government has a
long history of using law enforcement to
put down labor struggles to put down
labor struggles and to put on anarchists
and communist and to put down anyone
who's fighting for the rights in an
extremely racialized way as well so like
I have to laugh when people like
Elizabeth Warren say that you know for
all of our history up until very
recently capitalism worked great for
everyone because it very clearly didn't
definitely who asked her that that's
just what she says I was unprompted
capitalism but saying that it used to
work in every store yeah exact it was
like a few decades after World War two
when the bosses and the government were
forced to behave themselves by a massive
workers movement callin from Nebraska
Michael I was phone banking for Bernie
in Iowa last night nice was it way to go
and a 19 year old asked me if I've heard
of you and if I had heard the Bernie or
bust pill impression
I responded go to patreon.com/scishow
subscribe to TM vs on YouTube and get
your tickets to the Philly show they are
going fast well it sounds like you guys
nailed it that's amazing that's a great
that's hilarious
let's do actually I just want to talk
about this briefly because he's just so
bad so bad
Pete Buddha judge is the worst person on
the Democratic field and I say that as
somebody like I you know I think I'm
pretty transparent I think everybody
besides Bernie is a distraction and
sucks I have no interest in like making
my and and also and this is the other
group off I will support any of them
over Trump and in the primary it's
Bernie because I have a serious agenda
it's simple it's really simple I would
vote for Yang Biden Gabbard give me a
name Chlo bashar clos bashar yeah
I vote for Delaney over Trump I would
you're lying
I would I would look Tim Ryan I would
love Tim right like oh my god Tim I
thought you meditated why he looks so
nervous I was actually the only thing
that's funny about the idea of anybody
besides Bernie getting the nomination is
watching Trump just bully and handle
them would be extremely entertaining so
that being said there's one candidate
that I find to be by far the worst and
most off-putting and that is people to
judge I think between the staffing story
with Mark Zuckerberg yeah the horrifying
biography which you can read about in
current affairs Nathan Robinson did a
very good treatment to the fact that
just synthesized this okay
like he's for all intents and purposes
like the mayor of Amherst Massachusetts
right like it's a nice town there's
colleges in it and there's problems
there's even as everywhere there's even
been like policing problems but it's
also at the end of the day like I don't
think anybody has died and or been
killed in Massachusetts
by an amorous by anybody in a while or
even when it happens it's pretty rare
occurence like that's like huge news
this guy runs the equivalent of that
town and presides over police department
that sounds like it's something like out
of New York or Oakland right so you're
synthesizing like and I'm not a
experienced person I don't care but it
would be of the he's like the only
person running where you could actually
be like really dude you're like 36 years
old and you're mayor of a little town
you really think you should be President
and Bill DeBlasio by the way not taken
serious old wazoo nothing seriously and
you know I don't he's also I mean the
the city that he is a mayor of
criticisms aside is larger than amy
klobuchar his entire district
so you synthesize that with like okay I
guess college town and also there was I
he totally disappeared there was a
actually a mayor from Florida that was a
lot of political dynamics I don't
remember I don't like anything about
that I just know he had the best
position on ice for a second and it was
the same thing I was like look if people
judge is somehow serious why tells that
guy not serious right I mean he could
have made a case I'd note sorry to
interrupt but please for
decentralization he could have said like
this is you know how we fight Trump
right now is through cities but
unfortunately people just doesn't have
that record he is not how we fight Trump
is through cities anyway here's how I
got rid of the black police chief and
here's why we have source civil rights
cases per capita like he is fusing
together
I guess college town made a run for
president with Jesus Christ you presided
over an incredibly racist police force
and then of course he's an arch gentrify
ER so I don't know if people are getting
the message on people to judge but I do
just want to say he said yesterday and
he's quickly reversed himself but he did
say this let's actually start by do we
know what his great innovation for the
supreme court was gonna be do we like us
really
idea it's so dumb it was like a court
packing type thing right with ya he's
gonna pack the court with moderation
exactly that's exactly what we need to
balance that court out right now I mean
even mainstream journalists during the
debate we're criticizing this like
you're not really unpopular port packing
for idiots no he's literally said we
should have 15 people on the Supreme
Court I'm quoting now from the hill 15
justices including five nonpartisan
justice this is who could only be seated
if the other ten agreed this plan would
incorporate justices who think for
themselves like Justice Kennedy or just
this David Souter not what zip knives
are a political people right exactly
like what is a nun what would you define
a nonpartisan justice an intercept
reporter like I mean seriously there's
no I
nonpartisan is we need to end
that I think would be boo to judge and
look to be fair he like the only
positive aspect of his candidacy is he's
the first like legitimate like openly
gay man running for president that's
obviously historical progress and look
judge Kennedy ruled it the right way on
some very important LGBTQ civil rights
cases now that was so in isolation from
the rest of his record like he didn't
even establish like a steady civil
liberty streak to the point where my
speculation would be this man just
literally had somebody close to him in
his life it humanized him on that issue
because on every not dynamic decision
making on civil liberties or race or
policing or the death penalty and then a
pure corporatist including like a major
proponent of citizens united so we all
know it nonpartisan means it means I'm
not a social monster like I understand
that transgender people exist and it
doesn't make me have a meltdown and then
besides that yeah I think pretty much if
you know if CBS wants to recreate a form
of indentured servitude I think we can
do that it's basically like Ellen
DeGeneres's dinner table it is that's a
that's it so
and there isn't really much more to say
I mean Bernie got his burn on saying I
performed more like shot tomorrow rig is
Berg which will still get him no credit
with the type of people who you know put
posters up of Ginsburg in their write
houses but I mean I understand the
generic appeal and I even understand
there's people in the Democratic Party
who were sent to write in their politics
but if you have any pretension of
progressive governance and you care
about people having health care and you
care about the Supreme Court and you
care about the future of digital and you
also even find it a little bit weird
that a guy who's served in like Army
Intelligence is occasionally being like
there's a lot of problems domestically
you know I'd like to apply my experience
in the intelligence apparatus to our
domestic problems and McKenzie and
McKenzie maybe that should disturb you a
little bit he never talks about McKenzie
odd guy you know the other thing to keep
in mind also with this is take it like a
layer below right of course we're gonna
be outraged on the left but he needs
that outrage to raise from centrists he
wants the centrist mad at the left
because he raises money and he's
signaling to the LGBTQI community to
continue to support him financially
because he needs to take it to Iowa he
needs to take it to and pull from from
Biden support and whoever else you might
be I don't know what his formulas but
Biden
despite Biden and Warren Biden because
of the polyp oolitic Alain and Warren
because of all the professional class in
the general election he's not gonna win
it was like that's okay I mean it's got
the same politics as Hillary
he's I guess maybe a slightly better
candidate than her just cuz he doesn't
have as much baggage but he's definitely
a worse candidate than warrant or Biden
in terms of getting people to vote in
the general I think we're overestimating
the concept of some voters voting on
policy first they might grass policy but
they may not like people who are like
supporting Hillary because they wanted a
woman supporting it and then they
addressed policy oh well we would have
we would have liked you to be a little
bit more progressive on certain issues
and that's why we're with Warren now
because she's a woman and she's more
progressive and that addresses you know
more of my Upper West Side like New York
Times reading audience that's that's
that crew
but with Pete it's you know they're not
looking at him from the same lens that
we're looking at it from and I think
that that's a problem on the left we
keep thinking like even the centrist
Democrats still care about pop they
don't care about policy I completely
agree with you I actually am saying with
regards to Pete is and again this is the
classic fusion of one thing that's
horrible and one thing that that I think
is politically true so one is I think
homophobia in a general election is a
problem and I would totally be willing
to confront that for the right candidate
and do that push regardless he's not the
right candidate for all the other
reasons we talked about but that's gonna
be a real thing in a general election
and then the other thing is I don't
think I think his particular brand of
charisma is for a very narrow subset of
people and I think that once you are out
I think the problem is I agree I think
the left does this but I think a lot of
Democrats across the board do this to
where they either spend the one tendency
is everybody else they're terrible
they're all horrible they're all
deplorable we don't need to understand
them or think strategically right and
then the other tendency is I is just you
just project outwards what you like onto
everybody else so for me I do think
pound for pound Sanders is the best
person to go up against Trump absolutely
and yes I totally think the socialism
word might be a problem for certain
people I totally think age might be a
problem for like those are real things
factoring in my analysis what I see some
people do and they do it very heavily
with Pete Budaj
and Elizabeth Warren is they never
anticipate they just basically sit
because you can drill them down you said
quite well the poll numbers don't bear
this out they're like and then there's
the real problems like homophobia right
and then it'll just like oh well I just
think when you put them out there
they're just so likable I mean that's
literally all you hear and it's like
well actually first of all for a lot of
people no they're not and that is I mean
I hate to sound use this phrase but that
is like very much not an argument your
intuitive feeling that someone else you
might that you have no la bubble yeah is
gonna have the same emotional reaction
to somebody that you do I don't I have
an emotional reaction to Bernie and I
think he's a great like awesome uncle
guy
and I have a specific set of experiences
that make me think that there is a ton
of people we're gonna have no reference
point for him like that I'm not
projecting like oh you know what no you
just get burning out there people just
end up liking him there's an argument
that involves poll numbers and involves
geography it involves where things fit
and involves how you make an argument
and all of the Buddha judge worn
arguments are just like abductive I mean
they're just so likable well and concern
with with Pete is I actually see his his
strategy very similar to Obama's
strategy and 2008 when they were in a
crowded field yeah um it's like Obama
without the Obama he's exactly and yeah
but he has a lot of their staff to like
let's keep it that such a fantastic
point Obama I mean go back to you but
just Obama was a world-class charisma
right and people keep doing these plants
they did a plan for Hillary they did the
same Obama plan with Hillary saket
there's one thing missing a world-class
charisma is missing this could be a 1992
situation you know even though Obama was
Obama world-class charisma
relatable was an anti-war activist in
the beginning you know all of the he
also was running against John McCain who
at one point was leading in the polls
until the economy collapsed in 2008 and
this is also when George W Bush was at
his lowest the lowest popularity of any
president so you had a scenario where
Democrats they had to pick the best
person on the planet and in that
scenario that was the only way they
could win if they had a mediocre
candidate even though all these other
things were happening I don't know if
Democrats would have won because we
don't take care of our party we don't
invest we don't work on our message
we're never unified in message and it's
all over the place we have to wait for
the Republicans to up for us to
actually win elections right totally
that's the only way they know how to win
they either they either have a
world-class charismatic candidate who
wins at the top of the ticket like Bill
Clinton or Barack Obama who do nothing
to build the party or else they are like
well you know what we lost Congress
again but let me tell you something
after a couple of pedophilia scandals
and a massive recession I think we might
take back the house by 10 seats right
just wait for it well they're up against
so much right now too with all of the
gerrymandering it's only getting worse
the more Republicans take over state
governments all of the all of the just
depression people who just don't come
out to vote because they don't think
it's gonna do anything for their lives
some small proportion of working-class
swing voters who somehow think that
Trump is more populist whatever whatever
we're gonna have to radically radically
change the electoral map in order to win
and in order to overcome all these
things and you can't do it with the same
politics that lost in 2016
certainly not with an uncommon ly
charismatic front person on them you
need a even Bernie might not be able to
do it but I think he is the only one who
could and he should be running on that I
mean one thing
and I hate to go back to the DNC but
being on the Reform Commission a big
battle we had like the battle that
really got nasty behind the scenes was
was about whether or not we wanted to
you know decentralize the DNC and invest
you know truly invest in state party is
truly invested in local parties again
because it's a consultant you know
money-making machine at the DNC in the D
Triple C and the DSCC right now and so
we wouldn't be fighting these
gerrymandering Wars if the Democratic
Party Barack Obama's Democratic Party
stopped just like you know providing the
eighth and ninth homes to like 5s
consultants you know it is they do send
money powerful emails though they said
oh those are powder did once me and
Felix where it was like the Republican
emails are awesome they're just like
tour just like Barack Obama tried to end
the white race you stop that however my
friend uh you're still a little bit more
to do the Democrats are just always like
Michaels Barack Obama freaked it out oh
my god the anybody who's running
for office it was Chuck Schumer the Fox
News poll I closed I don't care about
Fox News Paul you could be a great
candidate great candidates are using
these emails by the way right now not
gotta end it we gotta do art we really
have very little time left we gotta get
out of here but I know no Mickey you
wanted to talk about Tulsi so
tulsi clip I don't really care about
this one as much but I think the Indian
nationalism the Hindu nationalism stuff
is actually way more relevant frankly
for why there needs to be a systemic
critique of her I'm look my position
what's whole seeing it's like it's the
same with Warren like I'm in nan F
around mode if Tulsi takes 2% from
Bernie Sanders and hurts this campaign
right you are a monumental idiot for
supporting her and I don't know I think
the media play here is pretty obvious I
get whatever there's all these critiques
of impeachment there's a critique of the
Democrats relationship with the
intelligence apparatus I think it's all
valid I agree with most of it going on
Sean Hannity to run interference for
Republican talking points all right not
only do i disagree with it's just
totally strategically bizarre unless
your plan is to like maybe work on fox
news or something it doesn't like what
does the Democratic constituency this
speaks to this is Tulsi Gabbard on Sean
Hannity president which is why I
supported the inquiry I think that
inquiry needs to be done in a very
narrowly focused way and it must be done
transparently I don't know what's going
on in those closed doors we as members
of Congress don't have access to the
information that is being shared and I
think that the American people deserve
to know exactly what the facts are what
the evidence is that's being presented
as this inquiry goes on Nomi key
Republican talking points any time a
Democratic congresswoman who claims to
be on the Left should not be you know
using Republican cocking points on Sean
Hannity's you know show of all shows to
go on Sean Hannity is
I don't do Sean Hannity
I go on Fox News all the time I'm not a
congressman when running for the
Democrat is not the show you go on if
you're running in a primary or at all
frankly that's like a pipeline to trump
I think she's lost her mind I mean there
was a time maybe she is a Russian
operative I you know what she's proving
the point if that's the case
I mean I agree but I mean she's playing
into the hands of Hillary saying that
she's not rid of her she's not running
for congressional for a reelection now
she's just trying to hurt Bernie yeah
that's right exactly
she's doing tulsi before she did her
crank fishing expedition by endorsing
Bernie in 2015 she was like the person
who was saying Obama should say radical
Islam yep
like she's how she became nationally
known was complaining that Obama didn't
use the phrase Islamic terror it was too
easy on around people because of the
Iran deal that's well right she's not a
war candidate exactly she's she's
running to Ron Paul foreign policy -
yeah she's the anti-war
candidate all right
I have no I think media career right
yeah media career actually don't agree
with I don't think she's gonna do media
career he's using this to raise money
right now she's cheap well she wasn't
raising money for a congressional race
at all I think she had like thirty
thousand dollars out but I'm saying it's
it's clearly going into her presidential
fund I don't know what she does when she
shuts down that fund what she decides to
run for and maybe she's running for
governor or maybe she's but she's
raising money she's continuously raising
money and I don't think staying in the
race unless she just wants to go to
another debate you know get into the
next debate is yes a media career might
happen but she said she's gonna stand by
Mary I don't I don't know I don't marry
an you know become some kind of like TV
self-help guru she'd be great at that
but if Trump wins re-election she's in
the cabinet we'll see it's possible
final call today you're calling from a
631 area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey what's going on Michael this is Matt
and Carson DC hey what's going on Matt
what's on your mind nothing too much I
just want to say big sport of the
sheriff also standards of course I've
actually volunteer for the campaign
awesome sort of ethical question yeah I
was listening to vine Grimm on the hill
this morning I think it's sitting over
first of all for the week and he was
going into some stuff about standards
Medicare all simple and said that
apparently there is still a gap
somewhere
in the funding period even if you do a
child for raising the taxes or whatever
so that's one question that I had and
then also to follow up just a couple
weeks back a thing with a after the last
debate I had such distinct displeasure
of things my boss kind of complained
about countries that had Medicare for
all systems but those people still need
to buy some form of supplementary
insurance on top of that it's not really
just as simple as you know having a
Medicare fault system and he's
apparently like some of the company that
I worked out at our international
offices he said that like the company
still pays for some sort of like a
miniature defense we're not in the
middle depends where it depends we're
like in Canada you do and it's not even
supplemental a supplementary insurance
but um not like in the UK as an example
very little very little that's been
getting cut um that's because the cuts I
mean also I know it wouldn't be like a
thanks in common you know
for instance in Greece it's it's still
nationalized health care system but you
can still choose private but it's not
the way that our destruction I
understand that he's saying talking
about needing to buy supplemental I'm
not sure what he's referring to I don't
think ever dentistry yeah maybe that's
what it is by thought and it just did
I'm pretty sure it does but as far as
Bernie's a funding mechanism I mean I
don't know I everybody I know is read
the bill says that it does have yeah
voting separate Amy Klobuchar who is a
co-sponsor
right and all the people on stage who
say they read the bills but yeah yeah so
I I don't know I mean I I trust Ryan but
that is contrary to everything I've ever
heard so you know I don't know I'd have
to follow up with what he's saying I
definitely trust I mean it because you
said it's Ryan I take it seriously and
even if there were a gap that needed to
be worked out that would not be a reason
not to do it yeah of course and I'm sure
I mean Ryan would agree with that that's
the concern with going down that rabbit
hole and I I really always say these on
my little Twitter chats is like stop
falling for you know stop answering to
the right way totally
you know you got a champion your
messaging maybe address it for a second
then pivot back to your message I
totally know I the right-wing basically
is just trying to waste people's time
now yeah most and those those
conversations honestly like they're
they're mostly you know the play big
visionary plans and visions that you put
forward and you rally people around is
what do you do now mmm-hmm that's it
alright final I am a day
Steph Oh from Chicago I've been
listening to David Harvey's lectures on
Marx's capital following Jamie's
recommendation his theory about money
emerges from Marcus is fascinating and I
can't stop thinking about it
awesome recommendation absolutely Thanks
thank you no michi thank you see you
guys on Monday
[Music]
no son
I'm gonna get
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
