you know it's clear that this Matt
Whitaker plan was in place for some time
I imagine you know Don McGann now dearly
departed was quite confident that
Whitaker would be the perfect guy for
this I also suspect that Mike Pence had
been telling Donald Trump that this was
going to work out and the reaction from
the legal establishment was was rather
Stern in terms of Whitaker and we saw
this with like former DOJ officials you
know Alberto Gonzalez even John you came
out and said that the that his
appointment is unconstitutional and if
you can't get the guy who okayed torture
for the United States to say that what
you're doing is constitutional you may
have a bit of a problem but the I wonder
if part of what is driven a Donald Trump
so mad this past week was that response
in his sense of like wait a second I'm
not getting good information here yeah
because it does feel like there has been
a pullback with the plan does feel like
whatever the plan was that it's been
delayed in some fashion do you get that
sense absolutely I mean look the first
thing the first hint of that was Trump
you know he's at one of his gaggles
there on the White House lawn and he
said oh I barely you know I don't know
Matt Whitaker well we know he does and
that he has known him and that he
admitted that he knows him and thought
he was a great guy just like a week
before and and had you know the guy had
been up at the White House he'd been you
know hanging and there's some thought
that he and Trump have been privately
communicating so that you know the fact
that he backed off that I think was the
first hand that he is sitting there
going wait a minute I thought this was
going to be smooth sailing I think that
he had thought that that by putting
Whitaker in he was there he was you know
the Jeff Sessions guy that that would
somehow a lie or allay all the concerns
you know within the Senate
there were any look this is a sessions
guy it'll be fine
it kind of reminds me of the fact of
when he fired Comey but they had all
said oh don't worry the Democrats hate
you they'll be really happy you did it
you know it's kind of these weird sort
of you know lack of political acumen
just basic political acumen in the White
House and sometimes I wonder if he's
being even sabotage from within by
people like McGann and no pence maybe I
don't know but I mean it's so weird they
would keep doing that and it makes such
a misjudgment but I do I agree with you
I think that there has been a sense that
they're pulling back not to mention the
fact that you know it was reported that
most of the people in the White House
didn't even know that this guy Whittaker
had been all over right-wing media right
trashing the Muller investigation and
calling it a witch-hunt and saying that
you know you could just defund it and
I'm really obvious that his company was
under FBI investigation I mean they
didn't vet him obviously he was
completely unvetted now I guess you can
say that McGann or maybe Pence or
whomever whoever set this whole thing in
motion which was clearly a long-term
plan I mean I think you're right they
put him there for a reason
part of it to be a mole part of it to
keep an eye on sessions and also just to
be there for the moment when Trump
finally was going to pull the plug they
knew that that was who was who was going
to replace him and and to not even
realize that or this dis dicey business
he had down in Florida the fact you know
there's all kinds of stuff coming out
now about him I mean he is not I mean
aside from the fact he's completely
unqualified for the job of the Attorney
General as a joke that anybody would put
that but apparently now there was some
tax pay big project in Iowa that he was
involved in and he walked away from and
there was a whole bunch of money lost I
mean was just all kinds of stuff this
guy's just a he's a hustler
right he's one of those right-wing hacks
who's been living off wingnut welfare
yeah for for at least half a decade if
not longer I think it's been since at
least 2014 and he's been you know he's
been you know so working around in Iowa
and and got kind of involved in sort of
the the
the scamming that always goes on around
the fringe in the right wing in the
conservative movement I mean a
completely ridiculous choice for this
and so yeah I think there is a sense
that geez we've gone all-in on this guy
and maybe there's also a sense realizing
that maybe this guy is so vulnerable
that they can't count on him which is
really scary right I mean that's like oh
my god I I think that is I mean I think
there's a couple of things going on in
the administration that there is that
that Trump is probably also got to be
worried about like wait a second
well like what are the incompetence
around me like either I'm I being
sabotaged on purpose or the people
around me really incompetent and I and
it's also you get a sense with with
Trump I mean this is you know I I just
try and base you know we can't know
what's inside Donald Trump's head the
only thing we can do is you know
speculate but I like to use my
five-year-old son as the model I get a
sense of how his brain works and I think
he's got to be going around feeling like
just literally somewhat insecure like
mommy and daddy don't seem to really
have a grip on this and and he's
starting to because let's be very clear
the reason why he fired Jeff Sessions
was to fire robert muller and extend he
has not fired robert muller this means
that his plan has gone awry it hasn't
totally failed yet until until Whitaker
is out and there's somebody you know
maybe rod Rosen Stein is back in but it
is clear that his plan failed at least
in some in so far as he was trying to
get rid of Rob Muller probably days ago
now they may have another bite at that
Apple but so this is that on the most
basic level he's got to be like either
somebody's sabotaging me or I just don't
know what I'm doing and of course I
think he's mine goes to someone
sabotaging me but either way whether
it's someone outside of him that's
sabotaging him or him sabotaging him he
is being sabotaged in some fashion right
his will is being thrown
and I think that's what we're I think
that's what we're seeing with him now in
terms of of Whitaker and it's gonna be
fascinating to see if Whitaker lasts and
if he does can he last you know what
does Trump gonna feel likely I just
replaced Jeff sessions with another guy
who's not gonna do anything about Muller
like that has got to be very upsetting
to Donald Trump
I would imagine I imagine it's driving
him him nuts in many respects well he
seems to be being driven nuts by
something I mean he's not even for him
he's behaving erratically and you may be
right this may be the thing you know
it's kind of like no matter what I do I
can't you know I can't fix this I can't
get this fixed and everybody tells me I
can if I really want right but I
shouldn't and the other interesting
thing about Whitaker I just want to say
is that he looks strikingly similar to
Trump's old bodyguard who had been with
him for years who's now got punted and
then put in charge of a proton pack so
that he could continue to be paid and I
can't help but think that this guy walks
in there and Donald Trump's has this
immediate feeling of like oh there's my
security blanket the bald guy and so
he'll be my he'll be my Bobby Kennedy
and you know because he thinks that you
know Bobby Kennedy somehow JFK off of
whatever you know he was the personal
lawyer the brothers but I look we got to
take a break when we come back let's
talk about what's happening with the
Democrats in Congress they have a very
good in my estimation first entree or
entry I should say in so far is their
democratic or their legislative agenda
and I also want to talk about something
that's happening with the War Powers Act
in Yemen all this and more in just a
moment I'm Sam cedar this is ring of
fire radio we'll be right back with
Digby
