[Music]
yesterday Bernie Sanders did a really
important speech on Medicare for all and
there's a you I mean the lies are back
Joe Biden is lying incessantly about
this Pete Budaj and others are
pretending that there's some universal
system that isn't really a universal
system that costs will go out even
though in the aggregate they'll go down
and the quality of care and basic
material security will be now just
increase just incomparable we'll go from
a system where tens of millions of
people even after Obamacare still don't
have care many others are underinsured
millions prematurely died and it's a
still fundamental threat to people to
every human being in this country has
health coverage period no
so this was a funny video this is number
seven Bernie wants to know what the deal
of people lying about Medicare for all
is Republican friends and some others
splinter put this together seem to think
that the American people hate paying
taxes but they just love paying
insurance premiums oh my god here the
insurance premium is here what a
wonderful day oh wow
let's celebrate hey another 2,000 a
month for insurance and school
businesses they just love it every month
paying those insurance premiums the
truth of the matter is that study after
study has shown that as a nation we will
save substantial sums of money and the
average middle-class family will save an
estimated three thousand dollars each
and every year on their health care
bills Bernie Sanders is ready to rhumble
because he's cared about this he's
fought for everybody of health care his
whole political career and he's also
explaining why the idea that this can't
be done in a bold effective way is
nonsense you know I want to say a word
about this transition because I get I
hear over and over again from political
opponents from the industry it can't be
done stop and think about the in 1965
when Medicare was first introduced they
did not have then the kind of technology
that we have right now they were
developing a brand-new program with all
of the difficulty that that entails so
please do not tell me that 55 years
later with all of the technology that we
have that we cannot simply over a
four-year period expand a successful
program that is 55 years old
look at that it's purely a question of
political will and power any technical
arguments are lies distractions and
nonsense this is a question of
fulfilling and expanding a program that
already works extraordinary effectively
and giving it to every American this is
another reminder as with yesterday with
the Bank of America exchange this is why
he is the one that's hated by Wall
Street this is the why you know the the
the the first the reports were anybody
besides Sanders and Warren now the
reports are anybody besides Sanders
because Bernie Sanders represents a
fundamental threat to a way of doing
things
that is a fundamental threat to 99% of
Americans it is demented and insane that
private insurance companies that provide
absolutely nothing of value they are
purely a unnecessary predatory barrier
between you and your doctor and a waste
of all of our money and resources are
not phased out in favor of a national
program which is spelled out in great
comprehensive detail in the Bernie
Sanders Senate bill as well as the
primal Ajay Paul House bill and and
these other candidates that still sort
of are wishy washy on it
Booker Harris at times Warren they
should be asked very specifically along
with you know people who are just more
full you know flagrantly dishonest and
right-wing and of the insurance industry
like Biden Buddha judge what precisely
do you mean about the difficulty of the
transition not talking points not stuff
that you know kids could copy and paste
from Forbes magazine onto a term paper
what do you actually mean because those
answers in substance and merit are not
there and they've been answered in
actual legislation
