to the phones you're calling from a 509
area code Who am I speaking with
and from where are you calling hey Sam
this is Ronald Reagan calling from
Portland Oregon Oh Ron Reagan from
Portland Oregon
yes Ronald Reagan what is on your mind
have you ever seen the movie Revenge of
the Nerds I have yes yes so I watched
this movie a few years ago for the first
time and for the young people out there
this is a movie that spawned a theory
that there's three or four films so
there's somewhat popular franchise and
in the movie it's sort of like a well I
guess it's self-evident from the title
but the Nerds are the good guys
and they're kind of jockey football guys
the bad guys anyhow so there's a scene
where one of the Nerds rates a girl he's
wearing a Darth Vader mask I believe and
he the the cheerleader thinks that he's
her boyfriend
and so he has sex with her and this is
portrayed as not a rape obviously and
also not like even a gray area but as a
great conquest for the nerd like maybe
the high point right for this particular
character we're supposed to be cheering
for and so I've been thinking about this
movie in light of you know the Kavanagh
stuff and everything that's going on and
it seems like really sadly a missed
opportunity as sort of a culture in a
society to look back at who we are and
who we've been and to sort of take
inventory and to realize that we've got
a long ways to go because these
incidents in the cabin I think come
about more or less at the same time that
movies from 1984 and it's really
troubling that not only are we
hearing sort of like the vehement
denials but also this idea that none of
that stuff matters if it was a long time
ago or I think even Cavanaugh said well
everyone does stuff that you cringe at
but he he hadn't cop to anything right
that he would print and cringe at or you
know he's denying having ever done
something that he would cringe ah so I
don't even know why he would say that
but I think two things can be true at
the same time the first thing is that we
on the issue of sex and gender equality
we've been a really disgusting Society
for a long time and we have a lot of
work to do
and another thing can be true which is
that not everyone in 1984 raped there
were you know despite a really nasty
culture that existed there were plenty
of like good dudes who you know weren't
raping but I
I thought maybe early on he would come
out and say something like I don't know
why but you know what if he had done
that I honestly believe that I mean I
would have had issues with this guy that
were far broader but if he had come out
at one point like even on upon the like
the first moment there was a hint of
this and said look I did things as a
teenager that particularly when I drank
that were repulsive these are things
that I think about you know and I'm
giving him the benefit of doubt of
actually being sincere at that moment
right these are things that I think
about and have impacted me as I look
back on my life and I have tried to live
my life in a way that would make up for
the shame that I felt in that moment
that I'm aware of what I did was hurtful
and I realize you know I was an immature
person and etc etc right if showed some
sense of accountability some
sense of remorse some awareness of that
it it well it's it's an injustice that
has existed in society for an extended
period of time right that women have had
to live in society with this as a common
feature which has impacted their lives
across the board right in in in in in a
myriad of ways that maybe we can't even
fully comprehend certainly as a society
and certainly as as a man can't fully
comprehend comprehend if he had
articulated that I would think like well
maybe maybe it's good for a guy who has
that type of awareness and understanding
of what he doesn't understand and the
damage that can be done in a way that is
cavalier maybe that's a good judge you
know but all he's it's the opposite it's
the opposite he even he is like put
indignity and injustice on top of
indignity and injustice and you played a
clip you played a clip of somebody on
Fox saying well he's clearly
rehabilitated because it's been so long
since you've done anything raping and
they're sort of expressing like a
restaurant
instead of a punitive one I guess
although this is not really a criminal
case but the only problem with that is
in a arrests rative theory of justice
where you focus on rehabilitating the
the perpetrator one of the key aspects
of that is apologizing to the victim and
and confronting the victim and
expressing having the victim first of
all express to you how what you did made
them feel and then being able to issue
an apology directly to the victim and if
he's unable to do that then he's clearly
not rehabilitated I mean I guess that's
obvious but oh yeah so anyways I also
find it interesting thank you
I also find it interesting
the these Cavanaugh folks acknowledge
that this is a very very very widespread
thing but instead of coming to the
conclusion that feminists would come to
you and say therefore we really need to
do something about it
their conclusion is therefore it's okay
which is just like mind-blowing ly awful
right this is a common thing I mean this
happens all the time why are we making
such a big deal that kids will be kids
type of situation as opposed to like hey
there's something going on with in youth
that scars 50% of the population and
then we're supposed to pretend as a
society that like leaves did you get
over it uh yeah that's the most
disturbing part but that's why when I
look at that footage from that
congressman running for the Senate in
North Dakota and see what he does it
look like the I mean presumably right
Republican women have been subjected to
these same issues in their life
and you know maybe they have been
socialized to say like well this is it's
your job it's part of your job that's
part of your function but I would have
Matt like it's just the way things are
yeah like I I don't know how
there isn't a mass revolt frankly
