let's talk about what's going on with
immigration I mentioned earlier that Fox
News seems to be talking quite a bit
about African immigration now as if this
is the new flood torrent but Alexandria
Cascio Cortez got some attention this
week where she referred to the
concentration camps that we have for
children
immigrants at the border as
concentration camps and there was just
this massive freakout
give me your your take on this on the
Cascio cortez thing i know look she's a
you know a lightning rod she handles it
better than any politician I've seen in
the last you know 20 30 years she's
really good and and I you know of course
their concentration camps they they're
not do you know she made them they're
going you can't say that that's an you
know an insult to the Holocaust victims
and what-have-you Holocaust was death
camps and there is a difference she made
that clear concentration camps have been
around for a very long time and the word
was coined like back in the 1800s it's
not like it's something that was
specifically you know we did it had to
do with with the with the Holocaust but
nonetheless I mean the fact is is that
she drew attention to this and I think
she did it did it very skillfully and
she has a a way of doing those things
you know we talked earlier in the
program about you know losing well and
that sort of thing you know knowing how
to do that she's very good at it she
knows how to actually get her point
across even at the time where she's
taking a lot of fire from the other side
and I just wanted to say I do admire her
for her for her political skills I think
I hope that it she must be born with it
because doesn't have a lot of experience
but somehow or another I think she's
showing Democrats something that they
really needed to learn and on the
substance of it of course they are
concentration camps and what we're
finding I mean there was a horrible
story in The New York Times this week
about that the youngest
child that was separated from his
parents he was four months old and the
parents were dragged away screaming from
their baby and the baby now is just two
years later is you know in you know not
is developmentally delayed there's a lot
of trauma that parents I mean it's just
it's this is the kind of thing you know
you're talking about kids in cages
you're talking about concentration camps
and both of those terms are absolutely
applicable and that's what we're dealing
with with immigration this thing with
the Africans you know I I saw that on
edge Tucker Carlson who's leading the
charge on that of course I mean that guy
you know everybody read up on Viktor
Orban if you don't know who he is he's
the president of Hungary or prime
minister of Hungary
that's who tucker carlson is modeling
his new ideology on and it's really it's
you know it's neo-fascist basically in
any case this is you know that did I'm
not surprised that they're going there
because they have to ratchet this up
kids in cages makes people feel icky
Africans storming over the border you
know makes gets those people you know
really excited so you know that's what
they're doing they're trying to shift
the focus and and you know Trump this
week yeah I don't know whether it was an
impulsive decision in the middle tonight
and he just said this or whether or not
he'd had a briefing and he just you know
screwed the pooch like he usually does
you know like he goes and tells people
you know classified information that
they are planning a big you know
deportation program and to separate
families in particular and you know what
this tends to mean is that they dragged
away parents from their american-born
children to our citizens they take them
out of schools they take them out of
their workplace they take them out of
their homes and it caused this
tremendous trauma and the idea is and
this has been done before it was done
during the Obama administration they do
this with the idea that these people are
then going to self-deport they're going
to take their kids and they're going to
go rather than go through this and it's
never worked it doesn't happen that way
these people have you know good reasons
for not being in their home country you
know they like their home countries
they're not here because you know they
hate where they come from they're here
because they have to be here they'd
rather be making a living and raising
their kids in their own country but the
circumstances send them here and and so
the idea is to send you know massive
waves of fear through these immigrant
communities and it's disgusting and it's
horrible and I think we're looking at a
real upsurge in this kind of behavior
because Trump has a problem and that is
that immigration has actually gone up
since he became president not gone down
it was art it was way down and has been
weighed down since the mid mid 2000s but
a lot of the problem especially with the
asylum seekers has to do with the fact
that he has ratcheted up this rhetoric
making people say I got to go now or I
won't be able to because he's going to
build a wall or start shooting people or
whatever and if it's making people make
that move at a time when maybe they
would be waiting to see what you know
what was happening in their home country
or whatever knowing that you know under
the assumption that he's going to shut
everything down if he'd shut up it would
probably you know at least in some
respects pull back even though I
absolutely I mean I I i know people up
in in new york state who are like i have
seasonal workers i know a lot of people
work up on farms upstate should i have
seasonal workers they come in they come
in with visas they can't get past the
border right now and there is this i
think there's this sense of like i've
got to get across now because i'm not
going to be able to do it later and i
mean it frankly is a good argument for
why we should simply demilitarize the
border you could you could you can you
know check off who's coming in and you
know take down names and ID's if that's
what you want at the border but at the
very least you demilitarize it and
people are going to leave to a certain
extent as much as they come back in
they're gonna go back and forth it's
certainly happening with Mexico but
that's also no coincidence because
Mexico is not as nearly as violent at
some of these other countries that
people are coming from there are they're
running
literally for their lives alright let's
take a quick break when we come back we
get more to talk about with this I also
I have a couple more comments about the
reaction to a OSC s calling what we're
doing down there concentration camps
because I I just don't know what else
you would call it but more importantly
it is the legacy of the the words never
forget that I think people have really
misconstrued we'll talk about that in a
moment
