the much-awaited testimony of robert
muller takes place this week he had two
I guess hearings one was in front of the
House Judiciary Committee the other was
in front of the House Intelligence
Committee hearing both they were unique
in in some respects they were unique in
in so far as the questions that were
asked and the emphasis and obviously
unique in terms of the personnel both in
terms of Democrats and Republicans there
was a couple a little overlap before we
go through sort of some of the major
points what was your overall impression
you know my impression from the day
before to watching it to the day after
never really changed and it was pretty
much why are we doing this you know
Muller had told us back in I guess it
was May the end of May when he did his
press conference that listen if you call
me to testify I'm not gonna say anything
that's not in that report it's all
available for you right there you can
read it right now if you want there was
massive election interference you need
to do something about it other than that
you know I'm done so you shouldn't even
call me to testify and that's what he
delivered yesterday absolutely you know
206 different times where he said read
the report look at the report you know I
I'm not gonna answer that just read the
report and the the weirdness of not
wanting to read from his own report but
again his staff had actually announced
prior to the hearings that he was not
going to read from his own report the
whole thing was very weird there were
some you know bright spots during the
hearing but you know III think it
basically played out how a lot of us
just thought it was gonna play out which
was we're gonna stay glued to this and
we're not really gonna find out anything
to new from it and I don't feel like we
did well I got to disagree with you a
little bit Ferren I mean I think for the
most part everybody anticipated that we
weren't gonna get much by way of new
information and
the I think the reason to do it is
because people don't pay attention I
don't know if even people paid that much
attention to the actual testimony to be
honest with you but certainly the huge
number of people who have not read the
report and we got to remember too that
Bill Barr had two weeks to essentially
lie to the American public as to the
question as to whether not the report
exonerated Donald Trump and I think in
addition to getting more nuance and
detail on the the dynamic surrounding
the Trump's culpability when it comes to
obstruction
I actually thought there was one very
important point that came out in the
context of of the questioning during the
Intel committee and that was with when
he was being questioned Muller was by
New York congressman Sean Maloney
not necessarily one of my favorite
Congress people nevertheless his
question was why didn't you get
testimony from Donald Trump why did you
decide not to subpoena Donald Trump well
first off Muller said that he didn't
want to subpoena Donald Trump because it
would have been tied up in the courts
for over a year or more and there was
pressure for him to finish the report
now of course everyone would have been
aware of the fact that Donald Trump was
fighting a subpoena and the pressure
would not have been on him to finish the
report it would have become Donald
Trump's responsibility but the reason
why he went forward at that point was
fascinating because he said it's a
balancing test between what we
anticipate we could get from hearing
from the testimony of Donald Trump which
he had said earlier and in the report
was paramount to understanding what went
down and to discussing obstruction
versus weighed against how much existing
evidence was already there to make the
case that Donald Trump had obstructed
and that was in my mind the the most
explicit thing that Muller said in terms
of not just that they didn't bring
charges against Donald Trump because of
the OLC memo which was one tract in
which we sort of divine that was what a
Muller was telling us but the other
tract is that he felt he did not that
the weighing against the waiting the
time on pursuing a subpoena against the
sitting president versus the case that
they had already made in his mind that
the President had committed obstruction
that the latter actually won out I think
that's hugely important it seems to me
it's been completely overlooked at least
in the in the in the popular media and
look you know this is i it's stunning
but Donald Trump has managed to
normalize total law break in the context
of his presidency never mind that we
will not know the full story when it
comes to collusion or conspiracy for
that matter because of his obstruction
but the president clearly committed
multiple offenses of obstruction of
justice
and we know frankly that he's also
committed multiple other fence offenses
of corruption all of which would have a
place in the context of a an impeachment
inquiry and so I think certainly in
terms of the fireworks that people
wanted in terms of the drama that people
wanted you're right robert muller was
dogged in his refusal to provide that I
wonder frankly you know people have
speculated that he's lost a step or two
or five frankly after watching that
performance I also wondered too
extent that performance was somewhat
premeditated insofar as he did not want
to answer specific questions it was
interesting to me that he had his lawyer
sworn in for the intelligence hearing
but not for the the judiciary committee
hearing and when we come back let's talk
about the the the possibilities there it
seems that the Judiciary Committee was
obviously looking and to my mind the
Democrats were to to singular in looking
after obstruction in the second hearing
the the Intelligence hearing we were
hearing more about what Russia actually
did according to our intelligence
services to interfere with the election
and I wonder if he felt more comfortable
in that territory but we will talk about
some specific moments when we get back
I'm Sam cedar I'm talking with the great
Ferren cousins this is ring a fire radio
