let's let's play this clip of Donald
Trump talking about he's being
questioned about about Whitaker and so
Whitaker there is a a statute that says
that in the absence of a of of a
secretary cabinet a cabinet secretary or
you know someone at that level like the
Attorney General that you can put in a
temporary acting person who is not
confirmed by the Senate but people are
concerned about this because there's
also the opportunity to put people in
who have been confirmed by the Senate
for other positions other cabinet
secretary level positions and they could
shift over so there are questions about
Whitaker and and of course the questions
really have to do with Whitaker not
being particularly vetted he was the
chief of staff for Jeff Sessions he was
a former US Attorney however which is
worth something and but the guy has gone
on television for the past couple years
and said like there shouldn't be you
know that this the investigation is
unwarranted and whatnot and he also said
in defense of and we'll play this a
little bit later in defense of of Jeff
Sessions that you can't have the
appearance of conflict and that's why
sessions recused himself but here is
Donald Trump extremely defensive about
Whitaker reaching for just about
anything he could yeah but neither has
Muller his
posit for one second so the question is
Whittaker hasn't gone through a Senate
process to be in the leadership of the
Department of Justice and so Donald
Trump basically does the I'm rubber
you're glue what you say to me well you
know what you say bounces off of me and
sticks to you yeah but neither has
Muller excuse me you talk about the
Senate prescient Muller is doing the
report he hasn't gone through the Senate
process that you're saying Whittaker has
it but Whittaker has wait a minute
because he was a really distinguished US
Attorney in Iowa and he was approved by
everybody because to be US Attorney
that's top of the line he was a highly
respected in fact I'll tell you the
ambassador to China as you know terry
branstad who used to be the governor of
iowa tribune told me that what a great
choice that is that he is one of the
most respected people in all of Iowa and
that was coming from Gary branch that it
was the governor look Muller
I think complaint people have was not
Senate confirmed so he's doing a report
he wasn't Senate confirmed winner sure
was Senate confirmed I know he doesn't
need this but he was Senate confirmed at
the highest level when he was the US
Attorney from Iowa you know does Muller
was not Senate confirmed why didn't they
get him Senate confirmed he should have
been Senate confirmed because no but
because of all the conflicts they didn't
want to bring him before the Senate
because he's very conflicted I'm doing
because those conflicts they didn't want
to bring him before the Senate but don't
tell me about Whitaker don't tell me
about Whitaker because Muller was not
Senate Confederate guys confirm this at
the highest level will you say we don't
just do a regular confirm on this I'm
going highest level conferred for later
let's just you know before we even
address how Donald Trump is so uptight
about this
we should tell you that Muller was a US
Attorney so he was confirmed by the
Senate for US Attorney not
the highest level Muller was also the
FBI director he was confirmed by the
Senate as FBI director Muller also was
the FBI director beyond his term and the
Senate had to basically reconfirm him or
give him a waiver to be that guy they
wanted to see if he could do better as a
favor to his wife being an independent
counsel beyond being confirmed as which
is which is a u.s. senator special
counsel I'm a US attorney essentially
which he had been confirmed for is what
he needs to be confirmed for he was
confirmed exactly for the position that
he has you know I really resent about
Donald Trump but that of course is
irrelevant anyways well not if you were
confirmed at the highest level maybe
you'd think that by all the best people
and Terry Branstad didn't say great
things about you either was one of the
most respected people in all of okay
yeah I really resent the fact that like
first of all that robert muller and
james call me or like subject to
conversation and secondly that it's all
relative to like hey Donald Trump's
criminal mecca nations are running up
against these guys versus hey they built
careers on terrorizing Muslims right and
like entrapping people and expanding the
national security state so that's
another thing that I resent Donald Trump
for yeah I mean all this is true about
Muller but it's you don't you can hold
both of those well what I do every day
right I mean that's this is the it's
it's sort of like I mean it's very
analogous to the press there's all sorts
of problems with quote unquote
mainstream corporate media
sensationalist profit motive corporate
driven and Donald Trump is an
authoritarian who's trying to like
destroy media and so we need to be
aligned with Jim Acosta I mean this is
we're gonna have to have to hold a lot
of cognitive I would always world I
would also say that the percentage of
people who who who have that opinion of
of the media and express it on shows
like ours and I
obviously I have a lot of issues with
the corporate media and have had for 15
years no you don't all of all of those
people us included use the resources
from that media of course every single
that's another really important
distinction right now that's it that's a
you how can you criticize corporate
media when you you're quoting the AP all
the time that's where you get all your
news cuz you're not a reporting outfit
well I mean very simply I mean by doing
that but also especially with like the
New York Times I mean I have problems
with some New York Times reporting
particularly like in the Middle East
with how they frame stories but I'm also
able to distinguish like and you know
make a verb in his draft this all the
people do this all the time and also
it's able to hold both of the things in
in you know in the same time I think
there's no crowd I think people for
going out and protesting when sessions
get fired because that necessarily means
they're supportive of Jeff Sessions the
you know this horribly racist corrupt in
my opinion DOJ head is absurd I know I
do too two notions at the same time well
we can we should and I think we usually
do I actually think there's a real
diminishing capacity for most people to
hold to opposing the oceans in their
head at the same time which is a bigger
problem well that's that's true humanity
is devolving
