AOC is releasing her green New Deal
shortly so of course Fox News is on a
24-hour state of alert and they keep it
on their Chiron but here they have
what's this guy's name again now Charles
Payne yeah Charles Payne they bring him
on
and this clip fascinated me because I
got totally misdirected I thought they
were I thought where this was going I
want you to listen to this conversation
they're talking about the the polling
that shows that people support a wealth
tax that Elizabeth Warren is proposing
they support a OCS
tax to 70 percent on the top marginal
rate of ten million dollars are over
they're going to support Bernie Sanders
a similar call for such taxation as well
they're really amazed about it the pain
makes an argument that well you listen
but I want you to just as you hear pain
talk right there's three people here
there's Bill Hemmer who's not gonna say
very much sometimes he gets a little bit
of a stomach virus if you know what I
mean
and doing himself maybe a little bit
more enjoyable than a stomach virus yeah
and I don't who is the other I don't
know any other host on Fox and Hemmer
just sit there looking a little goofy
and and then pain comes on so I want you
just to think as pain starts to talk
about his argument like where you think
it's going because it really it throws
it it he does a double Lindy as far as
I'm concerned go ahead
there isn't a seat what seems to be a
movement against capitalism in this
country this is a piece of in Politico
just published so second but you know we
should say that taxation is a big part
of capitalism it really is a big part
mean it's
there's nothing there's nothing
anti-capitalist about taxation in many
respects it's the well first of all
taxation is the only thing that gives
our money value or I should say is the
primary thing that gives our money value
it is the but for if the government did
not take taxes in US dollars your money
would not have much value that's just
the reality of it folks but putting that
aside there is an anti-capitalist
anthemic growing in the United States
it's just she's just not picking out the
right things that are indicating it just
soak the rich Americans say go for it in
this piece it talks about how recent
polling is showing that the American
public is increasingly on board with
raising taxes on the rich as evident
evidence we pulled up this latest Fox
News poll on the issue whether Americans
support raising taxes on the wealthy on
incomes over 10 million bucks those that
are in favor of that 70 percent Charles
over a million dollars in income 65% are
in favor of raising that's it for one
second I'm also super impressed with how
sort of incredulous she seems like so
beyond common sensical it's like it's
she's a good actress right I feel like
she could be delivering like oh my god
there's a doorknob on that door it's not
butter but she does sound like she's
talking about like AOC is actually
proposing like putting the head of Exxon
in jail right exactly they ask the
question like should we tax 70% of their
total income over ten million dollars or
like it seems like people don't
understand marginal tax rates still when
they're answering this question which
makes it even more impressive right over
a million dollars in income sixty-five
percent are in favor of raising taxes
the idea of fairness has been promoted
in our schools for a long time and we're
starting to see kids who grew up in this
notion that fairness above all and and
now they're becoming voting age and
they're bringing this ideology with them
your misdirection you get that explains
he starts talking about fairness I
thought he was gonna say look kids are
taught about fairness in school and it
is unfair to ask the the rich to pay
more but no he is bemoaning the fact
that the idea of fairness is gaining
traction in society should be the new
tagline of Mr by the way fairness above
all right these are already rapport
sorry we believe in fairness wicker
we're gonna be we're gonna be we're
gonna be handing out a nice big dose of
fairness get you Austin
you're about answer in all fairness he's
by moaning the fact that fairness is
becoming an ascendant ideology his
fairness warriors total badness SF SSW
world I am I'm a social fairness warrior
and not just social ef-2 oh yeah
economic oh I love his big time economic
fairness warrior can this guy really
honestly are there really people
listening to foxed watching fox going
like ah fairness what what's next yeah
there are I am you're right the old
people who so bro is sibling a class
action lawsuit against these people for
jacking their cortisol levels up every
day who probably are just be like that's
like Venezuela but they're all about
fairly recent Venezuela
how much fairness are they gonna just
keep heaping on us it's just so bored of
fairness oh my god that is we get it
fair they are so turned around now like
they have to resort towards sort of fake
astonishment that seventy percent want
to tax people over the first 10 million
dollars like like really really are they
did they think they took this poll in
the commissary and Fox like you know be
only oh we only pulled the hosts of Fox
of Fox News and that was surprising run
no no don't ask the makeup
person I gosh exactly I guess still
using the slogan fair and balanced are
they Oh disgusting
that's it squabbles coming from inside
the house
