[Music]
there are significant calls for the
impeachment of Donald Trump we have now
about what is it like a hundred and
forty some odd Democratic Congress
people who have signaled that they want
to move forward with impeachment of
Donald Trump publicly that is prior to
all this stuff about the whistleblower
on Thursday the Director of National
Intelligence McGuire acting I guess
right they're all acting will testify in
front of the House Intelligence
Committee public testimony and the
question will be will he hand over the
whistleblower complaint and allow for
the whistleblower to come and testify to
Congress now remember the donald trump
appointed inspector general of the
directed of national intelligence has
deemed this whistleblower complaint to
be valid enough to trigger the statute
that requires its reporting to Congress
there there is simply no legitimate
argument about this I mean IIIi haven't
seen a single legal scholar who is named
come out and say look well no and and so
there's no question here that this type
of stonewalling sure didn't of itself be
enough for impeachment here is Donald
Trump here's two clips we have a da drum
which one which should we play the other
one first yeah now I think this is at
the UN and this is where he discusses or
I think it's at the UN where he
discusses and maybe both of these are
where he discusses this
phone call which the Wall Street Journal
Friday afternoon
reported there were eight times where
Trump asked the question for something
we should remind you that Donald Trump
well listen to this everybody knows it
it's just a Democrat witch-hunt here we
go again
they failed with Russia they failed with
recession they failed with everything
and now they're bringing this up the one
who's got the problem is Biden as you
look at what Biden did Biden did what
they would like to have me do except for
one problem I didn't do it
what Biden did is a disgrace what his
son did is a disgrace the son took money
from Ukraine the son took money from
China a lot of money from China okay so
there's a Donald Trump pivoting from it
was a nice conversation with the
president Ukraine and but what what I
did what they're accusing me of doing is
actually what Biden did last night
Donald Trump tweets out that it was a
nice call right I mean the fake news
media says I pressured the Ukrainian
president at least eight times during my
phone call with him now I don't know
what that means you pressured him eight
times it sounds like he specifically
asked a specific question I don't know
how you enumerate eight pressure points
be nice to see the transcript it would
be actually very helpful I think for the
president for us to see this this
supposedly comes from a so-called
whistleblower who they say doesn't even
have a first-hand account of what was
said more Democrat crooked media con
breaking news the Ukrainian government
just said they weren't pressured at all
during a nice call sleepy Joe Biden on
the other hand forced a tough prosecutor
out of investigating the sons company
we'll talk about that a little bit later
that's the real story so that's it it
was just a nice call there was no
pressuring they just talked about nice
things you know like you're a good guy
be good good is good
be appropriate be appropriate watch it
watch your language and but the today at
the United Nations Trump seems to like
sort of pivot off that a little bit
[Music]
because what we are doing is we want
honesty and if we deal with the country
we want honesty and I think with the new
president you're going to see much more
honesty into Ukraine that's what we're
looking for we're supporting a country
we want to make sure that country is
honest it's very important to talk about
corruption if you don't talk about
corruption why would you give money to a
country that you think is corrupt one of
the reasons the new President got
elected is he was going to stop the
corruption so it's very important that
for the cajon you speak to somebody
about corruption very important okay now
I don't know how your nice phone calls
go but buried in that jibber-jabber was
an ultimatum if you're gonna want to see
if you're gonna support a country you
want them to be honest now on most of my
nice phone calls I don't question the
honesty of the people I'm talking to and
then to the extent that I am questioning
the honesty I don't necessarily say and
I'm not going to give you the support
that I've given you in the past because
I suspect you're dishonest I just want
you to root out corruption and I'm gonna
say that eight times and deckle money in
front of you
he almost admits he's like walking up to
the line what why this is what I surmise
is happening they are very concerned
that at one point this transcript is
going to get out there by hook or crook
and what he is now already doing is
trying to reinterpret the transcript so
when I was saying you better do this or
you're not gonna get the money I was
just saying be honest now the problem
that Trump has is that everybody knows
he's a complete
the logical liar the the one possible
saving grace he has is that the one
means of holding him to account and by
this I don't mean Donald Trump was gonna
be walked out of office that's not going
to happen politically being held to
account
in other words perhaps paying a price
politically for doing this the one thing
that could make that happen or that
could prevent that from happening is
Nancy Pelosi right now the difference
between the Democratic Party not holding
him to account and the Republican Party
not holding him to account if you don't
understand that dynamic
I don't maybe I can't explain it to you
but it is so massive and so obvious in
the context of a two-party political
system heading into a presidential
election year right now
Donald Trump's criminal behavior is on
Nancy Pelosi because she is next in line
to respond to it nobody else can she is
the only one now who can say we're gonna
take the breaks off of this impeachment
stuff or we're gonna keep the brakes on
that's it there's no one else
Mitch McConnell is not on the hook for
this until Nancy Pelosi does her job
that's just the reality of this politics
not to mention the idea that the Speaker
of the House is not going to give cover
to whomever is the Democratic nominee
and by cover I simply mean not to cover
up their their wrongdoing if there was
any wrongdoing and frankly I don't know
that there was but political cover we
can see what's going on the New York
Times is reporting there
literally in the first paragraph of
their story on Joe Biden is the Times
has no evidence of anything that was
corrupt or any law breaking and then it
just goes on to talk about to talk about
it for paragraphs and but it's a it's a
the fact of the matter is it's it's a
fairly nuanced situation in which I
think very hard to say that there's no
sort of structural corruption here
because there is but it is it's not
illegal and I'm not apologizing for it
at all I I'm and frankly I think it if
it was up to me it would be
disqualifying only because it is a huge
liability going into an election like
this and in the fact that matter is I
think like with other candidates if
there was a similar dynamic I don't
think it would be it's problematic to be
honest with you but here's the here's
the deal let's just get this out of the
way so Joe Biden's son hunter is being
paid at one point something like 50
grand a month to sit on the board of a
Ukrainian energy company now I don't
know what hunter Biden's specialty is
but I would be very very hard-pressed to
believe that hunter Biden had some type
of like doctorate in Ukrainian energy
markets or supplies but his father at
the time was vice president is that
illegal
no is it corrupt in the way that our
government has become corrupted like
broadly yes does that mean that Joe
Biden did anything
no in fact it appears it appears from
the reporting now that what Joe Biden
was doing was pushing out or helping to
push out a prosecutor whom other
governments including the US government
felt was not doing enough to pursue
corruption in fact this prosecutor had
suspended the investigation on the
company that hunter Biden was working
for and Joe Biden was pushing this guy
out for a prosecutor who would be more
aggressive and going after this
corruption now the it's quite possible
that Joe Biden was doing this with the
knowledge of like I can I can push for
this we need less corruption there and
my son will be fine you know the there
was probably nothing illicit about at
all about him being paid this money but
we all know why it was it was because
they were hoping to get influence that's
the problem we have with lobbying that's
the problem that we have with paid
speeches that's the problem we have with
all this but it's not nearly as illicit
is what Donald Trump has done and so the
question is like how do you if Joe Biden
ends up being the nominee how do you
deal with this and for Nancy Pelosi to
be sitting on her Duff protecting or
what she thinks is protecting some of
these frontline Democrats in the house
which i think is dubious particularly
based upon all the data is absurd it's
absurd playing this type of defense this
defensive posture there's four corners
that they're playing is is going to hurt
the Democrats and I mean if it was up to
me I would say Joe Biden drop out
because the reality is the media is not
fair
this sucks it was it's not a good look
and this is too important of an election
and the problem that Joe Biden has that
is unique to Joe Biden because if Bernie
Sanders son was getting paid by the same
company I think it would be far less of
a problem if Elizabeth Warren if people
were to judge his husband it was being
paid by the same company in the same
fashion I think it would be less of a
problem pick whoever whatever candidate
it is the problem that Joe Biden has is
with what is Joe Biden running on I'm
not corrupt Donald Trump is corrupt
he's undercutting American values I'm
not going to do that
he is besmirching the office I will
restore its dignity the problem is Joe
Biden is running on his personal
attributes and character and his
integrity and this strikes to the heart
of that all the other candidates not all
but for the vast majority of them are
running on a series of policy platforms
some I like some I don't like whatever
their candidacy is not so contingent
upon who they are as individuals Trump
is gonna try and do it he's gonna try
and do it he's gonna say crazy Bernie or
he's gonna say you know Pocahontas or
he's gonna say you know what does he say
about Buddha judge like a little pea
little Pete or whatever it is but he's
going he's going to attack them as their
individual as individuals but the
problem he has with that is that these
people actually have policy sets and
they're basing their campaigns on that
Joe Biden's not that's why Joe Biden is
a has a liability that's unique to him
and Nancy Pelosi is exacerbating it this
is just incompetence by frankly a I want
to say a generation of Democrats but
it's really a generational mindset that
these two Democratic leaders are stuck
in and it's gonna screw us all frankly
