[Music]
now let's talk about what's going on
with the d-triple-c because if we've you
and I have talked about this in the past
the last time we talked it was right
after I think the d-triple-c had
announced that if you are working with a
primary opponent to a sitting Democrat
regardless of who that Democrat is if
you are a vendor you provide phone
banking technology you provide a website
design you provide list making or
polling like you might Shawn then you
are blacklisted by the d-triple-c and if
you you will not get any deals from them
or any contracts with them what just
briefly tell just explain to people why
that's a big deal
sure I mean in a lot of ways it ended up
being not as much of a an impediment as
the d-triple-c at home because a lot of
vendors are still willing to work with
these progressive challengers in if you
want I can explain why it's that in the
2018 cycle there was a lot of new
Democrats who are being recruited not
like New Democrats in this sort of
caucus but like New Democrats and you
know people want to run for office
before and so they really relied heavily
on the d-triple-c to tell them who to
work with so the feasible she was able
to sort of like use that power in in
this cycle most of these Democrats are
running for a second term in red to blue
districts so if you know you already
have been using a vendor that you trust
you don't need the d-triple-c to
recommend that vendor for you um but the
idea that the d-triple-c theorized was
that basically they were going to be
able to starve these primary challengers
from Bend
I mean to some extent it works there
were you know Murray Newman lost I
believe it was a mail vendor and a
digital vendor and then a polling vendor
um but the problem that the d-triple-c I
think didn't
Percy was that within a couple days they
were flooded with mail vendors meadow
vendors Digital vendors and pollsters
who were more than willing to work with
them and who is Murray Newman just may
be cleared uh no no no sure yeah sorry
about that
Murray Newman is running against Dan
Lipinski dan Lipinski is a member of
Congress a Democrat and finger quotes
from Illinois third he is anti-gay he's
the only Democrat who opposed the recent
legislation to extend civil rights
protections to LGBT Americans and the
Democrats pass to the house
he is anti-choice he's the only Democrat
who is a member of the pro-life pocket
so not only is he a member he is
actually the co-chair of the pro-life
caucus he voted against the Affordable
Care Act um after working to
watered-down contraception access and
then he actually refused to endorse
Obama in 2012 so now he comes from a
deep deep red he must come from a deep
deep red district right I mean that's
the only way that you could justify
having a Democrat who votes on all of
the at least substantial issues that we
talked about over the past couple years
with Republicans so his district must be
super deep red for the d-triple-c decree
protecting him because you don't
understand Sean if it's not for Dan for
Lipinski that district would obviously
obviously have a Republican correct well
turns out that is uh that is not true
that district clinton wanted by double
digits it is a safe on district it's so
safe that republicans basically don't
even bother contesting it last cycle the
person here in the
winning the Republican primary was a
literal neo-nazi so yeah it's it's not a
district that Republicans are interested
in testing it will not be a district
that they're going to contest if human
one there is absolutely no excuse for
protecting family penske and you know to
be honest it's it's really the sensible
at a time when Republicans are passing
abortion ban that the Congressional arm
of the Democratic Party is you know
working tooth and nail to protect a an
anti-choice incumbent didn't Sheryl
boost us didn't she just now have to
pull out of a fundraiser for Lipinski
because of this and she is that the the
she the chair the d-triple-c yeah she is
and it's actually worth noting she's
gonna get on a black list because of
this I mean is she gonna lose herself
I mean if you take a look at a lot last
cycle um Ben ray Lujan was a chair the
d-triple-c
he's not I think like a sort of Ilhan
Omar AOC sound progressive but he is you
know to the left of center of the
Democratic caucus and he actually
refused to endorse dan Lipinski and at
the time reporters were speculative the
reason he refused to endorse dan
Lipinski is that dan Lipinski refuses to
pay dues to the d-triple-c he says he
refused to pay dues because he wants to
only select members who agree with his
right-wing values so not only is the
d-triple-c um going to to bat for the
scoreboard comment they're going to bat
for an incumbent who doesn't even pay
dues so by their own sort of logic this
is not someone that they should be
protecting it's it's quite frankly just
I think shows how you know how much this
institution has been poisoned on and
Cheri Bustos you know
she first came to national prominence by
sort of playing up the fact that she's a
she's a Democrat in a obama trump
district and her goal is to go to war
with the progressive wing at a party and
I think that what she why she's so
investing his race is because she wants
to crush progressives and she views dan
Lipinski as a vehicle to do that what do
you think it's to about Lipinski or do
you think it's just about the
institution I mean if it sort of feels
like maybe Lipinski like you know I
don't know has pictures of him and Obama
and some like compromising situation I
mean what what is that what is that
about
I I so I so I really think for those two
things were here one is is that the
weighted Bustos one the d-triple-c chair
was promising to really take a hard line
on challenges and really making sort of
incumbent protection from primaries her
top priority which is you know ironic
given that these people see always
pitches itself publicly is this
organization focused on Frontline
Democrats but they didn't choose Bustos
because they wanted to win over on my
Democrats they they picked moves us to
to protect on centrist incumbents in
safe seats the second thing is is that
if you look at sort of boost OSIS entire
career you know the big glitzy political
profiles of her her big sort of theory
of the case is that Democrats have gone
too far to the left and they need to
sort of move back to the to the center
to win elections and I think that what
she sees with Lipinski is this
opportunity to go to the caucus and say
look you know dan Lipinski is the worst
of the worst when it comes to safety
Democrats but I was able to protect them
I was able to be back.this and
progressive insurgency if you make me
you know speaker I'll make sure you
never hear from these progressives again
I think I really do believe that she
wants to crush the progressive movement
and she wants to make Illinois sir an
example of first how far yeah that's yes
and that's why I think progressives need
to really investment district because if
she wins she's betting that that is
going to crush the momentum going in to
places like New York where there are a
ton of incumbents who are facing
challenges that's fascinating I mean the
the so many times in so many of these
dynamics the the the last thing you
think about is not because there's an
actual investment in this fight but that
it creates a precedent or it creates a
model or it's symbolic of something ends
up being the answer why these things are
fought so that they don't even have to
fight the later fights that that down
the road I mean this is I've heard that
story many many times in a bunch of
different contexts is all right Sean let
me ask you this and this is just a last
question and it's a little bit meta
because this comes up and it's going to
come up over the course of the primary
because certainly there will be there's
there's at least a percentage you you
know this that that's what you work with
all the time that there may be a
candidate who wins who some of us don't
like in the primary and this came up in
2016 it comes up now why you are clearly
associate yourself with views that are
to the left of where certainly the
establishment of the Democratic Party is
certainly the major institutions within
the party and probably with most of the
party here to the left of what is why
why do you expend your your your
energies on these projects within the
Democratic Party as opposed to without
on the outside of the Democratic Party
sure yeah this is something I've been
thinking about a lot recently um I think
that the goal of the progressive left
should be to become a member
in good standing of the sort of broad
democratic party apparatus and I don't
buy that I don't mean like you know the
DNC I know means the most for the most
case like the d-triple-c
there's the Democratic Party is the sort
of broad network of activists and
organizations that are broadly like sort
of invested in the Democratic Party
winning elections and I think that if
the the progressive left has a
meaningful caucus within Congress has
you know like real organizational
grassroots organizations that are
capable of influencing democratic
primaries and has you know a base of
people who are really committed to the
ideals of the Democratic Party even if
not the often the the ways that that
gets diluted down and policymaking we
can start to influence that institution
and moving in our direction and I think
that at the end of the day many people
who think of themselves as Democrats
hold ideals that are very close to my
own they're supportive of the green new
deal they're supportive of Medicare for
all
they think that ice is run amuck and it
needs to be reined in if not abolished
and I think that by making taking that
case to those voters we can win them
over to our vision and I'm fully I'm
fully capable of believing that that was
not true in the past but I think that it
is true now more and more that
particularly the next generation of
Democrats holds these ideals and that we
should create avenues for them to gain
power and to wield bad influence and I
think that you know we often can
overstate the sort of influence of the
left independent of Democratic Party but
with the control if we control and have
a say in that institution we can do
amazing things I really look at the
conservative movement in the Republican
Party as
J as a sort of vision at that Shaun
McElwee data for progress we'll put a
link to the F gerrymandering despite you
know who he ended up let's do one
together we will talk about this we will
all right we'll talk about it
absolutely I want to get your thoughts
on my many take at some point that I
knew honey what well we can I thought
your thoughts on my Medicaid your
thoughts on your metatag meditator the
things I just said oh the meditate yes
no I mean I largely I agree you know
there's uh the it would be nice to own
the levers of the apparatus frankly and
to at least have a hand done on the
apparatus that's you know I like the
idea of taking control of pre-existing
institutions that is the most successful
route in my estimation to to change but
we will talk more about that in the
future Sean McElwee okay what what is it
I was just gonna do like a se you know I
think that there are a lot of people who
have been won over to her view and a lot
of what you might call Normie Democrats
um we see her and look up to her and I
think that's an incredible amount of
influence that the left has to something
that we should invest in doing more and
more I agree totally
Sean McCauley date of progress thanks so
much buddy talk to you later let me get
one
