let's take a phone call right now oh
you're calling from a hello hello hey
hey yeah I'd like to order 12 pairs of
the cracker factory drawstring pants in
the pullover top with the Jesus Christ
applique in all the colors I'd like to
be until bone midnight blue okra all all
balls I'm treating myself I'm treating
myself we're doing so well in the in the
debate last night listen do you need my
loyalty card number I think you'll earn
a beauty thing who is this kid me faint
this is Cindy hyde-smith my number is 2
2 4 9 my code word is why it makes right
this is QVC wait a second Cindy
hyde-smith the Smith from Mississippi mi
SS is si PBR listen so I'm treating
myself I'd like to order the cracker
factory drawstring pants with the with
the over top with the applique well no
wait a second
no this is not give you see but I'm glad
you called in with this my name Hawking
hey this is my name is Sam cedar who am
I talking to is this a joke is this some
kind of a joke QVC no I am this is not
QVC my I keep telling you my name is Sam
cedar and we actually I mean
coincidentally we're talking about
politics and so I'm I'm glad to have
well you listen to me Liev or whatever
your name is I don't know what's going
on here I'm trying to order do you know
do you know who this is
listen to me I'm listening I am trying
to order 12 pairs of the drawstring
pants and over top from quacker factory
I don't have any
quacker factory pants but you know you
sound like you sound like what are you
on the East Coast you liberal what's
going on here well I am the East Coast
yes and yes I'm of the left
where but it's interesting we were just
talking about your debate or just about
to talk about your debate oh my god the
debate yeah I'll tell you what I even
put a ziploc bag over my own head so I
could neither see nor hear myself in the
silent debate but I'm pretty sure I won
that's why I'm ordering all the
drawstring pants as an early to treat
myself well holidays mike espy's and
didn't know whether he was coming or
going after that would well it turns out
we actually have some some some clips
from last night from the debate now my
understanding over my head nobody's
supposed to hear it well we we have a
couple of Clips here let's do you mind
if we play them and ask you about okay
I'm not gonna listen I'm not gonna
listen I'm going on the iota one I also
wanted to order the luxury rope because
we have some Christmas hangings it's a
luxury right I don't even know what that
problem our house my husband cattleman
Mike and I like to have some hangings
we're having Thanksgiving with our piyo
is coming and Ray mores coming he loves
to carve the turkey and we're also going
to slaughter some cattle but we're not
going to eat them okay good
why aren't you gonna you gonna make a
list if you play your clips or whatever
listen to me Judith I don't know what
y'all are doing over there but I'm gonna
keep making a list of some things I need
from the QVC so you play whatever you
need to play okay well let's play this
first clip which one should we play
first Matt yeah this is from the debate
here is a clip now of myself and my mr.
sp yes exactly and this is um this is
how did you get clips how did you get
clear how did you get anything from that
debate that was a silent like a silent
auction well I understand I'm not even
sure how how do we get clips of this
debate that Matt c-span Oh c-span yeah
and here is and this is where she looks
down at her now they know which one is
this
okay I'm talking to Matt I'm sorry okay
well this is where she addresses the
public yeah this is where you address
the the the comment that you made about
the public hanging yeah here it is
I posit I'm sorry like it would lost
their parents tragically by the hands of
black people well excuse me what no I
hear well let's just play your your
apology and then you can respond to it
how's that explain and/or apologize
tonight you know at a campaign event I
had the opportunity to visit with a
supporter who has a big piece of my
heart see his mother and dad both died
when he had of cancer when he was in
high school so it so to express my deep
regard and my sincere commitment that
this young man I used to phrase I told
him that I would fight a circle saw for
him well obviously I would not stick my
arm in a circle song nor did any of my
comments ever mean that I would enjoy
any type of capital punishment sitting
there witnessing this you know for
anyone that was offended for my by my
comments I certainly apologized there
was no ill-will no intent whatsoever in
my statements in nearly 20 years of
service of being your state senator your
Commissioner of Agriculture and your US
Senator I have worked with all
Mississippians it didn't matter their
skin color type their age or their
income that's my record there has never
been anything not one thing in my
background to ever indicate I had
ill-will toward anyone I've never been
hurtful to anyone I've always tried to
help everyone no twist I know and it was
champion to face weapons to be used okay
when I ordered the the cracker factory
Confederate flags lands where everybody
was all upset Confederates like listen
I'll tell you what those Sam the South's
gonna do it again well but my dear
friend he's got a big piece of my heart
a big piece of my heart and I was just
so tickled when we got a chance to talk
you heard phrases Sam phrases that's one
spicy meatball I can't believe I had the
whole thing where's the beef it says I
in the same it's in the same Western
Canon of popular phrases and things that
guy fieri has said
very well well no wait a second
you didn't refer to capital punishment
you referred to a public hanging and
yeah hand fence the luxury a public it's
a phrase Sam like hashtag worth it you
know whatever people say listen there's
no ill will and that is so you know when
I wear my confederate clothes and when I
do the reenactments it's all in good fun
my record shows that listen Sam we got
enough problems down here in Mississippi
we you know they everybody talked about
the wildfires in California in crazy
California lala land but you know we
have here in Mississippi we got droughts
we got we got storms we have black
people we have potholes in the roads we
have all kinds of problems here and
listen the last time the storms blew
through here that dinah nine cents store
we have a lot of 99-cent stores or the
one near my house 99 cent store got
listen to me the 99 cent store got hit
so hard there was literally twenty two
dollars worth of damage that's how much
damage was done at the 99-cent store
about twenty two dollars we have three
things I think would yeah yeah that's
about twenty two dollars worth of damage
that's how hard that was hit the one
near my house nonsense don't even get me
started on the Family Dollar Store by
the Piggly Wiggly because I'll tell you
how hard that was hit but I'm not gonna
do that right now
listen I'm tired of being accused of
things excuse me I'm getting so upset my
got frog in my throat oh now you good
everybody don't go crazy cuz I said I
got a frog in my throat I don't really
have a frog in my throat it's just an
expression
all right okay all right so you saw what
is your name again you saw Sam you know
Rachel not Rachel
Sam Bathsheba no not Betsy but nothing
from the well I guess okay I hear I hear
there's other other people in there now
and Brendon no no one's laughing at you
mad and Brendon are here what you think
voter suppression is not a good idea I'm
full of good ideas voter suppression is
a fantastic idea now wait a second now I
came up with that or was that got there
I don't know got here I don't know he I
don't know who said it but it's a
fantastic idea I'm having I'm having
having I'm having a bumper stickers
suppress it
hashtag suppress all right well now
Cindy hyde-smith hold on for one second
I want to play this clip of some of the
Jackson free press it is a it is a tweet
they say watch I counted 20 times Cindy
hyde-smith looked down at two large
stacks of notes in front of her in just
the first two questions candidates
weren't supposed to bring notes with
them but her campaign request for this
for the QVC I was getting ready for my
order friend I know I had lift and lift
also I'm giving out gifts and things
like that that's what I had I had in
front of me all right well let's let us
watch let us watch the video and people
can decide for themselves how's that
okay hold on for one second we'll pause
it we're just going to play it Obamacare
I think thing that we will support I
assure you will include credit to
pre-existence conditions resistance
kendama care which has been a disaster
for health care really rural American my
opponent supports that you know at a
campaign advantage mint sitting there
waiting to see this you know for anyone
that was offended for my by my comments
I start they apologized
there was no ill will no intent
whatsoever in my statement that's I mean
I have to say yeah Cindy hyde-smith
excuse me you know Meals on Wheels Meals
on Wheels Sam I started a program Meals
on Wheels in my and my with my parish in
Mississippi and what we do is we bring
through the homeless and we ask them to
pay for it
now wait a second all right that is that
seems to me to be ridiculous but but I
want to get back to that video you
clearly were clearly
looking down at yeah no it's not my name
is nada looking down at my nose
you were reading them it's cool you know
Samuel do you do you ever write down
lists of things to do today things I got
to do tomorrow remind myself I would
have had post-it so I didn't get a
chance to go to the office supply store
why would you be reading those right in
the middle of answering your question in
a debate if they weren't notes spin it a
lot of place in there I'm spitting plate
Sam I got lots to do it's called
multitasking Jerry cast King so you were
reading the realisable path let me know
I understand what multiple tasking is
but I just want to be clear on this you
were reading notes about what you needed
to do to prepare for the holidays and
simultaneously excuse me that's and
answering the question in this debate
that's what you were doing that's your
stuff yeah
it's called multitasking okay I can do
more than one thing
why will you're making me I'm getting so
I'm getting so and this is such classic
classic liberal nonsense I don't even
know how you got the same numbers QVC I
didn't know what's happening I think you
you do not have a big piece of my heart
I'll tell you what you get you know what
I'll give you a piece of my colon it's
that fact I wouldn't eat a spare I
wouldn't even give you a piece of my
colon and how you can get any malicious
intent know what I'm saying now you can
misinterpret anything about what I'm
saying and get it is just talk about
ridiculous why did it take you so long
to apologize because really I have
nothing to apologize for listen my dear
my dear friends parents died and when he
was in high school from black people
giving him cancer awareness so that is
what black people giving him cancer how
did black people give his parents cancer
do your homework you'll figure it out
Sal's gonna do it again get down get
down children gather round
gather round children get loud sounds
gonna do it again so
