so today we have reports that I think
now close to a half a dozen no it's a
seventh a seventh bomb now has been sent
to a congressional mail facility so
George Soros yesterday Hillary Clinton
Barack Obama CNN Eric Holder apparently
Cuomo there's reason to believe this
person is based in New York because they
put the Soros one I think they did that
hand the hand-delivered it is my
understanding
I don't know so there could be up to
seven bombs but the yesterday yesterday
was Soros a bomb in his mailbox today
this morning was this fox news clip
timing not so great but remember now
they're ignoring the fact that a bomb
was put into someone's mailbox and
they're trying to develop a false
equivalence with that bomb attempted
bombing with disrupting a meal my fear
is that intimidation turns to violence
and I agree with what's been said here
both sides need to ramp it down the
glass is now who is this dude what's the
guy's name this guy who was talking he
is on he is on Fox News live and the the
the chyron is McConnell defiant after
protester disrupts dinner and this is
Brad Blakeman he is the former deputy
assistant to President George W Bush the
restaurant confrontation McHale defiant
after protest disrupts dinner at once
and I agree with what's been said here
both sides need to ramp it down the good
news is you
right the vast majority of Americans
don't buy into this well we have some
breaking news now I mean on the loans
along the same vein we've got a
statement from Sarah Sanders on these
suspicious packages roll it guys
Fox News Alert now here's the statement
from Sarah Sanders from the White House
a moment ago we condemned the attempted
violent attacks recently made against
President Obama President Clinton's
Secretary Clinton other public figures
these terrorizing acts are despicable
and anyone responsible will be held
accountable to the fullest extent of the
law
okay I would you like how first of all
Fox News is comparing getting a dinner
disrupted with someone planting a bomb
and then the despicable Sarah Huckabee
Sanders tries to create an equivalence
between the terrorizing that's happening
in the restaurants the terrorizing and
the delivering of bombs to people's
houses so that is ridiculous the the
idea that you would equate those two
things is really stunning
I mean upset meal and a pipe bomb yeah
but he needs to take a chill pill right
everybody's got to just calm down
you can't disrupt someone's dinner by
being by saying you know not nice things
about nice things that they did right /
and also while you're disrupting dinner
don't put bombs in people's homes
unbelievable they're setting up for a
crackdown for that actually that is like
fascist Obama it's like so I'm on one
extreme disrupts Mitch McConnell's steak
not another there's pipe bombs being
sent around the country right people on
both sides of this need to calm down
remember we're all in this together
right
we've never I remember I mean can I just
for a moment imagine what these people
would be saying with the Tea Partiers
who would show up at healthcare town
halls with weapons if they would even
deign to do a false a
between that and someone putting a bomb
somewhere like the idea of even bringing
that up would have been how dare you
consume seconds concerned Americans I
remember something there was a Bill
Maher segment where he talked about this
dynamic several years ago before it even
got here and right on Salaam and very
like conservative what about us fashion
was mentioned the Weathermen and
Baltimore looked at him and he literally
was like he's like dude you weren't even
born yet right like what are you talking
about right that's the equivalent there
you go and to their credit I haven't
heard too many liberals telling
activists to stop disrupting people's
dinner no I've heard a few of them
haven't heard any of them equate the two
things no I don't think so we should uh
let's do this story too for well let's
do two clip number one this is this is
when CNN was actually interrupted
because it was revealed while they were
in studio they're reporting on
suspicious packages sent to Clinton and
Obama at this point they did not realize
it was these were explosive devices and
then this happens no longer suspicious
packages the FBI is saying they they
were rudimentary but functional that
means they were explosive devices and to
have projectiles and that's a excuse me
that sounds like a fire alarm here we'll
keep you posted on that but to have
projectiles that that is a feature you
will often see in bombs the terrorists
use in Afghanistan elsewhere Isis has
used that kind of bomb before doesn't
mean it's exclusive just to those kinds
of terrorist groups but that is a
significant development Tom Fuentes if
you're still hearing us here they're
connected now the bombs targeting Soros
Clinton Obama and the White House the
FBI says that they were functional how
significant well it's significant that
there wasn't just a hoax then if the
bombs are capable of exploding they're
capable of you know inflicting bodily
harm or death on somebody so it's more
than just sending a hoax just to get
you know public attention the equivalent
of pulling a fire alarm like maybe
somebody just did in your building but
if it's an explosive device it's more
than just an idle threat or something to
try to get attention it's an actual
device that could hurt somebody okay
we're gonna jump in there's a fire alarm
here you might have heard in the
background we're gonna find out what the
latest is
we're gonna be right back and then they
went to break and the next time we heard
from them they're out on the streets
because of course that fire alarm was a
function of a bomb being found at CNN so
this is where we're at
I mean it's let's play this clip from
Jeff Flake do you have that Matt on the
on the I am that's right on AIIMS it's
just speaking of false equivalencies and
somebody's showing their true colors
yeah I mean look here is a here is you
know a classic example of this both
sides Jeff Flake who was actually came
into office and the Tea Party wave as it
were and here he is claiming that there
is some type of equivalency between
protestors who have had no incidents of
violence in any shape or form around
politicians or at these restaurants
there has been no there's been no
violence there hasn't been any arrests
to my knowledge when we're talking about
these incidents with Ted Cruz or Mitch
McConnell when they go to the restaurant
there's not even been an arrest and I
suspect that these they would be happy
to call for the arrest if somebody had
they've done anything that was in any
way remotely violent I don't know I
heard some of them were violently
embarrassed yes they may have been
violently embarrassed but there was no
arrest and here is Jeff Flake trying to
create some type of false equivalence in
reaction to the news of explosive
devices mailed to former President Obama
to former Secretary of State Clinton
here's Jeff Flake obviously is horrible
at anytime anybody's threatened like
this is not good so there's been a lot
of this going around lately but we've
got to tone down the rhetoric pause it I
want to be clear or something I want to
be clear when you send someone a bomb
that's not a threat right it's not
rhetorical
that's not rhetorical that's not certain
actions will happen it is an action in
and of itself the fact that the bomb
didn't go off and kill anybody does not
make it a threat it's still an attempted
bombing but you roll it back a little
bit on Jeff Flake anytime anybody's
threatened like this is not good so
there's been a lot of this going around
lately but we've got to tone down the
rhetoric both sides see people as
opponents but not enemies yeah both
sides got to tone down the rhetoric
yeah bombs are rhetoric now yep both
sides have you turn down the rhetoric
