[Music]
meanwhile on the campaign trail as you
know bata raised a 6.1 million dollars
he is still sort of rolling out some of
his key proposals and it's on the other
end of I don't know if there's really
the other end of the spectrum maybe on
the other end of the age spectrum but
very much aligned I think when we talk
about sort of the political lanes that
exist pedos positions have changed quite
dramatically in really just like the the
last term of the the Obama
administration frankly and here is
another guy who's apparently his
politics have also radically changed we
just haven't been able to see them in
the exact same that change as carried
out here is Joe Biden trying to argue
that he is more progressive or as
progressive as every candidate in the
race the presidential race this part
that part of the claim is getting less
attention it seems then his inability to
hide the fact that he's running whatever
I mean he he had a gaffe like this that
supposedly led to marriage equality
frankly and so so I'm not too concerned
about his his his him being gaffe prone
but and maybe he made that gaffe so that
he could get the other claim in without
scrutiny but let's face it folks this is
not a guy he should run on what he's
running on which is that he talks like
he you're I guess your old Irish uncle
if you have one but here he is making a
speech claiming that the the new left is
really they don't know what they're
talking about
I know I get criticized and tolling it's
criticized by the new left I'm the most
progressive record of anybody running
for the universe who would run I didn't
mean
but anybody who would run now okay now
they're all cheering because they want
him to run and now that Lincoln I just
want to ask this question I am NOT a
Catholic and I've seen I have seen you
know sports figures across themselves I
don't know exactly how to do it I don't
mean to do I'm not being facetious about
that and I've seen sports figures do it
as a way of thanking God but what is Joe
Biden do in these situations like you
know he did this he also had a similar
joke with and every time he brings up
the fact that he's being criticized from
the new left I guess that means
feminists I guess that means folks who
are concerned about you know people of
color who are concerned about is past
their positions on race I need a hill
I need a hill I think feminists I mean a
lot of people don't realize a lot of
people don't realize there were three
women who would have corroborated at
least if not the specific story that
Nita Hill had aspects of the behavior of
Clarence Thomas that he would not allow
testify and people could be talking
about you know social security advocates
there's not but I don't know who he's
talking about a new left but he's done
this before
where when he was talking about when he
promoted a Republican in the 2018
election and he said I got criticized
and you know forgive me father I've
sinned and he and he crosses himself
again like our Catholics are our
Catholics okay with him using that
symbol for God as a way of like because
he's being sarcastic right like he's not
actually asking God or his priests for
forgiveness he's basically joking like
oh I've committed a really bad sin
that's called the Emma DTO day psychic
but he's the joke he's making is I've
created it I've committed a really bad
sin and so I'm gonna pretend I'm asking
God for forgiveness because that's how
bad this in is like our cow
I'm just asking I'm not a Catholic I
don't think as a Jew if we had anything
like that I wouldn't wouldn't bother me
but I wonder our Catholics really think
it's that funny that he's pretending
that not that God I think it's funny
I think Catholics just would like to see
the sign of the Cross up there right
yeah yeah that's my friend they don't
care that it's that it's like being done
in vain okay because he's clearly just
doing it it's like I'm making a joke and
so I can a Catholic Selena nurse iron
him high so just just checking that out
I don't know cuz it occurred to me I was
like I don't know I said like he's
really I get it I get the joke they do
five fake Hail Marys and get out of here
right there's a little bit of that
anyways there's Joe Biden he has yet to
announce he will soon somebody suggests
that he was waiting until we get past
the so they doesn't have to report his
fundraising until three months later you
know you got a report at the end of
every quarter he's not a very bright
individuals cuz I'm smart
what could be a smart thing to do it's
very fitting for him to announce his
candidacy in a gaffe so yes one branch
oh I'm on brand folks
