[Music]
let's go to the phones come from a 2:03
area code who's this where you come from
2:03 ah
Colleen from Connecticut hello Colleen
what's on your mind oh well at about
10:45 I went over and talked to the
strikers at stop shop nearby where I
work alright people hold on Colleen hold
on one second I just wanna remind people
people workers at stop and shop
throughout New England Connecticut
Massachusetts and Rhode Island I think
of where their main stop and shops are
striking alright go ahead
okay and good time at that hour and
hopefully things have changed by now but
I doubt they have um detox our rods and
stop me shop is basically hoping to have
the strikers break oh break the strikers
mentally and have them develop yeah in
what were the spirits of the the
strikers well they were happy I brought
them a snack I honestly did not bring
them off um but they're having someone
wants to pour down I can't really say it
was very positive right well I
appreciate your going down there more
people should do that and that's the
kind of support these folks need here is
let's play we're going to play a little
bit of footage from when Elizabeth
Warren stopped by there I guess
presumably this is in Massachusetts
earlier in the week
appreciate the call Massachusetts and
here in Somerville today they were
joined by senator Elizabeth Warren who
came out to rally them in their efforts
as they try to turn customers away to
other grocery store chains they say
their contract negotiations with
management are stalled my message to
stop and shop
just pay these folks a fair wage their
health care benefits and give them a
shot at a retirement that's all these
workers are looking for and I think we
should all stand in solidarity with the
workers senator Warren shook hands with
picketers who went on strike yesterday
afternoon stay out of the stores until
this deal is over until this fight is
over the strike impacts more than 200
stores across Massachusetts Rhode Island
and Connecticut this location remains
open but customers had mixed
expectations about whether they'd
continue to shop at the chain if
picketers keep posting up outside
parking lot entrances there you go
don't cross the picket line folks
