so Wendell let's start with the the the
results from the midterm and just where
we are politically in the context of of
the Affordable Care Act and and of
course we should you know we can touch
on the the case that came out of Texas I
don't know that that's gonna go anywhere
but it gives us a little bit also of
context in terms of where we are with
healthcare two years out from the 2020
election you know and particularly
relative to where we were in twenty six
or I guess really 2008 I guess is what
would be the the the analogy here maybe
2006 in some respects and I think I
don't know if you and I were talking
around then but certainly around that
time we started talking a bit maybe it
was 2010 but just give us a sense like
what where are we in terms of how far we
can go with health care following the
results from the mid term and by by far
we can go with health care what I mean
is both universality but also making it
actually legitimately affordable to
people or and you know less of it just a
constant source of anxiety all right I
don't think that we were talking in 2008
because that was the year that I left
like that I was still working in the
industry in 2006 and said I was in Sudan
and the senator began to really worry
about my own self and that was begin the
beginning of my turning point and I left
my job the next year but I was engaged
in the industry's campaign before I left
to try to shape health care reform or
kill it if possible and I would have
been doing that work if I'd stayed in my
old job we're seeing something a bit
similar at that time we were seeing
we in the industry we're sitting polls
show that a growing number of Americans
were saying that the government needed
to play a bigger role in our health care
system and that there was growing
support for a single-payer system so
fast forward to where we are now we're
seeing it again but this time it's a bit
different and in fact I think it's
considerably different I think for the
first time that's really being given
serious consideration by policymakers
we've seen that the bill in the Hathor
representatives commonly called HR 676
which would create an improved and
expanded Medicare for all program has
more than 125 sponsors now and that will
increase after the new Congress is sworn
that we're seeing a lot you know a lot
of interest in Bernie Sanders bill over
in the Senate so they will be hearing on
Medicare for all I think the beginning
soon after the first of the year or
after we know which committees some of
these new members are going to be
assigned to it's an entirely different
world and I think that we will start
seeing some real progress toward true
universal coverage before we Care Act
does a lot of good but it stops far
short of getting us to where we need to
be and I said even at the time that we
needed to consider that bill just the
end of the beginning of the reform that
we really need all right so let's I mean
let's talk about when we took when we
say Medicare for all let's get specific
about what we mean and you mentioned HR
767 and you mentioned Bernie Sanders
bill in the Senate as of now I imagine
in terms of Medicare for all those are
the two big plans tell us you know what
they would do and how we would get there
in both those scenarios well both of
them there's a lot of similarities the
differences as well too and one of the
things that we'll be seeing over the
course of probably the next several
months and maybe longer than that is a
an effort to try to make the the bills
fairly close to each other because
before anything passes you know they
have to be identical but what they would
do generally is get rid of the middleman
get rid of the private insurance
companies it would be a government
financed or publicly financed system of
health care in which air access to care
would be publicly financed but it would
be privately delivered it would be very
different from the system in the United
Kingdom for example and a lot of people
call that socialized medicine because
there a lot of the doctors are employed
and most doctors are employed by the
government and hospitals are part of the
government system called the National
Health Service but in this country we
would be moving everybody who has not
already enrolled in Medicare into an
expanded Medicare program so you
wouldn't have to wait until you were
disabled or 65 years old and it would be
a much more efficiently operated system
because the Medicare program we have in
this country has a much lower rate of
administration or the percentage of
money that goes to administration is far
lower in our Medicare program than the
private insurance companies so we would
assist Li cut out the middleman
and it's estimated Sam that we spend
about 3 unless it's non estimated it's
true we spent about 3 point 5 trillion
dollars on health care in this country
broadly and about a third of that goes
to administrative functions things that
don't improve our care so much of that
could be eliminated we would have a lot
of money that we could be saving and
that could be used to bring us all into
coverage and it would be a mechanism to
of reining in the cost of drugs which is
a an ever-increasing problem in this
country yeah I want I want to I want to
touch on that because Elizabeth Warren
had a pretty stunning proposal this week
regarding specifically generic drugs and
that's not a that's certainly by no
measure the majority of drugs that are
you know where all of its happening but
the the idea of behind this proposal is
it's pretty significant well I want to
table that for the moment but give me a
sense of okay so we have these two bills
they they essentially broadly speaking
would bring everyone under the umbrella
of of Medicare which means that the
United States government is
is basically functioning as the
insurance company it takes premiums in
the form of payroll taxes and it pays
out benefits but because there's no a
there's no profit margin that is
necessary
there's savings there and there's also I
would imagine you know a certain amount
of administrative costs that are gone
because there would be uniformity a
uniformity there would be less
administrative cost and and you
mentioned just in terms of the
administrative costs that we see now in
the context of Medicare something like
two to five cents of every dollar versus
something like eighteen to twenty five
cents of every dollar from the Medicare
to private private insurance and I
imagine it would also be easier on the
provider side because they're not
dealing with twelve different insurance
companies with all these different
Byzantine rules they've got one one one
supplier of the health insurance that
they've got to deal with so it
simplifies everything it takes out the
anxiety you're never going to lose it
you know happily the problem with
private insurances is is is dealing with
it the other half is dealing with the
idea that you may lose it and wipe them
all right so all right go ahead well in
fact one of the campaign's that the
health insurance industry is rolling out
it'll be particularly evident in the
Washington area but around the country
as well - they want to preserve this
employer-based system because that's a
bit better that's where they get most of
their revenue but it's not what we need
to preserve it's one of the reasons why
we have such a dysfunctional healthcare
system and you're exactly right we are
all in this country if we get our
coverage to the workplace a layoff away
from being not only unemployed but
uninsured so it is a an antiquated
system that wasn't necessarily planned
it just developed over many years and
it's one that's very archaic and not
serving us increasingly in fact fewer
and fewer of us now are covered through
employer based plans and part of the
reason is because employers in
recently throwing in the towel they
can't offer benefits to their workers
and dependents because of a continually
escalating price of premiums all right
Wendell let's take a break when we come
back let's talk a little bit more about
this and what Democrats should not do as
they pursue this goal that I think has
been that has obviously been elusive for
I mean really I think it was going back
from the the age of Truman so we're
talking about an eighty year goal
alright well we gonna take a quick break
when we come back we'll continue our
conversation about Medicare for all
wendell potter
