we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday October 3rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority reporting we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
calmness New York Magazine Intelligencer
Eric Levitz will be joining us
[Applause]
on the Warren Sanders debate we need
meanwhile Donald Trump drags Mike Pence
into the impeachment cauldron and
Pence's peeps claim he's just a patsy
the process worked as the whistleblower
sought shifts Intel committee advice on
where to blow the whistle
and release the transcript gains
traction as everyone is asking how long
is Trump's 18 and a half minute gap US
government to collect DNA from detained
immigrants IRS says it's easier to audit
the poor so that's what they'll do
Donald Trump wants to make asylum even
harder for unaccompanied children and
Mike Pompeo destroying the State
Department all this and more on today's
program welcome ladies and gentlemen we
are a skeleton crew today Matt and Mike
excuse me Matt and Brendan are in Jamie
is out on Thursdays I'm usually out on
Thursdays but as you know I took the day
for Rosh Hashanah earlier in the week
and Michael was out celebrating his
pipes
apparently not exactly sure he
celebrates rush on a couple days later I
guess and but welcome eighth look folks
or start off I will remind you I have a
request of you and this is a serious one
the a.m. quickie is now on its own feed
it will no longer be on the majority
report audio feed as of tomorrow
afternoon so you have one more day to
get on the a.m. quickie feed you can do
this by going to iTunes and searching AM
quickie or you can do this by going to
stitcher and searching
a.m. quickie or you can simply go to am
quick e qu IC K ie dot-com a.m. quickie
comm subscribe even if you for some
reason don't want the most convenient
digest of news headlines every morning
when you're heading into work so that
you have a vague notion of what's up get
a notion of what we're tracking where
we're gonna go with the show on some
level even if you don't want to that all
in less than five minutes go and
subscribe it it's helpful to us it's
helpful this is a you know we've had a
couple of shows that we've we've tried
to launch that haven't quite worked over
the years but this one I think I think
this one will and so am quick e.com
thank you for your attention
as you know Bernie Sanders yesterday it
was announced that he had some blockage
in some arteries I guess and when in got
a couple of stents I think he's out of
the hospital now I don't know if he's
ever been announced yet probably keeping
him in there to rest for another day but
this is this turns out to be a a fairly
typical thing I guess I'm looking
forward to mine I've been reading about
other these things where sometimes they
do preventative angioplasty that
involves a catheter like stuff I don't
you want to think about but I'm closer
to that than I am further away from it
if you know I'm saying and but
apparently people are up and Adam
working very quickly and it's quite
possible Bernie Sanders will have
actually even more energy well maybe
we'll talk with Eric Levitz about this
later or certain maybe we'll talk about
it tomorrow on the show as to what the
implications will be on the race but if
anything I have I think it's going to be
problematic believe it or not for Joba
because you know Bernie Sanders I think
he has the ability to come back in in a
week two weeks be as strong as ever the
problem is now that people are thinking
like hey wait what's going on with age
and why is Joe Biden can't string
together a sentence and why is he so
lackluster but who knows meanwhile
Sanders writes yesterday on Twitter
thanks for all the well wishes I'm
feeling good I'm fortunate to have good
health care and great doctors and nurses
helping me to recover none of us know
when a medical emergency might affect us
no one should fear going bankrupt if it
occurs Medicare for all well the Fox and
Friends guys were very very concerned
about Bernie Sanders and so they decided
to bring dr. oz on now dr. oz is he a
real doctor I guess he must be right
yeah and and does he still have a show I
think so yeah he got as a medical
license from the school of Oprah you got
to see a game he graduated from Oprah
Medical School and here's dr. oz they
bring it on and gosh don't you hate it
when you bring a guest on and they say
stuff you don't really want to talk
about because it's completely
inconsistent with the propaganda you've
been pushing on your network for years
well Brian Kilmeade had one of those
morning's Bernie sent out a tweet I
believe overnight where he talked about
thank you for the sport he's lucky he
has good health care and then made it a
plug for Medicare for all well it does
help that you have Medicare we I argue
with senator Sanders about more than
Medicare for all which is the programs
he's offering this it's it's worth
having that debate I just want to make
sure I can that's are healthy and where
they need to be emotionally into it it
does take a big burden off people's
hearts and actually a minute half of the
doctors in America want Medicare for all
doctor Isis we right yeah that's a whole
different conversation but I'm Bernie
Sanders specifically he's a patient and
he's recovering well when's he back on
the stump going full-bore or is it a
graduation well I think it about a week
he can resume activities pretty
aggressively and maybe another week to
get the full speed yeah there you go oh
yeah I'm sorry Medicare fret we did we
know who
we that's that's for another never day
that we will have when we talk about
half the doctors in America want
Medicare for all right so you're saying
there's a 50/50 chance my doctor is a
communist it's very possible either
right now as you know you know you may
not be aware of it but you may have a
socialist treating you and then the
other half that doesn't mean the other
half wants absolutely no expansion of
our health care as it is 50 percent is
probably not just a majority or you know
let's I don't know if it's 50 percent of
49% but I would bet it's a plurality of
what doctors want in this country in
terms of health care and you know make
no mistake about it it's gonna be a long
road to get there regardless of who is
elected president and we will have more
to say about that in just a moment when
we talked to Eric Levites about this war
in Sanders debate the I would recommend
and look I should just say as a matter
of housekeeping to today and tomorrow
are going to be in some respects we're
going to have a conversation from two
different sides Levites rights at the
end of his piece that I know some people
are gonna take this as an endorsement of
Warren that's not what it is but I think
you know he comes out on balance I think
that there is probably a little bit more
sense that the art the argument for
Bernie in his mind is not as compelling
as Bernie supporters think it is
relative to Warren I think that's a fair
assessment I think tomorrow
Vergil Texas will be on the program
we'll go over the news of the week but
we'll have a similar conversation but I
think he I think on balance he would go
the other direction so it should be
interesting and we will we will talk
about that but I just want to give
people a heads up so that tomorrow
they're not like it weighs this almost
the exact same conversation it's
gonna be a similar conversation but it's
gonna be from a slightly different
perspective on both days and let's do
that now before we get into the
impeachment which is going to I think
dominate the news when when the
Democrats start hitting the ground
running today
kurt volker who was a state department
representative in Ukraine unpaid my
understanding he's unpaid and I have
seen nobody say like what's that about
there's so many people who are unpaid
who have been involved in this
controversy Rudy Giuliani unpaid
president Trump supposedly unpaid a lot
of people going out there freelancing
for no money for Tennessee Volunteers
it's interesting yeah I wanted to model
my entire administration based upon just
charity but we'll see he's testifying
closed doors
pretty soon the Democrats got started
opening the doors and bringing people in
for public testimony we'll also get to
this story yesterday ad teased this
thing that the Inspector General of the
State Department was going to meet with
lawmakers turns out the dude showed up
with what looked like a seventh graders
maybe fourth grader who had put together
a portly dossier that turns out to all
been written by Rudy Giuliani and the
story behind that is also even more nuts
but there's a lot of insanity going on
out there and and I've never been one
who is like bought into the whole like
they're just throwing stuff out there to
distract you but I actually think that's
what's going on here I actually think
that's what's going I think they're you
know it's a combination of there's some
crazy people and then there's some
people who are crazy and cynical they
need content
meanwhile if you are headed to a country
outside the United States and you're
looking to try and create a false
controversy maybe from from I don't know
intelligence services across the world
let's say you're bill bar well you're
gonna need to learn a new language
rather quickly babble it's the language
learning app that will get you speaking
a new language quickly and with
confidence they're sponsoring the show
today you could choose from 14 different
languages Spanish French Italian German
10 others and speak with confidence
babbles teaching method and speech
recognition technology has been proven
to be effective across multiple studies
it's designed to quickly get you
speaking your new language within weeks
babbles lessons are lovingly created by
over a hundred language experts real
people not by a translation machine
lessons are engaging and convenient they
last only 10 to 15 minutes learn through
interactive dialogues so you can perfect
your pronunciation and accent Babel is
available as an app or you can just go
online your progress will be synced
across all your devices so you can you
can do it on your iPad you can do it on
your your phone you can do it on your
computer and it will keep track of where
you are go out there be bold learn a new
language with babble don't put this off
now is the time to do this folks I mean
I I keep telling myself that I'm going
to learn Spanish like every every sort
of like life milestone when I you know
after I graduate college when I go to
college now that I've quit this job now
that I stopped smoking now that I
started smoking now that I quit smoking
I started smoking I'm like I'm gonna
learn a language that's what I'm gonna
do when I get separated I thought that's
gonna learn language but now it's easier
than ever Babel can help you do it here
are the easy steps to speaking a new
language with confidence go to babble
calm or just download the
select the language of your choice and
try it for free that's babble ba BBE
l.com babble speak a new language with
confidence and one of today's sponsors
is news voice which is the first-ever
entirely open crowd-sourced democratized
platform for news and you can download
the app for free at news voice dot-com /
majority look if you want there's two
ways basically I can give you to become
a more savvy consumer of news one is for
you to just shadow me around and and
read what I read and read as many
sources on any given story as you can or
you could do it the easier way because
if you hang around me I'm gonna force
you to do stuff that you don't want to
do or you can pick up news voice at news
voice comm / majority this is where you
get a sense of news voice keep it helps
to keep track of basically all the
slants on different stories like I say
it's free it's crowd-sourced website and
you can create personalized news feeds
and maintain a clear picture of where
your news is coming from so you can
compare the story from the post this
times you can compare the story from the
hill a lot of garbage comes out of there
you can compare the story from Politico
usually when we talk about a news story
on the show it comes from multiple
different sources you can look at
foreign press you can look at full on
ideological press news voice is fueled
by its community of users they
contribute to the platform by
fact-checking submitting stories and
sources that are missing up voting
stories and writing story summaries you
can also comment on stories and debate
politics with other members of the
community and through staying active in
the community you can level up earn
perks on the platform news voice play
features let you listen to your personal
news feed every day through customizable
audio news playlists it's your own
personally tailored radio station for
news news voice is a
Generation news aggregator in social
media platform that values transparency
good journalism and productive political
discussions get totally free access by
going to news voice dot-com / majority
put a link in the show notes for today
and I put a link underneath this on
YouTube news voice dot-com / majority
alright quick break come back Eric
Levitz
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program colonists
for New York Magazine the Intelligencer
Eric Levitz on the Bernie versus Warren
debate we need Eric welcome back to the
program
yeah thanks fanny all right so let's
start well okay let's do let's even
start before later let's start like just
even with your title why do we need this
debate as opposed to which debate yeah
so I guess I mean I'm not you know a
hundred percent satisfied with my
headline but I would say that my view is
that there's been a kind of tedious
debate about like you know how how much
does Elizabeth Warren actually support
the health care policies that she goes
on live television and you know says
that she supports even though there's a
political cost to saying that she
supports the abolition of health
insurance you know but and how much does
she really mean it um you know as though
the primary obstacle to passing Medicare
for all in 2021 is going to be how badly
the progressive president wants it
rather than the fact that there you know
I believe 14 votes for Bernie's bill and
the US Senate right now and if we
stipulate that Elizabeth Warren doesn't
actually support it that's 13 and if we
say the same about Kamala Harris that's
12 in then the larger part of my
argument is that you know I guess part
of the argument there is that if you
have a really committed president and
they're gonna be able to you know rally
the people to put pressure on all the
Democratic senators and get everybody to
support you know single-payer or every
major item on the progressive agenda in
my view is that that is really not very
closely examined that theory of change
when you actually start to consider the
fact that these senators have staggered
six-year terms that because of the
composition of the Senate a lot of them
represent areas that are more
conservative and the average American
voter
and yeah just the the in the fact that
you know his left has not proven that it
can actually beat even in a blue state a
deep blue state you know moderate
Democratic senators they habitually when
reen AMA nation every Democrat who
opposes single-payer won their
nomination who was on the ballot last
year without much trouble you know
Dianne Feinstein is is still around so
all right let's let's let me let me let
me maybe that was that was a little bit
broad too because I want to go through
these step by step a little bit but
let's start all right first with the
with the other premise that you have
here and that is that the American less
bark is louder than its bite and just
explain to us what that means I me
because you know I'm in I'm in you know
sort of not quite Ground Zero but we're
in sort of quite Ground Zero on some
level for you know the the most vocal
part of the left right I think the
Jacobin offices are are probably I don't
know five minutes from here so yeah so
and I would say that the the volume of
the bark is no small achievement so
basically the argument is that the left
has gained a lot of ideological
influence and a lot of influence in the
discourse and a lot of influence over
how elites think about politics a lot of
influence on you know specifically
Twitter and then in elite sort of policy
debates and there is you know some real
power in that I attribute that to you
know on the one hand the fact that just
more center-right to center-left
economics was kind of largely formulated
in response I think to the you know
crisis of stagflation in the 1970s when
you have the problem of you know high
inflation so we need to tamp down
workers bargaining power now we have the
opposite problem that's really been
revealed since the 2008 crisis where we
have a clear demand shortage where
ordinary workers
do not have enough money we have too
much capital we have too low inflation
and just that even just regular textbook
economics would say that the left's
answers are really kind of the solution
here and the problem is that you know
our political system is too beholden to
the you know interests who benefit from
this totally dysfunctional economic
arrangement so it's partially that and
it's partially you know the the rise of
left media and and the rise of Bernie
Sanders campaign in 2016 but these
things together have produced a
situation where the left side ia's are
taken really seriously and are fairly
prominent in both you know Democratic
primary debates and in mainstream
political coverage this is a really I
think and this is an important point to
make I think for people because just to
stop and sort of make this assessment
you know I've been following politics
professionally now for 15 years and the
move to the left in this country in
terms of the the debate has been
incredibly pronounced and and I think a
part of that as a function of of all the
things you just said you know including
the financial crisis the Occupy Wall
Street and and to a certain extent
Warren you know I think was you know
sort of was a you know Midwife to some
of that as well and then Bernie you know
made it exploded but we can see the the
debates now where they are but that's
it's important to recognize I think as
you as you're suggesting here or not
even suggesting I think explicitly
saying that part of that is because the
ideas make a lot of sense right now as
opposed to there's just been an
overwhelming powerful force of people
and populism that has basically forced
people to take the knee the right it's a
the the reason why the the politics have
moved this far left in you know to the
extent that it has in this period of
time is a function of the ideas making
a lot of cents and a nifty in the
population but but it's not just one of
those things yeah I think it's you know
I say in the piece that American
socialism is heavy on superstructure
light on base that yeah that basically
it isn't the case that the Democratic
the people who are working on domestic
policy at the Center for American
Progress
you know the establishment Democratic
think-tank they haven't moved sharply
left because a mass movement has you
know a raid itself outside their doors
and intimidated it into endorsing
sectoral bargaining and in the study
it's that the the ideological climate
has changed and I think you know we're
in a situation right now where it's just
objectively insane that when the United
States can borrow money as cheaply as it
can
right now when deficits are having so
little impact on interest rates and
inflation and you have a giant climate
crisis looming that anyone who can read
the science understands that we need
massive government action to do
something about it you know it the
left's idea is that hey why don't we you
know put people to work and have public
work projects to invest in renewable
energy that makes a lot of sense and
when you have inequality as bad as it is
the idea I mean transferring wealth from
the rich to the middle class and the
poor he makes a lot of sense so just the
the objective conditions are such that
any sort of self-respecting economist
kind of has to be a little bit left-wing
these days right these that that's in
contrast to oh we have 55 percent union
density in this country and the unions
have decided we're gonna do this and so
we do it right I mean that's that's
that's the exactly that would be the
counter the the counter example I guess
alright so with that said what's the
relevance of that of that insight yeah
so I think that just I think this can
just obscure what the balance of forces
actually are in the respect that I was
saying at the
the conversation but you know if you
just look on Twitter and look on elite
discourse and look at what Democratic
presidential candidates are saying at
these debates where suddenly the
centrist position in the Democratic
Party on health care is a public option
so aggressive that it would threaten the
long-term viability of private insurance
and the the middle-of-the-road climate
plan is Joe Biden's one point seven
trillion dollar you know net zero
emissions by 2050 you would think that
that you would think that we're closer
to achieving what we want to achieve
then then you are once you look at the
existence of the Senate look at the fact
that we have a 10.5% I believe if I'm
getting them corrected something in that
range Union density rate that they
basically you know our media discourse
also is kind of geared towards highly
engaged highly engaged Democratic voters
highly highly engaged young people
especially on Twitter where as our
representative institutions like
Congress are geared towards an over
represent you know older more rural more
conservative elements of American
society and so there's just this
disjunction and it you know it's unclear
how far you can get on the strength of
your ideas alone and I think you know I
believe you've had David day in on
recently about ways that if we can just
get the executive in there maybe there's
there certain things that you could do
just through that but to the extent that
we need to get things through Congress
the the fact that there is not a
significant mobilized mass movement or
labor movement that the left can marshal
when you know the the joe Manchin's and
john testers of the world you know say
that they are uncomfortable with
single-payer or with you know really you
know giving hell to the fossil fuel
industry or what have you that's going
to be a problem and we shouldn't let the
influence that we have in these debates
and in the discourse blind us to to
where the balance of forces really are
okay and and so let's I want to return
back to that because that really is the
is the the the nub on some level the
argument I think that well well wait
until we get there but so let's just
start with when we talk about Bernie and
Warren and that the let's just start
with that those things that they can do
unilaterally right where where I mean
this is there there are things that the
president could do we had day and on to
talk about the day one agenda there are
those things
there's also foreign policy you
mentioned both like give me your
perspective on where they and and you
know we're having a debate as to which
is the better candidate for those who
have you know who are on the Left who
are progressive or are left of
progressive or whatever it is in terms
of though in terms of what they can do
unilaterally and then let's talk about
the implications of what they would have
to do legislatively when we talk about
these sort of like big policies
unilaterally where where do you see
their strengths and weaknesses when you
compare them yeah you know um it's not
entirely clear to me I mean part of my
my argument is that they're they're
close enough ideologically that it's
difficult to know you know I think if
you gave either one of them absolute
power I think that you would really see
important distinctions between Sanders
relative skepticism towards market
institutions and in warrens faith in
them this distinction between left
liberalism and democratic socialism
maybe that that would come to the fore
but I think that there's ambiguity as
far as you know the the argument for war
in terms of unilateral action is that
she is a you know she designed a
government agency and got it off the
ground it has a lot of bureaucratic
expertise and a lot of expertise
specific
with regard to financial regulation
where there are a lot of levers that a
administration can pull and she seems to
be a pretty effective manager so it's
possible that she would be you know
maybe uniquely effective at implementing
these these forms of law fair on the
other hand the other point that it
raises that that Bernie Sanders does
seem to have and his team seems to have
a little bit of a more ambitious
understanding of how they want to revise
American foreign policy
the exact details from issue to issue if
you look at their separate answers to
this 10 question questionnaire that the
Council on Foreign Relations provided to
all of the Democratic candidates the
differences between their answers are
often very fine-grained but there is
definitely a distinction on
israel-palestine Sanders is is uniquely
willing to say that he's going to
condition military aid on an end to you
know Israeli settlement expansion and on
constructive actions towards the
two-state solution whereas you know
Warren expresses concern for the
settlements but doesn't bring up
military aid and their their histories
on the issue Warren has generally been a
pretty reliable reliable vote for a pack
on most things I believe she signed a
letter that you know discouraged the
Obama administration from allowing this
UN vote condemning Israeli settlements
in the West Bank so you see a
distinction there and there's also
Sanders has cultivated to a certain
extent loose relations with progressive
forces in other countries he had this
meeting with Yanis varoufakis of this
like progressive international you know
veritatis is not a particularly powerful
figure at this point and i don't know
exactly what the state of that that
international is but you do see that
Sanders socialist ethos inclined some to
a slightly more internationalist person
active in certain respects although he
also when talking about trade can get a
little bit nationalist in terms of
wanting to protect American workers from
competing with the third world but
anyway I think it's hard to game out
exactly how unpracticed
all this is going to would would cash
out and you know there's there's always
you know the president Bernie Sanders
gonna have a lot of stuff on his plate
if he's really focused on trying to get
his domestic agenda implemented maybe he
ends up ultimately outsourcing more of
his foreign policy of the blob than we
would want him to maybe not but I think
generally speaking there's there's there
some basis for believing that Bernie
would be better on foreign policy and
the president has a tremendous amount of
authority there right okay and and you
know again obviously these are broad
strokes and nobody can know but you that
that's why that's why we have that's why
we talk about it it's just sort of like
to put it out there and make assessments
in this way all right so if I understand
your argument in regards to the the
chances of the policies being
implemented that they're talking about
that cannot be done through executive
action now I think one of the things
that I took away from from what they've
done over at American Prospect would
that day one agenda is that it's quite
possible that the level of dedication to
a certain policy outcome is uh is is is
highly relevant particularly when you
have this outline where you can see that
like yeah you can you can you can cancel
student debt you can make big strides in
expansion of different health care
initiatives there's a whole litany of
things and I encourage people to go to
day one agenda and but it comes at a
considerable political cost that if one
is more dedicated to a certain outcome
than another person one might be able to
risk I don't know how we I think people
can make
their own assessments about you know
about that level of dedication but in
terms of the mechanics of it that to me
seems fairly straightforward and tell me
if you disagree but if you but if you
don't it seems to me that the rest of
your argument or at least in terms of
getting policies implemented is
basically summed up in this analogy that
you know Bernie may be going 70 miles an
hour I mean it may have may be able to
go 70 miles an hour Warren may be able
to go 60 miles an hour and Biden can
only go 30 miles an hour but we're
talking about a 50 mile per hour speed
limit right and and and and I mean is
that like the the best way to sort of
sum up at least the mechanical
constraints you see on these two
candidates as president yet I think
that's and I think that's a fairly good
analogy I think that the the point that
you were describing to me
yeah I mean illustrates that you know it
really does matter whether it it's very
clear to me I think that that there are
real stakes to it being Warren or
Sanders versus Biden which I know some
people who are fairly progressive who I
think at least before the publication of
the day one agenda you know we're like
well they're all to the left of Joe
Manchin so what does it matter let's
just you know whoever who cares right
but but because of the level of
executive authority that is available we
saw under Obama you know how whether he
was in a mood to push the limits of his
office's power or not you know was the
difference between mass deportation and
daca so there's there's real stakes
there to me and I think that I think
that that is a debate a useful debate
that we can have is about really trying
to dig into and and pressure to see like
get a better sense of what what these
two would do with their unilateral
authority my complaint was mostly with
the focus on their disparate approaches
to stuff it
would need to get through Congress but I
do think there there really isn't isn't
much to talk about but but on in terms
of unilateral action I think if there is
a just don't think it's obvious that
that Bernie would push harder than
Warren given I mean I his sort of odd
reluctance about saying that he would
abolish the filibuster I think he's been
more disinclined to advocate for
changing the Supreme Court and you know
so so Warren has been a little bit more
willing to kind of norm break in terms
of procedural ISM I don't know that
that's significant but I'm just saying
that it just isn't like totally
unambiguous to me that that bernie is
willing to stretch executive power more
than Warren as I believe that that's
entirely possible but it just seems like
it's obvious to me that Warren and
Bernie will use executive power for
progressive purposes more aggressively
than Joe Biden it's not as clear to me
you know with the exception mentioned
before of israel-palestine certain
aspects of foreign policy in terms of
domestic unilateral authority it's not
clear to me but I'm open to the case I
just think that not enough debate has
been focused on that okay and so you so
returning back to the amid fair enough I
mean I think that's the you know again
very hard to predict these things and
the all you're saying is not a slam dunk
necessarily and and so let's talk a
little bit about this this notion of you
you tackle the idea that that Warren is
somehow more friendly with the
Democratic establishment then than
Sanders I mean she probably is insofar
as she's Democrat and Sanders is not but
in terms of like sort of the you you
bring up the the notion that she's been
talking to super-delegates and that
Sanders campaign has done the you know
is done is planning to do the same
more broadly let me ask you this in if
it is the case right that 50 miles per
hour is the speed limit to use my to
really overuse my analogy isn't there
also though some value that is not
addressed in that sort of longer term
mission like if the idea is that there
is a structural cap on the amount of
progressive change that we can get in
terms of actual policy being implemented
through a Senate where you know guys
like Chris Coons and Joe Manchin and the
guy was running in Arizona and the you
know then God willing it's not
Hickenlooper but if it is you know these
these people are going to be standing in
the way of this stuff and they're not
gonna be they're gonna be proud about it
they're gonna go down you know fighting
against this isn't they're also sort of
a the the value in losing these fights
in a dramatic fashion and perhaps some
smaller wins that that will hat that
will pay off five ten years down the
road
um well so I see I see definitely see
value and you know the whole Overton
Window concept so I think it absolutely
makes sense to pressure you know both
candidates in pressure Warren where she
is behind you know the Sanders curve I
think that Bernie's labor plan was you
know pretty incredible and radical and
and we've seen that after he released
that just today were unreleased a plan
that that very closely resembles it
Warren came out with the wealth tax
earlier in the cycle and Bernie came out
with a even more aggressive and an
arguably better designed one so I think
that that that advocating for these
these big ideas and and you know laying
the groundwork for
you know a future in which we have the
power to implement them and in changing
the boundaries of the debate is all
useful so my my critique there is just
like with the frustration that you know
like I'm Medicare for all specifically
you know Warren is doing that Overton
Window working or whatever we want to
argue about how you know how long she's
been committed to this or what's in her
heart she is like going on national
television and making the case for why
private insurance is just you know a
bunch of rent tiers that we can just get
rid of and you know get all these
efficiencies for single payer so she's
doing the the Overton Window shifting
part and if that's what's in you know
reach at this point then I think that
you know it doesn't really matter what
you know she feels in her heart and then
I I don't know about in terms of like
losing fights once in power I I don't
know I mean I think like if we have it
depends on what that means you know if I
well let me give you an example one of
the things that I think many on the left
and not even the far left I mean on the
left take issue with Barack Obama's
coming out with a 750 780 trillion
dollar stimulus was that it set the the
predicate was set incorrectly that he
should have come out with a billion
dollars and either and maybe settled on
780 so that he had the political
argument to make that I mean excuse me a
trillion that we needed two hundred and
fifty billion dollars more to get out of
this hole right and that I mean I think
frankly if he made that argument in 2009
2010 may have worked out differently but
even if it didn't I'm not convinced that
Hillary Clinton wouldn't be president
right now if if the argument was that
the Republicans were standing in the way
of that other quarter trillion dollars
even if you had no chance of getting it
there would
been understanding that what the what
happened was insufficient and he would
have had and the Democrats would have
had that political argument and that is
the value of of losing in some instances
in terms of politics while you're in
office that it's not even a question of
the Overton Window it is is a question
of just sheer politics putting putting
the other side really firmly uh in a in
defining the terms and one of the things
I think that that Bernie does that some
people perceive as a as a flaw others as
a strength is really does create a
certain binary quality to his proposals
and yeah I mean I think that you know
that's a fair point if we do posit that
that Warren would would fold from the
beginning once in power and introduce a
public option rather than Medicare for
all and then and then you know begin by
negotiating with herself that would be
probably you know less favorable than if
Bernie did the opposite and so maybe you
know I mean I think that's a big if but
but I can't at that point if we do
stipulate that then it's possible that
there would be irrelevance to their
personal commitments to to the issue and
I think at the same time you know
because of the the lack of power that we
actually have over most of these
senators and the fact that that again we
don't have material power we only have
ideas there is these these other
questions that I raised in the piece
which are you know not meant to be
totally endorsed this perspective but
just they're they're kind of heretical
thoughts that I don't think are engaged
that they need to be at least engaged to
some extent which is you know thoughts
like is it actually possible that you
know a candidate a president that calls
herself a capitalist will actually get
be able to get moderate Democratic
senators to go along with things that
are a bit more progressive and then what
they would let themselves sign on to if
it was presented by a you know socialist
with with less close ties to their party
you know because they feel a stronger
sense of needing to perform their
independence from this radicalism that's
coming from the White House
III don't know didn't so that in
relation to both the the capitalist and
socialist identification and in relation
to the fact that Warren you know
criticizes the Democratic establishment
less than Bernie does is a Democrat you
know you can make the argument I'm not
saying it's definitely correct but that
actually this that such a figure that is
you know more connected to the
establishment and in frames herself in a
a slightly less radical way actually in
practice could get more progressive
stuff through Congress I don't know if
that's true but it seems to me that the
connection there is as plausible as you
know the idea that that starting from
the most radical possible place will
result in the most progressive possible
legislation I mean I think that III
think that's a reasonable argument to
make that sometimes it's a if I don't
have to swallow the ideological labels I
can just accept this as like it can seem
more tame even if it's the exact same
policy I think that's fair but the flip
side of that is to is that there's 14
senators who have signed on to Medicare
for all but if Bernie Sanders wins the
presidency on Medicare for all I have a
feeling there's gonna be a lot more
senators who can be like oh wait a
second
because self-preservation is also now I
don't know that you're gonna get Joe
Manchin I don't know that you're gonna
get you know the these others but you're
certainly gonna get a lot more of the
Democrats who are gonna say like this is
where this is the new normal
that's conceivable to I could see it
going both ways to be fair yeah I mean I
think there's gonna be a little bit of
that but that there's also going to be
you know when I mean I don't know if the
stat is right but when you know this
when the lobbies for the industries that
collectively make up one-fifth of our
economy hit the airwaves with their ad
campaigns and everybody's doctors not
everybody but you know that obviously
there's some progressive doctors but the
doctors lobbies are against even a
public option and so when people's
doctors tell them hey what's going on in
Washington they're trying to screw up
this health care system and stuff hits
the airwaves it's possible that that
you're going to see that movement
reverse but you know you'd be impossible
to know but but but yeah I just think
that there's gonna be a lot of
challenges to Medicare for all and if
we're starting in a place where you know
33 Democratic senators four Democratic
line senators don't feel the need to
support it right now didn't feel me to
support it last year won re-election
without supporting it it's going to be
tough all right and lastly you take on
the argument that specifically one by
Conor Kilpatrick and bash Carson Cara
about the implication of Sanders winning
would realign American politics in a by
creating a sort of a a new level of
class consciousness and but and and
would just explain explain their
argument and why you don't find that
convincing yeah so their their argument
is that that basically there's just
severe limits on what the Democratic
Party and what the Left can accomplish
until you know working-class people are
concentrated in one political party
right now we have this partisan
polarization we're really voters are
polarized not along class lines so much
as along culture war lines along urban
versus rural and you know liberal versus
conservative on you know these cultural
immigration you know diversity etc to to
get a party to get a political formation
coalition that's that's capable of
radical economic change we need to have
Class B the dividing line in our
politics and Bernie's specific brand of
politics is more conducive to that
polarization which is reflected in the
fact that early polls suggest that his
coalition in the primary
he draws more support from non college
educated voters and also as a more
diverse coalition so I find this
unconvincing a couple levels one you
know if it were the case that one's
support just among Democratic primary
voters the demographics of one share of
the Democratic primary vote was
indicative of one's ability to you know
reassemble the New Deal coalition and
radically change American politics and
we should all support Joe Biden because
he has the most non college educated
voters or that's the highest for he is
the highest percentage non-college
educated support within his share of the
vote and second because the he related
to that there's very good reason to
think that that this isn't just a
reflection of name recognition that
college-educated voters pay closer
attention to politics especially early
on in presidential cycles and so the
most famous names are getting more
non-college support because if you don't
follow politics closely and you haven't
tuned in yet to the 2020 cycle you're
more likely to recognize Joe Biden and
Bernie Sanders names than you are
Elizabeth Warren's and we've seen
evidence confirming that in recent weeks
as as Warren has become more prominent
her base of support is steadily
diversifying and some recent polls that
showed her beating Bernie with
non-college educated whites so there's
that just you know is it the case that
Bernie is attracting more support I
think that it's it's plausible that
Bernie is a better candidate with non
college educated white voters given how
well he's performed with them in Vermont
and there's there's obviously it's a
little different but there's some
overlap between secular non-college
educated white voters in Vermont and in
Wisconsin there's some similarity there
so it's possible that he would be a
better general election candidate but I
think what we're talking about there is
an ability to on the mark
get a little bit better with this
constituency that's been trending right
not realign American politics and my
argument is that the the latter is not
going to happen in one election cycle no
matter who we nominate when you look at
the fact that this this polarization of
college and on college-educated urban
and rural and along immigration and
culture lines it's not just happening in
the United States but is happening
throughout Western Europe and it seems
like there's a decent amount of evidence
that this is because non-college
educated white voters have expressed
conservative opinions and immigration
pretty much forever and as demographic
change in all these Western countries is
accelerated you know that's I think
brought emigration to the fore made it
more salient obviously there were the
failures of the Third Way Social
Democratic parties as well and I'm not
saying that that wasn't part of it
but you know you look at what happened
in Britain when the Labour Party
nominated Jeremy Corbyn a Democratic
Socialist ran and the most left-wing
platform at that party born on in a
generation and they gained a historic
number of seats in the 2017 election but
largely by flipping districts of the
Tories had held forever in the richest
parts of London because you know just
the polarization right now is anti
Briggs at voters one in a left-wing
party to vote for young people who are
cosmopolitan are moving left and even
when that's you know maybe against their
class interests I mean they're
supporting Democrat that they're still
going to support a Democratic Socialist
to stick it to those those brigs of
tears so yeah I just think that there's
not much evidence that that we're gonna
immediately change the valence of
partisan politics in the US and in fact
you say by projecting contempt for one
of the voting blocks that made these
gains possible and you're talking about
the the those in the context of the
British election the those wealthy areas
and and I guess presumably like the
professional class here right is that we
mean by the when you mean you you say
that their argument some cars and
Kilpatrick's argument
project a little bit of contempt for for
those voters is that right marina okay
and you saying then asserting that
existing democratic party can never
govern they risk projecting an air of
indifference toward such reforms and the
working class people who've benefited
from them and you say in fairness
indifference that I know neither of
these writers actually feels so you're
suggesting that the the danger in
rejecting a Democratic electorate that
includes the professional class and it's
not is not defined by class interests is
that it may in the at least in the short
run hurt the people presumably that
you're going to want to protect yeah I
think there's a line in there piece that
says that you know without you know
winning back the white working-class law
the party that can win but never govern
in the sense that reflecting what I was
saying about the Senate frankly it is
true that we need to win more white non
college voters yeah and also you know
the inability of control state
legislatures in a lot of places but I
think that just my caution is that you
know if you suggest you're not going to
win that many Democratic primaries if
you suggest the Democratic Party isn't
even governing at a time when in
California you know they just passed
legislation to establish public banks to
give health care done documented workers
got employment rights for uber drivers
and you know when for all the
disappointments of the Obama era we had
a giant expansion of public health
insurance to the working class that by
some estimates has saved twenty thousand
working-class Americans lives and would
have done more if we have taken power in
more red states so you know these things
are real and you know there's a there's
a risk of you know socialist need to
combat the impression that they care
more about this abstract ideological
gold and then the concrete conditions of
the people who they claim to champion
and so I think that you just need to be
careful to not you know I don't know I
you think if you want to win over the
black working class particularly those
who currently vote you can't you don't
understand what you know Barack Obama
did achieve even while you're making the
criticisms of the many um you know
disappointing aspects of his tenure I
you know it's it's it's a fascinating
argument I want to encourage people to
read it do you feel like that there's
anything else that we left on the table
no it's just the other thing I would say
about that last point and is just that
when you look at public opinion polls
college-educated voters it's obviously
it's also you know very crude you know
what do we mean when we say professional
middle-class is that schoolteachers or
is that strictly you know white-collar
white-shoe firm lawyers but when you
look at public opinion data
college-educated voters are often more
left on on some economic issues
obviously this is sort of a you know a
difference when the the question is like
really immediate and visceral and local
when it's a question of you know whether
you're going to desegregate the the
school district that you belong to or
we're embrace owning changes that might
threaten the value of your property then
class interests really do play into it
but but federal policy questions are
abstract enough that people often let
ideology be their guide and meanwhile
you know these voters are college
educated white voters specifically right
now are across the board more
progressive on a variety of very
important issues of immigration and
racial justice and so you know I don't
think that we should not want their
votes because they are backstopping
a decent amount of progressive change in
the places where Democrats actually have
power eric Levitz the pieces the Bernie
versus Warren debate we need asterisk
not a hundred percent the one that you
would go away you would call it but that
doesn't matter that's the easiest way
for people to find it or they can go to
majority dot F M we will put a link to
the piece really smart piece I
really appreciate your coming on and
talking to us about it yeah thanks a lot
all right folks there you have it I
think it's a it's an interesting piece I
mean it doesn't necessarily make an
affirmative case for warrant but it is
it addresses at least some of the
arguments in terms of the distinction I
obviously still feel that the that even
if we have that 50 mile per hour speed
limit the idea that the car can go
faster and people are aware of it is
important has a lot of value we used to
talk about losing well quite a bit back
in the aughts because that was really
the only option we had and it was just a
question of how big of a fight you were
gonna make and how you were going to
present that fight and how well you were
going to delineate the stark differences
but I mean I think I also agree with the
my own analogy that we're talking about
seventy miles an hour 50 miles an hour
and 30 miles an hour I talked about by
it so but there you have it tomorrow
we'll get I think we're gonna have a
similar conversation on some level with
the Vergil Texas but maybe from sort of
just a like slightly other perspective
so it'll be interesting I think it'll be
interesting to the idea marketplace
folks there you go there there you go
folks also want to thank you for taking
the time to watch the Crowder cold feet
video that we have up hashtag cold feet
Crowder I know there's a lot of people
who maybe maybe we should get a maybe we
should respond to you know he does that
mug club thing
where does like take a picture of your
mug your Crowder mug and a cigar and a
cigar maybe we should start doing show a
picture of your warm socks of your cedar
socks of your cedar socks too to provide
your stockings
Crowder's Crowder is gonna move oh yeah
it's gonna be it's gonna be it's gonna
get colder and colder those feet and so
maybe people might want to hashtag cold
feet Crowder take a picture of your
socks or somebody else's socks or
slippers but definitely gotta have
something on those feet we don't want to
start no yeah no the idea you don't even
need to hat you take a picture of your
feet take a picture of socks socks or
something to warm up Steven Crowder's
cold feet and you know tag Steven just
so that he knows that people care about
that about his feet chronic condition
yep
no joke that can be really rough if your
feet are all constantly cold and then
you put warm stockings on they get
sweaty yeah also can it's really hard
it's tough it's folks your support makes
this show possible
you can support this program by becoming
a member at joined the majority
reports.com when you do we give you
extra content every day we give you the
free hat the first half commercial free
and you you keep this show trucking
along October has been just a crazy
month it's gonna be a crazy month doing
a bunch of pre tapes we're you know
because the Jewish holidays are like
come very late this year and that bumps
up against the Vegas trip and usually
one of them usually falls on the weekend
and it didn't this time so but still
pumping out that content for you and we
are determined to be on top of
impeachment and obviously the 2020 race
and to the extent that anything else
happens which I don't think they will
we're regarding her
government although you know the
agencies are still being destroyed
there'll be stuff to talk about more and
more people are paying attention to the
fact that between Rex Tillerson
completely understaffed the State
Department and Mike Pompeo who seems to
be intimidating everyone and they're
using the State Department as basically
an oppo research outfit this is stuff
that is going to be a problem for this
country for years to come I mean knock
on wood we get through this period
without any major conflicts or any major
screw-ups that are acute and if we do we
were very fortunate to get through these
four years and knock on wood it's only
gonna be four but the reality is that we
have degraded the apparatus of the
country whether it's in terms of
diplomacy between other between
ourselves and other nations or agencies
such as the EPA the department education
the USDA the Bureau of Land Management
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
they've all been degraded they've been
degraded in terms of way they operate
they've been degraded in terms of the
way that of the way that they attract
good candidates to work there and have
jettisoned people who have been
providing institutional memory for these
places for for in some instances decades
and we're we're not going to fully
understand the mess that exists there
until you know we start talking to
people who enter into these agencies
after these four years out go back and
listen to Sam Bagenstos who we
interviewed I'm guessing now is in
December of 2016 he had been at the
Department of Justice with Clinton and
then returned with Obama and those eight
years of George Bush really did a number
on the Department of Justice I think
Donald Trump is like dog years in terms
of that they have just allowed it David
they have they have you both frontally
attacked these agencies and allowed them
to sort of just become decrepit by
something like 28 under secretaries in
the State Department who are acting or
unfilled it's nuts anyways I guess that
was my I don't know why I even brought
that up in the context of but joined the
majori port comm also sign up for the
a.m. quickie do it right now a.m.
quickie dot-com a.m. quickie comm if
you're listening to the sound of my
voice on your phone very easy to go to
your podcast app and just search AM
quickie comm subscribe if you're
watching on the computer go to am
quickie comm subscribe this is easy
stuff just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off check out the
Michael Brooks show you can find it on
his youtube channel at tea mb/s or
patreon.com slash
t mb s also the intifada
find that at patreon.com slash the anti
fada if you go to our majority dot F M
or look into the you will find links to
both of the live shows 40 MBS and the
Intifada and literary hangover mad yeah
up now on the YouTube is the new episode
hub amok a tale of early times by lydia
maria child it's sort of a anti
patriarchal leather stocking tales so
check that out oh there you go okay you
have a visual to support your pitch
that's pretty fancy see you in the fun
half
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
fun
[Music]
alpha males are back and the alpha males
are back back just
males are back back back back back
and the alpha males are back back back
just wanna degrade the white man alpha
males are back back I love alpha males
are back back
almost as what
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg banner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males alike
almost says what
[Music]
on the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked alpha males
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 you boy I
haven't for you and the alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
we around here hi I am a total
what's -
we are back we are back Sam cedar fun
half ladies and gentlemen we got to show
you this clip I imagine many of you have
already seen it or heard it if not you
may want to sit down the Mad King
really had a rough day yesterday because
of course he was so taxed by having to
have high-level conversations with the
president of Finland not mocking Finland
at all but I also imagine there's
there's still a little bit of tension
from the time that Donald Trump
pretended that in that the the finished
president had told them that they take
rakes and they rake their they rake
their force unlike us a student was so
dumb we don't do the rake here is Donald
Trump in a press conference with the
president of Finland he is being asked a
question by a reporter from Reuters guy
named Jeff Mason and he'd asked a
question at first about like you know
what what were you hoping to get from
zalenski on this phone call now this is
a quite an exchange at one point and I
don't know if it's in this clip it might
be he talks about a stenographer taking
down it was in this press conference
talked about scenographer taking down
word for word column for go you know
comma 4 comma now the interesting thing
about that is that the transcript we've
seen is not a stern ographers transcript
it is one that is supposedly compiled
from the best memory of everybody there
so Donald Trump inadvertently let
everyone know that there is a verbatim
word-for-word transcript
and there are some people who are saying
hey wait a second
feels like there might be 10 minutes
from this conversation that are missing
but that's uh that's just a little
nugget embedded in this burst of
insanity from Donald Trump like
Alexander Butterfield in himself the
question sir was what did you want
president Solinsky to do about president
vice-president Biden and his son Hunter
yeah it was just a follow up of what I
just asked you ready we have the
president of Finland ask him a question
I have one for my just wanted to follow
up on the one that I asked you which do
you want you hear me yes ask him a
question I will but mind you a long
answer ask this gentleman a question
don't be rude
no sir I don't want to be rude I just
wanted you to have a chance to answer
the question that I asked it's at
everything it's a whole hoax and you
know who's playing into the Hulk's
people like you and the fake news media
that we have in this country and I say
in many cases the corrupt media because
you've corrupt
much of the media in this country is not
just fake it's corrupt and you have some
very fine people two great journalists
great reporters but it to a large extent
it's corrupt and it's fake ask the
president of Finland the question place
okay I'll move on now mr. president okay
so there it is Donald Trump losing a
little patience doesn't want to talk
about this it feels like a little bit
upset also very must be you know this is
a thing he's a lot of people say this
guy is a sociopath has no empathy for
others there he is
he's very worried that the president of
Finland feels like he's being ignored
he's mad about it even he's very mad
about it I go through this all the time
with my kids where I'm like when you say
hi to somebody look him in the eyes one
of those type of jobs but Don Trump
seems very very upset about this and who
could blame him now however today they
must have regathered they put him on a
slightly different medication not sure
what the deal is but
he decided he was going to answer that
question very explicitly now understand
what's going on here the White House is
dealing with a two-front war I think and
you can see it in the context of this
Washington Post piece that came out
today or last night about Mike Pence
there were two different groups if you
read this article there were two
different groups of sources it appears
it appears that are around Mike Pence
one is Mike Pence's top advisors
supposedly who were trying to spin this
story so on one hand these people around
pants claim that when he spoke to
zalenski and said you got to deal with
corruption he didn't realize that was a
coded word that meant the Biden
corruption he just thought it was
general corruption so when he didn't go
for whatever reason to the funeral
because he was mad at because Trump was
mad at Solinsky and when he go went met
with zalanski and talked about
corruption he didn't know that he was
talking about an investigation into the
Biden's he just thought general
corruption however those are officials
close to pence insisted he was unaware
of Trump's efforts to press the Lenski
for damaging information however the
piece also says that one of Pence's top
advisors was on the July 25th call and
the vice president should have had
access to the transcript within hours of
that readout so there's another group in
there saying no no pence knew so I
haven't known in that long at all but
yeah and the reason why that's relevant
is because Donald Trump knows that
look we all you need to do is look back
at the 2008 financial crisis too big to
fail
too big to jail
Donald Trump knows that if he and the
Vice President are in on this and it's
built bar and bringing everybody we are
all guilty what are you gonna do about
it now that's what he's thinking that
Mike Pence is gonna be on this side of
the tent pissing out not on the outside
of the tent pissing in and so here he
gets explicit and I'm convinced that the
reason why they got explicit about this
is because they want to make it like no
we weren't hiding anything in the White
House
everybody knew so it's not like there's
no cover-up here because what we did was
okay and you're gonna have to impeach me
for something that I say is okay well I
would think that if they were honest
about it that sort of made your
investigation into the Biden it's a very
simple answer they should investigate
the Biden's because how does a company
that's newly formed and all these
companies if you look at and by the way
likewise China just started
investigation into the Biden because
what happened to China is just about as
bad as what happened with with Ukraine
so I would say that President Solinsky
if it were me I would recommend that
they start an investigation into the
visors because nobody has any doubt that
they weren't crooked that was a crooked
deal 100% he had no knowledge of energy
didn't know the first thing about it all
of a sudden he's getting $50,000 a month
plus a lot of other things nobody has
any doubt muscle men they got rid of a
prosecutor who was a very tough
prosecutor they got rid of him now
they're trying to make it the opposite
way but they get rid so if I were the
president I would certainly recommend
that of Ukraine so there he is he's
basically now shifting tactics they're
saying like oh yeah no this is we're
gonna go full on we're gonna keep asking
for this we asked for it at the time
totally legitimate ask
there's no every reason why pence
wouldn't know
- because we're completely proud of this
agenda we did it on purpose and that's
what I think that's what they're gonna
go with which makes sense you're caught
dead to rights
can't argue the facts you now argue the
law what we did wasn't wrong
it's like Trump jr. revealing the
meeting email yeah exactly
that's what they that is at one point
they realize like no instead of like
pretending what you did was wrong
pretend what you did was right only once
it looks like you're gonna get caught
exactly once you're caught what's wrong
with stealing from the bank did that's
why the money's there I didn't tell you
I was taking money from the bank cuz I
thought it was good to do that and fine
of course it oh wait why would you keep
money there
that's money's meant to be spent that's
basically what happened meanwhile also
the one more storyline they're gonna try
and put out there remember now we are
living in an era where we have two
competing narratives one is for
conservatives one is for the rest of
normal people and the conservative one
is going to be and they've attempted to
do this for a long time in fact a lot of
what's going on here is creating this
narrative that the Russians never
interfered in the election that it was
actually the the Ukrainians who were
doing it on behalf of the Democrats and
we're framing the Russians and there's
this huge convoluted mess which we can
talk about in a bit but so anything that
will enforce that reinforce that will
work and here is Donald Trump
the story is now that the whistleblower
gave the information to first the CIA
lawyer and felt like wait a second I
don't think this is going the way it
should go they don't seem to be doing
anything with it so he contacted a
staffer who worked for Schiff to seek
advice Schiff never met the guy but
heard the general
just at the complaint obviously the
whistleblower report had not been
written up at this point
without knowing the person's identity
instructed his staffer to tell him to go
to the IG the Inspector General and file
a whistleblower complaint and that's
what happened more or less exactly how
you would imagine this the process
should work particularly if the
whistleblower is concerned that I don't
know anybody's getting I'm gonna put
this into the whistle and like I might
be the one taken out like he was
obviously afraid that the whole system
had been compromised which is a
perfectly founded and accurate
assessment of the situation it's a deep
state folks in fact there's every reason
to believe that had he not told Schiff
via an intermediary that we would not
know anything about this whistleblower
report because remember this
whistleblower report was being sat on by
the Director of National Intelligence
Schiff had to know that that was
happening that's why he called for it on
Face the Nation
whatever was two or three weeks ago
that's how this all went down it was
obvious somebody had told them that the
report existed here's Donald Trump
responding to that station was perfect
it couldn't have been nicer I saw Rick
Scott I saw many of the Senators talking
about it many of the congressmen talking
about it not a thing wrong unless you
heard the Adam Schiff version where he
made up my conversation he actually made
it up it should be criminal it should be
treasonous he made it up every word of
it made up and read to Congress as
though I said it and I'll tell you what
he should be forced to resign from
Congress Adam Schiff he's a low-life he
should be forced to resign he took a
perfect conversation realized he
couldn't read it to Congress because it
was perfect was a very nice conversation
I knew many people were on the phone not
only were many people on the phone we
had stenographers on the phone taking it
down word-for-word he took
that conversation which was perfect he
said I can't read this
so he made up a conversation and he
reported it and said it to Congress and
to the American people and it was
horrible what he said and that was
supposed to be coming from me but it was
all fabricated he should resign from
office in disgrace and frankly he should
look at him for treason because he is
making up the work okay now you'll
recall the Ukrainian the Ukraine memo
call memo on page 1 says it is not a
transcript and the story we've been told
that there was not stenographers on the
call so if there are stenographers on
the call release the transcript release
the transcript hashtag released the
transcript I can imagine that there is
someone right now somewhere in
Washington DC
wherever they do these things writing up
the text of the subpoena that is going
to call for that transcript President
Trump on October 2nd stated that there
was a stenographer on the phone we want
to see the product of that stenographers
work if you do not provide it for us
this will be prima facie obstruction so
stay tuned because I think that's what's
coming up meanwhile it's been very very
trying on everyone involved in this in
the White House working at the White
House can be very difficult working on
the campaign to re-elect the president
particularly in this context can be
equally difficult and sadly we are
seeing we're seeing the results of this
I know we've all had a couple questions
about Larry Kudlow and his
well now the heart-attack watch is on
for corey lewandowski who at 9:06 p.m.
was on Fox Business News last night
806 central had dinner one wonders what
the ratio between liquid and solids were
at that dinner here he is with Kennedy
we know that the the whistle blow is a
former CIA agent who was detailed to the
NSC who's probably back at the CIA who
hates this present more than they love
their country and the fact is they
Margaret had any first-hand account of
what transpired Corey yes did you have a
little Merlot with dinner no should I
have it sound a little slurry it sound a
little bite enough no look look what out
what I'm mad about Kennedy is that
there's you blaming the president for
this conversation with Ukraine classname
so second can you go back a little bit
before she asked that cuz we could hear
him slur a little bit because he heat
when she calls him on it he starts to
try the month VA trying to nun c8 yes do
you have a low no no no back back back
back back just a little more just hear a
little more of him talking back at the
CIA who hates this president more than
they love their country and the fact is
they never had any first-hand account of
what transpired Corey yes did you have a
little Merlot with dinner no should I
have it sound a little slurry you sound
a little bite enough no look look what
out what I'm mad about candy they're
still blaming the president for this
conversation with the Ukraine president
Solinsky and what this is really about
is people who don't love this country as
much as I love this country so much that
I would like to hug it till it squeaks
yeah but Kennedy he's still blushing
inside after you come back like he can't
even he is so so embarrassed right now
that he can't hear that she just made a
joke and that he knows every Kennedy
yeah I'm being serious I can't be drunk
if I'm serious yeah go back go back go
back watch the I love the fact that she
makes this joke as a way of like trying
to say like let's just joke around
because you're not capable of doing this
and he's like no I'm I'm gonna show you
how sober I am up I'm gonna drive us
home
didn't for this conversation with the
Ukraine president Solinsky and what this
is really about is people who don't love
this country as much as I I love this
country so much that I would like to hug
it till it squeaks yeah but Kennedy no
president in the history of our country
before this one who's had so many leaks
and that should be a real concern for
our national security apparatus yeah
Thank You Corey great to have you thank
you maybe a cup of coffee
wow that's pretty good
expect Kennedy yeah there you go got to
appreciate that no okay no that I was
invited on her show once and then
because I'm blacklisted at Fox that adds
happened to me like three or four times
over the years he hit the talking points
though oh he's drunk he's made you're
right he did hit good talking points hey
Corey might want to take a break now it
could have been just a very celebratory
dinner cuz there's so much celebrate
right now things are going very well on
that campaign that looks about a half
hour after sleeping pill to me no no no
that that I think that's booze it's a
cocktail
I think that's yeah I think that's a
hey folks the blazes Dave Rubin is still
around I feel like I don't because I
don't get the blaze I haven't subscribed
to the blaze I don't know what's up with
Dave as much but you had a sit down this
was at y'all con the young Americans for
Liberty Convention this is part of
Dave's
libertarian tour I think I don't know if
he's getting paid by turning-points USA
to go there or or what but here he is
for some reason trying to defend well I
know why he's doing that this is how he
ensures that he's on the next tour he is
defending Jordan Peterson's enforce
monogamy position that he has had where
he was and this came up in the context
of a New York Times piece right because
Jordan Peterson was upset about the
blame that in cells were getting for
being responsible for their their
involuntary celibacy and the problem is
of course that there are Matt was it
that men out there there are some men
who are taking all the women here it is
he was responding to the violent attacks
they had done by by in cells and he said
violent attacks are what happens when
men do not have partners mr. Peterson
says and society needs to work to make
sure those men are married he was angry
at God because women were rejecting him
mr. Peterson says of the Toronto killer
and that's it presumably why he killed
humans because he was mad at God quote
the cure for that is enforced monogamy
that's actually why monogamy emerges mr.
Peterson does not pause when he says
this enforced monogamy is to him simply
a rational solution other
women will all only go for the most high
status men he explains and that couldn't
make either gender happy in the end
half the men fail he says meaning they
don't procreate and no one cares about
the men who fail I laugh because it's
absurd says the writer you're laughing
about them he says giving me a
disappointed look that's because you're
female mm-hmm
but aside from interventions that would
redistribute sex mr. Peterson is
staunchly against what he calls equality
of outcomes or efforts to equalize
society so he is for equality of
enforced enforced monogamy now there's a
lot of different ways you can interpret
from enforced monogamy well really only
like two or three I guess when something
is enforced that means that there is a
enforcing body right that says you must
do this and if you stray from monogamy
you will be punished by the enforcing
body let's listen to Dave Rubin explain
to all of us the blazes Dave Rubin
explained to all of us what Peterson
really meant is that every time the
media would try to sandbag him and try
to destroy him which we saw many times
you guys may remember that one at one of
the biggest moments was when the New
York Times wrote that piece that Jordan
is for enforced monogamy remember that
and everyone made it sound like he wants
to basically put positive one second now
to be clear it's not that they wrote the
piece that he about him that he was for
enforcement agony in the interview he
specifically said I'm for enforced
monogamy I believe that I'm looking at
the sentence the cure for that is
enforced monogamy there you go the cure
for violent in cells killing people is
enforcement agha me is for enforced
monogamy remember that and everyone made
it sound like he wants to basically put
make women
slaves and we're gonna be in the hands
made tail enforcement ugly just means
marriage it's but you if you look
actually Eric Weinstein checked and on
the New York Times archives the only
other two references to enforce monogamy
are positive references about marriage
that marriage is a fundamental building
block for a Western society why is it
for one second now I suppose we could go
and check that archive I have a feeling
that there's someone who wrote like some
people feel that marriage enforces
monogamy but of course it doesn't
because people cheat and people go
outside of marriages to have what you
could call casual sex or Affairs now but
if he says Eric Weinstein did it we know
how much integrity Eric Weinstein has it
must be the case that there were
references to the enforcement of
monogamy but that's of course not what
Petersen says but let's go back a little
bit and hear Dave's trying to explain
this make women's slaves and we're gonna
be in the hands made tail enforcement
ugly just means marriage it's been you
if you look actually Eric Weinstein
checked out on the New York Times
archives the only other two references
to enforce monogamy are positive
references about marriage that marriage
is a fundamental building block for a
Western society it's it causes us to
reproduce and have familial bonds and
all of these things well dave is married
and it will not cause him to reproduce
in some instances marriage causes people
to reproduce although we also know that
you don't need to be married to
reproduce so none of what he said is
accurate or true and even if that's the
case even if you want to you know if you
want to switch out monogamy for marriage
in forced marriages are also problematic
but here is let's just check in with
Jordan Peterson and look at what he said
in the past not mediated by the New York
Times but rather his
specific tweet on this in December of
2016 could quote and quote casual sex
necessitate state tyranny you know what
state tyranny is right that is when the
state uses their monopoly of force to
force you to do something and he writes
the missing responsibility has to be
enforced somehow he is calling for
either state enforced marriage really
state and forced monogamy because we
know that just because you're married
doesn't mean that you don't have casual
sex with others you could have a high
status male who is married who is still
having sex with all the ladies so much
so that there are men out there who do
can't find a partner to procreate with
and they must be partnered according to
him or they will of course be mad at God
and then shoot people check back in on
the blaze to see if Dave and on the
blaze updates that as it goes forward
but there it is Dave Rubin I'm
defenseless against that kind of female
insanity there you go it's true he is
let's go to the let's go to the phone's
gone from a 2:06 area code who's this
where he come from is it is you okay
yeah yeah hi who's it know Korea Priya
hi Pam go ahead uh so I guess I had two
things the first thing um with the whole
I guess I'm gonna say this in terms of
Dave Rubin but I guess now you're on
steven crowder but on Twitter you know
the kpop like I guess you call them
stands or whatever I know it's really
random but they trend this random
it's really it's like funny
but they had like a Trump unblocked
Alijah tag or whatever and they just
like trolling conservatives where it's
like a lot of you know it's like a lot
of gates like gay Twitter basically but
it's really funny and if you can like
get them to like be be offended but kind
of like you didn't even crowder attack
like the gay community or like that one
reporter who was gay or something a lot
of time he spent a lot of time obsession
with him so right so I felt like so what
they did is I guess there was I'm trying
to remember it but he okay yeah okay
sorry so he decide if Eliza person I
don't really know who it is but he's
something about like a purple glittery
dildo that he wanted so he mailed to
Donald Trump errs on the hour now so he
got blocked and then they made this
whole big deal about how you can't block
them because it's like he's from the
government you know and just like
infringing on his free speech so then
they just had these really random like
tags and stuff so I don't know I just
thought that would be a funny crossover
if you can somehow get them to like well
I think they really do just turn the
most random and I'm not talking
about a trend just like you know like a
thousand tweets I'm talking like trend
like they take a like when the
impeachment stuff inquiry was announced
they were still number one with from
unblock Elijah and then there was all
all the Trump stuff Wow after that well
I mean if you see it well I will look
out for it but if you see it you should
suggest it I don't know how about doing
that
yeah I'm not exactly sure how you build
that Alliance on Twitter but I just
think would be funny because they like
trolling conservatives and they have
like you know like they don't know what
they're talking about but they'll trend
it and the toys honey but also in a more
serious no I'm just like really
frustrated with Democrats and I feel
like you know when history is writing
about this like obviously Trump will be
a factor but the people who let this
place the people who let this happen our
Democrats like it's just gotten to the
point where it's so ridiculous like that
way you know I know there's a hole like
oh if this was a Republicans like
there's there's no point in even saying
not anymore
has no moon like we know what they would
have done and so I understand it like I
think it's pretty obvious that there has
to be some overlap with donors in terms
of the money or the financial ties
because I don't understand why you leave
something like that out there on the
table like even if one you know charge
isn't easier to get a conviction or
easier to present the public like if the
whole point is accountability and
following the law in the order of watts
not about what you can prove you should
be bringing that all to the public and
like presenting it and I'm really
confused and like well Priya let me just
say this it's not clear to me yet that
they have settled on what their strategy
is I mean and I think I you know I think
as the polling has changed so
dramatically on this in just like two
weeks that I think you know
proclamations that they may have made
that first week may end up being revised
so but I I think it's better to say that
at this point they need to do a full and
thorough accounting of everything the
president has done and when they bring
these impeachment articles to the fore
it's hard to imagine they won't do that
and and I think it's in and it you know
and I think you can still I mean look
the the impeachment articles against
Nixon there was more than a half a dozen
they weren't all the ones that were
highlighted right I mean they you can
you can sell if you need to you know
market one or two of the biggest ones
and still include these impeachment
indictments impeachment articles of
impeachment in the essentially what is
the indictment in in the house and and
it also strategically might give
senators you know an ability to sort of
like each in the Senate to vote against
what you know what for one or the other
it's going to make it it's just going to
make it a harder calculation for all of
them so yeah I agree with you and and
I'm not convinced though that the the
the Democratic leadership won't change
its mind about that
appreciate the call and then hey we're
missing quick okay so it was just about
how you know how kids have you know like
with Greta certain burger know what with
the climate change speech how she is
really shaming the you know the United
States and on the world stage and how
kids have just been really effective in
getting communicating really obvious
messages to the public and especially in
terms of climate change and gun control
and things where it's very obvious that
the younger generation is opposed to the
conservative ideology and I was just
wondering if that can be channeled in
the same way towards Democrats because I
feel like we're you know like obviously
we have that mean you know enemy and
we're talking about quote-unquote resist
but we're seeing how much you know like
for example they you know they presented
their first bill and it was all about
you know anti corruption and like money
in politics and stuff right and then
they get distracted by johann Omar and I
just feel like you know we're fighting
against our own party and sometimes like
they need to see where the future is
because there's this their focus on what
Nancy Pelosi and the older generation is
focused on and I was just wondering if
you think that that could cut through
some of it because I feel like I think
the bottom line is is like you know it's
it's not about messaging I think it's
just really basically what has to happen
is we continue to primary Democrats I
appreciate the call I mean I think you
know we're seeing we're seeing a record
now I don't know if it's a record number
but an incredible amount of primaries
they're taking place and and look I've
been interviewing a lot of these people
on Ring of Fire I think we've done now
over a half a dozen primary challengers
two incumbents I think that it's I mean
and people that I think you would
perceive as being to the to the left I
think it's a very very healthy thing to
make sure that that these Congress
people feel and fear frankly fear their
left flank that is an important
dynamic and that pressure is going to
build then at one point you'll get more
and more AOC style Congress people into
Congress bit by bit
and we'll see the change at that point
but yes I agree with you Nancy Pelosi's
leadership is is informed by a different
era
I'm afraid come from a 702 area code
who's just where he come from a famous
bro filmmaking from Las Vegas what's not
brothel Mingo hey Sam I like the first
part of the show when you're punching
down on the mentally challenged
drug-addled with professors and you know
like steven crowder his father they
could debate you yes very nicely
thank you I got food quickly I got two
quick things in our jobs the first one
are you aware of the Amber dagger trial
the capital murder yes gene yes yes just
some quick things on that I'm not sure
if you saw any of the pictures and I did
now you just tell people this is a story
of a cop and who was ostensibly coming
home to her apartment she somehow got
into the wrong apartment
the lights were off she assumed it was
hers she got in she saw an intruder in
there
shot him to death turns out it was his
apartment she was in the wrong place she
saw this black man in her apartment and
shot him to death and she was on trial
she was convicted she's given only given
10 years right the brother of the victim
basically in his testimony I think it's
sentencing said you know I basically
said I love you I'm you know I don't
want to hurt you and went up and gave
her a hug in the middle of his basically
his testimony the the judge also gave
her a hug but go ahead all right also
don't forget
the bailiff was rubbing her hair - I'm
not sure you saw that picture the bail
19 BC in rubbing amber Tigers Tigers
hair so basically the judge is hugging a
murderer you know you've been talking to
murder the bear was sitting there
rubbing her hair smells really
disgusting to me
you know the cops the cops need to be
held to account not to be getting hogs
and you know pat it on the head it's
gonna be okay there's murdered an
innocent person ten years oh no
punishment I want the harshest punch
about 25 to life she told me too many
times the police have been let off this
is it
yes she's held to account ten years Mel
enough for me but just the fact that
you're hugging you're hugging the judge
the brother okay I don't agree with the
best of brothers but the judge hugging
her in the bail is unacceptable
unacceptable yeah I mean I I think you
know broadly speaking it's it's not
appropriate behavior I think you know
but I can you know I mean look I you
know I haven't i aiiow wasn't sitting in
that trial and these you know the the
judge the bailiff the the brother
they're they're they're human beings and
there they are
I get what you're saying right I get
what you're saying but we'll living in
America I won't see black guys horse
panda guys even poor white thing they
didn't hog in a pat on the back and I'm
gonna be okay
I mean I don't understand maybe my drug
cases something but the person who
murdered somebody you different thing
you didn't give him a holler guess he's
gonna be okay disgusting
cops needs to be punished in held to
account well I mean she was she was
punished and she was held to account I
mean I look I'm not I I don't want to
sound like I'm being an apologist for
this but like I don't know what what I
mean I just look at the brother okay I
saw the brothers thing and I found that
moving hi well I don't know that I to be
honest with you would be that forgiving
I don't know that I don't know that you
know I I just but it's all I can't sit
here in judgment of
brother right and no I understand but
but wait a sec let me finish but if the
brother is feeling that level of emotion
I don't know what's going on in that
trial that inspires the other people
around this woman to feel that same
emotion I don't you know I don't know
what her demeanor is I don't know what
she's saying
you know like there are I you know this
is not answer that for you that judge
was endorsed by the cops Union that's
the emotion that's good yeah come here
come give me a hug that's the way I feel
I'm sorry it's possible I mean it's
possible I mean it's possible it mean I
don't know I don't know like I mean I
don't thinking up a lot of time because
I want that too one more question and
answer when I jump because uh I
understand it's more of a curtain thing
with the cop or whatever but I also want
to ask you know the serious question I
thought this whole kind of trumping in
your estimation Finn because you've been
really following this you know great
coverage by the way thank you in how
long will it take your Sitz at all I'm
talking about Republicans or even people
like cuz we all know it's not to be it's
like maybe more or anything you know
courageous but where do you think where
it's like okay look we gotta jump off
the Chum train because because now that
the president's presence has been in
pretty much been implicated Pompeo I
mean that the virus is spreading and in
your estimation do you think you do
think you look I'm sorry sorry my
language are we gonna double down I'll
be riding with the sky or double yeah
you know double down they'll double down
they will double down they will double
like I've said this for consistently
since the election the only way the
Republicans will vote to impeach Donald
Trump is if there are is video of him
running naked across the front lawn of
the White House I can't remember if he
was supposed to be chasing a little boy
or not that's the only good that's the
only way I'm telling you that is the
only way
they would need video evidence of that
that's the only way because their voters
like you know like I could conceive a
world where maybe Susan Collins votes
against it but but not no no like even
Susan Collins because they are
guaranteed to alienate their voters so
Susan Collins will have a choice do I
definitely lose or do I probably lose
that's why God chose gonna be and
they're gonna go I'll take I'll probably
lose that's what she's gonna do
I appreciate the call and and look I
totally get the the response to the way
that the judge and the bailiff responded
there because it definitely feeds into
this narrative that there are two types
of justice in this country and and there
in fact there are I mean that is I think
indisputable I mean you can just simply
look at the statistics and I think it's
certainly hypothetically I think it is
or theoretically the case that black
people many black people in this country
are conditioned in the same way as white
people and in some ways practice the
notion of white supremacy to some
descent as well and it very well may be
that the bailiff and the judge look at
this white woman and see her life
shattered and it just in some ways it it
feels like a greater tragedy than if it
was a black woman or a black man sitting
in that docket and so I can understand
why why peep
would be offended by it I guess I just
like it's hard for me to to make a
judgement when it's just really talking
about nothing that is like systemic but
just like these individuals there who
are feeling emotion in that moment I
mean it would be better in my mind for
you know the judge to do that to all the
people who get sense all the ones that
she can do or not do it for any you know
there are and it's people
III don't know the facts of the cake an
assessment as they made obviously she
was found guilty I mean so you know
that's the generally when it comes to
criminal trials I check out once it's
once the charges are filed and there's
actually you know like the Zimmerman
case I did not follow the Zimmerman case
up until the moment where they actually
brought charges prior to that I did
after that
my feeling is and this is like I just I
think it was from the oj thing like i
didn't watch a minute of that OJ trial i
was like like you know it's a court I'm
not gonna sit here I'm not I'm not
sitting in the courtroom but I don't
know it's I understand people's feelings
of being upset about it I have a hard
time judging in those specific instances
right like you know they say that like
you know one of the arguments against
capital punishment is what it does to
the executioner's honestly and that's
you know obviously it's not maybe not as
bad as the the people who are being
killed but I don't know I don't know for
some reason I keep thinking about I saw
a video there was a story of a man who
had he had three kids he had two young
twins they were in car seat
and his bat in the backseat of the car
he went to drop off all the kids at
school and daycare somehow thought that
he had dropped the kids off and they
were quiet and they were sleeping in the
backseat of the car and the car seats
are not front-facing when they're that
young he went into to work and the kids
died and I remember I I saw the video of
him being you know arraigned to imagine
the pain that that guy must be in is you
know he was going to jail for I think
from an slaughter criminal negligence I
don't see how he couldn't I think he
wanted to I mean I don't know how you I
don't know how you live with yourself at
that point what a horror show I mean so
I don't know you know
I am for at least more human mercy at
least in the form of like you know some
sense you know expressing some sense of
humanity for people who have done bad
things but I can definitely also
understand that it plays into the
reality that there being two different
type of justice systems at two to two
different assessments of the value of
human life based upon the call over the
person who who's in that life so let's
go back to the phones come from a to10
area code who's this where you're
calling from
good afternoon Sam this is the spirit of
retroactive classification from the
Justice Department perhaps you know my
spirit brother from the arts retroactive
immunity that was borned of go ahead I
didn't mean to interrupt guard which was
born to overturn the obvious law
breaking of the Bush White House and the
telephone telephone companies
concerning the warrantless wiretapping
program I talked to my spirit brother
all the time we both know we're scumbags
but we occasionally have our remorse of
conscious moment we debate who's the
most corrupt here's my argument I'm just
a dirt digger I'm on a fishing
expedition theoretically I could just be
placating Trump I'm trying to find
tangible evidence to add to Rudy's
conspiracy theories while my spirit
brother actually said you know that the
law was on the books we're going to
change that law and any entity who broke
that law will be immune due to
collective paranoia
I'm the child of Bill Barr the most
corrupt Attorney General since Nixon's
AG John Mitchell who served time for his
Watergate long breaking I hear people
saying should impeachment they shouldn't
each my father Bill Barr
but that'll be the death of me also what
do you expect from me Sam I okay hold on
hold on wait a second I'm gonna find
this that was fantastic
John from San Antonio never seen this
side of you before never seen it yeah I
I don't I'm gonna say I never saw even a
hint of it I I would like to I wish
somebody will put that to music and do
like a School House Rock frankly video
from it because that was fantastic
Mackey alright so a couple of relatives
we a couple of relative but no okay a
couple of relatively breaking news story
that Bernie will take place will take a
part rather in the October 15th
democratic debate caught off the wires
Emerson poll in Ohio has a Biden at 29
Bernie 27 Warren 21 also Bernie up by
six over Trump in Ohio and over three
three points over over of tenth
interesting so yeah so let's see so when
I heard about Bernie's illness I tweeted
to you know get well Bernie Sanders
you're an incredible inspiration to tens
of millions with your uplifting message
of economic and social justice year
foreign policy which promotes peace and
diplomacy as far as superior to any of
your opponents the movement you started
as inspired so many brilliant
politicians who have similar values this
movement will continue to grow and will
be the dominant force in the next decade
millions of people have Stenson in lead
of fully active lives the campaign is
just getting started
it was all so good to see you gar
saying on t Whitey's totally fine I have
reports the not only publicly but
privately that he's totally fine
our receives a reply from ray gun to my
tweet saying I'm not a doctor but I
doubted they're telling they're telling
him it's a good idea to campaign and
presidenting into his 80s definitely
disagree with the last part but I wonder
am I putting the interest of the country
over Bernie self
well I mean look I I I think Bernie
Sanders knows his limitations and
everything I have read honestly about
this procedure is that and we just had
dr. oz on who seems to be a fairly nut
we didn't have on the show we just
played a clip of him he said that the
guy can go a hundred percent within two
weeks and I wouldn't doubt it you know
my understanding is that this is a
fairly banal procedure and you know when
you hear the to the extent that there
was any hesitation yesterday it's like
when you first get first reports of
these type of things
right you can't tell what their accuracy
is all you know is they went into the
hospital and and usually it takes about
24 hours before like you know you get
the the real story and it sounds like
that was the real story
I remember acting on Spin City and we
were on set and Michael J Fox was uh was
like sort of like noticeably absent at
different times and they basically told
us he had Lyme disease when of course
turns out that he had I thought was it
Parkinson's I guess and so you know you
never know when you first hear these
reports but it's quite clear now that
that's that's all it was it was a
blockage and it wasn't you know as soon
as he got a chest pain they brought him
there because that's what you do and
they they took care of it and you know
you can be sure that they are there
cleaning out everything else too as it
were so I I think look you got to trust
Bernie Sanders to know what what what
he's capable of doing and if he goes
back out on to the trail which it
appears he's going to I think you got to
trust that that he's capable of doing it
I I don't think in this instance from
what I've read and what what people have
told me who have had first-hand
experiences with this specific situation
that a doctor would say don't go out in
campaign I think the doctor would say
like you look rest for a couple of days
and then
crank it up as you feel just make sure
that you're conscious of how your body's
feeling that's my guess oh yeah okay on
Colbert last Thursday night Bernie said
that the first twenty nine thousand
dollars of income were exempt from
taxation and his medicare-for-all plan
which is a departure from the white
paper that said the family of four makes
up to twenty nine thousand dollars a
year would be exempt from paying that
now when I originally saw the white
paper the exemption for the family of
four fit into a pattern that that family
makes that that amount is not paying
that very much for their Medicaid
coverage and Bernie's Medicare for all
has to at least match that now a single
person who's look you know low as low
income and is on Medicaid should be
expected to you know to pay it's not
it's not expected to pay any more for
that so right now that cutoff limit is a
seventeen thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars in states that have adopted
Medicaid expansion so I have kind of
mixed feelings about this first is you
know the first you know it helps
everybody obviously but you know is it
economically feasible you know the and
will it deplete the Medicaid trust a
Medicare trust fund and it will be used
as a political weapon you know against
progressives right now you know every
working person is paying 6.2 and Social
Security 1.45 in Medicare taxes so an
increase of two point five five is
really not that much of an in that much
of a difference so you know MNT had had
a great convention last weekend i'd love
to see you know money just print it to
pay for health care but public opinion
needs to shift for that to happen so do
you I do you want to comment on on this
proposal you know it's basically you
know saying that no one will pay taxes
until they hit that twenty nine thousand
dollar level and so what and your
concern is that it's you're gonna need
that funding right yeah I mean that's my
concern but I mean I also you know I
mean I guess you can
make it up with more taxes on the rich
but I mean you know I just you know I'm
not I'm not really making a judgment on
it I'm just saying that you know it's it
seems like it would take away a lot of
the money to actually you know keep keep
the trust fund at a decent level I don't
know the numbers on that I really don't
I mean I think I think there is I don't
think it's I don't think it's a problem
politically I really don't I don't think
you know I don't want to be the the
politician who's going out there and
saying we're letting these people of
families of four with twenty who making
twenty nine thousand dollars a year get
away with murder
I just don't think that that's I don't
think that's going to know the dead but
that's the difference that before it was
essentially that you know if you and
there's twenty nine thousand for a
family of four you were exempt because I
mean you were already exempted with
Medicaid expansion right but now they're
saying just the first twenty nine
thousand dollars
Tyrion oh did you make you won't pay
taxes on see the laws of that that's the
big change I don't see the logic of that
I'm not sure I so the logic if it's
gonna help the average person you know
tremendously especially if you're making
you know thirty thirty thousand thirty
five thousand you're hardly paying
anything you know the flip side is how's
the trust fund gonna well I guess what
you would have to do is crank up the
taxes a little bit more over that first
twenty nine thousand yeah and I and I
understand that argument there I mean
I'd have to look at the distribution of
of you know frankly you know to pick a
number right to get a sense you're
always going to have that problem on
some level that you know people right at
the the edge of one of those situations
are going to you know it's gonna be the
least fair for those people who are
making thirty thousand dollars let's say
right to pay taxes right if the cut off
slightly
well they're still only pay index is on
one thousand well under
new proposal yes I mean I get it I mean
I I don't know I'd have to look at the
numbers I mean III don't know yeah I
mean nobody's talking about this you
know you said it on national television
and a few extreme like Bernie supporters
or even tweeting about it I mean so it's
a it's the interesting to see how when
people started really kind of catching
on to to what's going on so well we'll
see okay I appreciate the call and I
thought your your your sketch up front
was was great how did this happen
is there seven 600 all right I don't
know how you got into the call queue but
who is this hello hello exam sorry yeah
I can hear you now okay who's this um
this is Amy from San Diego Amy from San
Diego what's on your mind Amy I just
want to say can we get a shofar for you
being confirmed in the Bob's Burgers
movie I don't know if you've seen this
or not what I haven't seen this Loren
confirmed it like last week and I've
been waiting to call in the Chuck wait
what I mean Lauren confirmed it when did
he went on Twitter what Tyson it's a Mac
I sent it to Mac why'd you send to the
Matt why didn't you tag me I didn't tell
you but I don't think you thought I've
been trying to get to see it I didn't
see it it's on it's on Lauren's page and
so I want to give a shout outs in Spokeo
because he made a video of a when I
called in and Lauren responded to it
because you put like a bunch of like
these characters in it like you and you
know scenes on the show and Lauren
responded to that saying of course he's
gonna be in the movie so I wanted to let
you know alright well thank you thank
you Sokka
wow that's great to hear
that's great to hear I can't wait for
the movie to be cancelled now that's
usually the way oh there it is of course
he's in the movie I'm gonna favorite
that right now yeah so I was very sad I
was riding off this I mean I've been
happy I've been telling everyone I'm
like we got to the first well that's
usually an indication that the movie's
gonna go away so I'm sorry folks my
apology I felt bad about that because
Larry got a lot of grief Larry got a lot
of grief he was gonna sue me I didn't go
after Larry I just want to say all right
well I appreciate that
well Amy thank you so much yeah no no no
problem Sam I'm dressing up as Tina this
year for Halloween so all right well
thank you and I will I'll keep you
updated on the movie that's exciting
that's very exciting that's not that
exciting calling from a 700 as much I
know Tina is one of the characters on
Bob's burger yeah which one oh you guys
just sing he doesn't know who it is
yeah oh no I know which one it is
which one yeah it's the wife right no
that is no I know
my character was was involved with the
wife Tina is the youngest one that
what's-his-face place that's all right
yeah thank you I appreciate that gone
from seven to zero area code who's this
where you come from
are you talking to me yeah I think so
who's this okay I'm Susan from Baltimore
Susan from Baltimore welcome to the
program what's what's on your mind yeah
so I wanted to just get a kind of
heads-up to everybody in the audience
that October 8 there is a Supreme Court
hearing on whether it should be legal to
discriminate against LGBT people in
employment so I'm not really a part of
any groups but if you're in the DC area
I know that there are some protests that
are going to be going on um and of
course we can't allow that to become the
factor because we all have too much fun
making fun of done dummy days so we
don't want him to get fired well I mean
we should we should make it clear that
that in there is no protection for you
on a federal level from getting fired at
your job for being gay and also in
housing some states I'm not sure how
many maybe it's 20 or so have
protections for in housing and in job
discrimination but but in the main your
boss comes in finds out that you're gay
they can fire you yeah I don't think
most people know that and when it when
is the these the these are the oral
arguments um I'm not really sure the
intimate details I know they're hearing
the case though on October 8th October
8th okay all right we'll keep an eye out
alright great well we'll keep an eye out
we'll have somebody ought to tell us the
specifics of the case appreciate the
call okay okay thanks no problem all
right I forgot that the Supreme Court is
starting up do you forget about these
things what is this clip we play that
one right oh yeah that's what we played
okay oh you know ken Langone is a
longtime piece of garbage and but he's
very wealthy and he got it in his head a
couple years ago that he wanted
charter schools and so went up had to
sit down with Andrew Cuomo and Cuomo
then came out with the charter school
initiative he's used to buying whatever
he wants and here he is on with Maria
Bartiromo in fact it was in the morning
mornings with Maria and here's Ken
Langone a little bit concerned about
what happened if Bernie Sanders became
president Sanders the other day said the
US should not have billionaires no more
billionaires
Schumi there are billionaires in China
so what we want do we want all the money
to go to China and the billionaires and
you said two cents let me just say what
this is why is it you know one thing
that strikes me about this because every
billionaire you're not every billionaire
but every bill you know that we've heard
publicly comment on it they take it very
personally we're gonna shoot me now I'll
tell you something I'm not a billionaire
I'm not a millionaire but I don't I
don't refer to myself as like a hundred
thousand air or ten thousand error who
does that
this is the way that they define
themselves this is the way that they
wear this like it's their royal title to
take that money away is equivalent to
shooting him that's right yeah that's
what it is it's that you're gonna tax me
more than I am getting taxed now that's
like physically trying to murder me so
we want do we want all the money to go
to Serena and the billionaire's and you
said two cents let me just say what this
is because Elizabeth Warren is making a
point of that she says it's a modest tax
it's two cents on every dollar over
fifty million dollars in net worth she
says it goes up to three cents on
anybody who has a billion dollars people
are calling that confiscation
it's on wealth it's not income let's go
back to Bernie Sanders for a minute oh
what the hell is he done for the little
people what job
he is Bernie Sanders press release
Sanders plan would increase taxes on
greedy companies that's the press
release he says greedy confidence guy
look Bernie Arthur and I and Pat fire
started Home Depot 41 years ago we have
over it almost 500,000 people gainfully
employed in that company today all
providing for their families all
building the states we have 3,000 kids
that started with us and the parking lot
that's the entry level they're still
with us and they multi million yesterday
wow so many people's lives and they
changed all over yes it was it was a
symbiotic thing Bernie
stop being a blowhard show us give us
examples you go for a job and you're
gonna do for a job
tell me your qualifications tell me well
show me your experience in life what
you've done this or that or the other
thing at least I'll be able to say he's
been there he's done that he can help
let me tell you how many jobs would be
affected at Home Depot if Ken Langone
had to pay 3 cents on every dollar over
50 million dollars just I mean just
don't pay and it's a random that's a
combination of the plans basically zero
zero jobs would be affected at Home
Depot if Ken Langone was just a hundred
million air instead of a billionaire
zero jobs zero jobs in fact if you taxed
me an extra three percent on my first
dollar do you know how many jobs it
would affect in this office zero jobs
I'm sorry
zero jobs does not I mean these aren't
these aren't corporate expenses this is
just on accumulated wealth the amount of
jobs that will be affected by any
increase in attacks on someone's net
worth that is over fifty million dollars
is zero zero
maybe maybe if there was a multi like a
hundred millionaire who insisted on
keeping all of their money in a vault at
their home maybe you would lose a job or
two of people in building those safes
but that's about it
and and I don't think that anybody's
regularly employed in doing that right
now that's how many people will lose
their jobs
so everything ken Langone said there is
completely irrelevant here's Tim Poole
weighing in a OC and her supporters
think billionaires have billions of
dollars in liquid assets they don't
selling assets is complicated value is
complicated Net Worth is complicated and
actually sometimes a bit nebulous so for
the most part no one has a billion
dollars well I think that the people who
came up with this we're not assuming
that everyone had like literally a
billion one dollar bill on their bed
sitting in their safe the idea is that
they have assets and control that amount
of money and yes it will be complicated
as to how you measure it but in fact
it's really just a political choice and
yes there will be intricate schemes that
billionaires engage in to avoid taxes so
what so what still gonna end up with net
more money brought in on this wealth tax
was the last time you heard somebody
argue like people speed so why do we
have a 55 mile per hour speed limit
right people speed a lot people break
that speed limit all the time I don't
think there's a single driver who has
broken the speed limit at one time or
another but you don't hear about not
having a speed limit it's just absurd
it's an absurd argument and the idea
that anybody thinks that they have
figured out something like I'm so smart
that I figured out that that what what
the people who came up with the plan to
tax wealth haven't figured out yet which
is that assets are complicated and
sometimes they're illiquid so what I
mean if you have to liquidate some of
your assets when you're a billionaire
guess how much I give a crap the exact
same amount of jobs that are gonna be
lost because of it zero I'm sorry I
would imagine it would create jobs
exactly exactly
it will create jobs somebody's gonna
have to figure all that out all that
complicated nuance be fun to walk around
billionaires houses what's your job
I'm I'm a nebulous decipher for
billionaires that's what my job is folks
it's on Beto Beto is going after Pete
Yang is going after Beto here is Beto
and this is good I mean I'm glad to see
him doing something here
this is Beto going after you know mayor
Pete's been going around saying like he
criticized Warren by saying I only care
about outcomes I don't I don't get
caught up in the idea that you'd have to
fight for those outcomes
I just want outcomes I don't wanna have
to think about how you get him I just
did you get him and then he goes around
and he's criticizing bad oh this is this
is I mean this is his he is the the
critic his plans though very slippery
very slippery and here's Beto basically
saying Pete can stuff it
what Pete has been saying is that a
mandatory buyback is the shiny object is
distracting us how in the world can you
say that to March for our lives how can
you say that
survivors of mass shootings across this
country how can you say that to the
majority of Hispanics in America
certainly in Texas who fear that they
will be the victims of a mass shooting
inspired by racism and hatred that's
been welcomed into the open by this
president and has been armed with
weapons of war so I was really offended
by by those comments and I think he
represents a kind of politics that is
focused on poll testing and focus group
driving and triangulating and listening
to consultants before you arrive at a
position I think our politics has to be
about doing the right thing saying the
right
good for him I appreciate the fact that
he expanded his critique on everything
that Bhutto judge is is promoting
because he's a guy who speaks to the
Budaj edge the people who like Budaj
exactly and that's why that is extremely
healthy for our body politic however it
does pain me on a day when bateau has
proven his mettle as it were criticizing
people to judge it pains me to inform
Beto that he is the second best
skateboarder in the presidential race
here is Andrew yang just like right put
people in danger yeah this is pretty
good he's in his
this is what happens when you uh you
raise ten million dollars it's got a
thousand dollars to spend on a
skateboard teeny peds I mean he's he's
not like Beto we just sort of coasted
across a stage he's like he's these
banking around and building up speed so
good for Andrew yang like to see it and
you know I'll tell you something the
reason why they do this the reason why
they do this is because they are trying
to push the youth the youth issue so
when Amy Klobuchar dances around and
does that and it looks a little silly a
lot silly their consultants have told
them do stuff that's going to remind
people that you're young because that's
going to remind people that the other
candidates are old it'll be interesting
to see if there's any salience to that
but look at that is that move that's so
great then very straight I feel like I
could have done that yeah all right we
got time for one more column that we got
to get out of here
I apologize folks to know a lot of
people hanging on for a long time call
from a nine one seven area code who's
this where you calling from
hey Dan how you doing I'm doing good
who's this Milo Milo where are you
calling from calling from Brooklyn you
are the final call
[Music]
[Applause]
um well I first want to say so I'm a
senior in high school and I just want to
thank you guys I think you do a good job
and you guys really got me like you know
enthusiastic about like you know
political process and this country and
everything so sui's it up wait a second
do you feel comfortable telling me is it
okay he tells me what high school is
that um tell you what thing tell me what
it is
tell me give me a note is it in Brooklyn
yeah it is to start with an M yes or a B
the first letter of the abbreviation is
B that's what I'll say okay yeah yeah I
think just just for to be safe yeah I
got you is it the big one yeah
is it a big school all right
is it a big school you know maybe like
900 days okay yeah it's a different one
than I thought all right okay yeah so
but my so my broader question is about
pro-worker policies but um to sort of
contextualise the question a little bit
I want to share a quick anecdote sure so
about I'd say three months ago I was you
know family I was on a trip to France
and as on our way back we were in the
airport in Paris and my father and I
were waiting in line and we waited in
line for about in like an hour and a
half two hours to check our baggage and
as we got closer to the front we
realized that the line was going slowly
because there were only about like one
or two people sitting at the desk to
help people check their bags and my dad
he's like a centrist guy he's you know
pulling pretty hard for Joe Budden not a
huge Bernie guy and as soon as we got
through the line he turned to me and he
said something along the lines of you
know under Bernie Sanders America under
socialism
you know this that's you know all of
America will look like that there will
be you know cuz obviously like Bernie is
a very Pro worker guy and I think what
he was trying to get at is since France
is a really Pro worker country that was
sort of he was trying to imply that
that's why they were like no people
sitting behind the desk because you know
like when workers have more rights today
you know like have more autonomy and
right they're like more likely to spend
their time in ways that are inconvenient
to customers right like what's what's
your take on that I mean well I I mean
yeah I don't know I mean I don't know
how many airports that you know you can
run into the same problems in in
American airports as well I I do think
though broadly speaking in societies
where there is not this sort of rat race
of the intensity that we have where
being in line for thirty minutes as
opposed to ten minutes is not such a
horrible thing because you're not losing
like like in this country the loss of
time and loss of efficiency particularly
I think in this era is is highly
problematic because you need to compete
so vigorously to just maintain and to
tread water I think in countries where
people have many of their basic needs
addressed by society that the pace of
life is a little slower I mean it's like
that now I you know I think that's also
a cultural thing that's the case I know
you know and I wasn't there I was there
for thirty you know thirty years ago but
in Australia it was very much the case
and that's
you know fairly capitalist country as
well it is the kids in Europe in Italy
people complain about in Germany which
has a lot of social programs culturally
they're a little bit more efficient with
things I mean I think there's just like
I think that's more of a cultural thing
than it is a function of an economic
system but I would also I would imagine
that in a culture where you didn't you
weren't you know it wasn't such a you
know you where you're your health
insurance wasn't tied to your employment
and we're you know the idea of like if I
don't get overtime today I'm not gonna
be able to get my kids Christmas
presents I think you know the the things
are not as intense and people don't mind
waiting in line an extra 10 minutes
because they have more time I mean it's
just it's a different it's different
culture but no I don't think that's a
function of socialism I don't see how
you draw the the economic policies you
know you just put on more workers I mean
theoretically right in a socialistic
country you are you have more TSA people
and you have more clerks working there I
think it was just probably a certain
inefficiency I don't think that's I
don't I really don't think that I that -
but Milo let me just say I wish I had
your your intellect when I was a high
school student No thank you I appreciate
it all right man well thanks for calling
keep up the good work
yeah thanks all right convince your dad
to vote for Bernie bite all right yeah
yeah will do
I love the fact though we can get a
college like my dad's a little bit
conservative moderate the bone for Biden
right I mean in Brooklyn what is good is
you're gonna do well depends on what
part of Brooklyn you're in well go a
little more north yeah ah folks I'm
afraid that's all the time we have for
today but guess what
we'll be back tomorrow see you then
it magically that got to get to where I
want but I know son
I'm going
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
[Music]
take it
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
rubber bands
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
