Kanye West is on his way out he is as
was pointed out to me on TS he's
concerned because the easies are not
moving
they ain't moving units and if you want
to shock a delusional narcissist
who's flirting with the worst people on
earth into a jolt of consciousness
show him is sneaker sales all of a
sudden maybe the 13th amendment looks
like a good thing so it sounds like a
choice right sounds like something that
sounds like a choice to me
so Candace Owens who first of all let's
play this Trump clip because we do enjoy
there's a good Donald Trump basically is
sunning our old buddy Charlie Kirk here
and he's pointing out the best thing
that Charlie cook ever done but then
we're gonna ask or is it and Charlie has
done a very special job you know why he
found somebody who's an incredible
person Candice Owen like Charlie may go
down his greatest achievement may have
been finding I don't know snap that
Charlie you're a tall freak and I just
want to be a prick I love how you even
deal I know that sounds like an insult
I'm gonna say it that's what I'm saying
isn't actually that bad it's not bad it
could have been much worse I could have
made comments about I don't know your
jaw structure or something I'm a bad
person Charlie you might have lost a
debate to that jus but at least you
found Candis Owens yeah you lost the
debate to but you found Shaniqua
really up that's the people who
the way you tipsy fbp not good
Pocahontas would have done better but to
be fair you're talking about
with the Jew so what could we expect and
so we'll start with this first clip
where Candace Owens is gonna say that
the media wait I'm sorry
Kanye's tweets so we'll work backwards
because the reason cat Candace is
valuable is because of this whole blogs
hidden issue that's right so this is
part this was something that was
announced at the I think it was the
young black Leadership Forum summit
summit some that TPA USA is
putting the other at Trump was there and
they announced the blogs it movement
which had these we don't have in front
of us but they are hoodies and tees that
say blogs at black exit from the
Democratic Party the graphic design just
to summarize the graphic design
innovation was that all the letters were
made out of people doing sort of YMCA
style human letters exactly
GOP hypebeast gear because it's black
who hype B's that people love the wives
saying let's do it the yeah X I T I
remember it was it was back in the
eighties in usko YMCA and you could
dance it whatever you were in victim
them from their homes they've had an
Indian chief in there they even English
yeah but you can do that nowadays I can
do that now it is political correctness
folks so yeah let's bring that back
let's bring back the Indian stream
Village People yeah whatever happened to
gay guys in the village who used to
pretend to be Chiefs environment
whatever happened to that maybe I'll
talk about that the next time I address
the Boy Scouts so so basically Candace
Owens suggested or said that the design
and match is so eloquently described was
designed by Kanye West and we'll guess
we'll get to that clip in a second
because it's pretty funny here is Kanye
West's response to that and this is
after months of slavery is a choice the
13th amendment needs to be abolished
dragon energy basically having every
single frontline entertainer in the
world publicly or privately being like
dude
could you stop being such a massive
delusional and finally this is
the odd this is either at a moment he
was jolted or the moment that it was
like whoa
those sneakers are not moving Kanye
tweeted this I introduced Candace to the
person who made the logo and they didn't
want their name on it so she used mine I
never wanted any association with plugs
that I have nothing to do with it
and further Kanye eat
not actually like the same threat my
eyes are now wide open and I now realize
I've been used to spread messages I
don't believe in I'm distancing myself
from politics and completely focusing on
being creative I'm gonna be rich three
exclamation points because I want to
reinvest reinvent how people wear
sneakers I want I want to talk to four
Saachi I want to talk to Prada Kanye
back to is just annoying bag and Candace
Owens who realizes if Charlie Kirk is a
genius for finding me I'm a genius for
having this troubled guy go through his
college reading phase find one of my
youtube videos is my ticket the things
so oh I better not totally alienate
him even though I used his name without
permission and I've pretty much just
been riding off his notoriety to build
my garbage career so Candace Owens goes
hashtag blogs it is about the beautiful
stories of so many black people who have
awakened themselves to the possibilities
of our future as Americans the press is
trying to use Kanye's name to create
drama and for their divisive miss which
is and this is trumpian flourish all
capital letters wrong here is a
statement of clarity from me it's not
mentioned in this little screenshot but
she also said I never once said that
Kanye designed the t-shirts for blogs it
this is a lie that seems to have made
its way around the world
so should we even read the okay so
forget it so she's so so okay so look
you know what fair enough
kanye west he's a little bit all over
the place maybe sometimes you get some
things wrong on the other hand we know
that all Candace Owens and Donald Trump
and all
these people are pathological liars so
I'm just gonna say this and maybe I'm
tipping my hands here for the segment
whatever else you say about Kanye West I
will say a lot and Waze said it doesn't
matter he's never coming back home even
if he's left the sunken place I'm gonna
believe crazy Kanye / socio Candace so
now we have a clip which is going to
answer the question did Candace Owens
say that Kanye West's designed these
shirts designed that logo as part of an
ongoing attempt to cash in on his name
or as Kanye West said he had nothing to
do with this and Candace is using him
you decide bye bye good bye bye bye
Candace no thank you
best thing share the kicks ever done
yeah go away but line oh did you get the
idea you could lie I don't understand
it's like everybody thinks they could
just lie these days important not to lie
I promised that we never do alive and I
try my hardest ride my hardest
