[Music]
Stephen Reed has become the first black
mayor of Montgomery Alabama no this is a
city with a 200 year history and you
know look obviously next step is what
does mayor Reed do what is his policy
set you know what is he doing on housing
on healthcare and policing 100% but we
still take this opportunity obviously to
recognize this huge historical and vital
achievement this election has never been
about just my ideas it's been about all
of the hopes and dreams that we have as
individuals and collectively in this
city the beauty of what we were able to
do from Newtown to downtown
[Applause]
way around the opportunity to improve
outcomes for everyone regardless of
their neighborhood regardless of their
zip code regardless of anything that may
divide us or may be different from one
another
we have been focus from day one about
the things that make us better the
things that unites us and this is what I
see in this crowd and Nestle what I see
in the results of tonight is a unified
Montgomery and let the record show that
it's a really important that's the first
african-american mayor of Montgomery
Alabama
