[Music]
this is from where is this from it's
from Hannity yeah
they are full onboard with the
president's attack on the squad on
people of color women of color in
particular that's an extra bonus here
they are analyzing it and poor poor Sean
Hannity seems so distraught about what's
happening with America no it exposes the
religion saying this is a Pete hagseth
no it exposes the real agenda of today's
modern left but if you look over at
Rasheeda Talib talked about President
Trump having a hate agenda you I can
then sir for therefore look at her and
say she has a Hamas agenda if you look
at the she was in June of 12 this year
she criticized the New York Times
because they in her mind favored Israel
when Hamas was launching Rockets from
the Gaza Strip and she said it didn't
reflect well enough on the Palestinians
in the Gaza Strip and we know it's
controlled by Hamas so if she wants to
throw around labels we can - the reality
is you know this partnership between
Kamala Harris and and comrade Cortes is
a reflection of the fact that Cortes
like Bernie Sanders is the modern soul
of the Democrat Party Bernie Sanders
problem in 28 in 2020 is that everyone's
Bernie in 2016 the system was rigged
against him by the establishment now
you've got Elizabeth Warren himself and
a and Cortes is the soul of what the my
exit counsel Harris is trying to partner
quick answers both of you Pete first I
don't think the Democrats can stop the
squad I think there's the squad is what
they're educational institutions have
created well we can only hope it's very
rare that I have Pete hexif and Sean
Hannity basically providing validating
all my aspiration this is this is
basically trying to imagine if you were
a dog I'm trying to put myself in the
position of like a conservative fox news
viewer hearing that Bernie was was it
was rigged against Bernie in 2016 but
now he's winning like that seems like it
reflects good on Bernie if I'm somebody
who's been trained to hate the
Democratic Party well it was rigged
against them
because he they always talk about the
Democratic Party was good in the past
and so that's what they're that's the
argument there
