of course we are now just a little less
than two weeks a little more than I
guess a week away from the midterm
elections and much of what we see
happening these days have a lot to do
with those elections even if they even
if they are not directly related with
that said perhaps the biggest and
certainly most disturbing news stories
of the week centered around on Tuesday
it started where an explosive device was
found in a mailbox at a home owned by
saw roses private company this was in
Bedford New York and that you know but
people reacted to that as one might not
quite sure what the implications are but
by by Wednesday it became clear that
this was part of a larger effort to
essentially one imagines maim or kill a
series of left-wing figures in this
country Hillary Clinton received a
device in her mail Barack Obama CNN
received one they had to evacuate Eric
Holder and at the congressional office
there was reports of one and and and so
on and you know what to the extent that
we know about these things
that's almost secondary to the way that
the reaction to it and to how
unpredictable something like this was
well yeah I mean you know this
the list of targets of this could have
been just lifted from any Donald Trump
rally right I mean these these names
that were that you know that it was
Hillary Clinton I think that Maxine
Waters was one of waters yes you know
and Andrew Cuomo was was one of them I
mean these were all these are all people
that Donald Trump obviously targets you
know and gives them nicknames and
everything else and and so you know
clearly someone had a method here and
the right you know immediate reaction to
this and it was just instant they're
they're so steeped in conspiracy
theorizing was that this is a false flag
that it was you know but done by I don't
know some nefarious group or person to
try and effect the midterms but you're
telling isn't it because you know the
idea that it would affect the midterms
tells you that they were concerned about
that right that that these people being
targeted for political violence and of
course it comes on the heels of two
things one is this ongoing you know
absurd meme that they have about
left-wing mobs
that are just you know running rampant
through the streets or in the country
and then also that the Democrats had
paid for this caravan in Mexico and were
somehow behind it Trump says that over
and over again in his rallies so you
know this idea that somehow or another
the Democrats are doing all this stuff
to try and win an election I think we
can pretty well see where that's going
because if the Democrats do win it would
be because they ginned up all this stuff
to win an election I mean this sort of
reaction coming from them and I can
guarantee that no matter what happens
with the with the investigation into the
bombings it you know the the right is
going to say that it was a deep state
conspiracy if it turns out to be a
right-wing assailant because that's how
they now have a method of sort of
covering themselves no matter what
happens right it's either a left winger
or it's a deep state FBI conspiracy to
you know to unfairly tag the right wing
so you know they have this thing all
coming and going but I was astonished at
how quickly and how you know viciously
they kind of came out I mean I even in
the worst sort of you know terrorist
bombings or terrorist attacks that you
find with you know where they're all
immediately rushing to the assumption
that it was Muslims this even seemed
worse than that I mean this seems like
it was just I mean it was I guess maybe
it was defensiveness that made them do
it
but it was bizarre and of course the
president who didn't bother you know he
usually he tweets about you know
practically everything he had nothing to
say all he had to say on Twitter was you
know I wholeheartedly agree to what's
something that Mike Pence said you know
some thoughts and prayers message and
then he had an event in the White House
where they sent out you know it was
about the opioid crisis Melania came out
said a couple of words and then talked
about the opioid crisis and Trump came
out and basically practically fell
asleep while he was trying to say that
you know we need unity and this is a
bipartisan thing and then just dropped
it and went on to his prepared speech I
mean he really didn't care and I mean I
can only imagine what was going through
his head when he saw this I mean he's
probably glad actually to see the bomb
threats I'm assuming he's you know
actually for it I mean I think I think
he probably though had some awareness
that this cuts against and I think this
is why there was such strong defense on
this I think he hit the nail on the head
there was this is interfering with the
narrative that they were trying to build
right I mean let's look at this week
they have been trying to build this
narrative that like you said the there
is this Caravan we're going to talk
about that later in the program this a a
caravan of people that could not be less
threatening to the United States I mean
then you know a small rainstorm that is
you know off the coast of I don't know I
would way out in the Pacific in terms of
in terms of a threat to the country
but just I mean to your point about
their attempts to to you know elongate
because this has been going on now for a
couple of weeks this notion of the
Democratic mob right and the the
protesters and everyone is anti anti feh
and because and and and they were quite
successful it's still making like this
notion that there is this frothy
left-wing mob so much so that it knocked
even the proud boys off of the the radar
and we talked about the proud boys on
this program last week but when we come
back I want to just recount what we saw
on Fox News which to me captured that
moment perfectly it was really really
stunning but it I think it explains why
the right responded with all these
conspiracy theories that somehow this
was a false flag they clearly know it
makes their rhetoric and their posturing
and it brings it to light in a way that
you know it crystallizes what has been
going on in this country for some time
but I think their reaction was even
doubly worse because of where they were
trying to go with their narrative we got
to take a quick break we'll be right
back Sam cedar ring a fire radio and
talking to the great Heather pardon or
Digby
