I've noticed on your on your Twitter
feed that you you may have watched the
press conference with Jake is a Jacob
wall the press conference the smear
Muller oh we don't I actually did wash
it but I hadn't watched it and so I
didn't know that name that was like
someone got me with a name like I still
quite I'm so low confused
okay so here's here's the story this guy
Jack Burkman who is a Republican
operative and another Republican I guess
operative or conservative like pro-trump
Twitter guy Jacob wall who's 20 years
old we're announcing that they have a
woman who claims that she was raped
right was it raped or sexually assaulted
by robert muller 20 or 30 years ago and
they got the information from surefire
intelligence which turns out to be jacob
wools creation where he created a
website with all pictures that he stole
from the internet to supposedly be his
investigators like there was it be
easily the the chief of the israeli
bureau was a israeli supermodel Bar
Refaeli
the head of Zurich who is the actor
who's the head of the Zurich branch and
sure-fire was a Christoph Waltz yeah
Christoph Waltz and he took these
pictures that didn't realize that people
could identify who they were and then at
the Prescott they do that the press
conference well here he is at the press
conference he did something like it
where he supposedly had a picture of him
with the woman who claimed to have
written this affidavit claiming she was
assaulted by Muller and it turns out
people searched it it's his girlfriend
[Laughter]
yes and it's also it's taken skirl
friend in her like fifties right because
if this happened 30 years ago in 1974
presumably that woman would had to have
been you know over 20 he said Oh Keith
he's a no Keith's territory now Oh
totally its own up that dream what is
this clip of him this is a clip of him
at the press conference there's a few
clips at the press conference yeah okay
this is him talking cuz people are
giving him grief like you say you're a
longtime experienced investigator you're
20 Washington Post reported that mr.
Muller
they re reporting that mr. Muller was at
jury duty as to discredit this accuser
that's why they rerecord it that's why
it's going around real quick real quick
excuse me excuse me
rather than double-checking and saying
wait a second was the only a jury duty
sometimes people go to jury duty but
they're also somewhere else was the only
no one set up is hang on it's not funny
this is not a laughing matter
there you go he anticipated your laugh
there Andy
he's got rookies your basis haircut from
the eighties here is when they start
asking him about his age and how he
could have so much experience as an
investigator
experience and where did you get this
honorary Harvard Law degree Canada I
think it's a figure of speech
he apparently claimed the add an
honorary Harvard Law degree and of
course that's a figure of speech right
yeah I hope never ends and I mean like
how many times have you used that figure
of speech
that you have an honorary Harvard Law
degree if you were if he wearing
something from Star Trek The Next
Generation he should have had it
sunglasses on it's like the Terminator
all right let's go he's the harbor what
Andy just help me out here how would you
use honorary Harvard Law degree as a
figure of speech in a sentence you know
it's like it's like I have a you know
it's like a you know I couldn't do it
it's an expression it's an expression
that's what it is stop being such a
Harvard honorary law degree that doesn't
work
are you hungry god I'm like our area law
degree I'm so hungry I'm starved and I
ate my honorary Harvard Law degree a new
Congress are you tired
I'm so tired I could get a Harvard
honorary law degree I also have an
honorable fake mentioned from yell there
you go
all right here we go it's a figure of
speech
[Laughter]
like I said I've done a handful of
matters I've done a handful of matters
like this over the years my you know my
mission here is not to establish a
narrative it's not to follow an agenda
is to bring forth hang on hang on excuse
me it's to bring forth the facts and let
the facts speak for themselves and
that's what we've done here Jack Burkman
steps in and he is giggling like I don't
understand what the hell this is about
he who's using the excuse that the trump
patent did excuse me that's it as
Trump's signature line they're all a
dummy it's all gotten insane Andy I like
this I love this Jacob wall now look at
him wouldn't you go from this where does
someone go from there
I where does he where does he go uh this
is amazing so he he put on where is this
is this on Twitter that he put it up it
looks like he blogged this out so he
like did like Microsoft Paint over her
face and put it up on his blog okay so
he says below is a photo of wall and the
accuser who at this time is fearful of
her life and requests to remain
anonymous
this is upon arriving in Washington DC
she panicked and boarded a flight to
another occasion he posted this picture
of him with the accuser and then
somebody again found that same picture
and it turns out to be his girlfriend
and there's also a lot of interesting
saluting going on the ceiling was
identified as in LAX and not in any DC
airports this guy should never leave
that green screen is all careers
now when do you think like at what point
like do you think like what do you think
happens to this guy cuz am i I would say
I would bet within a couple years this
is a guy who's going to be made
a boatload of money doing some
right-wing thing like project sort of
Veritas or something like that I mean
we're so Keith knows they'll keep though
keep tearing it up
well killing it O'Keefe had apparently
got a volunteer of baito O'Rourke's on
camera saying something to the effect of
like what was it was a bait O'Rourke's
or gillum's he got some volunteer he did
a high camp person to those I think he's
got he's got he's got volunteers four
candidates saying stuff that's
inappropriate you know like people who
sign up to volunteer like literally one
of like the thousands of people and then
he refers to them as staffers but
they're usually like their unpaid
volunteers oh god please let this be
funny
next Wednesday morning yeah no kidding
