how much do you suppose voter
suppression played in the elections also
I'm concerned that any request that the
house makes will be contested by the
white house until it's brought the
Supreme Court where the president will
get away with everything I'm afraid this
president will do whatever he wants and
like a slow-moving accident all we can
do is watch well look I don't see it
that I mean I think that's probably true
and I still think you can bleed him out
politically right like I think that will
register in 2020 if the house is doing
aggressive smart oversight of all of the
endless number of things coming out of
this White House and then I mean we are
already in a fundamentally undemocratic
place and if it needs to be spelled out
for people like that in the process of
embarrassing and and raging Trump then
great I mean I'm not saying I mean I
wish we weren't in this situation to
begin with but even the worst case
scenario now is a better scenario than
it was before
of course Attorney General Jeff Sessions
has been forced out and he should be
primarily remembered as a guy who
explicitly took the gloves off of police
departments there was some modest
reforms under Obama and holder arising
out of the events in Ferguson the rising
up of activism across the country police
might I have never called mr. figures
Moyne I never quite believed that denial
Jeff Sessions also was or an architect
and really really should be probably his
primary policy achievement was forcing
families apart of the border the torture
and imprisonment the terror campaign of
the children especially but innocent
families generally at the border he was
an arch far-right neo Confederate who
waged campaigns and also empowered
anti-muslim bigots and you know if
Donald Trump wasn't of course
of course Donald Trump is a white
supremacist and a racist and so on but
clearly his primary anxieties and
motivations are around his own personal
self-protection and enrichment and
protecting himself from various criminal
probes and so on and so forth and you
know
sessions didn't protect him on that with
this Muller probe so he freaked Trump
out but there is really no other way to
think of Jeff Sessions than as a primary
instrument of the worst of American life
and really the only good thing that came
out of him the past couple years was his
refusal which he should get no credit
for it was the obvious thing to do he
literally was involved in these
investigations himself he needed to do
that and only somebody with an absolute
criminal view of the universe like
Donald Trump would be upset that
sessions didn't recuse himself and the
only other thing that sessions
contributed was it was pretty funny
watching Trump abuse and bullying as
owning and dunking on Republican cretins
continues to be Donald Trump's greatest
strength two years into his presidency
yeah karma is not tactical but it can be
enjoyable in deed what is the video you
have up here this is the new okay so let
me get to this this is great so you know
on some level that of course it made
sense that Jeff Sessions would be
Trump's Attorney General Jeff Sessions
longtime far-right racist white identity
politics conspiracy theorist neo
Confederate reactionary fueled by
Breitbart and the scum of the Republican
coalition that was of course the same
scum wave that trump roads the
presidency and sessions was an earlier
endorsed and early endorser of donald
trump in other ways it didn't make sense
as an example Donald Trump obviously
rides off in the enthusiasm of the south
but like most good New Yorkers also
seems to think that southern people are
like idiots
he compared Jeff Sessions because of his
diminutive figure and his drawl to a
number of unflattering you know southern
words like hick and I called him mr.
Magoo and so on
and I also have to say that I think Jeff
Sessions lack of business experience was
probably also upsetting the Donald Trump
now the new acting Attorney General is a
guy named Mark Whitacre Matthew Whitaker
rather who looks like and I think it
plays into Trump's psyche because he
literally looks like a bodyguard and
Trump obviously sees the job of the
Attorney General is to protect the
president from you know just basically
endless potentials of exposing mass
criminal wrongdoing no subpoena thank
you you know exactly so the Attorney
General in a sense is a it's really a
big bodyguard when you think about it
and so I think that trumps damaged
psyche is soothed by having a guy who
looks like he should be saying ID please
outside of you know some club in the
Meatpacking District as his AG and
another great thing about Matthew
Whitaker is of course he said that the
Moller investigation has gone way too
far
Trump is obviously itching to shut that
down and could very well cause a
constitutional crisis over the next
coming weeks and months and the real
kicker Matthew Whitaker is an Antep a
 Noir and I'm gonna quote
yes finally some of a business sense I'm
gonna quote now from a report in the
Miami New Times and then we have some
great video of your new acting Attorney
General Whitaker okay today President
Donald Trump fired Attorney General Jeff
Sessions and announced that his chief of
staff Matthew Whitaker would become an
acting Attorney General Whitaker is a
former US attorney in Iowa he was also
involved in a Miami based invention
marketing hello you just say like
invention marketing company is only
gonna come up in like a script of an
Owen Wilson Vince Vaughn vehicle from
2003 or four or in a Federal Trade
Commission case and indeed um
and I'm back to the article in a Miami
based invention marketing company that
the Fed
trade commission shut down last year
after calling it a scam regulations
getting in the way of small businessman
get off our backs Whittaker not only sat
on the board is the world patent
marketing the best people in their world
patent barn if you come to the right
place welcome to the world hey do you
have a great idea that's real patents
ever seen do you have a great idea and
one more credit card that we could
possibly extend out it's the future to
defraud you just a quick sidebar did you
see the story where Ivanka had been
granted a number of patents by the
Chinese government including one for
voting machines no I did not dig into
that it sounds like another great piece
of deal-making there look at her
Whittaker not only sat on the board of
the world patent marketing but also once
sent a threatening email to a former
customer who had complained after he
spent thousands of dollars and did not
receive promises promised services I
like what I'm hearing Matthew
court records obtained by the tyent by
the New Times for 2017 feature about the
fraudulent company shows that in August
2015 email to a disgruntled customer
Whittaker touted his background as a
former federal attorney and suggested
that filling filing a complaint with the
Better Business Bureau and quote unquote
smearing the company online could result
in quote serious civil and criminal
consequences the the the new patent the
the acting Attorney General also
evaluated a razor invention submitted to
world patent marketing in the video the
customer share Don's Vimeo account three
years ago proclaiming that it had quote
a simple but a unique design Scott
Cooper the CEO and founder of world
patent marketing donated 2600 to
Whitaker's 2014 Senate campaign just one
hundred shy of limit for an individual
to a candidate donate to a candidate
internet internal records show the
company paid him nearly ten thousand
before the company was
shuddered and the company collected
almost 26 million dollars by promising
back to the quote starry-eyed investors
it would turn their inventions into best
sellers oh yeah so this was of course an
incredible yeah I mean a federally
documented scam and here is some footage
now of the acting Attorney General the
guy who's about to plunge us into a
constitutional crisis most likely by
shutting down a criminal probe an
independent an investigation to the
president and associates around him for
of course a potential relationship to
the Russians but again as I always say
you have a team of money-laundering
experts combing through Donald Trump's
finances which means that you will
probably find everything from like fake
you know scams to raise money for like
the little league that didn't go the
little league to like I don't know
laundering money for Panamanian cartels
like could you guess any other things
that they would probably find roaming
through Donald Rumsfeld keroth you
Whittaker you know I think thinking of
Mark Whitacre is I think Mark Whitacre
was the the guy in the Archer Daniels
Midland case who exposed fraud at that
company but was also defrauding the
company himself it's a good movie it's
called the informant with Matt Damon
Train swim trained the swamp this is
Matthew Whitaker telling you about a
great adventure of swivel sea because
it's a unique design that's gonna help
lots of people that have mobility issues
get in and use their hot tub in a safe
manner play that one more time please
this is the acting Attorney General who
will probably shortly be throwing our
country into a constitutional crisis
that's a billion dollar idea if math
you'll see because it's a unique design
that's gonna help lots of people that
mobility issues get in and use their hot
tub in a safe manner it doesn't look
very safe to me it looks literally like
a school chair that has been like
platform and nailed on to the edge of a
hot tub which could break off at any
moment looks like a good way to dump
some like right like you know somebody
Mobley challenged into a hot tub it
looks like a good example for a Steve
Bannon hooker Joe nobody would insure
this in event yeah it is the perfect
invention for a fraudster Trump the wine
guy though in Florida you know who else
was a patent clerk Albert Einstein yeah
but they did say anything bad about him
see that's how unfair I'm treated by the
media everybody says Albert Einstein's a
great guy but meanwhile he's gonna
figure out nuclear fusion he's gonna
figure out a cheap position but all of a
sudden it's a big joke because you're so
hateful
is there a doctored video with a
majority report calls him something
anti-semitic that Breitbart did you
could send around I'm just trying to
imagine Albert Einstein review in a
patent submission for a swivel chair on
a I don't even know what it's the Albert
Einstein voice some type of like what
was he Swiss Swiss Jewish man this is
the this is really good because they are
the common language always I have the
first step to work language one this is
very insane because there are people who
cannot access the hot tubs because of a
disability
it's a shame that history went a little
bit different we might remember German
voice as Albert Einstein voice and that
that is really the party not always
right because I'm doing that voice and
I'm like should I be saying something
disgusting and anti-semitic versus
cracking code of the universe in this
genteel way
