so Scott in the last segment you were
walking us through the census question
case of the Supreme Court you were
walking us through the gerrymander case
which was far more devastating one last
question on the gerrymandering now that
we know that John Roberts is basically
given a green light to the most
egregious partisan gerrymandering that
anyone can think up of it's basically
like there is we are standing down
you guys go to town where does that
leave us in terms of state legislators
deferring to independent commissions
that might be set up by the state
legislature or by referendum to draw
these districts is that still viable
because seven years ago John Roberts
said in a decision that those were not
legitimate because the state legislators
could not delegate this authority what
about now you know Roberts at least seem
to back off that so that you know and
obviously you know partly I would I
would suspect in response to Kagan whose
dissent was pretty devastating you know
he both said you know essentially state
courts could deal with this state
legislators can deal with this and he
also suggested that federal legislation
could deal with this although given his
record about the Voting Rights Act I
wouldn't know if if those can't get
pointed out there have been plenty of
proposals none of which passed and if
you get a Congress that can pass that I
wouldn't bet that Roberts wouldn't find
something wrong with it but at least on
its face you know he did leave open a
bunch of state tools and there certainly
are things that states can do but there
is a real sort of collective action
problem here which is that you know
generally states like California
Colorado you know have fair nonpartisan
redistricting but they can't do anything
about states like North Carolina and
Wisconsin and when it comes to you know
reapportioning you know for House
districts what that means is that the
fair your state's elections
what representation you're the the
Preferences of your voters get at the
national level so a situation where you
know California fairly represents both
parties but red states don't is actually
not you know that's not really a
solution to the problem at least
federally so and it's a real dilemma for
blue states because I think Democrats
are right to think that election should
be fair that if people vote for
Republicans Republicans to get
representation in those areas but
there's going to be a real temptation
like well why shouldn't California be
just as egregiously gerrymandered as
North Carolina and that's exactly why
the Supreme Court should have you this
is where you need a federal solution
that solves the problem right it's not
really something that could be solved on
a state-by-state basis it requires you
know a uniform federal standards that
everybody is treated fairly okay we only
have about four or five minutes left
here I want to talk about two other
cases that's a Gundy and Keizer or
Wilkie these are cases that are going to
implicate or could implicate down the
road the ability of regulatory agencies
to do their jobs explain to us yeah
we'll be you know to start with a
slightly happier one first the Kaiser
case um Kagan was able to put together a
narrow majority to keep the rule that
you know basically the courts to defer
to agencies interpretations of their own
ruling you know how much that means I
don't know in the sense that you know
the rule is written narrowly enough that
you know more or less if if the Supreme
Court you know it doesn't say that you
know it's unlimited deference so whether
that'll actually stop the court from
doing anything it wants to do I don't
know but it's significant a sense that
you know there was an invitation to
overrule two precedents that would have
overruled that rule and and Roberts
didn't go along so you know I guess it's
just said it's better than the
alternative that we illustrate to us
what the practical application of that
rule might look like just hypothetically
right yeah so basically it's you know
that that the idea is that you know if
an agency is sort of you know construing
its own regulation what you know some
libertarians have always wanted is for
the courts to say you know we don't care
you know executive agencies can't really
be trusted you know we need the courts
to impose their own view of whether
regulations are valid and you know
essentially the court declined to do you
know basically said no we should defer
to when when agencies are interpreting
their own rule
we should we should give them deference
but again that's not you know there are
exception I know the interpretation has
to be reasonable so you know I don't
know whether practically that really met
you know that it could be that the
president's remained in force but
Roberts is just willing to say more
willing to say that the interpretations
are reasonable but again it's better you
know they they could have overruled
those presidents and they didn't so you
know I would say that it's certainly
better than the alternative you know
we'll have to see how it plays out
but you know and I I would say that
that's the best outcome they could have
been hope for their so the other case
that's relevant in this respect gun D so
this is more disturbing so there are a
couple cases in the 30s in which the
Supreme Court tried to impose something
called non delegation doctrine that they
struck down executive actions that you
know on the grounds that that Congress
had given too much power to the
executive it hasn't really made up all
struck well in this case was a classic
you know but but it's been ignored for
the last eighty four years and in this
case you know Congress many may in my
view a bad decision but a decision it
could make by retro actively applying a
base sex offender registration statute
and it just told the Department of
Justice to do so you know when as soon
as it was practical so it's the classic
you know we made a policy choice but we
rely on your expertise to say is that
does that take hundred days that take a
year well three justices including
Roberts held that this was an
unconstitutional delegation and
Cavanaugh was not on the court yet and
really disturbingly Alito filed a a
concurrence just in the judgment but
basically said there's no point in
making an exception for this case but if
we're willing to radically reconsider
and bring back Conn delegation doctrine
then I would be on board what that
probably means is that as soon as
Cavanaugh can hear a case we're about to
see a revival of non delegation doctrine
and if you think about that case you
know what happened in this case happens
all the time
you know virtually all environmental
regulation in the United States is
copias senators on Congress creates a
goal and it's up for the experts in the
EPA to flush that out you know Congress
can't do the testing to find out
Mercury's too toxic how do you address
that problem we want clean air we want
clean air we're gonna leave it up to the
scientists to determine what what
constitutes clean air essential right
you know I'm not yeah there's a million
games like that that when you're
regulating fisheries you know you have
to be caught you have to work with local
Univision where omni fish are available
how dangerous the technology you know
how does that rule work do we have to
change it you know the idea that
Congress can make all of these decisions
for even one area let alone all of them
just observe and again if you think of
the facts of this case your Congress
made a clear policy judgment then again
I don't think it's a good policy
judgment of course is that right but
that's not the job of the courts to
decide and or if you want to decide our
due process grounds fine but it's just
you know if you can't even do that if
you can't say look it's up to the
Department of Justice to determine how
currently they could do that you know
who just create chaos for well the
regulatory framework you should say it's
a full frontal assault on the regulatory
framework and we will see if the
Republicans are able basically to make
these regulatory agencies in the future
completely defamed and incapable of
carrying out broad principles and
instructions from Congress Scott Lomu
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it
