7:03 area code who are you where you
coming from
hi my name is Nathan hey what's up
Nathan what's going on uh well thanks
for taking my call I denied this get on
love what you guys do just good I live
in Virginia and I talk a little bit in
the cafes and salons of the DC area
my fellow millennial use about you know
what we want to do with our lives and
stuff and a couple of us are actually
you know getting going
I think the underpinning of this entire
conversation is the most critical thing
we can do is you know I'm energized and
engage people like us and who share our
ideas and our hopes and our goals to get
as involved in the electoral process as
possible because you know that's
ultimately going to be the lever that
we're going to need to pull to effect
some positive change and yeah I'd say
even down here that majority of people
you know they want people to have health
care you know for free because they get
sick sometimes there's a base level of
and going to the whole can you have a
conversation with the you know the magg
of pizza gate those guys I don't think I
look at it this way and I'm trying to
see if you like this and out there for
you you could basically assume one of
the four people you know wouldn't know
their best interest if it hit him in the
face I select it you know nowadays there
are just so many of us why law of large
numbers and social media access and the
stupid like Jesus said the stupid you
will always have with you but as long as
we energize I think the majority of
people like us no I totally get they
totally I even hundred percent agree
with that yeah pessimism about people in
general is the sign of me of a
reactionary a latent reactionary
worldview I agree and I think and I yeah
and I understand why some people on the
left like I get I understand why he
you can get disgusted and upset and I
understand that but if you don't
fundamentally have a trust like I think
that's one of the things again that
actually I think is incredibly admirable
and important about a guy like Lula
right I was just reading a profile a
liberation theologian just visited him
in prison in May and wrote about like
his meeting with Lula and you know like
and this isn't just because
Lula literally did lift 30 million
people out of poverty he's like he's
like yeah my policy has to be of and
directed to the people to the extent
it's possible that's the whole reason
that's my measure of greatness in
politics period and that attitude like
fundamentally one of optimism about
people and especially when you look at
like you know the class reaction of
Brazil and just even in the you know
utter hypocrisy of all of these people
who are you know criminally compromised
in ways that are vastly more serious in
many cases than anything who has even
been accused of the subtext is like
people suck like you're not born from
the right place you're not of the right
race you're not of the right gender
you're not of the right training and
therefore like you're less than if
you're over left you have to believe
that humans you are endowed with um you
know minds with the spirits with
capacity and that you want them to an
unalienable right in the rights you want
them to be to live to their capacity as
much as possible and you want them to do
well and in order to want that for as
many people as possible you have to
think then most people are there right
like none of us are perfect
yeah unless are really bad but a
lot of us are actually pretty good and I
don't yeah I really policy should always
I don't see how you can always be geared
towards increasing that you know the
average you know societal utility of you
know a member of that society because
that's what the guy
exists for is you know endowed by and
empowered by and the reason it exists
like it's we out in the place
right let's just you know start acting
like we own it word I appreciate the
comment thank you what do you say oh
well I was gonna say that our current
system of food why democracy was founded
mainly to protect private property true
definitely but that doesn't mean we
can't take control of the this machinery
and I will still want democracy advanced
democratic socialist few I will still
want democracy like no and will still
want you know by the way like I I want
to still absolutely one out so a certain
decision making I don't want to be on
every single committee I'm gonna want to
vote for certain people to make certain
decisions in a transparent and clarified
way that's for me I don't want to go to
meetings all day I want to have
a socialism I do
I am absolutely Oscar Wilde on that my
vision of the future probably has more
meetings but that's problem might be a
tough sell I think I think one of our
core divisions inside socialism is being
a mess with me on a much lower end
everything's probably
