[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
this is the normal world you go to work
in a city all around you are enormous
new buildings they look alike but you
will never be able to afford to live in
them because they are not really homes
they are blocks of money bought by
global investors whose money has nowhere
else to go
[Music]
brexit home
it showed that all the people who are
supposed to tell you about the world the
journalists the politicians the
think-tank experts know nothing
[Music]
greetings comrades friends and enemies
this is the Michael Brooks show I am
Michael Brooks were broadcasting live
from downtown Brooklyn USA we're left as
best as it is everywhere else with super
producer matt black hello chief
economist David Gris
how's it going sir producer David Slovak
in the digital sphere in the
ever-growing ever-expanding TMDs
universe on this week's program
Alex Perrine returns the great
journalists to talk about the collapse
of the American elites the a moral
parade of decadence Brett Kavanaugh
Donald Trump plus what would the
Democratic Party do if it actually
wanted to win what does that strategy
look like maybe statehood for Washington
DC may be voting rights for Puerto Rico
all that and much more with Alex Perrine
plus Bernie Sanders outlines a legit
global left vision hot off the heels of
our conversation with Daniel best 'nor
last week it's called Posadas it's
called wait for aliens to calm down read
the climate report were totally
no he had a more optimistic message than
that on confronting global oligarchy
reorienting from global Empire and
rights and justice for all that plus
matlick regulates Griscom talks
economics still defying the orders of
Richard Wolff we have a whole lot to get
to in the postgame including the gulag
because that's where it goes now but I
will tell you that nikki Haley the ever
right word ever war mongering every
Trump enabling but of course called a
moderate because I don't know she didn't
spit at the Palestinian delegation at
the UN nikki Haley is resigned and we
will be talking about that and placing
her where she belongs in the postgame
she's also ever a self-described lucky
girl that's what you said this morning
can play that clip later if it was Jesus
Christ all that and much much more on
the Michael Brooks show this week thanks
everybody for being here I am fighting a
bit of a cold I apologize uh and I want
to thank before we get to it those of
you some of the TMDs army and a huge
amount of the counter dings militia was
at the Bell House in Brooklyn on Friday
night where I was a featured guest a
little of bomani Jones and Pablo and
some other great people at the count the
ding show I did a panel of Waze a meme
and I did an Obama impression contest
which I clearly won much respect to mean
but I mean let's keep it real welcome
those of you who might be new to the
show fresh off of that show yeah how
does no house yeah definitely let us
know and all love as always to our
comrades over accounted dings and we
have some new plans actually coming for
woke Bros which we'll be letting you
know about soon as well if you're a
person that comes to the show through an
avenue that's not the majority report
like that I I'm especially interested in
the sports Bros from the Oise
enterprises I'm curious like just to
know how once you came they're there
they're definitely yes we are we are
curious absolutely so we got to talk
about Brazil we've been covering Brazil
for a while now from the political
imprisonment of lula da silva the most
important political prisoner in the
world today to the use of an
anti-corruption politics being leveraged
by the far-right and now we saw in this
past week
elections the terrifyingly close almost
outright first round round win by Jerry
are bolsa narrow the fascist candidate
who leads in brazil's elections we've
talked about how horrible he is before
and there needs to be a greater strategy
obviously to confront him and everything
that he and Trump and the whole rest of
the cabal of them represent but let's do
a little bit of reira view of just who
this person is we'll start with a photo
of balsa narrows son eduardo this is him
with Steve Bannon he tweeted this
yesterday I believe her over the weekend
it was a pleasure to meet Steve Bannon
strategist and Donald Trump's
presidential campaign we had great
conversations and we share the same
worldview he said he said to be an
enthusiast in balsa narrows campaign and
we are certainly in touch to join forces
especially against cultural Marxism for
those of you who questioned why this
show makes an effort to be as global as
we do not only for the rightness of the
cause of serious labor politics social
democracy combating police violence in
Brazil just as we do in the United
States and the political imprisonment
imprisonment of a world-renowned labor
leader and the greatest president in
Brazil's history we also do it because
we recognize like the fascists
recognized that these are globally
synchronised tightly interconnected
events and that so goes the most
powerful nation in Latin America has an
implication for us this is why during
the hegemonic reign of the Third Way in
the late 1990s in their early aughts
Bill Clinton Tony Blair Gerhard schr√∂der
and other neoliberal privatizing
jettisoning New Deal and social
democracy centrists globally coordinated
because they wanted to set a global
pattern that's what Steve Bennett is
attempting to do we're gonna get back to
the aschen among thing in a second I now
also want to play this clip of Dilma
Rousseff this is an interview she did
with democracy now in 2016
she of course her and
each mint on budget irregularities was a
major part of the process of what we see
happening today in Brazil but she spoke
specifically about Junior bolson ro
dedicating his vote in the Congress to
impeach her to the man who tortured her
see DOMA Rousseff was a guerrilla
fighter against Brazil's military
dictatorship and she was tortured by a
notorious torturer balsan ro dedicated
his vote to remove her from office to
the man who tortured her
this is former President Dilma Rousseff
explaining that in 2016 - Amy Goodman
also see - yes I can indeed the far
right in Brazil like the far right
everywhere it's anti-woman
anti black anti indigenous persons and
it is in favor of ending all oversight
and they struggled for this they want to
end any oversight of labor work
situations analogous to slavery that
continue to exist in Brazil there are
full of prejudice and intolerance and
they believe that they can resolve the
most complex problems using brute force
of violence open violence what happened
in the vote in the impeachment process
that I suffered
well legislator Paulson ara cast his
vote paying tribute to the military
dictatorship and torture and the torture
whose name was Carlos Alberto pre haunt
a ultra in casting his vote
he paid tributes to this man who was a
torturer in Sao Paulo and he was
recognized in all of the processes of
truth and justice that unfolded in
Brazil he said the following to pay
tribute to someone who brought terror to
President Dilma Rousseff a person who is
capable during an impeachment proceeding
to justify his vote in this manner is a
person who sews hatred he spreads hatred
because he only understands one language
so that was Dilma Rousseff and as Noam
Chomsky recently pointed out after
visiting Lula to Brazil's power
structure imprisoning Lula is not enough
they want to ensure the population as it
prepares to vote cannot hear from him at
all they're apparently willing to use
any mechanism to accomplish that goal
the irony is of course that for years
the Workers Party governed in a moderate
social democratic manner that paid off
IMF loans that was courteous and
courting of global capital not just from
the United States however also with
agreements with China Iran as well which
certainly would not please the United
States as well as of course programs
that I always say that significantly
reduced poverty and empowered workers
and also did some small steps though not
enough to protect the Amazon and the
global environment of which both
scenario has threatened to overturn
those steps as well the real key
question here though and one again that
has implications for all of us
especially if as an example
somehow Bernie Sanders becomes a
Democratic nominee in 2020 is where do
we sit with liberals in the global
struggle against fascism there are some
on what we call the dum-dum left who are
almost welcoming of fascism to expose
the hypocrisy of neoliberalism this is
both politically catastrophic
historically illiterate and morally
unhinged that however there's a major
division inside liberals that is Jean
Basel on contributor to this show and
professor at Missouri State University
has noted many times do liberals think
that Marxism is the threat to democracy
quote unquote democracy or the left or
they understand that fascism is are they
so attached to elitism manners and
capitalism that they're willing to
jettison everything else in the pursuit
of those concerns at the expense of
everything else
Brazil's elite is showing that they
absolutely are willing to jettison those
concerns and in fact a guy like Lula
would have governed first of all he
would have won this race he was leading
with a comfortable double-digit lead
over bolson ro
he would have governed as a great
national reconciler he would have yest
started to reverse austerity and do
things for the poor but he also would
have done good things for the investment
environment they rejected that because
of an irrational hatred of him rooted I
think no doubt in class resentments that
somebody who had no education that
somebody who was a metal worker that
somebody who didn't have the elite
training was more intelligent and
globally recognized and accomplished
than they are and Rica Cardozo the
former president of Brazil who was a
arch neoliberal and friend ndon Third
Way has publicly announced that he will
not commit to endorsing Haddad over
bolsa narrow in the second round of
voting even though jr. bowls a narrow
and one of his greatest hits an addition
to telling a woman legislator that she
wasn't attractive enough to rape to
talking about disowning and maybe even
beating and whipping children if they
were gay said that the problem with the
military dictatorship is that they
didn't kill enough people they tortured
too many people and one of the top
people they had to kill was Henrique
Cardoso now Cardozo would not even
commit to voting against Molson ro this
is the sickness of a certain type of
liberal elite whose end of the day
allegiance is to capital and social
standing and not democracy and it also
shows up in delusional fatuous false
equivalencies this is Yasha Munk a tweet
from him Yasha Munk has worked for Tony
Blair at his Institute on on renewing an
open society he's been a fellow at
Harvard he has written and writes
extensively on the threat of
authoritarianism ironically many of his
solutions to those problems are social
democratic but he has no desire to
actually do anything that would allow
for those solutions to actually be
implemented namely take back democracy
this is what he put out yesterday I
don't know if we have this tweet up for
about a decade late in America seemed to
be Latin America seem to be turning away
from populism and authoritarianism this
trend is now running in Reverse and
bowls and arrow wins leaders with
authoritarian leanings will rule two of
the continents most populous and
important countries Brazil and Mexico
that's right he just compared Ella's
lapid or amlo the next president of
Mexico who ran a moderate populist
anti-corruption the left-wing human
rights oriented campaign who
successfully governed Mexico City who
has never talked about killing
indigenous people who has never made
racist comments who's never talked about
raping a legislator who's never talked
about whipping a gay child who has said
that his main aim is to deal with
poverty but apparently
Jasha monks delusional worldview is
willing to equate these things in an
insane misleading false equivalency if
we are to save democracy in Brazil in
this election the second round is on the
28th of October is no doubt gonna need a
broad united front of which the other
center-left candidates Ciro Gomes and
and others have already committed to
supporting the Workers Party candidate
haddad in stopping fascism the centrist
party of Cardozo has said that they will
remain neutral although partially there
are some strategic calculations behind
that and Henrique Cardoso himself has
revealed himself as a total amoral
monster of the first order those of us
on the Left need to recognize that our
prime enemies are those on the right
here's another example of this this is a
photo taken of explain who this is David
it's it's one of the members of both
scenarios party who I believe won
yeah he won a seat in Congress yeah and
so there he is he's ripping up a
campaign sign of Mariela Franco and then
in Mariela Franco was the city councilor
for the Socialist Party for a socialist
party who was assassinated six months
ago in a professional hit her and her
driver were murdered her killers have
still not been apprehended he's tearing
up one of her signs this happened within
a couple of days ago Lula is traveling
bus in the spring before he went to
prison and politically trumped-up
charges was shot at
so we need to recognize that right now
in an emergency situation defeating
fascism is of the first order there's no
coming back from that there's no second
order to that but we also need to
realize that liberals who play any false
equivalency now and value their standing
over democracy we can't call them right
word or liberal anymore
they are simply polite fascists and
fundamentally part of the danger and the
problem and that's what we'll see play
out in Brazil over the next couple of
weeks as we continue to have solidarity
and hope that this election can be
pulled out with Fernando Haddad
defeating jr. bolson ro and a broad
vague anti-corruption politics will
never lead us where we need to go do we
want to do this now we were gonna do in
the postgame let's do I think yeah okay
and this is partially what I'm talking
about here then this is relevant I don't
actually talk about Jimmy Dore much on
this show I talked about I talked about
him once a couple months ago cuz he was
passive aggressively saying some stuff
about panel I was on and I someone
brought this video to my attention
though and I'm stunned honestly because
I would at least want to give Jimmy
credit I've seen him saying hey well you
should question the official net well he
says question official narrative in
Syria in ways that are totally wrong
stupid conspiratorial and overlooked war
crimes but I don't know overlooked
official narratives in Venezuela which
for all my immense criticisms of Maduro
I think is extremely important we always
need to look at the u.s. hand in
Venezuela and of course in attacking the
left across Latin America I haven't seen
Jimmy say anything about Brazil but
apparently he put this video out a year
ago if you noticed something this video
starts in the middle of basically a
infomercial for the lawyers who did the
carwash investigation which ended with
Lula being put in prison let's play this
no rope shown
lava jato has become a work of art
itself with broad support of the public
lava shot Oh bumper stickers are
everywhere
judge Moro has become a folk hero and
Delton has a best-selling book
on the operation I wrote this book to
say that we are not heroes in this case
and car wash case is only the first step
lava jato is an attitude in Brazil now
it's a ray of hope and it's an example
for young prosecutors young judges that
they can make a difference and we hope
that we have success in the legal
procedures but the success of change in
the mindset is already happening we live
in a window of opportunity for changes
and we are committed to use any chance
any possibility to make things better in
Brazil and doing so is a matter that is
up to everybody
[Music]
Wow that's kind of a I don't know that
kind of that's amazing yeah no that's
amazing I want to get a lava jato
t-shirt yeah yeah I really want one so
lava jato that's carwash I guess in
Bruce whatever they speak Spanish but I
think they speaks Portuguese all right I
don't want to be too much of an
about the last part and overlook the
actual point here okay and this is what
we mean by aimless vague depoliticized
quote-unquote populism
what did carwash actually reveal well
carwash undoubtedly revealed massive
corruption across Brazilian politics
although it was weaponized to target one
party a party the Workers Party which is
simply not designed purely as a
patronage system for corruption all the
other a lot of the other parties
involved in it literally were but I
quote now from Brian mayor of Brazil
wire it's no secret that American
corporations have immensely benefited
from operation carwash the international
corruption investigation that was
initiated in partnership between the US
Department of Justice the SEC the local
Public Prosecutor's Office in curitiba
paran√° and the brazilian external police
american petroleum corporation such as
exxon mobil and chevron are benefiting
from michele government a Michelle Tamra
government systemic dismantling a
privatization tammer
is the right-wing vice president who
stabbed Dilma Rousseff in the back who
has multiple corruption allegations
against him including ones that are
infinitely more substantiated than
anything presented about Lula he's the
current president of Brazil implementing
a vicious austerity plan which is thrown
millions back into poverty and is
rolling back labor rights as part of
this beautiful new mindset that car wash
opened up in Brazil the Michelle the
government's systemic dismantling and
privatization and below market rates of
Petrobras and its massive or Shell Oil
offshore oil reserves and with MP 7575 a
law which will give 300 billion in tax
abatements the foreign company extract
thing company's extracting Brazilian
Petroleum then goes on to talk about how
Boeing and other companies benefit from
this and how this connects to Hillary
Clinton's support for the 2009 coup and
Honduras that judge Sergio Moro who was
had the soft music under him in the clip
has been actually publicly castigated
for leaking multiple recordings in an
attempt to embarrass worker parties
members in illegally not supposed to do
this outside of his remit several months
ago when one regional court judge
ordered that Lula be released from
prison Sergio Moro refused to comply
with the order in another act of a
legality last weekend he released
another tape recording in an effort to
hurt the Workers Party which now as we
know is literally the only choice
between fascism and democracy in Brazil
but I guess it's part of this new
beautiful mindset briefly board from
Brian Mayer the following timeline is
meant to further public understanding a
relationship between the u.s. department
of justice to 2016 and the political
imprisonment of Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva which is Glenn Greenwald points
out was obviously done to prevent him
from running for the presidency this
year in a situation in which he is still
the front-runner in spite of being held
in solitary confinement and illegally
prevented from giving interviews for the
past four months
so my suggestion is that you do
a little bit of area research
and you read a little bit about how
actually operation car wash was part of
a right-wing plan and strategy
leverage to defeat social democracy and
labor unions and create a political
prisoner in Brazil or I don't
know maybe we just want to be useful
idiots for fascists globally yeah I
would suggest that if someone's I mean
not that fighting corruption is a bad
thing but if someone's suggesting that
they're fighting corruption is going to
make life better for the average person
on the street and they're not talking
anything about redistribution or things
like that then they're probably not
somebody you should just trust because
they have what is corruption exactly
it's like well that's the question is
like whenever you hear somebody talk
about these kind of like general
concepts like you know
like justice in the abstract like the
question have to ask it's justice for
whom and it's very clear who this
service of justice has been benefiting
which has been the right wing American
corporations and people who are
political enemies of Lula and also it's
been used actually to target left
leaders across Latin America without a
doubt yes yeah no I mean it you know
these things are definitely very
targeted and it's something that's you
know we really need to make sure
especially people who are claimed to be
on the left to be a little bit smarter
about that because this is something
that has been used historically across
the board these kind of bold claims for
these universal values or these you know
systemic understands like we don't see
these things as individual will know
there are power structures behind all of
these things and it's important to
recognize what is motivating what is
making these movements happen and
clearly we can see in Brazil is that you
know a popular democratically elected
leader and then someone who's leading in
the polls was prevented from taking
power to give an opportunity to the
right wing which through the entire
Workers Party into complete disarray
right and which and look and and if you
want have a left critique you the
Workers Party it's one of you know
demobilization of their base and of
making arrangements with existing
corrupt orders which is the fundamental
problem of any oligarchic capitalist
society but this populism that has these
generalized moral statements and vague
complaints will be harnessed by the
right wing we literally see this in
Italy the five star movement was a
populist party not left not right
it had a fusion of some some elements of
Pro labor environmental anti corporate
order with some willingness to be very
reactionary and racist on on issues of
immigration they've partnered with the
Northern League a full fascist party and
guess who runs that show
guess who's relevant in that government
that's how this works and you
listen to the soft music and all this
nonsense the upshot of that
investigation is austerity the selective
use of corruption prosecutions and
paving away for a guy who says the
problem with the military dictatorship
was that they tortured too many people
didn't kill enough
while you're off just like yeah it's
 corruption I mean to see the
game that's being played by some members
of the Brazilian elite and Brazilian
rich is really really frightening to say
that you would play this kind of game
with an absolute like authoritarian
thuggish person just to prevent some
very moderate social democratic
platforms from being implemented in
Brazil and you know there is a good left
leftist critique of the PT and it says
it's one of these things when you when
you look at what happened in in Brazil
you see that they're not like these the
elites aren't even willing to compromise
on just like the most modest right of
platforms because you know that was the
play that was the hope in Brazil was
that you know you could find some common
ground and break through it but they've
been waiting to you know push this
through and now they have the
opportunity and it's very frightening
and no one on the left nobody who calls
himself a leftist should take the
position that was happened to Lula it's
just I'm sorry
no it's disgusting and anytime some
idiot is like oh dude okay but don't you
died yes even if everything that Lula's
accused of doing is Kerr is true yes
right there's no reason that he should
be held in solitary confinement with a
limited visitation right there's no
reason that he shouldn't be able to run
for there's no reason you should be in
prison in the first place
period and you know and there's
certainly no reason that an entire
democratic movement and and party and
structure should be torn down as
punishment for that that's not just
theoretically getting apartment whose
main evidence is based off of statements
of a businessman keeping himself in jail
as flimsy as hell and yes more broadly
yes you know what in a perfect daffodil
strewn world Hillary Clinton wouldn't
make tens of millions dollars speaking
to Wall Street and Barack Obama wouldn't
make tens of millions dollars speaking
to various corporate interests and
former more seriously former Congress
people like buck McKeon wouldn't be
lobbying for Saudi Arabia to commit mass
murder in Yemen and maybe Lula da Silva
wouldn't have an apartment in fact maybe
Brazil which spends the most after the
United States on campaigns and has
profoundly corrupted campaign finance
laws would have radically restructured
campaign limits which would also mean to
have to break up all sorts of corporate
core tells and oligarchies which they
made their peace with in order to win
and by the way how was that covered in
the Western press and the Brazilian
press when they did it
moderation responsibility and being
shrewd and now it's talked about his
corruption they could give Lula the
whole block he listed thirty
forty million people out of poverty and
is the Democratic choice for president
and if you don't get the fundamentals of
what this is you're too naive and you're
too in your own whatever sort of a
leadest bubblegum comfort world to ever
do any kind of politics because you know
that I don't know yeah what what if
Bernie Sanders said so what if he did
inappropriately call some
college on behalf of his wife or
whatever that silly thing they're trying
to make ad what if he did that you know
people including good people sometimes
do things that aren't great and
sometimes also people make compromises
with pre-existing systems to deliver a
greater goods and if you don't get that
I don't know I hope we can kind of sort
of time freeze you in a intro to ethics
class in college for your life or
Florida I mean to complete the analogy
in that in that hypothetical situation
with Bernie the solutions urgently
wouldn't be throw Bernie in there in
prison in an isolation and pull him off
of the balance across the country right
I mean like that certainly would not be
well you know we would want that by the
way if there was a lava jato and Pratt
something like that exists the United
States what top line politician you
think goes to jail first but the same
political mode I was I would say I would
this is educated guess I would say
Collins because she has enriched herself
the most in her senatorial career out of
any sense sitting senator Jeanette who
make that bank cash money
ya know I don't know that for service
well the one by the Brazil case it would
be Bernie would be Bernie all right it's
like Bernie or Warren the banks probably
have like how many how many people
individuals is you think it's their main
job to look at like
Elizabeth Warren for banks to try to
take her down tons without a doubt I
thought it's out I mean it's just that
that naive
like I can't stand it I mean
look I get that it's like distasteful
here to have to make a calculation where
you vote for Hillary Clinton because
Hillary Clinton sucks but the same
perfectionistic logic doesn't work in
that election but then you have like
you're gonna go out to Brazil guy is a
 political prisoner and leader of
a democracy and labor rights movement
it's like oh yeah I wish we had some
far-right prosecutor whose wife is an
oil industry employee who's whose main
upshot of his investigation has been the
likelihood of a fascist getting elected
that would be great I guess granted it
happened last summer so I guess I Jimmy
could have predicted just just I voted
for the candidate who had a green new
deal so I feel proud of myself about
that because you're saying that that's a
great way to get out of this I agree you
know I I guess it's like that's my
equivalent of like Jimmy saying that
like the Supreme Court didn't matter for
Sam that's how you get me out of bed
they're Brazil all right we got
to do the shot out I really get that mm
now let's get down to business
I gotta go now what does this must be a
circus in town let's cut the down
can I get a witness
it's really truly a good poem
is crazy how to control
Bernie Sanders gave an excellent speech
on foreign policy at Johns Hopkins
he spoke about confronting global
oligarchy he spoke about the march of
Trump inspired and Trump synchronized
authoritarianism and he talked about the
obscene amounts of money and corrupt
relationships we have with regard to
military spending and that implications
for how we conduct our foreign policy
here he is specifically talking about
what needs to be done to stop the US UK
UAE Saudi mass murder in Yemen Saudi
Arabia is a country in my view clearly
in recent years
inspired by from Saudi Arabia
let us not again is a despotic
dictatorship that does not tolerate
dissent that treats women as third-class
citizens and has spent the last several
decades exploiting an extremist form of
Islam to countries around the world
Saudi Arabia is currently devastating
the impoverished country of Yemen in a
catastrophic war in alliance with the
United States and by the way while we
talk about Saudi Arabia I'd like to take
a moment to note the disappearance of
Saudi journalist Jamal Pataki a critic
of the Saudi government who was last
seen entering the Saudi consulate in
Istanbul Turkey last Tuesday over the
weekend
Turkish authorities hold reporters that
they not believe the shock he was
learning in the Saudi consulate murder
in a consulate and that his body
disposed of elsewhere we need to know
what happened here if this is true
the Saudi regime murdered murdered a
journalist critic in their own consulate
there must be accountability and there
must be an unequivocal condemnation by
United States and of course there won't
be we'll get to this later but hilarious
if it wasn't such a horrible story of
the murder of Jamal akasaki who was a
very smart analyst I would watch him on
al-jazeera and what's amazing and the
message that they're actually sending to
Saudi dissidents was horrifying because
this guy was a was a friendly critic he
was a critic inside the terms of the
regime Thomas Friedman has been trying
to explain himself
and part of his explanation actually
included some a little bit of a spinning
on the deads grave which was an
interesting move by the old freed stir
but look I'll also quote briefly from a
write-up on CNN this is Sanders on one
hand we see a growing worldwide movement
towards authoritarianism oligarchy and
kleptocracy on the other side we see a
movement towards strengthening democracy
egalitarianism economic social racial
and environmental justice he's exactly
right and what's so great about this and
what Daniel bessner who's of course
essential for this stuff touched on next
week and we're gonna be doing some more
work together so to look forward to that
is that the first step was this idea of
responding to lazy Washington narratives
so the Bernie doesn't have a foreign
policy you know Hillary Clinton's advise
by Henry Kissinger to support in every
single catastrophic invasion imaginable
but that's quote-unquote serious
thinking and what it started with was
Bernie actually just making some
incredibly modest criticisms of Israel
which are actually in line with what
used to be official US foreign policy
with regards to the support for a
two-state solution and now he's expanded
it with being an ardent defender of the
Iran deal which is Barack Obama's
greatest accomplishment which the Trump
administration all Republicans have
steadily and just sort of even by their
standards mind-bendingly lied about more
recently and actually Jeremy Corbyn
started to do this
about a year ago more forcefully was
really say that the global hoarding of
wealth by a transnational elite who
write trade deals in their favor who
have global tax havens set up who are as
everything from major corporations like
Apple to even individuals like say the
wash reef former Pakistani Prime
Minister are hoarding the world's
resources an increasingly interconnected
and yes we could say actually
structurally corrupt relationships and
that a task of a democratic socialist
and humane politics is gonna need to
globally confront that because our
values need to be as mobile as their
capital so shout out to Bernie Sanders
what do we do now for the pitch in this
new age of YouTube authoritarianism
these guys real rules from
YouTube on everything new yeah they're
coming for us totally not good it was
all fun and games when they were just
trying to undermine Pandora but now that
is how that works
people should like explain that well
they'll act as if they didn't have the
capability to monitor and make sure we
couldn't play there's no way that Google
as a global as one of the most advanced
technological enterprises on the planet
had basic robotic software to to read
music of course not sure yeah so like
when we put something like this
underneath for longer than that there's
they knew that we were doing stuff like
that but it made it made our product
better and our product was on their
product and so they would allow that
because it would keep us off of other
people's attention that's right yeah I
mean it's an it's a war for attention
basically so you keep as many people on
YouTube as much as possible if you can't
make money off of it and if and then
when you can start making money off of
it you know you switch on the algorithm
that can test for copyright it's the
attention economy it's incredible it's
like literally technology that really
be like cooked up in a dorm room
we could do it and they and that's the
annoying thing about this is
disingenuous and thankfully we're kind
of leaving this but not soon enough
we're you know Google is helping China
censor stuff right on a massive scale to
a point where you know if we still had a
cold war with I think Taibbi was making
this point we would maybe be outraged by
it but now it's like whatever we got
other to worry about so right the
don't be evil company is now helping
evil on a scale in terms of just raw
numbers of people unparalleled in
history
yeah I think they discreetly stopped
using that tag Lin awhile ago guys it's
time to become a member it's time to
become a patron of the Michael Brooks
show we just give you a massive amount
of extra content elicit histories idea
primers recent ones the rise fall and
rise again of the global super elite
when Megan de maple washing the real
politics of Canada obviously the deep
dives on Brazil South Africa Jamaica
this week the origins of the civil war
in the Great Lakes region in the suit in
the Democratic Republic of Congo and
also a primer introduction to Patrice
Lumumba with one of our great crew
members and regulars Milton al-ahmadi
there's calls with me at the 21 and
above level there's a thriving an active
discord community there of course is
woke Bros is another sort of joint
venture out there's a huge amount of
content and we love being accountable to
you and only you
patreon.com slash t MBS patreon.com
slash t NBS join today we are circling
we see that two thousand goal in our
horizons and we're very excited about it
so do it today it's time for another
edition of regulate with matt luck
[Music]
what is that music oh I'm just enjoying
some music probably funny of you should
just you should you should find you know
you should find some copyright free
reggaeton for you for yourself that
would be good so today we're discussing
two of well a match made in somewhere
steven crowder and Prager University
talking about Columbus Day oh that's
that's rich that's a rich vein yeah so I
don't know if Steven Carter is an
adjunct professor at Prager University
or what he's doing there but we're gonna
play him he's gonna give a little spiel
on Columbus being an expert navigator
and then we're going to you know look at
the history that sounds about right
as far as Columbus goes the guy deserves
some credit right flawed to be sure but
he was the greatest navigator of his age
the first person across the Atlantic
from the continent of Europe and he did
so without any maps and only three small
ships if you can name them by the way
comment below as I'm sure your professor
can't but the professor probably has
taught you the tale of Columbus as a
villain usually the starting off point
to indict the United States as a whole
often relying on a few key myths and
some pivotal lies by omission all right
right and now we're answer to the
distinguished the the chair of not gay
shirts at Prager you yeah so Alan Taylor
who's a historian I'm a big fan of erode
American colonies the settle settling of
North America he writes he wrote this
about good ol Columbus and geographers
had determined that the world had a
circumference of about 24,000 miles
which suggested that Asia lay about
10,000 to 12,000 miles west from Europe
15th century European ships were too
small to carry enough water and food to
sustain their cruise on a 10,000 mile
voyage beyond contact with land breaking
with Geographic orthodoxy Columbus dared
the westward trip to Asia because he
underestimated the world circumference
as only 18,000 miles
which placed Japan a mere 3,500 miles
west of Europe in other words our
critical and potentially fatal mistake
in calculations inspired his eccentric
confidence that he could sail westward
so he deserves some credit that's what
you're trying to say yeah basically for
being a nutcase right like this you're
not doing the usual move which is like
hey maybe we shouldn't honor this guy
because he arrived in the Americas and
immediately started torturing and
murdering people and putting them into
bondage you're saying let's do by your
logic that this guy whatever else you
say about him just super good navigator
and turns out not even that sorry yeah
not so much he was just kind of a
lunatic Catholic yeah just a delusional
 it he wanted yeah he wanted
riches and you know there's a probably a
bunch of other guys that also made
similar misjudgment and then just died
at sea and we don't have days for them
because why would be lucky for the
natives Mamma Mia I mean what an idiot
he thought Japan was 3,000 miles off the
coast of England by the way I love that
Columbus gets dunked on by frat bros
that's great
Columbus was such it oh I know that's
the O'Reilly
that's the O'Reilly on Hitler Columbus
Hillier was such an idiot Columbus who
is such an idiot
do you have that in 1920 in the mirror
Trump is just invading all right we got
it we got to move because the great Alex
cream is gonna join us in a few minutes
but first David Griscom talk to us
Professor Richard Wolfe says on site
every time he hears that the
enterprising young Marxist is talking
about economics on a podcast
he's also I'm actually seeing I'm seeing
Richard Wolfe next week in Idaho
definitely Jordan Peterson conference
and he says I will kill you
David Grisman
alright go ahead yeah I just I just want
to take a moment to talk about moronic
technocrats and how they're allowing for
more right-wing fascist movements to
prosper so recently there's been a
pretty big confrontation that's been
going on between Italy's new government
and the EU specifically as members of
the EU there are certain rules about the
amount of spending and the deficit that
you could run as an economy and the new
ruling party has offered the has said
that they're going to increase the
public deficit target for 2019 to 2.4
percent of GDP which is three times
higher than the previous government had
pledged okay so the EU and and this and
the five star movement folks have been
butting heads about this specifically
because it's pushing itself way outside
of the targets that are set up by the EU
and here's the reality of it is that to
to not have to cut further programs
within Italy Italy does need to increase
its spending and to be able to do that
it needs to sort of break the rules of
the EU and this is exactly the same kind
of thing that was happening in Greece a
while ago where basically these kind of
archaic rules that existed in the EU are
enforced very bullhead ously now what
we're seeing even more than that is
unlike Greece Italy is the EU third
largest economy so this is a pretty
significant blow so so significant that
this is the kind of thing that could
unravel the entire European Union
project as this anti-eu party an
organization is now in you know the head
of Italy's economy and now they're
having this kind of serious dispute and
I just wanted to say for a second you
know we should remember that while you
know this this organization is fighting
against you know absolutely absurd rule
it's just emboldened the far-right to
take a position that any sensible left
or even centrist party should be taken
when it comes to the EU which is that
you need to get rid of a lot of these
rules that really suffocate economies
now you're looking at what's going to
happen because what happens is until you
have these anti-establishment xenophobic
thuggish organizations that come in and
they take over and look what they're
trying to do they're trying to for
example put in a universal basic income
in Italy as part of the spending package
and the Finance Minister of Italy has
said well we can implement austerity now
because we'll be able to cut all of our
welfare programs with our ubi program so
which is always how I will say though
this is what those of us on the Left
always say is the big danger no I mean
exactly it's like this is what happens
is that you have a very real problem
which is that the EU creates a lot of
you know structural issues within
different economies especially so far
we've seen within southern European
economies and the the fact that Germany
will not budge on on the requirements
basically for a lot of these other
economies to be able to you know act
like any normal economy because in fact
is about Italy is that the majority of
their debt even though it's very high
it's by 131 percent of GDP in Italy the
majority of that debt is actually held
by Italians Italy is an export economy
mainly actually very similar to another
nation Japan and if Italy was able to
follow so you know simple kind of
economic policy as they have in Japan
for example they wouldn't have this
problem they have this problem solely
because of the European Union's rules
and without finding any kind of leeway
not just for Italy but for the rest of
the nations in the EU we're gonna
continue to see these problems in the
European Union and you know it's one of
those things that you have to just sit
there and scratch your head to wonder
about the past 10 years 15 years of the
technocratic solution if for the
European Union because all that it is
done has emboldened the most vile
reactionary xenophobic right wing while
demolishing any kind of sensible
left-wing alternative you know so you
know we're definitely be watching this
very closely they've put forward their
draft budget it's very likely that the
EU is going to reject it and we'll see
what happens at the end of the month
with this and so it will keep everyone
updated definitely that something will
be following closely as part of and I
also want to recommend people if you
haven't yet go back into the the illicit
history archives with Mark Boal tanga as
a Belgian socialist we did a deep dive
on what sort of what a 21st century
laborer socialist politics would mean
for democratizing the EU that was very
interesting I'd go back because I mean
we definitely have a lot of new patrons
since then that was several months ago
that was a really really good
conversation all right do we have do we
have something that we can use for a
brief break man
even in this new authoritarian world
okay we'll be right back with outs
[Music]
welcome back to the Michael Brooks show
the crew is here joining us is the great
Alex Perrine he is a journalist writer
I'm sure many of you know who he is I
hope so I think so I definitely think
there's a big big crossover thanks so
this thanks the second time you're doing
it thanks from well yeah oh of course
yeah I'm happy in it and I apologize for
the lack of Brevard jizz it's fine we
usually do a better job of stacking up
but today we're gonna get myself a
Lacroix and I forgot to get it and
instead I'm drinking one beer I found in
the fridge is actually good no it's not
so when I was growing up this is the
thing about Lacroix I'm from the Midwest
when I was growing up it was the it was
the supermarket brand it was like the
cheap generic soda if like you didn't
want to get the Seagrams or the Canada
Dry your mom would get the Lacroix and
it was it was the cheap brand and to see
it become like the East Coast like
hipster Seltzer has been a little
surreal but anyway it's fine I would say
Lacroix is fine would be my review of
Lacroix if you like bubbly water with a
sort of hint of artificial flavoring
it's a it's just as good as any other
okay you still say it and vari you're
still admitting it though like it's fine
I think honestly my favorite is polar
I'm gonna say they're not paying me but
if they want to holy if they want to pay
me they can just Google me
but polar eye board for that polar
I think you could justify that I like
the I think you get a more consistent
bubbliness with the straight polar than
you do with the Lacroix I think it's
generally more carbonated which is what
I'm looking for in a seltzer
you know you would love going to Turkey
those ran that they I remember that like
it was so carbonated I loved it
yeah I liked it too it will literally
almost that's what I want that's why I'm
looking for you felt like you were
drinking glacier like it was really
intense I don't remember there was some
local Turkish brand but hey that must be
that that is probably some good like at
the Miami Ad school that's probably a
good whoever did that weather I mean
like I don't know gray or yeah I didn't
Kennedy or somebody like people they
really did probably just get like some
room of 20 and 30-somethings we're just
like runneth like Lacroix was actually
like like we're gonna take it from the
past not to now but like the future yeah
yeah it everywhere I mean then that
definitely cuz I had I didn't even know
that yeah I actually thought it was
silly gimmick no that packaging I think
just came from Michigan in the 90s and
then I think actually that I think the
key was that they didn't update their
packaging for like many years until it
came around to 90s retro so that's there
you go there's a little tip for all you
uh
beverage manufacturers out there it came
out of nowhere I feel like and then I
where before I could try some the CEO
got in a me-too scandal I think that one
he's got sued apparently two pilots are
suing him for inappropriately touching
them on the airplane oh my god he just
went don't do that to your dress pilot
ya know it signs NDA's anymore alright
alright well I think we just did a
little brand toxification right here tie
a bow yeah goodbye so you won't be
trying it tonight if you haven't tried
it yeah I had it once at some party or
something I thought it was absolutely
like why is this a thing
something out of the can it's gonna be
Coke or Pepsi probably haha I'm boring
like yeah I'm like what you forgot some
of the ingredients out of this there's
also supposed to be a massive amount of
sugar I think that I remember very first
time like you know growing up like it's
a normal American like growing up like I
you know every time you went to
McDonald's I got soda you got sprite you
got 7up it was like these are normal
things to give a child and the first
time I went to my friend's house who had
hippie parents and I knew it like
eventually I knew a bunch of it with
heavy parents but I finally went my
first hippie parents house I was open
their fridge and was like this Seltzer
has no flavors I was like what is this
what visitor this pop has no sugar like
what are you forcing your child to drink
that is actually I remember that is very
much like literally not only my parents
hippy in that way that was basically
like you know I never had like curfews
or anything but yeah there was one rule
it was like you have to eat a you know
some type of horrifying macrobiotic
regimen yeah they were laughs about they
were they relaxed about most things you
put in your body except like sugar and
processed foods actually they were
actually they were actually their credit
they were pretty across the board on
that one although I definitely knew that
would be really funny like not like you
know whatever I'm that you know weed is
weed but it is pretty funny to meet
parents it would be like that has a lot
of artificial colors yeah Amy and can I
get a hit off of that like literally
blubbing weed of their 14 year old yeah
you smoked the parents out it's like you
don't have any my what the yeah no
I told you what we do cuz subway no I
remember uh yeah I remember I remember
there was this I don't want to get
anybody in trouble but there was like
one house which like in retrospect they
were amazed parents were unbelievably
friendly intolerant because they had
almost like that they had like like a
heist like like they litter like this
freezer was stocked with Ben and Jerry's
there was an unbelievable amount of weed
yeah there was like a pool there was I
mean and and and they just they just let
us and until like I remember one kid
tried to bike in the swimming pool right
now like finally like you know what yep
okay and they deserve that of course
like back there usually hate me and
what's the problem it of retrospect like
you guys were so like we're literally
like we like paintings got broken off of
the wall there's no way you could have
gotten any sleep that isn't like the the
the like number-one like teenage feeling
that it's impossible to recapture is
that feeling of like why didn't they let
me do whatever I want all like why
didn't they why were they upset if I was
like wandering the city at 3:00 a.m.
with my friends you know reminded me of
that attitude yes those were that good
Brit that's Beach week that was
Beach week it was apparent
it was completely yeah I mean yeah I was
talking about that you sprung this on me
and I was a good student on the
basketball I lifted weights now you just
hit me up with this like I'm sure like
she's nice for whatever like I
don't know you you include me
sure what do you drink that was that was
the one that really was oh my god do you
yeah well I want you to I do want you to
I mean you want let's play this clip
this Trump thing first and then you can
because before we get the the among our
several themes tonight the main thing is
gonna be what would it what would the
democratic party look like if it
actually want to win which I definitely
want your thoughts on but first we'll
tee off on this Cavanaugh situation this
is Donald Trump at the yeah I mean this
ceremonials literally is yeah
just I just want to say actually in
keeping with tonight's theme of like
maybe well not the real enemy but the
near enemy and the facilitator of all
this whether we're talking about Enrique
Cardozo and Brazil Brett Kavanaugh okay
serious credible accusations we already
know Ultra far-right extreme ideological
justice there's multiple complaints
about him that have been forwarded to
John Roberts and he tantrums and lied
all over the place of the committee we
know all this and then Donald Trump we
know is Donald Trump there's a guy
standing here I don't know if he's in
frame but I think he where he was at the
ceremony named Anthony Kennedy who you
know people like Andrew Sullivan are
still writing
if only the right could be like Anthony
Kennedy who literally in addition to his
own voting record of scrapping voting
rights destroying labor unions
unchaining Holder funnel of ways of
getting dark money into politics set all
this up to happen by retiring yeah and
some reports I've heard specifically
wanted Brett Kavanaugh as his
replacement
yeah so just bear that in mind as you
think of but you know spare some
contempt for Anthony Kennedy here in one
of the most contemptible frames and
human existence we're about to see I
would like to begin tonight's proceeding
differently than perhaps any other event
of such magnitude on behalf of our
nation I want to apologize to Brett and
the entire Cavanaugh family for the
terrible pain and suffering you have
been forced to endure those who step
forward to serve our country deserve a
fair and dignified evaluation yeah Thank
You Laraine of political and personal
destruction based on lies and deception
what happened to the Cavanaugh a family
violates every notion of fairness
decency and due process our country a
man or a woman
must always be presumed innocent unless
and until proven guilty
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
and with that I must state that you sir
under historic scrutiny were proven
innocent thank you Jesus Christ I had
not watched that yet I've read too sorry
I read that I read the quote but I had
been avoiding watching it sorry miss
Christ
so the Kennedy thing I mean he he picked
this guy I think I think it's a try
think Trump picked him partly because of
the like executives are immune to
prosecution angle yeah I mean kids like
you're exactly like each week for life
exactly the beach term how do you say
Beach week in Latin
did you precede him which I learned at
Yale while I was study guard
without any help getting it there for
Eddie would talk but it's I don't know
it's just like what I guess what strikes
me is just the the going through the
motions ness of the like having to
proclaim these things that are patently
false right and they just do it like
just out of dominance politics not
because anyone believes it like they
don't believe it we don't believe it he
doesn't believe it it's just pure like
you can't do anything about it so I'm
just gonna say this right but I bet
you know the underlying theme of the
entire thing was that like you will not
ever hold us accountable for anything
that was that's the message is like you
just it's not gonna happen you're not
gonna hold us accountable like we're
just gonna win you're not gonna hold us
accountable yeah I mean and this is
actually I'm gonna get to this a little
bit earlier because we can bridge this
also when we get to this Mitch McConnell
clip in a minute but I do want to read
this usually we take discord questions
in the oh yeah I think that's actually a
fair point Matt maybe we do the Hillary
convo instead of McConnell but I want to
get to this question usually we do
discord questions in the postgame but
this one came up and I think it fits
into what you're saying perfectly this
is from Transylvania Express Alex I
recently reread your piece on how the
long lucrative right-wing grift is now
blowing up in all of our faces and it
holds up as well as the day it was
published
thank you Andy he did ask what you're
working on now maybe will in you can't
touch that we can get to even more in
depth later but how does that fit me
remind us basically of that long
right-wing gut that was I think one of
the most important pieces that came out
that explained Trump and everything
that's happening so let's I will I will
try to use maybe Anthony Kennedy as an
example of this the basic thrust of it
and this is how I've been sort of
understanding the write for a while now
is that the original sort of point of
building a parallel media and a parallel
all these other parallel institutions
was to whip up the base make them stop
paying attention to and stop trusting
the mainstream media and then eventually
make them like ignore facts that are
inconvenient to the right so that's you
know Fox News was designed to lie to the
rubes just like Rush Limbaugh was out
there to like tell the rubes what they
needed to hear to get out and vote for
Republicans then basically over the
course of a couple decades like the
Republicans stopped being the cynical
manipulators and started being the
people being manipulated themselves
there's a closed circuit now it's a
completely closed circuit and Trump is a
guy who sort of started off very clearly
naked ly cynically pretending to be a
right-wing populist because he thought
that was the way to get ahead and he had
quotes in the bed 2020 was more lucid
where he would basically be like you
know you want to run like Pat Buchanan
because then the crazies will vote for
you that's the way to get ahead in the
Republican Party so it would all seem
like umberto ism for him was I think
originally done as this sort of like
intentionally cynical campaign to build
up his profile on the right but the
other thing that happened is there's
also those 2012 some of Mitt Romney's
people tried to dig this up in the
primary where they said you know
supposedly he would say sty mean I'm
paraphrasing you know remember yeah he
would say stuff to them like you gotta
talk about you know yeah something like
birtherism because yeah the idiots love
that yeah it's like literal quotes yeah
like there are yeah a lot of people have
heard him saying things vary but I think
pretty clear now that we have a guy who
Blake has just become addicted to this
 and and no longer have use it from
so this Donald Trump used to you know he
read the newspaper every day he I know
he was reading it to see if he was in it
but he read the New York Times he read
the New York Post here at the New York
Daily News that's a decent way to sort
of know what's going on in the world now
he DVRs Fox and Friends and watches Fox
and Friends and believes what his Fox
and Friends friends are telling him
right so that that is like that's one
man sort of journey into like being
originally someone trying to sell snake
oil to a like consumer of snake oil and
that happened in Susan Collins right
right I mean Susan Collins is a great
example of that because I'm you know
obviously I I don't like you don't like
right no one has ever liked on Susan
Collins and she's not a moderate that's
a you know the the scale of rightward
shift of American politics is inspiring
so you know moderates here ultra to the
right but even I watching her give that
statement was like whoa right like I
thought she was just some like
right-wing hack negotiating keeping a
seat main yeah but do you watch that
you're like oh yeah he's another one
she's right crazy - yeah I mean it may
be Lisa Murkowski is the only one of
that caucus that isn't that's just you
know right-wing business peddler and not
actually crazy I think that I think
that's true and and I and so I listen
when I when people talk about Anthony
Kennedy especially how we ended how he
ended his tenure on the court he
suddenly lurched to the right a string
of very right-wing decisions retired to
let Donald Trump replace him and maybe
chose partisan warrior Brett Kavanaugh
maybe or had some hand in choosing him
so like Anthony Kennedy like what what
do we know about his demographic profile
we know he is an old white conservative
guy so do you think like Anthony Kennedy
is a media diet in 1990 is the same as
Anthony Kennedy's media diet in 2018
right I think this guy just like
everyone else in his demographic group
has been mainlining Fox News for however
many years I think it poisoned his brain
just like it poisoned everyone else
brain and so this is what I mean there
aren't serious grown-ups in the GOP
anymore because they are the consumers
of their own machine they
invented a machine now they
cannot like understand the world outside
of it and it's so in Congress right now
and it's getting you know every day like
old Republicans who actually read the
real news are being replaced with these
people who grew up on this new that
bears no resemblance to reality right
that's so if you want to know like oh
how can they
how can they act like is how can they be
so crazy it's like they built a machine
that drove themselves crazy right so
what what is it and I can die and I
could tell you I mean even just I've had
that anecdotally validated yeah for sure
Yeah right like even just in
conversations that like you know it very
verily the super sophisticated objective
like smart people not dumb people
whatever but whatever we mean by that I
guess I mean like people who you know
people who are able to think right in
the broadest possible sense and what
maybe two or three years ago they might
have explained cynically or tried to
draw some ludicrous false equivalency
with but not actually defended right now
there was like oh yeah yes that's a deep
state I mean the the the the story that
the anti Cavanaugh protesters were
orchestrated by Soros and ACORN
everyone's like Oh Trump's hurt saying
that cuz he heard it on Fox it was in
the national review it was a
bastard movies and chuck Grassley said
it and chuck Grassley who I mean he's my
god I mean he's he's gone and in every
way but I mean he would be a classic
example of you know an ABC news package
would love to still present like you
know and truck grassley
veteran respected senators yes just like
this misogynist grouchy old lunatic who
just said like if there wasn't the
goddamn Jew riding Taylor Swift in a
tram post and paste this was a civilized
process right yeah that's which is
insane yeah right that's why the
Cavanaugh thing was so clarifying
because you got to see the never Trump
errs on Twitter
going on long threads rationalizing like
well how much line can I look yeah like
where how far can I go yeah and and
you'd like the the like the way they
coalesced around the well first they let
Weiland go out there with the the wrong
guy
story and then when everyone thought
that was ridiculous they sort of threw
him under the bus and then they were
like after that they were just like
actually you know what we're gonna go
with this yeah that was what that was
awesome yeah they were like they better
we're let's color sky adrift we're good
a week later Susan common College like
I'm sure it happened with a much vaguer
version of the story we find that
convincing as long as you're not too
specific most of all people works first
of all has anybody ever seen inception
George Soros funded that movie I'm quite
convinced that Brett won't overturn Roe
or at least he won't do it in a way that
will make me look bad
I think with Collins to you saw like the
the politics of it for her were that she
like gets pleasure out of like sticking
it to the people protesting her
basically totally and and it's a which
makes her no different from any other
right winger well like I said yeah it
really is owning the lid it's about
owning the libs and but you have to my
understanding of Collins has been for a
long time like I don't think she
ideologically I don't think she really
gives a I don't think she's not a
committed she's like I don't care
ideologically who gives a she is a
deeply partisan she cares about the
Republican Party you know she's like a
deeply deeply partisan as much as Mitch
McConnell and she that's why she's one
of Mitch's like closest allies right and
her moderation is just like you know my
personal politics are I don't care what
the tax rate is but my Paul real
politics are whatever will help
Republicans win yes yes no that's
exactly no that's and that's funny
because again it's another way in which
like all of these terms like yeah she's
pro-choice and because of her profile
and because the electorate of Maine
she's occasionally gonna be like guys
yeah like back oh I play
you know just go and vote to strip tens
of millions off of health care
especially when a not insignificant
portion of them I need to actually keep
sending me here right right but like
yeah beside but there's nothing but if
she had been if she'd be the deciding
vote on that she would have she would
have fallen in line because she I think
that's only only when she has covered
does she devote no when she has to have
cover and like that was what this time
it was too important for her to like
even if Murkowski gave her cover was
still it was too important to the party
so she fell in line right I think that's
absolutely right so then well what about
then I mean it's different but there is
a you know there's like the alt center
or the delusional center or whatever we
want to call it of every I mean it's a
kind of amorphous category which I would
include like everybody from like Thomas
Friedman to even like to sam Harris in
some ways we're of like in the face of
this just raw predatory power politics
yeah there's everything from well what
we really need to do is recapture you
know some strategy memo that Dick Morris
wrote in 1994 and that will save us to
you know well you just keep fighting
with facts and it's really gonna
Electrify people is when you go out in
the campaign trail and you say we're
gonna propose that knows Court nominee
gets confirmed without 75 votes because
by golly we need you know things to work
again in this country actually a
proposal like that would actually be
hilarious because I'm now in favor of
this so you can't you can't confirm I
knew in the Supreme Court when I'm 75
which means as they die off they're not
replaced literally we just eliminate the
supreme word oh why is the right reason
no one can get anyone there's or left
centrist Alliance we could get behind I
totally support gradually letting the
supreme court die yeah though although
well these yeah what happens would I
really like Cavanaugh is the last one
just like rocking like PBR like
go ahead hit me oh you got fired because
you needed to use the bathroom buck you
by the way
Amazon owns everything I wrote it the
 out
that's the fly right now but I do think
you know maybe
oh wow this dominican guy was arrested
without a proper check and that was
beaten today I would like the police
department to apologize you know what
I'm gonna really think about that think
about the way this plan works as if like
Kagan and Sotomayor are always buying
him drinks like oh yeah that's just like
ah you want another whiskey Brett and
they're like you know 30 years from now
his livers dead and he's let's hope for
a much shorter horizon of that I I
publicly I don't care what the play here
is the future is a Democrat here is the
Democratic Party it's committed to
winning I absolutely hope I mean look
let's not say death but I hope that
Brett Kavanaugh is liver or whatever you
know it's it's gonna be time to spend
more time with the fam it's a it's a
hard schedule to sit there you the
father he's a father
doctors whoa what happens then we just
blow out oh my god sorry guys can't
can't
I've only so I'll only Brett Kavanaugh
I've been given that my cat is here that
would be great
he popped five daughters I have a
basketball team to coach let's actually
allowed I don't know if you've seen it
but I want to play this Hillary Clinton
clip it's kind of making the rounds also
it's recently announced that a her and
Bill are going on tour just like thanks
guys it's good you I'm at the point with
the Clintons but it's like could you
even could you just wait till after
people vote I mean now that let it know
that Lindsey Buckingham is back out of
Fleetwood Mac this is the time for them
to get those boomer dollars but just
wait a month like just just I get it
like you guys need to like ring it on
and think amount of money out of you
know this new weird group of people that
follows you like your prom
bored sitting around Chappaqua but like
could you just wait till after the
 midterms that's literally at
this point my expectations are so
reduced that's all I'm asking but this
is Hillary Clinton talking about
civility and and I want you I have
thoughts on this obviously but I want
you to tee off on this Alex you cannot
be civil with a political party that
wants to destroy what you stand for what
you care about that's why I believe if
we are fortunate enough to win back the
house and/or the Senate that's when
civility can start again but until then
the only thing that the Republicans seem
to recognize and respect is strength and
you heard how the Republican members led
by Mitch McConnell the president really
demeaned the confirmation process
insulted and attacked not only dr. Ford
but women who were speaking out you know
look I remember Republican operatives
shutting down the voting in Florida in
2000 I remember the Swift boating of
John Kerry I remember the things that
even the Republican Party did to John
McCain in 2000 I remember what they I
remember all of these things that
totally worked
[Laughter]
for 25 years the falsehoods the lies
which unfortunately people believe
because it put a lot of time money and
effort in promoting them so when you're
dealing with an ideological party that
is driven by the lust for power that is
funded by corporate interests who want a
government that does its bidding it's
hot you can be civil but you can't
overcome what they intend to do unless
you win elections okay Alex yeah I mean
she's got a diagnosis of the problem
that resembles reality like her right
and I think it's
they say what you will about the
Clintons they were regardless of how
their politics work whether politics
were about triangulation all that they
were realistic about what the
Republicans were after and how they
worked because they considered
themselves to be the the victims of
unprecedented like attacks and dirty
tricks by Republicans so I think like
Hillary Clinton
unfortunately her political instincts
tell her not to be honest with voters
about that and her political instincts
tell her like look we're will be like
let's be civil after we win the election
but I don't know that there's she I
think that what she's sort of saying is
like I don't know what I don't know what
let's be civil after we win the election
means really me that's what really
really concerns me about Wright clip
because and not just because like I get
it we have different I mean look let's
be honest about some of the stuff
there's different brand positioning so
you're young guys with the
 weird dirt bag left writer
podcasters so we're supposed to be like
a fox ability blah blah I'm not talking
about you know you know I don't even
again I don't know what she it's so
amorphous a term but I understand
basically the people in elected office
are gonna use different language and
position things in a different way than
I might right they're not gonna make
jokes about Brett Kavanaugh drinking
himself out of his lifetime appointment
to destroy people's lives in the Supreme
Court but conversely it seems to me that
like Democrats partially for ideological
and also partially because of their own
you know the contradictions of who funds
campaigns and their own rightward
tendencies in their party you know
they're gonna need to start figuring out
a way of governing that actually
entrenches and reinforces their power
right because that's what Republicans do
and so I'm concerned so anyways I mean
maybe you could if Democrats actually
wanted to win what does that mean not
only for the midterms but actually like
going forward like if they actually
reclaim power what would that actually
mean if they're like hey maybe we
actually want to hang on to this instead
of losing it every couple of years
throwing the country into an absolute
I mean God what does it mean it's very
tempting to just say like implement my
entire ideological agenda although I do
I sort of think that like that's what I
would want them to do but aren't some of
those things like like his vote like
voting rights from DC and Puerto Rico
right yeah like that's that's like it
seems to me or like a National Civil
Rights voting rights package like right
yeah I mean there would be the you could
look at a package of things that would
be like like exactly national so the
voting rights act like preclearance for
everyone not just the the southern
states but like federal preclearance for
all voting law changes for everyone
and there's like a lot of things that
are that there should be a package that
should be ready to go the day they take
back power that is basically universal
national universal registration and you
know we can't like move the elections to
the weekends and like all this other
 like you could be you could do a
voting rights package overnight that
would make registration and ballot
access easier instantaneously but the
the stuff to sort of consolidate power I
mean they you know they like this is why
people are talking about court packing
now although I really think like the
first thing they should be doing this is
this is they're gonna be the test the
test will be if they regain the house do
they begin investigating Cavanagh
seriously and that's the real test
because they they really have no choice
here like there's a million different
threads it's not just the sexual assault
no one knows where his debts
went like no one knows how he racked up
the debts no one knows where they went
the story he told is ridiculous and he
got I think he got the kid-glove
treatment on that cuz there's like a
gentlemen's agreement in DC not to look
at who's funding who but so like let's
 get his let's get his
financial records so that's the test
because that cadet doesn't need to wait
for Democratic president that doesn't
need to wait for Democratic Senate if
they win the house they can turn
investigating him and they can bring him
back and they can ask him to account for
the money they can ask him to actually
answer questions that he refused to
answer and all this other and I
think I
look at the the cod was there's a
terrible mother jones piece sounds about
right
that was like it's a you know judicial
or Supreme Court impeachment is a pipe
dream like give up like don't even don't
even bother her thinking about it
because it'll never happen in a million
years and within live within living
memory like in 1969 the Republicans
kicked out a democratically appointed
Supreme Court justice because basically
they wanted to get rid of two of them
and then as a compromise they cut rid of
one of them by threatening to impeach
him right and it was a before test and
they were gonna go after him and Douglas
and then to save basically to save his
other colleagues they got rid of Fortis
so it happened with in memory and it
could happen again so if we want to talk
about like is this a party that knows
how to use power and want to use power
that's like the very first test right
that makes a lot of sense to me I mean
I'm just trying to figure out like I
think I mean well before we get there do
you think they'll take the house what's
your self ah my I was feeling probably a
little bit I was more confident they
would a few weeks ago but I do I had
this you know my this is not based on
data it's not based on polling this is
my gut pundit instinct I'm being a
complete hack right now love it this is
my complete hack pundit instinct there
was a sort of theory that well if the
Supreme Court seat was open that would
drive Republicans to the polls and
they'll turn out in larger numbers yes
and you know my conspiracy theory is
that Chuck Schumer I think probably
before the the accusations got more
serious I think he probably wanted to
like rush the vote just to get this to
done but I bet I think that's the exact
opposite of how it actually works and I
think that just like peer displays of
dominance are what drives committed
Republicans to be like yes we will
reward you with our passion and this
that's what this was it was just a pure
display of dominance so I think that
actually will like rather than Cavanaugh
being defeated the idea was Cavanaugh's
defeated Republican
turn out to the polls to make sure they
get to confirm the next one no I think
the actual alternate reality was
Kavanaugh gets defeated Republicans like
throw a tantrum and stay home so I
actually I think it's probably less
likely today than it was a few weeks ago
but on the other hand like I remember
2006 and I remember election night being
like having been trained by the last I
mean by having trained by the last few
elections to have no hope ever right on
2006 I just remember watching like oh
they just want everything so that's
possible like that it could be 2006
again what do you think how does the
movements fit into this you think
because it is interesting there like
there is like this sort of there is like
heightened labor activity there were all
those people who did that amazing action
on the ice protest there's people who I
mean I don't know I don't know enough
obviously just age-wise about what
happened in the Clarence Thomas era but
it did like at least media-wise I think
it totally works with their base you're
a hundred percent yeah it's like look
that's right Orrin Hatch told them to
shut up yeah I think that and that's who
they are and that's what they're about
but I do think from a broader electorate
perspective it was like oh wow you guys
absolutely don't care about any of this
 you're literally shutting down yeah
you know civic-minded like you know
people that I think would that you know
positive adjectives right for trying to
talk about their own experiences of
sexual assault and concerns about this
process and having this guy on the court
do you ever like do you think like
because I think in general I don't know
what that relationship is in you know
myself but it does seem like even as
part of that longer term picture there
does need to be this sort of continued
mobilisation yeah you know so the I mean
there's so much energy around these
movements is like or they're like they
like new labor activity all those other
things and I this is old hat this is not
a new observation but they need to have
candidates who actually are trying to
speak to that energy and harness it and
they need
candidates who want that support
basically and I think there are
tendencies among the Democratic
establishment specifically in the the
d-triple-c and and the DNC to an extent
to still be looking for the wealthy
suburban moderate you know and and to be
chasing the unicorn of the wealthy
suburban moderate so the you know the
question is like can this reinvigorated
labor movement find like candidates who
actually want its support and you know I
don't have enough of a granular view of
every house race in the country to know
about candidate quality in all these
places and I think there's actually a
lot of really good ones out yeah I you
know when I I feel like I hear about
some surprisingly good ones pretty
regularly but you know the the you know
so when when we when we talk about
whether the Democrats want to hold power
again like their 2006 which I just
brought up so swept in a wave of these
rahm emanuel recruited candidates who
like didn't actually want to do anything
with power you know they didn't they
didn't want to i think i don't think
it's as bad this time around but many of
the same people were trying to find many
of the same kinds of candidates so i
don't know do you think that that's
ideological or is it i mean is it just
as crude as like you know if you're a
consultant in DC I mean Ryan grim I
think had the kind of perspective to
that it's also just risk aversion
yeah like hey if you keep getting
rewarded with consulting contracts no
matter how much you lose you're still
get those contracts whereas if you try
something new and you lose you might
actually get that's the way you might
actually get blamed for it so that's
interesting but I've been wondering like
because because I think you this is
really stark in the UK right yeah
because sometimes it's like some of
these people are like oh I didn't know
that we could actually do this yeah this
is kind of cool that we can do this
because I actually do have pretty decent
politics
and then there's this you know there's a
Tony Blair contingent where it's like it
isn't just money
I mean ideologically these people are
very right-wing so yeah that's what I'm
wondering you know I mean I think I'm
like Schumer seems to care about you
know he cares about Israel and his you
know donations I don't think he really
cares about much beyond that one way or
another yeah I think it's it is it's
like it's the fact of the the makeup of
the consultant and election industry
class and and it's not not simply the
ideology that these professional class
people have that they got at their elite
schools or whatever all of that is part
of it and it's why they want to recruit
lawyers and it's why they want to
recruit professional class people and
it's the fact that Democrats need to
find candidates who they think can
self-fund and who can find people who
can help them fund that's that's
actually just a that has an ideological
effect but it's actually just a
practical response to our broken
campaign finance system yeah
and the real sort of left-wing
insurgents though the real work that
they are trying to do institutionally is
build an alternate funding system
because the current funding system only
rewards certain kinds of candidates and
but I you know so they're and then
that's just a practical effect of like
how our laws have been shaped by
right-wing courts going back decades but
then I mean and then the other part of
it is it is it's it's like any other
corporate culture it is just like I have
all of my experiences in doing things
this way if this industry starts doing
things another way I will have to adapt
or be out of a job
so I cannot let this industry do things
another way and that's how this cycle
just gets perpetuated over over again
because the same the same dozen firms
and people are like hired for every
Democratic race I remember the first
articles I read like when I sort of
gyrate about political consultants for
probably in 2004 and actually in some
ways this guy might not even he might
not even be the worst though it's a it's
a pretty
bad group but I remember reading about
this guy can't believe his name was
totally escapes me right now Bob Shrum
oh yeah Bob man and it was just about
the big take away and and this is
somebody who could look in some ways you
could look at his career and actually
chart a certain modern history of the
Democratic Party up until about I think
he quit after 2004 you think he did
Kerry's campaign he was the chief
strategist none other than he was done
but it was funny because it was like you
know it 2004 all of the main candidates
with money like they all want this guy
this guy's considered to be the
top-shelf Democratic strategist and it's
like and he's won all sorts of Senate
and House races and he's advised
candidates in Bolivia and Israel and all
of this and it's like and then he's not
a bunch of US presidential elections
yeah all of which is long-lost that's to
do that we want yeah that guy with a
zero at seven record that's who we want
to pay millions of dollars a TV
Commission Zod and or what guy that's
exactly almost the same prestigious
within your own social Griff I can just
use some extremely vulgar sports
metaphors it's like coaching jobs in any
professional sports league where it's
like people owners who are cowardly rich
people are scared to hire unknown so
they go with known losers right like
Jeff Fisher right hired over and over
and over again because he's a known
loser with experience and then no one
because no one wants to be the guy who
hired the the kid with no experience and
then then you lose with a kid if you
lose with the veteran you're like well
hiring the veteran wasn't the problem
because everyone vouched for him but if
you lose with the kid it's like you just
screwed up and hired some completely
unknown person so the democratic party
was like a brand or business you'd say
like okay so we have a risk-averse
insulated self-dealing culture of
consultants and people who don't want to
take any risks and have no ideological
vision then we have contradictions that
it's like it's not a unified party
there's all these different constituent
components of it
but there is a fundamental contradiction
between the people basically the people
who fund it the people who lead it and
it's prime social basis right yes
overwhelm like corporate money wealthy
people
that overwhelmingly women people of
color yeah on that classic contradiction
and then and at number three there
apparently there's still enough people
that actually really think that like
we're still living in like an AA like a
top it get 1996
yes yeah is that like the three I think
yeah okay yeah that's my map of the
territory yeah so does that mean
Bloomberg 2020 yeah thank god this is
it's gonna be they're gonna be like
completely unbelievable names coming out
of the woodwork to run because the
everyone thinks it's wide open ahead of
Starbucks yeah Howard Schultz Howard
Schultz yeah but with the Bloomberg and
the Schultz stuff you gotta remember if
those are driven by people who want to
get hired by them like I shall explain
that to people so true it's so and it's
actually the only part of me that like I
get a twinkle in my eye every time I see
this art yes because I'm like I hope
those guys get their paydays no
seriously
so for I was a consultant I'd love that
gig so like Howard Schultz the reason
the reason he thinks he can win is
because he's surrounded by a bunch of
people whispering to him that America is
crying out for his brand of no-nonsense
moderation and they're whispering that
to him because if he runs and hires them
they'll get to buy a house right right
if you like you want if you are a
completely cynical political consultant
or pollster or campaign manager and you
want a big payday you gotta convince a
billionaire to hire you and Bloomberg
when he even just running for mayor of
New York running for mayor made also
many people rich that they spent years
begging him to run for president they
just were begging it because if he ran
for president they would get to buy a
nicer house America really made America
America at a very very highly specified
sense it needs you
it reminds me that I don't know if you
remember like a year ago Bill Clinton
wrote some like New York Times op-ed and
it was gem burr what the occasion was
but it was just it but
literally was like if you change some of
the company reference points like you
know cuz I think now it was you know
Apple and Google and whatever but it
could have literally been like AOL is
opening information superhighway like
these people's thought process not yeah
you know at least like Tony Blair has
kind of been like oh I'm abducting my
thought process and like how I connect
like I was their body Azerbaijani
pipelines right
it's Hallion fascist that's super 2018
yeah but like there's a new information
to come yeah it's changing fundamentally
how we live and that you think of
Bloomberg and Schultz and that
consulting class I mean that that's
literally all it is they're saying the
same stuff they're it's like it's like a
privileged time capsule right and it's
especially funny because their their
message in the 1990s was always like
these old Democrats haven't changed
their message since the forties right
and then like it hasn't been working
since FDR's time and now it's like all
right then it'll be perpetually 1988 in
your head there's a company called Atari
releasing new products yeah I like that
was actually the Atari Democrats was the
nickname for Al Gore literally what they
called themselves the Atari Democrats
and then they have not there's like
nothing has changed about that class of
Democrat ever so I'm really glad that
iPhone government didn't stick that was
an early Obama era slogan with all those
those nudge books those like yeah you
don't need regulation yeah I just need
to sort of weirdly try to behaviorally
influence people to traffic lines yeah
that's the future for the ultimate high
point of that form of of like tech knock
tech don't like technocracy was Obama
passed whatever like largest and
broadest tax cuts in the history of tax
cuts when he gave everyone every working
American got a payroll tax cut that they
purposefully didn't tell them about
because Cass Sunstein said the economics
it suggests that it will work better if
they don't know why their paychecks are
bigger so in Obama walk you know Obama
first turn Sunstein sucks he passed a
massive payroll tax cut helped every
working American didn't run on it for
the midterms just didn't mention it
because if we talked about it it will
totally blow the effects if you want I
think you got a give I am sure no
Clinton would have been like yeah
roughly every single American got
attacks every single American by the way
every single American and it's an outlet
I don't want to tell you about every
bomb is asleep
if we can't paint on this parent leaders
in econometrics measure it says this
might uh
make people buy one less whopper a week
you got it my lips are sealed and then
and then other things anything about it
was that it was temporary and then when
it expired a few years later it looks
like an increase it looks like an
increase and then the right-wing media
was like oh why is Obama raising your
payroll taxes that's right
no models like how can you guys be so
intellectually dishonest this is totally
not what you get Harvard to make look
why did you not see the Pinocchio's they
got for this one pretty sure that when
the Pinocchio meter comes out your
average Midwest industrial state voter
will get that's that's actually
in some ways though you have to say like
Obama's unbelievable like like his
personal charisma is that much more
underscored by the fact that he actually
could do things that were that
breathtaking least yet and still get
away with it yeah and it's like people
just really like the guy cuz he's
likable but he actually yeah right that
those first term all his first term
economic team fuck-ups like it's
incredible after you know after all that
with the economy still crippled because
they didn't like they didn't actually
finish fixing it like that his
reelection was actually pretty
remarkable looking back and he would
have won a third term I'd I strongly
believe you absolute or a third term he
would have cleaned up Trump let's let's
touch before we do the postgame let's
touch on the positive side for a second
do you think
well first of all do you agree with me
that there's actually really significant
difference between Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren like they're both
generally like I like her yeah but I
don't think they're the same no they're
not the same I think even though they
even though I think eventually their
platforms will look very similar they're
not the same temperamentally
it's a question of background really and
it's like what what informs your
politics comes a lot of it as it happens
really early on and I think Elizabeth
Warren she's she's brilliant her
background is her background is academic
and not particularly left-wing and that
means that even if she adopts all these
sort of left-wing things like you know
the decision-making process she uses to
come to these decisions it's just very
different from his because his
background is left-wing politics like of
the old-fashioned kind so I mean I'm not
you know I'm just saying that's a
difference that's a difference in their
politics that will decide how they make
decisions going forward but I think he's
actually I mean you know I'm not too
attached to these terms in some ways but
I think he actually is some form of a
socialist yeah I think she's a great I
think she's a liberal with legit
populist instincts and I think like of
everybody talking about running for
president for me Bernie's definitely
number one and then it's her and then
there's a major drop down after you got
to those I mean I do think those
orientations are yeah there's a
difference I think he I think he
probably eventually wants to end
capitalism and she probably eventually
once managed capitalism that actually
works right and I think that also
affects even like where he start like we
talked earlier about his foreign policy
speech yeah he's starting to outline a
you know again still a super moderate
one but like an actual global critique
that has something to do with what's
going on in Brazil that has something to
do with Israel Palestine that has
something to do with like just raw
international wealth theft so like this
is where I guess the difference lies is
that yeah is that in having a socialist
framework even a democratic socialist
framework it gives them a framework to
sort of think about those outside issues
yeah and and Warren has to sort of come
at those from scratch I think yeah I
think um and I remember the you know
that's actually for a long time
um I would always tell people like we
don't know a damn thing about her
foreign policy like she hasn't said word
one about it just like we just don't
know what she believes I don't sure I
don't think she has any like I don't
think she said anything recently where
I'm like oh it's a red flag but like we
just we didn't we didn't know for a long
time Bernie didn't talk about any might
very much either for a long time but you
could have just sort of guessed you
couldn't know could just guess pay for
the guys it's not perfect but it's like
it all goes back to what you said before
what was he doing the 80s yeah it's
doing sandanista solid yeah exactly and
that's a classic thing like Sandinistas
are not perfect blah blah blah blah blah
you are supposed to support the
Sandinistas in the 80s yeah if you
weren't supporting the Sandinistas in
the 80s like you're fundamentally
suspect in your politics you know do you
think that they I mean do you think
they'll coordinate between each other
and pick one or what do you think will
happen in terms of whose rods uh I'm not
sure it's all like I think that they I
don't think they're I don't think they
will coordinate it and I don't know how
much I don't really know how much their
staffs work together
I don't really know it feels like if
each if each one thinks they can win
they're gonna try oh and then if you
know and maybe they decide like that's
actually gonna sort of split the vote
and then screw everything up so maybe
then they did they come to some
different arrangement but I feel like if
they're at least gonna both try at the
end of the day and I really hope we
don't leave the full the public show at
a depressing note but at the end of the
day this Joe Biden sweep the Democratic
nomination no he doesn't he has a you
know he comes in and he's a lot like Oh
God who was like some of the 2000 for
people who just like came in and did
nothing anyway it'll be he's done it
because like all the energy especially
like all the energies around either
left-wing populist or and or young women
and right so that's that's gonna be
where the energy is right although and
the only thing I would say about by and
I will never
if there's maybe there's three tears
because he's actually probably like I
would go Bertie Warren and then I would
totally vote for comel hair it's the
Cory Booker / Joe Biden yeah yeah but I
do think if you were and this is I don't
think you should make decisions like
this but I think if you were purely in a
resistance frame of mind yeah get rid of
Trump is the number one thing he would
demolish Donald Trump I think I think
yeah oh you told ya he would yeah wreck
yeah I mean look at look at what he did
VP presidential debates against Palin it
was like yeah this is the guy cuz he
like he does the old-fashioned northeast
politician thing of sort of projecting
this form of like everyman authenticity
that right like you're like oh I forgot
that I forgot I forgot that you were
like solely bankrolled by Delaware
corporations that don't want to pay
taxes I forgot a second that you're the
reason that my family can't get a
medical bag right absolutely is it fact
that would be there was a funny thing I
will say yeah yeah I will say I will say
one thing about Joe Biden were if he
does manage to be the nominee where I
would be less panicked than you might
think
which is that for some reason his vice
presidential team's economic team was
better than Obama's definitely he
actually had a better economic team than
Obama's and if that is a signal of the
sort of people he would hire if he got
elected I can't know that but if that's
a signal I would not be panicking about
him winning that's okay so there's a
silver lining and he's probably not
gonna win anything probably not gonna
win and we all know that I should be the
nominee anyways you pricks how
many foreign policy speeches I gotta get
before in a straight endorsement
Jesus Christ you know you know that
Saudi Arabia talked about all sorts of
 issues there's that story about
Nixon and Kennedy when they're
congressmen talking about how no one
gives a about like boring domestic
stuff yeah if that's really funny if
Bernie's just the opposite is it god I'm
so sick of talking about Yemen again
it's a cholera outbreak fog well that
was the best thing about I know I've
talked about this before but one of the
funniest things when when he was running
for president and he gay
his I mean it was sort of a foreign
policy address but it really wasn't
Middle East yes and the and the funniest
part to me was for any first you know
he's listing all of these things which a
major a frontline I mean they're obvious
but no frontline American politician had
done at least anytime recently of just
you know just all of the objective
barbarism of Israelis towards
Palestinians he's really government you
know so he's talking about civilian
casualties occupation and part of it I
know is my comedic projection but not a
hundred percent because he's like and
then one of his stats was like the
unemployment rate in Gaza and that
clearly got like the most of its just
like the unemployment rate
oh my god as their what I will stay
a bit off of it but that's never
happened before I I thought to me I well
I haven't heard it I'm hearing it it's
sorry sorry about that sorry everybody
but yeah that was really he was like
acceptable he really did seem to say
with a lot more passion like clearly
white phosphorus dropped on them freedom
moving yeah what you organize that god
damn Libra you that was like clearly
like somebody shooter that's that and he
was like I can't be progressive except
you know in Palestine anymore like that
does not work all right guys we're gonna
know the post game we have a ton of
questions from the disc where we'll get
to some phone calls we have a lot more
sound to get to as well including I
think some Mitch McConnell sound that
will be right in line with everything
you've been saying about this dominance
politics stuff Mitch McConnell messes
with the the wrong history nerd on the
sunday shows he does John Dickerson and
I came is a rare form I would say never
for have ever seen had actually be like
that before it's pretty good thank you
Matt thank you David
thank you David Slavitt thanks for being
here and looks pretty and really
appreciate it thanks for staying with us
to the postgame become a patron today
patreon.com /t MBS we are well we're
getting very close to
mark affects everybody oh this weekend
elicit history with Milton al-abadi
on the Great Lakes region the Congo
Civil War and woke Bros the live show is
going out on Thursday from the Bell
house that we did on Friday thanks
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
