so there's a couple of different
interesting things in this fox news clip
Bernie Sanders has beginning in 1997
proposed a wealth tax to shore up some
basic decency in this society he's
proposing a very aggressive one in this
campaign Elizabeth Warren has put a
modest wealth tax on the forward as well
and of course shockingly these are in
the normal world extremely popular
proposals amongst normal terrestrial
human beings there's a couple ways to
respond to this and I especially after
watching this clip I would not be
terribly surprised if Donald Trump
pretends to support some form of wealth
tax in the general election I think he
still needs some fake populist moves and
obviously you know he's a fundamentally
dishonest person and a relentless liar
so you know he can shift his rhetoric
and shift his emphasis he might go for a
wealth tax oh yeah the trade stuff is
done that ship sailed through the
Straits that I mean he'll he'll still
say it though China tough had China
toughie but US a tough on trade so then
there's the you know classic Republican
nonsense of a well these are job
creators and but you know really I mean
you hear some of that in this clip you
you'll hear from Ducey I think the hint
of the Trump move then you're gonna hear
a little bit of job creator but
then you're gonna hear another line of
argumentation about having 50 million
dollars in assets which I don't think
you've probably heard before but we're
not talking about just wealthy people
we're talking about SuperDuper wealthy
people who have assets of more than 50
million right well 50 million that is
big but it's not as big as you think and
on those is pretty big yeah well yeah
but you wait and you work for Fox News
long enough and you're 60 years old
you'll be surprised how much money
you'll have but for people with 100
million she wants it to be 3% which
these are
surd rates you have to remember these
are the people that financed our
startups these are the people that give
us companies like Amazon and Apple which
they're the ones with the seed capital C
they behave like these people sort of
clip coupons they have bonds and they
hang out at the rao with the president
and you know that's sort of thing that's
just simply not true they're very active
people that are investing their money I
think what a lot of us are saying is
that most of these people have inherited
money because we live in a rent tier
Society and if you read Thomas Piketty
you can see how much money is basically
just rolled over in a feudal dynastic
fashion and also whether you made it
from starting a chain of grocery stores
or clipping coupons for those grocery
stores if you were at 50 million dollars
you're getting taxed I don't care how
you made it period yeah whether you're
you know did something cool or something
awful well yeah and whether you're a
highly what I mean by cool is like a
basketball player somebody who is like a
highly compensated laborer you're still
gonna get hit with that tax and those
are the people that I have like the
least problem with them having money
because they contribute something if
we're gonna live in a society like this
totally but most of the people with that
kind of money are not basketball players
they're capitalists and other people's
work made that money for them and if
there were any justice in this world
they would be completely expropriated
because no one should be in that kind of
a hierarchical position asking them to
pay a wealth tax is like the tiniest
least bit that they deserve now fifty
million dollars really so much money
yeah and for 95 percent of venture
capital firms aren't profitable like
this is a it's it's a complete like
they're playing with house money frankly
and just hoping some like they get a
unicorn or whatever they call them that
can really cash out well because it gets
acquired by one of these monopolies like
Amazon yeah that's how it works
basically so the venture capital is a
complete joke anybody who acts like it's
not is trying to sell you something
oh it's also funny how he acts that like
companies like Amazon are in any way
making
world better for most of us they're not
