[Music]
meanwhile you know don't like to usually
um talk about the behind-the-scenes at
other podcasts because I mean who cares
although this is an interesting story as
you know we've been talking about Steve
Schmidt a little bit lately because he
and his brother in arms bill burton both
what's the name of that god with the
with the money
what's the mammoth know who is it
who do you sit to you know you you bow
down to me no I don't know I think in
Hindu god well I can't remember now look
yeah maybe mouth no not Moloch said
money I'd anyways these guys Steve
Schmidt's like sir like you guys don't
know the money God God I mean look I
like Mammon Mammon
yeah they Hammond ma'am I like money
money's good that's great but I think it
would take a tremendous amount of money
for me to not just sell out but to sell
out so naked Lee and so vividly right
like it's one thing to say like yeah 15
years ago I believe that but today I
don't so I'm gonna take a big chunk of
change it's much tougher to do that when
it's like six weeks ago I believe
something wholeheartedly and then all of
a sudden put somebody drove Brinks
trucks up to my house and I was like
who's gonna notice well apparently a lot
of people noticed when Steve Schmidt did
it and I don't know how exactly how much
money Howard Schultz is paying Steve
Schmidt but I imagine there are a lot of
zeroes at the end of that figure and
that the figure itself may very well be
double digits maybe it's just
single-digit but I have a feeling that
there's at least at least six six zeroes
after it right and apparently he just
thought ah nobody's gonna notice so
not the people who work on the podcast I
do every week are gonna notice and so
Steve Schmidt has this podcast called
words matter which of course is a little
ironic because that's the Trump degree
yeah he said a lot of words though about
Wow
in fact there was a piece in Vanity Fair
I think when they were launching this
podcast and he does it with Elise Jordan
who is you know sort of a is a I think
she's now a former Republican and always
had sort of you know those were moderate
leanings and she's nice I've met her
multiple times who did a panel with her
political but also at MSNBC for years
she was married to a journalist who you
know people may remember we wrote for
Rolling Stone who ended up dying in a
car and I'm totally anyway so let me
just want to read this before I forget
so back I guess this was in August they
launched this podcast words matter as an
answer to pod save America which is like
what could be more pod save America than
pod save America and they said words
matter now I made that part up and at
the time Schmidt told Vanity Fair that
he thought the conservative movement and
by extension the Republican Party which
he had left two months earlier had
become a racket in other words people
were just doing a taking these political
positions for money right I mean that's
what we mean when we say a racket it
right is just a way in which you can
make money it's not it's not legit it's
disingenuous it's just done for the
money and there
and now granted this was all the way
back in August of last year so that's
almost I mean someone do the math that's
almost 8 months ago maybe a little bit
less a long time but it was 2018 so it's
a you know you could also argue it's a
different or the midterms and it was
before the midterms which which seems
like a year ago and time is dilated so
in many respects you know during the
Trumpy or a human year feels like a like
a dog year in some respects so he may
have forgotten that he was he was
launching his new career based upon like
we're not about record you know pulling
some type of racket we're not gonna just
we're not up here just doing this for
the money America is important and then
somebody comes around a billionaire and
offers some god knows how much cash but
I suspect if it was like in $100 bills
you would not be able to carry it if it
was in $100 DOM it would appeal the
carry I don't think anybody I think you
need a truck I think you would need at
least a pickup truck and I'm talking
like an 8 foot bed turns out words
aren't the only thing that matter yes
words parens and other things sometimes
to matter but so his podcast is EP by a
guy who is sort of a a I think a
longtime Democratic operative sort of
like probably like a moderate democratic
operative and I think he was the one who
set up the podcast and this guy Levine
Adam Levine and so Elyse Jordan Adam
Levine sat down last Tuesday with Steve
Schmidt to interview him about Schulz
and apparently there was a lot of
screaming and yelling according to this
Newsweek article or Daily Beast article
before they sat down finally he agreed
to sit down and talk about the Schulz
thing but seems like he something was
eating at him a little bit and well he
snaps will this be
if Howard Schultz does decide to enter
the race Willie running issues driven
campaign and will reducing the deficit
continue to be as he said his primary
focus I think the thing you that you
will most see from him in the
conversation
that lies ahead is honesty to have a
very honest conversation a very adult
conversation with the American people
about all manner of issues that have not
been talked about seriously in a long
long long time I mean we have a debate
that rages in this country if you look
at all of the issues facing it that is
about a wall on the southern border that
is completely unnecessary in a moment of
time where there's zero net illegal
immigration coming across the southern
border TV City wants to have an it I
pause this for one second before we get
to just wanting to contemplate the idea
like what topics are howard schultz
gonna talk about like i know what what
what Donald Trump is talking about what
what topics of Howard Schultz are gonna
talk about that are not covered by
somebody running for office in the
Democratic Party right like we've a full
range of voices in the Democratic Party
were gonna see more right we haven't
even begun to see I think we have I
think we're at the halfway mark in terms
of the number of candidates we're gonna
see and they're gonna range from you
know Joe Biden and maybe Biden maybe
Bennet on one end of the Democratic
Party we're gonna be talking about
deficits maybe I'm gonna be talking
about like you know we don't want to be
we don't want to go crazy with some of
this crazy a crazy policies with the
deficit but we do we should we should
attack different nations we want a
childish conversation I think you get
the childish you know of course the
childish an who are like maybe we should
just provide benefits to the American
public that they're really excited about
and would help their daily lives so all
of that's gonna be in there I don't know
what Schultz is talking about it's
almost as if like the words he's saying
or not true that they're like just spin
but then his co-host or his executive
producers not his host but his is for
today says let's talk about childish TV
say he wants to have an adult
conversation last week he called a 70
percent tax on incomes over 10 million
dollars ridiculous from a United States
Congress woman who happened to have been
elected to something now I know you're a
guy of words Steve and ridiculous means
deserving or inviting derision or
mockery absurd synonyms comical
hilarious
you go on farcical is that what he does
he really mean that attacks on incomes
over 10 million dollars at 70 percent
which is widely popular with the
American people is ridiculous is that an
adult conversation yeah I think he
thinks it's ridiculous and it's
confiscatory and that it's anti growth
that would be his point what is will
Derek Jeter another athlete not hit
another home run because they're gonna
get taxed at 70 what's the economic
behavior that he thinks it's anti-growth
other than his own pocket Adam Steve he
got again to the question he got his
State on
I'm not unfortunately
the interview ended there we wanted to
ask Steve some serious and important
questions about his new role yeah
you Steve we hate you back well Steve
basically just screwed them over to
ended the the podcast more or less I
guess blew it up because he has to go
work for Schultz and you know that's a
full-time job where you are pretending
to I mean so the confiscatory approach
to that podcast earnings exactly
he's also confiscatory approach in terms
of some money he's gonna take from Steve
from from Howard show yeah he's got a
very confess Kotori approach to Howard
Schultz's money now let me just say this
I will say this okay in all fairness
Steve Schmidt he has shown that he has
got more comfortable that there
something I want to say there's
something inherently with being a
Republican that makes you run a racket
right because as much as he sort of left
the Republican Party because it turned
into a racket and the conservative
movement could turn into a racket he
ended up falling back into another one
very shortly after that which
incidentally threatens the very thing
that he left the Republican Party for
which is to reelect Donald Trump and
they also just stayed this guy gave us
Sarah Palin and I was gonna say I remind
you this is the guy who basically I
don't know if he was the Midwife 4.4
Donald Trump he was like the doula for
Donald Trump he just helped in the
birthing of Donald Trump by bringing a
Sarah Palin but to be fair as bad as
Steve Schmidt is Bill Burton maybe worse
because Bill Burton you know supposedly
not only supposedly came from a better
pedigree in terms of his politics right
but he got his old firm to try and tell
Democrats to lay off Starbucks because
Starbucks was taking grief because of
Howard Schultz I think we're gonna need
to really think about this guy's got cuz
I wouldn't I'm not ready to make a
stupid amount of money yeah listen
so that doesn't Trump everything but it
should trump most things and so can we
just lay off Starbucks please we need to
risk having a bigger imagination about
the Starbucks brand sort of feel like
you guys are inhibiting your risking of
a brave new imagination about the things
I could buy but Bill Burton would have
been better on that pod though he would
have sat there anywhere just look I'm
really glad you asked that that's total
nonsense
right that's a great question that's an
awesome question we should we could go
longer
