[Music]
all right let's um dig into this Brendan
we check your items let's dig into this
um into this this story here
I just let's play first this clip this
is Steve Bannon it's no longer with us
I mean he's alive but he's no longer
with the Trump administration he's in
Europe and it looks super alive but he's
he's as alive as he ever was let's put
it that way and this is him back in CPAC
of 2017 that's over the summer right
CPAC and so we're really only talking
five or six months into the election of
Donald Trump and here is what he had to
say at CPAC Steve yeah I think that I
think the same thing I think if you look
at the lines of work I kind of break it
out into three verticals of three
buckets the first is kind of national
security and sovereignty and that's your
intelligence the Defense Department
Homeland Security the second line of
work is what I refer to as economic
nationalism and that is Wilbur Ross at
Commerce Steve minuchin at Treasury a
light hyzer at at trade Peter Navarro
Stephen Miller these people that are
rethinking how we're going to wreak
reconstruct the our trade arrangements
around the world
the third posit I will note one thing
that and I'm not sure about light hauser
but I but I have a feeling what every
single one of those people could he just
mentioned back in the summer of 17 de
spite the fact that we've had what 40
top Trump officials I'm just pulling
that number out of my my arse as it were
but have had to go the only ones that
remain are the ones he just mentioned
that's around
the third broadly line of work is what
is deconstruction of the administrative
state and if you so I think I think I
think the three most important things I
think one of the most pivotal moments in
modern American history was his
immediate withdrawal from TPP that got
us out of a got us out of a trade deal
and let our sovereignty come back to
ourselves the people the mainstream
media don't get this but we're already
working in consultation with the hill
people are starting to think through a
whole raft of amazing and innovative
bilateral relationships bilateral
trading relationships with people that
will reposition America in the world as
a fair trading nation and start to bring
jobs high value-added manufacturing jobs
back to the United States of America on
the on the on the national security part
it was certainly the first I think the
first to EOS that you've started to see
implemented here of the last couple of
days under general Kelly and that is the
rule of law is going to exist when you
talk about our sovereignty and you talk
about immigration general Kelly and
attorney positive for one second just I
want to make something clear when he's
talking about national security
he's not talking about terrorism he's
not talking about anything other than
immigration demographics he's talking
about demographics and he's talking
about militarizing militarizing our
immigration policies okay he's talking
about securing a future for white
children attorney General Sessions are
adamantly you know that and you're going
to start to see I think with the defense
budget we're going to talk about next
week when we took bring the budget out
and also with certain things about the
plan on Isis and what general mattis
these guys think I think you're start to
see the other part of that but the third
this regulation you know every business
leader we've had in is saying not just
taxes but it is it is also the
regulation I think the consistent if you
look at these cabinet appointees they
were selected for a reason and that is
the deconstruction the way the
progressive left runs is that they can't
get it passed they're just going to put
in some sort of regulation in a in an
agency that's all going to be
deconstructed and I think that that's
why this regulatory thing is so we had
dr. Lee
so uh Mick Mulvaney was also one of
those original cabinet appointees who
came in at the Office of Management and
Budget and when it became clear that the
his project of slashing the budget was
not going to happen right our spending
has skyrocketed in part largely because
of the tax cuts this budget bill that
they're talking about now will provide
no cuts and they'll kick the debt
ceiling two years down the road I'll
talk about that later I just note that
so that you can be clear on what they're
talking about when their agenda is it's
not about shrinking the size of
government in terms of dollars it is
shrinking the capacity of government to
make sure that profits are not
privatized on the backs of social
expenses that we all bear that's
basically what it comes down to
that's what deconstructing the
regulatory state means and we talked a
little bit about this story early in the
week but I just wanted to because the
this to highlight this stuff because
it's not being borne out and I keep
thinking about the interview that we did
I think it was in December of 2016 with
Sam Bagenstos who was a DOJ who's in the
DOJ under Clinton and then again under
Obama
he said eight years at the DOJ under the
Bush administration destroyed not
destroyed but seriously hampered that
agency that it took at least four years
to rebuild it in many respects and I
think what we're seeing under Trump is
far more severe assault I think far
worse than even that you got under eight
years of of Bush they are looking to
destroy these agencies permanently
and now looking at me remember they want
to cut them right they couldn't name
them but they wanted to cut them but
instead of cutting them what they're
doing is they're hollowing them out
which is worse in many respects because
we just presume that they're there and
that these agencies are functioning to
provide us the same sort of governmental
services that they have in the past and
they're and they're not I'd mentioned
this story about the USDA the other day
I'm going to reiterate it the US DEA the
US Department of Agriculture agriculture
department is leaving Washington DC and
moving to Kansas City two-thirds I want
you to just contemplate whatever
wherever you work what would happen if
you lost 2/3 of the employees and
particularly ones that are like highly
specialized if you lost two-thirds of
the employees over the course of a two
or three month period so everyone had
was given a choice you either move or
you leave the agency 2/3 of them
declined to move 99 of a hundred and
seventy-one employees at the Economic
Research Service this is a Federal
Statistical agency part of the USDA
who's going to use federal statistics
than most other agencies and lawmakers
where are they located they're located
in Washington are they just going to
look at a piece of paper no they're
going to want to sit down with the
people who have developed these
statistics they want to find out the
nuances behind it what accounts for this
you meet in person if you work in any
type of business if you work remotely
you understand the relevance of close
proximity
even in this telecommunicator world
close proximity at the National
Institute of Food and Agriculture which
manages a 1.7 billion dollar portfolio
in scientific funding 151 of 224
employees decline to relocate this that
agency is going to be our East after I
dia what the agency does have no history
with the agency many of these people are
scientists who have been there for
literally a decade or two and not only
have they been there for a decade or two
they represent decade's worth of
institutional knowledge because they
were trained by people who were there 10
15 20 30 years earlier and if you've
ever been involved with a business that
has high turnover you understand the
implications of that I don't care if you
own a restaurant and you have to replace
all of your waiters each week I mean
forget about it
meanwhile the Bureau of Land Management
is also being subjected to the same
thing it would remove 300 employees from
a key Interior Department agency among
them the majority of top managers and
move them and disperse them out west to
different states
if I wanted to dismantle an agency this
would be in my playbook said Steve Ellis
who retired as BLM's deputy director in
2016 after nearly four decades in
government service transferring so many
employees out of Washington could
complicate the agency's relationship
with Capitol Hill
it's the vast majority of management
staff and getting them out it's
important that these agencies have a
significant imprint in DC said the
former head of the agency meanwhile at
HHS Health and Human Services apparently
there's been a decent amount of
telecommuting they come in I don't know
if it's two days a week or three days a
week or how it works but the idea is
that Washington DC is more expensive
people spend a lot of time in their car
a lot of this agencies work does not
involve direct communications with staff
on the hill they still come in and the
agency is now demanding that people come
in as a way of putting pressure on them
they have done a survey and the survey
found that many people would leave HHS
if they Institute this and it appears
that's why they're contemplating doing
it when we talk about deconstruction of
the administrative State the labor
secretary always I get one more two more
two more things we've seen what's
happening with the EPA in terms of
regulation they're rolling back the
rolling back specific regulations
they've also and I mentioned this
briefly the other day they are
eliminating the ability of individuals
or commune
advocates to appeal against EPA issued
pollution permits before a panel of
agency judges now industrial permit
holders they can still appeal to this
this board but individuals or community
advocates can't so if you want to fight
an EPA rule that has been issued now and
you live in a community and you're being
well here's an example I'm a certain
Addison an unemployed English teacher in
Clair County Michigan last year filed an
appeal with the board after the EPA
issued a permit to the Muskegon
development company to inject water into
a defunct oil well in Addison's
community in an effort to reconstitute
the well I want you to contemplate now
what the possible damage could be done
by injecting water into an old oil well
if any of you live in a rural area you
understand the implications of this you
have a water supply there are aqueducts
under the under the ground or aquifers
and you get stuff into there you're
cooked mr. Addison feared that in the
process contaminated water would leak
from the well into the local water
supply this is a poor area he said most
people don't have the money to fight
something like this in court that's what
the purpose of this board was because
anybody could go to the board and appeal
a ruling in fact in April the
environmental Appeals Board sent the
permit back to the EPA for revision
ruling that it wasn't clear if the
agency had sufficiently considered
public comments or the effects of the
plan on the poor and minority members of
the near boy nearby community well that
process gone gone it'll still exist if
you're a permit holder
it just won't exist if you're a
community anymore an individual pointing
Eugene Scalia to to be labor secretary
as you know he was the son of the
Blessed Li late Antonin Scalia
he has spent most of his career at a
white-shoe law firm fighting government
regulation he's done legal work for Ford
Motor Steve Wynn casinos UBS ups MetLife
the US Chamber of Commerce the American
Petroleum Institute the Business
Roundtable really I mean if you wanted a
who's who of people of entities that
have attacked labor over the years in a
2012 profile Wall Street Journal called
him one of the industry's go-to guys for
challenging financial regulations in
2006 he helped Walmart fight against a
Maryland law that would have required
companies with more than 10,000 workers
to either spend at least 8% of their
payroll costs on health care or pay into
a state Medicaid fund we know why Acosta
got fired
was because ostensibly because he gave a
sweetheart deal to Jeffrey Epstein it
also turns out that Mick Mulvaney who is
now the chief of staff right who's been
there since the beginning who after the
after it became clear that he wasn't
gonna be able to slash the government's
budget because Donald Trump realized
like you need to pay money out to get
elected he went on to the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau there he's
basically shut the agency down you
didn't have the ability to dismantle it
couldn't get Congress to cut its funding
so he basically just stopped all of its
enforcement procedures I don't think
they've brought a single enforcement
procedure in the past three years
so I think largely this is his project
he had chewed out Alex Acosta during a
meeting this year because according to
the Washington Post he was dragging his
feet on regulation rollbacks desired by
business interests and was on thin ice
as a result what else do we have
OSHA has the lowest number of inspectors
it's had in decades
it is doing the fewest number of
in-depth investigations into the health
and safety of workers than anybody
apparently can remember I should just
add that the EPA just recently also
decided that its investigation into
chlorophyll heurists that creates
neurological defects and kids we're
going to go ahead with that one this has
been this is the project and this is
just the ones that we know about I mean
God knows we know at the Secretary of
the Department of Education all of the
regulations regarding for-profit
universities and colleges completely
roll back you all you need to do is look
at the stock portfolios the stock funds
that trade in that to know how
significant that is the only other thing
I can tell you oh and the Trump
administration is quietly and this gets
to that point about Steve Bannon when he
talks about national security what he's
talking about is literally the hue of
national security like literally the the
color
of our country because the Trump
ministration according to the LA Times
two or three days ago has quietly
dismantled our cutback multiple programs
that were created after September 11th
oh they're not going to be spying on
people as much no that's not what it is
that detect and prevent terrorism
involving weapons of mass destruction in
other words scientists who are
developing ways to assess whether a
nuclear suitcase is coming in through
shipping and whatnot I would imagine
this stuff slowed down commerce in some
fashion
they have canceled training exercises
there have been scores of scientists and
policy experts who have left Paul Ryan
not the horrible one but a retired Navy
at Rear Admiral said what we had done in
the past was analytically based what are
the threats where can we get the most
return on the taxpayers investment for
security he led the Homeland Security's
domestic nuclear detection office and he
said we're not as secure as we were 18
months ago so you have all this assault
on the administrative state remember
there was also a lot of stories by give
you look into geoff Houser i think there
was numbers stories talked about how the
Trump administration was putting in
basically shadow shadow heads at all
these agencies people who did not have
to be confirmed by the Senate because
they were supposedly temporary and
they've just keep putting in a success
of a number of temporary heads who are
just basically tasked with destroying an
agency this is super easy to understand
demolition is much easier than building
something demolition is much easier than
maintaining something
you can do demolition wrong but it only
just creates more of a mess or is
slightly more dangerous but in this
instance the danger is not to you it's
to the people use these services and the
mess
nobody cares there's one other track on
this assault on the administrative state
and this doesn't seem to be going as
well for the Republicans and that's at
the Supreme Court this can change but we
kept talking this this year about a
couple of cases one was Kaiser I might
be mispronouncing that kazeer Kaiser in
the past you've heard me talk about the
Chevron doctrine which is what the court
ruled in nineteen mid-1980s where the
court determined that when Congress is
unambiguous in terms of passing a
statute and empowering an agency to
carry out that statute you have to defer
to the expressed intent of Congress but
there are times where Congress does not
directly address the precise question at
issue so Congress says to the EPA you
regulate any material that is toxic but
they didn't know about compound triple Z
it had not been developed or people
weren't aware of it or wasn't being in
use and the EPA finds like this is toxic
so we're going to regulate it Congress
didn't say regulate compound triple Z it
just said find stuff that's toxic so if
the statute is silent or ambiguous with
respect to a specific issue the question
that the court settled was whether the
agency
to answer is based on a permissible
construction of the statute so it gives
wide berth to the agency to sort of
assess whether it has authority here not
being absolute literalists well like
literally do do your job not just
because oh that doesn't specific exacts
so basically Chevron says that an agency
can interpret a statute unless it's in
clear contradiction to what Congress
wanted
there is a nother doctrine called the
our a yu-er doctrine that came from a
case in the late 90s our v Robbins that
allows an agency to interpret its own
regulation unless it's obviously
erroneous or inconsistent so in other
words if the agency says okay compound
triple Z cannot be used in any type of
procedure that might allow it to
possibly seep into groundwater and the
agency deems like oh wait a second
you're doing construction with this
material we determined that it could
seep into groundwater so the courts
going to defer to the agency's ability
to make that determination and this guy
James Kaiser
was seeking disability benefits for PTSD
from the VA the VA in 1983 determined
that Kaiser didn't suffer from service
related PTSD in 2007 the agency reversed
its finding but did not provide him
retroactive benefits
Kizer said that determination of the VA
was wrong and he wanted the Supreme
Court to overturn our v Robbins to say
that the agency did not have the ability
to make that policy essentially and the
court ended up refusing right wingers
have been trying to push this for a long
time and it's not clear to me that
they're done but so on the courts right
now we're somewhat protected but we'll
see but in terms of practice it's going
to take it's going to take multiple
terms of a an administration that is
committed to rebuilding these agencies
so that they can actually just function
and do what they're supposed to do
it's it's hard to build institutions and
once they get destroyed it's hard to
rebuild them and I don't care whether
it's like you know the US government
short-circuiting institutions in
Guatemala or whether it's Donald Trump's
administration in Mick Mulvaney
stripping away institutional knowledge
and human capital from these agencies
that are been built to to protect us so
it's something to keep an eye on and
it's something keep in mind I'm not
going to I'm not going to talk about it
on CNN when they talk about the
implications of this election or
anything that the budget of the Trump
administration is doing but it's hugely
important to just serve your daily life
particularly if you are a person who is
living living in poverty or near poverty
or a person of any type of marginal
community or commune
to have less political power or frankly
if you're you know anybody who's not a
corporation doesn't want your kid to
have brain damaged brain anything like I
don't I don't put a huge amount of stock
into the maybe I should a bit more into
like what kind of Lake Hoff stuff of
like language framing but I just feel
like dismantling the administrative
state sounds so much more exciting than
you know like apartheid and getting food
poisoning right like there's nothing
like that that sounds so grands and
theoretical this is just Republican
deregulation right well it's just bad
for you lawlessness in all respects
whatever you want to call it but it is
not it's not like yes let's apply like
brilliant management theories to
government so it's better I feel like is
that that's sort of like what he's
cueing off when he says that that's like
Newt Gingrich Newt Gingrich did all of
that stuff I read about how he was
always referencing like trendy 90's
management theory yeah so it's like yeah
here's the bill we're gonna get rid of
you know farmer regulations to make it
easier for heart medication to end up
like you know exploding your heart or
whatever they were doing and the
language is like you know like Edward s
Deming show that you can reinvent the
corporation and blah blah blah process
it's like dude you're you're just doing
handoffs the corporation this is yeah
this is this is the I mean you know
there was ten years ago
you know arguments libertarian arguments
of like the problem is corruption and in
the end it's and and and and it's
because corporations buy our government
and so the way to keep corporations from
corrupting our government is to make the
government so small that that
corporations have nothing to get from
them but this is the point of this is
there is a dynamic that's at play here
someone's going to fill this vacuum
and Natura bores a vacuum if there is a
vacuum of power as to what happens to
your average person corporations will
fill it period end of story
and the more you debilitate the ability
of our government to react to these
things the more corporate power they'll
be and that's what this is about
so I say both third party no matter what
no matter where you are I don't care if
you're in a swing state you really your
exams the perfect you sit on that one
for forty there you go
honestly I mean that's this is there's
there's so much at stake so I'll save a
third party there's so much at stake and
and don't mistake what I'm saying here
I'm not saying that there first of all I
don't know that there is a safe choice
when we talking about elections but
understand that the functioning of
government is far beyond just like I
like this person or I don't like that
person I'm gonna run for them and the
vast majority of your fellow Americans
will not have access to this information
probably don't care about the
information and then a significant
portion of them will also specifically
not care like I'm sort of aware of what
you're saying and I definitely don't
care I had a conversation with a guy who
I like and plumber we were talking about
Joe immigration stuff what wasn't Joe no
not Joe but I Joe but I feel to not be a
thing anymore since 2008 and just the
the perception of like there's a certain
amount of just sort of like I'm gonna
write I'm gonna write off I'm gonna come
up with a very simple catch-all answer
so that I don't have to get into the
nuance of some of this stuff and resist
that folks on
it's a massive government because we
have 300 million people in this country
fairly diverse country both in terms of
like geography psychology demographics
and to provide for it is a complicated
task and we they are dismantling our
agencies and that's I know it's
technocratic and whatnot but at the end
of the day this is the way that that
that whatever services were ever
policies that want to be pursued by
whichever of your favored candidates won
this is the way that those things are
going to be delivered and if they're
delivered improperly it's also going to
hurt the political agenda
people aren't judged just on the ideas
they're judged on the ability to deliver
on those ideas and between the courts
and the agencies you can it doesn't
matter who you have as president it's
it's massive obstacles to actually
delivering even if never mind the
politics behind it even if you could
deliver from a political standpoint and
past the perfect piece of legislation
carrying them out with agencies that
have been completely decimated in terms
of skills and a legal system that
prohibits I mean the best part of
Obamacare was the Medicaid expansion and
a million some odd two million people
didn't have access to it simply because
the court decided some badass batshit
crazy ruling that even though Congress
could end Medicaid tomorrow and then
restart Medicaid with the expanded
version of Medicaid they could not say
if you're going to take Medicaid state
you need to expand it but this Court is
willing to do what it takes to to thwart
any tie any type of progress and so
these are important considerations
