[Music]
let's start with this before we get on
to the real festivities what are you
doing awake at 4:00 in the morning 5:00
in the morning what was I doing last
night
yeah I'm looking at my Twitter feed and
you were you were tweeting out it like
5:00 a.m. the turkey Gervaise I'm
looking for a backhanded way to slam
gervase okay I don't want to engage him
anymore so you looking or I was putting
or I was googling Dave Rubin but I'd
love to hate that Dave Rubin you stay up
do you stay up super super late just so
that you can like give grief to Ricky
Gervais scuzz he's on like a London time
is that what what's going on there like
you stay up you know like that to the
wee hours of the morning so that you get
him right around lunch in in London
good morning would like me I blocked him
I blocked him a long time ago not that I
don't still go and see what he's saying
but uh so I stopped engaging with him
about a year and a half ago and now I
just look and see how if he's improved
his stupidity oh my god he knew heard me
we did he just put how when did he do
this oh my god with that he did this
like within a day or two ago he I'm
hosting picture himself laughing and he
says this is me laughing at that thing
you think no one should ever laugh about
[Laughter]
my legacy is him in the office every
heading into the IDW right like I'm
laughing st. the IDW I knew your role if
you scroll one day of it even like six
or seven tweets there's all these tweets
from other accounts that praise him like
he's over retweeting him oh what's this
I love the Ricky Gervais is more than
life itself what are they saying today
and then constantly thank you
you the biggest-selling this I got paid
that I'm literally everyday if someone
makes fun because that's okay I have a
mansion I'm rich I'm wealthy
Netflix forty million dollars so it's
hard to stay away yeah I understand
there must be very compelling but Andy
what is there anything new that we
should discuss before we get into the
main event yes it is something very
important that I never I'm starting now
to go heavy in heavy rotation of
promoting my own podcast which is called
thought spiral with J Elvis Weinstein
and it's mayhem to Jews to mics two
hours and it's ripping up it's a is just
it's right next it's just below bagman
on the top that is the Rachel Maddow now
is yours historically based or is it
really just like the his mom it
basically is whatever happened in the
last two half-hour or two days I would
love to hear real Maddow and these
pockets no guess - am I asking that a my
ass did I just say the did I ask the
question was that was with was that a
question all right no no more no is NBC
making fun of we don't want to bite the
hands as currently feeding one of us I
believe me I'm not getting fed that much
yeah if that's what he's not getting fed
enough not agreeing Matthew Limon
believe me I noticed that your your suit
we haven't when you were in the other
night you suit was like I'm getting
tired of having this dry crank was
actually the the not so good sport coat
you look good you look like you actually
grew up you're an adult I never I'm
outside the window looking in Sam trying
to mainstream myself this is Rachel
Maddow
god I hate Ricky Gervais he's obnoxious
and he's always tweeting about stand-up
he's not even a real stand-up is he and
II know
no he is not he but much like Hitler
like to show large timid large rallies
do you think it's hilarious to show him
in a room of fifty thousand people much
like Hitler much like Hitler bragged
about numbers I blocked Ricky Gervais so
I'd stop thinking about him but then I
started following him on an incognito
account right exactly
great yes I can't I can't bring myself
to block him on my fourth sock puppet
account that was set up to follow
