they've sent now 5200 troops to the
border with Blackhawk helicopters with
people trained in night warfare but
that's a problem
because while it pushes the narrative
forward that there's this invasion by
these families who are two months away
walking towards us
maybe they stop along the way while that
helps that narrative the other problem
is that it may make some of these boobs
who believe this stuff feel safe so
we've got the military part covered what
should we put out next oh I know bill
get on the phone and call Laura and
let's start this at Fox this is what we
got what last night correct this is
Friday okay here we go here's Laura
Ingraham thanks so much
and I want to turn to a part of this
story that is largely being ignored the
health concerns that have already arisen
because of so much cross-border traffic
a lot of it illegal and anyone inside
the caravan now coming into the United
States we've heard about the recent
typhus outbreak in Southern California
it's a deadly disease that we thought we
had eradicated from the first world but
what other health issues that should we
be aware of health concerns for the
American public
yeah nobody's talking about it but a
good thing you got on that because then
just coincidentally it seems like
everybody's talking about it and bye-bye
everybody what I mean is people on Fox
News in fact here's a this guy this is
David Ward and Charlie Payne or Charles
Payne on I don't know what show the Fox
Business News Channel it's going to be
interesting to see how this goes the
military is going to be a tremendous
asset at the ports of entry to prevent
the people from coming across the port
the ports of entry however what we need
to look at is
what happens between the ports of entry
and what the Border Patrol is going to
have to face we have three tenets of
problems here we have national security
public safety and public health issues
with these caravans coming to the United
States now in the national security
realm we've got all sorts of people not
only for Central America but they're
coming in from Africa from the Middle
East and other places in this Caravan so
already been documented so already been
noted by our tell people that are down
there then Public Safety we've already
had people interviewed in this caravan
and what we've been deported for you
from the United States for crimes such
as attempted homicide now these are
prior deep ports that are coming in and
they will not come through the port of
entry they're going to come between the
ports of entry where so path of least
resistance then Public Health we have
these individuals come from all over the
world that have the some of the most
extreme medical care care in the end the
world and they're coming in with
diseases such as smallpox and leprosy
and TB that are going to affect our
people in the United States
so there is a caravan of people two
months away walking on foot with TB
leprosy what else did he say
smallpox smallpox they're apparently
also they must be pushing those like
plastic bubbles right like so that so
that the really infirm people they're
pushing some of them on Gurney's
apparently for the entire two months
they're going to be pushing them from
southern Mexico all the way up into the
United States
boy what a coincidence that we hear that
when we go that was that was that today
was a yesterday I mean uh yesterday oh
well I mean who could imagine Wow it's
it's almost like there's another disease
and it's spreading through Fox and it's
the disease of making up the fact that
there are these these exotic diseases in
these caravans I mean God someone see if
Lou Dobbs has gotten inoculated yet the
Posse Comitatus Act has nothing to do
with it it's a foreign invasion so yes
he can send the National military down
to protect the border I'm glad he's
doing that it's a strong stance it must
be taken because
we simply cannot tolerate the continued
invasion of this country when Americans
are suffering every day the national
debt is exploding we have diseases
spreading across the country that are
causing polio like paralysis of our
children it's one thing after the same
you can't very well blame that disease
on illegal immigrants we don't know the
cause of it I don't know that that's I
don't think that's fair pause it for one
second now let me tell you what's
happening with Lou Dobbs here Lou Dobbs
is a little problem because the other
day he had a guy on that basically
accused George Soros the big Jew of
driving them the caravan up here and
that guy had to be disinvited from Fox
forever because it sounds just eerily
similar to the reasons why that guy went
in and shot up that temple yesterday so
Lou Dobbs a little skittish so he's
trying to ask his guests here Sidney
Powell hey please just you know back off
a little bit a lot of you know but there
are plenty of reasons to keep this
country secure including including
making sure that everyone is healthy
when they're brought into the country
without question right is that fair that
is fair but that is part of the problem
we don't know where the diseases are
coming from well that's you know what I
think that let me tell you what's
happening now with Lou Dobbs his
producer is going you got to get out of
this Lou you got to get out of this we
can't we can't sustain this two days in
a row buddy I mean just trying to just
play it off smile a lot dog go with that
we're going to leave it we've decided we
what we don't know is what we don't know
and it's always good talking with you
and finding out what we do know and
Sidney Powell as usual knows a great
deal well done we don't know what we
don't know and what we do know we do
know and I do know that this could get
me in trouble and I can't afford to do
that amongst double-secret probation I'm
not allowed to let my full on
freak flag fly right now it makes me so
mad because it's like a classic bit of
Republican misdirection right because
why are Americans so afraid of diseases
in the first place because we don't have
 health care and whose fault is
that largely like all of the diseases
they're listing off are things that can
be very easily treated with modern
medicine should people have access to it
but they're being brought in by brown
people so that extra virulent in fact
here is Laura Ingraham just to round out
just a bookend this here we go the she
just she also has a list of diseases as
we have the spinning wheel and a here we
go and again the list of diseases that
are of concern given the multitude of
people crossing our border so we got HIV
measles produces rubella rabies
hepatitis A influenza TB shigellosis
syphilis I know the Chagas is another
problem and that's a insect born there
you go all of those diseases as far as I
know maybe not all of them but I mean
there's a lot of like syphilis like yeah
it's like a you know 28 days later right
like 28 or 48 days from now that's what
this is they're making them out to be
like fast zombies there we go
