[Music]
ladies and gentlemen there is a new
blockbuster video from Project Veritas
you have seen dave rubin incessantly
claim that he is being shadow banned on
twitter and on youtube and in fact i
think it's hard to imagine how well what
Dave Reubens Twitter feed would even
look like if he wasn't complaining about
how much YouTube was de monetizing him
and how little he needed YouTube and how
much he needed YouTube and on and on and
now we finally have proof Dave Rubin has
retweeted out definitive proof how do we
know this is definitive well of course
there is a person who is in silhouette
who tells us it's true so it must be
true the idea well let's just play this
video here we go it was a special
occasion to talk about the future of the
company for YouTube and they described
that there were going to pause it for
one second I think this is important
it's important to note that whenever
Google does anything like this they will
have their employees go to a Masonic
Temple of course because the Masons have
been engaged in this type of subterfuge
for right since the original no
platformers right weren't they how long
is the Masonic temples been around right
I mean this is like where they breed
vampires too I really started in the
Enlightenment comment okay continue
for YouTube and they described that
they're going to have more content
filtering and right after that happened
a lot of the content creator started to
get demonetised on and theists hard to
get to ranks I'm talking about Dave
Rubin talking about pipe EDM talking
about 10 10 pool and a lot of the other
content creators or different YouTube
ecosystem just soldered the view counts
just for weight so just to clarify he's
basing this off of a trip to the Masonic
Lodge not like internal emails or
something that's it oh of course of
course because they would never send
visit the point they would never ever do
have this meeting at Google because then
they could actually be held to account
if they have it at the Masonic Temple
now here's the other thing that's
interesting and and partially why I
think that that I I think that this guy
got played we can see the view counts
you can go to social blade and see the
view counts what they would have done
would have been demonetized
and had a lower rate of monetization but
the view counts are obvious they have
not dropped through the floor but
continue so how is it that Google is
able to target its people the way that
Google is able to target people is that
they take videos and then they do a
transliteration through using artificial
intelligence specifically the insider
verified that Prager you how the
conservative educational YouTube channel
and talk-show host Dave Reubens videos
received heightened analysis and the
artificial intelligence in allogram vaya
con vaya con police's YouTube
distribution singling Prager and Ruben
out as right-wing and news talk and they
looked at the translated text of what
those people are saying and then they
assigned certain categories of them like
Newstalk and then they're able to take
those and apply their algorithmic we
biasing unfairness algorithms does
everybody have the unfairness algorithm
ready we're meeting at the Masonic Lodge
we're gonna be drinking wine from Skull
goblets and I want everybody to have the
unfairness algorithm okay ladies and
gentlemen I give you the unfairness
algorithm don't make don't make I've
been creating for decades yeah don't
make you will find it's extremely unfair
it's easy to dismiss the you are you a
is the algorithmically biasing
unfairness algorithm they thought
they've merely oh my god this is if
you're listening yes listen to the guy
who convinced Project Veritas and what's
the guy whose project very tense James
okay James O'Keefe to you who I I
imagine it's one of the perfect Liars or
is a yes man or somebody similar like
this like look contact us I will keep
your name secret I will keep it secret
that we've even contacted us and I will
double whatever Andrew yang ends up
hanging out to we just want to hear your
story
yeah just like just amongst us yes
seriously
the assigns certain categories to them
like right here or news talk and then
they're able to take those and apply
their algorithmic we biasing unfairness
algorithms to them so that they're
continously passed across the platform
this is a coming in and they're putting
your thumb down and they're deciding
which content the users are allowed to
see what's scary about this to you
what's scary is that gules deciding
what's important and what's not
important they are going through and
they're effectively deleting
physicians from the the national
narrative it reminds me of a book I know
our estimation skills is low but how how
could you buy wait don't we have the
tweet no no before I think we need
though do we have Dave's tweet I just I
am the to you guys I think that that's
an important part of the story here
see this important because we're talking
about over under estimating somebody's
cognitive ability I just want to get
everything down on the record even if it
risks oh the wanna chat is that it yeah
we had that up we had that out all right
all right so the so ladies and gentlemen
to put code 1984 I never heard of it but
listen to me wait what is that
wait what's that book it could be
eliminated from the algorithm look we've
had our lab we've had our laugh and for
when we first saw this we thought okay
this is this is obviously you know some
type of hoax or whatnot but ladies and
gentlemen we here have received even
more footage and I think we owe it
because we are truth tellers to show you
this footage that we have discovered
there's more to this and it's not just
Google doing this it would be one thing
if Google was functioning as some type
of editor on their platform and deciding
what was important and what wasn't
but it's far more nefarious play the
video
so who gives you here marching orders on
who to suppress basically what we do in
suppressing Dave Rubin and all the other
right-wing shows every morning we can
enlist every response and suppress every
tiny and the majority report and the
writer links Mike branch out find
Michael black soldier and open fire
radio and spit your head
I mean hangover as well thanks very much
of it and the anti father
thanks man that's nice of GUI suppress
because been on the left and we did one
right here whatever that tell us to do
so that's where I'm a direct there's a
good and redirect bird money and just
forth algorithms and ideologies and my
daughter stop that's why reader so
because we're doing bad things
[Laughter]
waha wife
why did we play that we're busted now
Jesus Christ super just don't let us why
Sam your selfish instincts are profound
I I know a lot of people would have said
hey why are we going to blow the lid on
ourselves but I'm sorry it's the truth
and somebody in this office obviously or
someone at Google obviously squealed on
us and and we know how humiliating is
when you censor the truth out of your
show
that's the thing you got to get out in
front of it we could have cut out the
names majority report we could have cut
out the names Michael Brooks show and a
fade to white the anta fada literary
hangover but we wouldn't do that because
that would be embarrassing for us so
it's the truth the truth is out there
and we just played it so I don't you
know we had to do that and you know I'm
proud that we did Oh
