[Music]
all right here's something since we were
talking about comedians and I'm Erin had
something good I noticed on Twitter the
other day my old friend Marc Maron about
you know if you're punching down you've
got a problem in comedy and here's Chris
Morris I don't know if you ever seen the
brass eye but if you haven't seen this
British brass eye he if you want to
understand where so much of like British
comedy has come from over the past five
ten years etc etc the brass I buy these
you know it's like I don't know I don't
know how big it was in in in England I
don't have no idea I think it was pretty
pretty big I mean they don't have you
know but there's a quality for someone
like this guys like you know like like
the Velvet Underground in music where
it's like they sold the thousand records
but everyone who bought a record started
a band that you've heard of
by the way brass I and I believe the day
to day they're both they're all on
YouTube so people just watch those Oh
YouTube yes I've heard of that and here
is Chris Moors talking about the point
of satire in this day and age I think
he's he's reacting maybe to or you is
this just an example that we have of
Maya Rudolph yeah but here I don't
really see the point of comedy unless
there's something underpinning it I mean
what are you doing you know are you
doing some sort of some kind of exotic
display for the court to be patted on
the head by the court or are you trying
to change something isn't Trump half the
time many steps ahead of you
ahead of you in the sense that he's
doing things even you might not have
dreamt an American president could do
but it's not it's not about the the
failure of your imagination to get to a
point it's what he's doing Trump's move
is to confuse people yes but you've got
to stick to what's actually happening
and I think that yeah you need to take
notes pretty fast right now
but I don't think he's escaped ridicule
I mean he is self ridiculing but you're
always gonna be able to ridicule someone
like that the problem is that I think
we've got used to a kind of satire which
essentially placate the court you'd do a
nice dissection of the way things are in
the orthodox elite and lo and behold you
get slapped on the back by the orthodox
elites you say jolly good can you do us
another one that's not what it's about
so in a way these times should bring on
something with a bit more clout and you
really don't feel outflanked by the
bonkers which is going on right now no I
really don't what
I don't feel out flavor and you might
have conceived some of this stuff but
it's not about that is it it's about
looking at what's happening and deciding
where what's ridiculous about it it's
not about I mean at the time we were
doing the day to day the Sunday sport
was reporting World War bombers on the
moon you know it's not it's never about
that it's about the thrust and it's
really about whether whether the people
that you're lancing can get off your
spike I mean it's very stunning I don't
know if that guy actually got it the
idea is not like oh I sit around and
imagine what's silliness the president
Trump can do again or anybody in power
what they could do again the idea is
actually reinterpreting what they're
doing and showing people what the
essence of what they're doing is and
what is problematic about it and the
idea is you've got to draw a blood and
if if people can appreciate the work you
know the way that your satirizing them
then you're not doing it correctly and
by people I mean the people in power
you don't need to satirize people who
don't have power because the it's
irrelevant and largely irrelevant I mean
unless it's really just to edify
people's superiority over others this is
a good example of this Maya Rudolph
playing playing Kemal Harris now look
just write this stuff
[Music]
and you know sorry not live is really
mentally about talking to 15 year olds
and I'm not being facetious about that I
mean I think that is like the specific
do kids really watch SNL anymore oh I
think feel like it's for baby boomers i
I think that it's probably like 15 year
olds and 65 year olds I don't know
people who don't go out on Saturday
night that's right but I don't go out on
Saturday night and I don't want Kamala
Harris the girl being played by Maya
Rudolph on NBC that girl was me
and she talks about that and then Maya
Rudolph is like yes senator and honored
to attempted to be as cool as you I mean
I guess maybe maybe the writing was was
more biting and she's just happy to be
the vehicle but I don't know my god
I mean look people can also get really
triggered and have intense reactions to
satire that's not even that good of them
like see also Donald Trump
Jimmy absolutely wants to put all of SNL
in jail for their weak-ass satire but if
the people in power do like it then you
know you've done it wrong exactly
