[Music]
Donald Trump is on the road and I don't
know the extent to which how stupid
Donald Trump is in some ways matters and
obviously in other ways he actually has
a great cynical horrific intuitive grasp
of how to be a you know an authoritarian
public entertainer or a clown fascist
but you know he also doesn't know
about and sometimes his profound
ignorance is funny other times it's a
lesson in important area so brexit of
the many disasters emanating from brexit
could under law undermine the Good
Friday peace accords which have in all
of their imperfections kept peace in
Northern Ireland for decades since 1997
I believe as a deal with the Accords
part of the reason this works is because
there is a open border policy which
allowed people in Northern Ireland who
wanted to unified Ireland to live and
function as if they live in one country
and those loyal Royalists those who
wanted to stay inside the United Kingdom
were still in fact inside the United
Kingdom so it was a nice win-win /
lose-lose for everybody that's called
diplomacy so it's a major problem in
terms of brexit Donald Trump is in
Ireland and he had some really
insightful comments about the Irish
border
[Music]
[Music]
so nobody's sure is gonna work out the
prime minister of Ireland Leo Varda car
has to basically say like actually it's
sort of the opposite which is some big
stupid Porter contraption would bring
back the troubles now I don't know what
Donald Trump was doing in the 1980s I
know what he would like me to think he
was doing and I'm not necessarily
convinced he was doing those things but
I can tell you that as somebody who I
think at the very least did like the New
York Times / version of being you know
of wanting to be able to be at a party
and being like I mean the nikkei big
stuff I'm sure that he was lucid enough
to do that
and in the 1980s and 1990s you had
paramilitaries associated with the
far-right forces who wanted to keep part
of the UK kneecapping people murdering
people
you had the IRA Irish Republican Army
engaging in guerrilla campaigns
civilians were killed there was even a
there was pretty major activity going on
in that part of the world and the Good
Friday Accords brought people together
who were like had killed members of each
others like families literally in some
cases to work out a very complicated
deal that has saved a lot of people's
lives
precisely because there isn't a border
irony upon ironies and the prime
minister of Ireland has to have one of
those moments of like you know it would
be one thing if you weren't president
United States just sit here and watch
you be a bloviating jackass you think he
would have at least stumbled across a
cranberries video at some
