[Music]
dave rubin rails against the idea that
people always want to be with victim
class hey we're having an ideas
emergency over here exactly but I mean
Dave Rubin always talks about how
offensive it is that people would
consider themselves based upon their
victimhood if Dave Rubin got rid of his
sense of being victimized all that would
be left would be the scruffy beard that
he's trying to grow here he is walking
the streets complaining about an article
in the Colet now Matt I'm not terribly
familiar with couette I know we've
talked about it here a little bit
how would you characterize quill let is
this a left-wing magazine no it's sort
of the IDW use sort of magazine I see so
it's the IDW yeah but there but of late
they've been critical of dave rubin and
jordan Peterson well isn't that the
point of the IDW right right ideas not
tribal not about not about victimhood
here's Dave Rubin taking a walk to clear
his head now that he's been criticized
and very upset that none of his friends
have contact and it's a sort of sort of
sad on everybody okay so first off all
right Wow we got it we got over four
hundred already jeez
this thing's flying okay cool so first
off I would just like to say I'm having
a perfectly lovely day despite what you
might be seeing on Twitter I'm not mad
I'm having a protein shake it's a mint
chocolate something it's really good
whey protein really nice don't want to
get hit by as well let me just tell you
something about when I'm having a really
good day when I'm having a really good
day
let me tell you what I don't do go on
and do a streaming video for 12 minutes
talking about areum but he's being mean
to me go ahead good whey protein really
nice going to get
by a car well at walking here you sure
about that and you know I got into some
Twitter nonsense this morning and it's
so it's just gross it's all just gross
so for those of you that aren't playing
along on Twitter god bless you and
you're probably living your best life
but basically a Collette which is run by
Clara Lehmann who's a former guest of
mine who has been very friendly and nice
to me on go and as a former guest mean
oh he's not gonna have him back on have
her back on I think that's the
implication so much about ideas okay
good in all of our private exchanges has
done about four hit pieces on me
recently where they're really trying to
single me out out of the IDW coup that
I'm somehow the worst because I sit down
and and talk to some people that they
don't like and I talk to these people on
the right and I don't question them
exactly as they want and all of these
things and they keep just writing piece
after piece now I got a ton of
haters these days which really is just
the sign that I'm doing something good I
mean you know I get news for you just
because people don't like you does not
mean you're doing something good
sometimes people just don't like you
gonna apply this to Isis right from all
sides
there's brawl sides yeah it's up right
good Billy is like I'm happy with what
I'm doing hundreds of thousands if not
millions of people seem to enjoy what
I'm doing I have no guilt related to
what I'm doing I'm living my life and
doing my thing I don't wander around
worrying about destroying people and
hating people and all of this nonsense
so anyway quad went after me again a
couple of days ago this one was by a
former guest of mine which is
interesting so this one it's not only
that it's in Collette which Clara
Lehmann who's a former guest of mine
who's a guest after I've had people like
Molyneux and CERN of each and Paul
Joseph Watson and whoever and Lauren
southern and whoever else they're going
for me and I'm walking up a major hill
I'll just say to defend Dave they could
have mentioned it when they were on with
day that's right that's right
interesting
I mean usually the idea that they were a
guest would be that gives them a little
bit more credibility yeah right like but
God right here so I started running out
of breath you'll know why
anyway this guest though was was Cathy
Young who was a writer I had on the show
I don't know about three years ago or
something and there's there's so many
things I could say about her personally
from my experience with her but I'm not
going to do any of that and there might
be a couple moments on Twitter this
morning where I slightly took the low
road tonight
I apologize not to her I apologize to
myself and to you guys if I did do that
if ik+ I also want to apologize to
myself if I am saying anything that is
in any way you know rude towards Dave
Rubin I want to apologize to me and
there's a lot of things you could be
saying to but you're not going there's a
lot of things I could be saying I'm not
gonna say that but if I do and if I have
I want to apologize to me you get caught
in this nonsense but I just want to be
clear about something I have no guilt on
my conscience of anyone I've talked to
or any question I've asked or not asked
have I made that's the second time he
said no interview absolutely perfect of
course not I'm not a perfect human being
and these people who are just endless
haters it's like what are you doing with
your lives but in any of them I guess he
was addressing that to me I'm just doing
this show but raising my kids doing the
show good with haters it's like what are
you doing with your lives but in any
event what's going on here really is
that and this is the goddamn truth this
is the truth the truth the truth the
truth I have left the left and survived
and every and I've been calling out the
left as it progressive as a liberal for
years for years and years I was doing it
nice we got over a thousand people in
here that's awesome sweet four years I
was doing it I was doing it from the
left
I was saying guys let's stop calling
everyone racist let's stop calling
everyone a bigot let's make sound
arguments all of these things not
everyone nervous truckers against gay
marriage it's heard for gay marriages a
homophobe unless Barack Obama was a
homophobe the first time you ran for
president as well as Hillary Clinton
Trump is not a Nazi and the people that
vote for him or not Nazis and he's not
Hitler and the more that you guys do
these types of things instead of making
sound arguments the more that you're
gonna man I gotta get off this hill the
more that you're gonna pin yourself into
intellectual warning people started
paying attention to it every all the
things that I've been saying for years
have now burst forth for everyone to see
the left has gone completely
bananas and posits types so soak will
let is the left now yep anybody who
disagrees with him is the left
that's basically Jacobin from Australia
there you go yeah exactly good people
that you can leave the left and you will
survive you're gonna be okay but that's
not even it what it really is about is I
go to college campuses and sell out
comedy clubs and I was on tour for a
year with Jordan Peterson and I met
literally thousands and thousands of
good conservatives who can agree to
disagree
who I tell them that I'm gay married
they don't care or they just are willing
to live in the same society as me nice
we got our grudgingly pro-choice which
is a really hard one for conservatives
to swallow but they can agree to have a
conversation about it
I'm against the death penalty most
conservatives are and I mean all of this
 that's positive at least you know
he back then you know when a couple
years ago when he interviewed these
people also would say he was for
single-payer health insurance and
limited government fascinating
then grudgingly grudgingly for
single-payer health insurance good day
over and over and I don't get any hate
from anyone on the right and this whole
idea and all of these quality pieces the
ideas little bridges to the right but
that somehow is bad and awful even
though
most of the IDW who are on I don't know
if they really what they think person
anymore but are or at least were on the
left at one point right so the fact that
I've escaped they have to take out an
extremely high cost on me because they
can't have you knowing that you can
escape but you can't escape it's your
 life do whatever the hell you
want to do with you imagine the delusion
here
imagine the delusion here he really
should have got his talking points
together a bit more before he went okay
I feel like the Colette thing is trying
to prove that you can't leave the left
is a weird talking point boy alright
continue always wanted to know what it
was like to like for instance put a
photo on Salman Rushdie that's what
we're doing with Dave Rubin yeah exactly
yeah exactly life live you live your
life as you want so it's like they're
trying to take me out right now and
Jacob out you guys won't do it you won't
do it I'm gonna keep doing what I think
is right and I'll talk to the people
that I want to talk to that are
interesting and some of them are going
to be shady every now and again posit a
nice you're gonna talk to shady people I
mean you could talk to shady people but
why don't you call them out on their
shadiness the bad thing is not so much
that he said I mean like I I don't know
that I would do it but certainly there
are people who talk to shady people and
they one of the first questions they're
like why are you so shady or hey don't
you think this is shady or here's what
I'm gonna talk about your shadiness but
that doesn't seem to come up yeah David
said says we're part of the new center
right exactly you're so shady
we're both basking in the shade good do
it I'm gonna keep doing what I think is
right and I'll talk to the people that I
want to talk to that are interesting and
some of them are going to be shady every
now and again and I suspect that the
people that are always coming after me
have done some pretty shady and
child
 posit and I feel like I'm doing
pretty childish right now actually
okay I'll do and anyway it's just
kind of boring more than anything else
so it's what's unfortunate about this
one is when happy was on my show and it
was after Serna was on she never
said a word to me and as I said Claire
was on my show after all of them were on
my my show she never said a word to me
either and it's like alright you guys
you want to use me okay we could play
that game I suppose but you won't own me
maybe you used me but you won't own me
so anyway so it's just boring petulant
childish nonsense and you know I know
maybe I should have let some of it go
this morning and it's another beautiful
day in Los Angeles as it usually is and
I probably should have just let it go
but you got to defend yourself you know
we this mob rule that we lived through
is really weird
there's your mob behind him or the mob
rule you know qualit what is it the mob
is he singing they're coming you're
saying it's mafia mmm maybe that's
what's getting backed let it's some type
of money-laundering Enterprise for them
for the mob that's weird you don't
defend yourself why would someone else
defend you you know you mean so
sometimes you got to do something that
you don't inherently want to do and I
won't bout it the tricycle that in those
interviews I could have done this or
that different I've acknowledged that
repeatedly but if she's trying to take
me out you will not take me out I'm not
going anywhere if anything in a weird
way I feel I feel bizarrely empowered
right now except for the fact that I'm
walking down a street talking into my oh
my gosh luck I was are Lee empowered
right now because you know most of my
haters are just YouTube losers that want
to get that want to get clicks off me
right and it's weird to be that person
like I wake up I have no hate for
anybody I wake up and I try to do my day
and then whatever I don't wake up and be
like what did this person say I'm gonna
make a video about that person okay but
I get a lot of these hey I don't want to
say it's lunch
III want to say that I don't do that in
my own defense because I think you may
be talking about me in some respect
yeah in my own defense I never wake up
and say what did Reuben so today I don't
I don't do that what I do is I wake up
you know make breakfast for the kids
make make them lunch walk down to work
and then I walk into the office and I go
Brendon producers that's alright that's
fine and by the way I'm not talking
about legitimate criticism which I
acknowledge all the time if I do if I
had this person on and should I have
asked this question or that question or
if I focused too much on the left
although there's plenty of proof as
today is why I do it I'm just talking
about the endless trolls and haters that
just want cliques and clout and all that
nonsense so you know solo2 nonsense it's
all it's all just drivel but you have to
defend yourself and and I do have to say
something else which is it's been really
interesting today who has publicly
defended me and who will only privately
message me because I'm getting texts
from people that won't defend me
publicly I don't know where the whole
IDW crew has been on this I haven't
really heard from anybody and that's
alright people are people are busy not
everyone's just spending all their days
in the Twittersphere thank God but I
began a lot of texts from people and
then and then a certain set of people
are defending me publicly and it's
appreciated because in these weird
moments you kind of figure out who your
friends are and I say friends not allies
I hate that word allies there was like
over that prison the gay Ally like we're
going to war you got a weapon what do
you got like no I hate the phrase ally
is so stupid
but there was a mob after him
then he checks some people who actually
would actually we should play that part
yeah this is he's about to pull a real
Michael Tracy this parts a little bit
sad and so Bridget fed Izzy today in art
of Anna and Colin Moriarty as Mohammed
I'm sure I'm forgetting some some
big-time people David were boring timers
big timers I leave it there I feel bad
for him you know trying you know I think
there's a reason why he's wearing those
mirrored sunglasses and sometimes you
wear those now
what was also sort of amazing after a
Dave Rubin went on his extended sort of
walk I mean there it was fascinating
because it was in the bright sunlight
his long long walk through his
neighborhood but in sunny in many ways
he was walking through the darkness and
he said that he would more than likely
invite more shady people on to his show
and he had talked about in there how the
IDW crew hasn't seemed to even reach out
even in private to say no my solidarity
David and and I want to make it clear
yesterday on this program and in a tweet
I reached out to date and I said
solidarity and if you wanted to talk
about it I will give you a platform to
talk about now I don't have a million
subscribers we have almost like 550 or
something like that and then we are you
know the podcast as well so you know
we're not quite a million but close and
I'd give you an opportunity David to
defend yourself against this left-wing
rag qualit
what David does apparently is choose to
reach out to Milo Yann innopolis and
name in a while it's true and sometimes
folks you can't can't go back sometimes
those bridges gets burned and so here is
an exchange that Milo put on I guess
telegram or something telegram or
something like that
Milo writes total coincidence that the
day I post about him we push Lea here I
think it was in a wasp Ashley excuse me
was it what was this on telegram or is
this on like gab or something else or
what else was he posted this I think
telegram or gab or something like that
oh you can go public on telegram like
that printed it out and put it up around
places okay well and so uh total
coincidence the day I post about him
wapis Lee while specially here Dave
Rubin text me after two years maybe he
was still in recovery mode for those two
years of pretending I don't exist and
7:40 p.m. now here's a question where is
Milo is he in New York Sam the East
Coast
no no no it's tough to know but I
suspect this was after Dave took that
walk and realized he had no more friends
and he wrote this still your number yeah
I'll do my low what do you want
that is very waspish ously of you to uh
your interview with JP was good that's
all I was nothing but loyal helpful and
supportive to you since the day we met
but you threw me to the wolves and did
nothing to defend me when they came for
me over total then you had the
hood spot to publicly gloat about my
irrelevance so why are you texting
texting me now feeling the heat
are we they are coming for you I won't
waste energy trying to sabotage or harm
you but I sure am going to save her the
spectacle go to hell Dave Wow
I love the part - that's like he borrows
that phrase you know when they came for
me you did nothing
yeah I'm not even sure what you're
talking about I watched the interview
this weekend and thought it was
excellent that's all okay then bye Dave
you deserve every bit of what's coming
your way yeah I loved the tape saying
I'm not even sure what you're talking
about I just watched the any of you I'm
not there's nothing else going out of my
life Danielle total coincidence that
I'm having to take a walk around the
block and no you know they say you gotta
be nice feet into people on your way up
cuz you're gonna see them on your way to
wherever alright grifters go when they
get cancelled now here is a tweet by
Eric Weinstein he is of the Weinstein
brothers not the not the one that was
just went I think to go into jail or
something like that Harvey Weinstein not
that one different one you know
different one this guy is this the guy
who was the professor no I think that's
Brett so this is the guy who's the was
the works for Peter teal
yeah managing director at teal capital
so he's gonna be might be the leftist
for Dave he's father shitty wine and
straight so Eric Weinstein says there's
something very odd and perhaps new
happening around Dave Rubin Rubin report
we we could call it hate blinding in
analogy to being left
snowblind there is now a permanent at
her ass Dave constantly seemingly to get
him to become desensitized to all
criticism this is a bizarre construction
but let's just say let's just stay with
what the hate blinding he's getting hate
now Dave Rubin of course has promoted in
various different ways between his
guests and I think his own commentary
the idea that like there's no hate
speech right you shouldn't play the
victim here is the hate blinding that is
coming that he screen grabs from Twitter
it is a Twitter guy Hasan jf I don't
know how many followers he has but he
says everybody spam quote debate Sam
cedar and quote into the chat and send
super chats it's not spam by the way
Laureen
yes exactly as Lauren Chen is
interviewing the Reuben report I guess
this was six days ago this happened and
the latest this is
on it you know two weeks ago there is um
four different people take that universe
oh no take that universe scroll down
click welcome one guy okay
and okay and here's here's more okay
yeah
two of the people are the same person
who wrote that and then two other people
who wrote debate Sam cedar you coward so
that's the that's the blinding amount of
hate the perma swarm the perma swarm
around Dave Rubin that's real hate folks
this other stuff like the bigotry and
whatnot
that's not real hate and then he goes on
to say ergo I said since I hold to
believe a reasonable limited and
warranted critique of the Rubin report
Dave has asked me if I could come on a
show to discuss what the heck is going
on from the perspective of a good faith
leftish critique of Rubin report guests
questions balance and effect I'm gonna
have on a regular guest literally a guy
who was involved in the conversation
that he referenced when he said my brain
was still in recovery mode from taking
in too many high-level important ideas
literally a guy who's never been on any
other show to discuss this stuff except
for the Rubin report I don't know if
we'll do it but we're talking about it
certainly doesn't make sense to have to
wade through a daily miasma of hate to
get constructive criticism miasma of
perma swarm so so the argument is is
what's happening is is that this perma
swarm of hater accounts it was fun to do
afterwards
and and this perma swarm of hater
accounts apparently the idea is to get
Dave desensitized desensitized to
legitimate criticism so that he's
completely in the dark as to how to get
better at whatever he does we're doing
it for his own good so he doesn't get
his feelings hurt anymore that's another
thing it could be I'm trying to
sensitize Dave I'm not trying to decent
sighs Dave well that is you know that is
one dimensional chess thinking but this
dude is like 18 dimensional chess
thinking and on your behalf pretty
impressive stuff pretty impressive I
can't find the I can't find the good
faith critique another noise to signal
he literally said I'm not owned oh my
god like just friggin shrink and
transform into a corncob already Dave
come on
