[Music]
let's listen to Ben Shapiro this is the
pillar of the intellectual pillar of the
right we are told right is anything new
the cool kids philosopher cool kids
philosopher apparently it turns out cool
kids they make stuff up
and where do I have this sheet here oh
yeah they make stuff up stuff that even
like without even having to Google
you're like wait a second that's not
right
but if you say if you say it in a way
that makes it look like you have like
your deep thought or like I am one of
those people who completely don't
recognize that other people have
humanity and so I'm going to say it now
this is going to make it appear that I
am actually delivering information that
is both profound and intellectually
rigorous in its presentation because I
why else would I be here I'm not even
someone who can make eye contact yeah
why else would I feel confident enough
to speak in the stupid voice if I wasn't
saying real things when you talk very
quickly and you say things that have
been pronounced in such a way with a
vocabulary that is been cultivated by
some time at eight Ivy League school
people tend to accept what you're saying
and they say with someone with so little
amount of charisma it must be of course
based on the facts that our people are
responding to what I my messages here is
trying to argue I mean just because the
facts compel him to the superiority of
new judeo-christian world which
apparently he's not even aware is a
relatively recent at least moniker Ruth
is that the the vision of modern science
the idea of hypothesis and hypothesis
being rejected by evidence that sort of
science experimental science is unique
to the West there's a difference between
technological progress which does exist
in a vast number of civil
and that technological progress is
generally linked to the human need to
overcome the environment around them
there's a difference between that and
the pure idea of exploring science for
its own sake which then has technical
applications later that is something
that seems fairly unique to the West
which is why you see thinkers in the
West like Isaac Newton who are who are
trying to figure out general rules of
the universe in a way that very few
people were doing in other civilizations
that doesn't mean that every other
person and every other civilization was
incapable of doing this obviously there
were strides in science and mathematics
particularly in the indian world as in
like india in the indian world only we
just gonna stop here for a little bit
now I imagine it hasn't occurred to him
that maybe part of the reason why he's
more familiar with Isaac Newton has
something to do with the language that
he spoke and I am steeped I mean I don't
know maybe ben shapiro was steeped and
raised in a context in which history was
presented to him and scientist ioan sand
in all forms of human achievement were
presented to him from a let's say Asian
centric Far East Asian centric worldview
and he's overcome that to realize that
folks like Isaac Newton are the most
important folks that we have but also
what is India like when we're talking
about like I mean presumably Isaac
Newton's around in in the the 1600s 17th
century right
what do maybe a little bit earlier what
what is what is it India at that point I
mean he's like the Far East is he
pleased broadly speaking of India didn't
exist
wait during the timeframe like what
differentiates India from Pakistan in
his mind yeah what do you think that is
hmm because usually when I hear people
talk about different
you know contributions to science that's
the part we talk about oh yeah
algebra and optics and Islam but I guess
no yeah I mean that's much what's here
well we're doing in other civilizations
that doesn't mean that every other
person and every other civilization was
incapable of doing this obviously there
were strides in science and mathematics
particularly in the Indian world as in
like India in the Indian world in the
first millennia but in the first
millennium but the great expanse of
science was deeply wedded to
historically speaking the the
judeo-christian belief that in order to
investigate God you had to investigate
God's universe and that was tied to a
Greek natural law evidentiary based
position that the way to discover
natural rules was to look at the
evidence I mean it's an Aristotelian
idea so as I say this is not to discount
any of the discoveries of other
civilizations the question is why the
West did it best and the answer is that
the West did it best not just because
they were making technological advances
against technological advances exist
throughout history the question is why
is that the West came up with this idea
of science this generalized idea of
science which was then used to create
tremendous technological change far
beyond what you get if you were just in
a field and you needed to figure out how
to make a plough is there any morning
okay all right first of all I'm quite
sure that the idea of science did not
exist but for maybe a hundred or two
hundred years ago like these people are
going like this is science for science
sake no they were exploring things about
their world and did not codify it in
some form narrow form of like of
academia now in addition to sort of just
like instinctively saying like wait a
second no that's not I'm sorry
Judea Christians were not the only ones
to just to to develop and think about
the world in the universe and the
physics of things and this sort of the
non tangible things right it wasn't just
like oh the Jews and the Christians they
just left behind all that stuff about
how do you make the
how do you make the plow better I'm too
busy thinking about the stars they
weren't the only ones and Juan Cole did
a real devastating takedown of Ben
Shapiro
he writes everything Shapiro says is
wrong this is the professor of Middle
Eastern Studies from University of
Michigan who incidentally was offered I
believe tenure or tenure-track at Yale
until until hardcore right-wing Zionists
prevented him from taking that position
Wong Cole goes on to say judeo-christian
as a term was invented by 19th century
missionaries intent on converting Jews
and only came into common parlance in
the mid 20th century in part in reaction
to the rise of fascism and communism
many Jews have found the phrase
objection all and any in any case
nothing called judeo-christian
underpinned Western science but beyond
that he said even the Aristotelian 's
were relatively cerebral and more based
on observation than experiment
observation would be more like hey is
this gonna work better for the plow more
over Western Europe lost contact with
Greek learning from roughly 410 until
the 1200s during those centuries
Aristotle Plato Galen poq lomi among
others were cultivated in are you ready
for this the Muslim world yes/no with
the Abbasid rulers 750 to 1258
commissioning translations in funding
further study that the Abbasid Caliphate
actually
moreover the Muslims made substantial
advances of their own work within the
Greek paradigm as for Christianity and
this I think most people have spent like
five minutes would think about this it
was often inhospitable to science wealth
and even to general literacy in the
print revolution astronomer Tycho Brahe
was exiled from Denmark and charges of
heresy the Inquisition summoned Galileo
will recall didn't he didn't he end up
dying in the like a jail or something
like that
1616 to warn him against teaching that
the earth goes around the Sun that seems
to be very non-christian of them but
then again it turns out to be super
Christian of them there's also Giordano
Bruno who I think was maybe put on a
stake I'm not sure as for a Jews Jewish
authorities in Amsterdam somehow managed
to excommunicate and completely shun
Spinoza placing him under a ban why
because he said that God is the god of
nature hmm their minds were blown by too
many high-level ideas in other words Ben
Shapiro is just shoveling out BS as
history and expecting everyone to slurp
it up and lick their lips although he
built on Greek discoveries and used sand
script number system Mohammed eben Musa
al qassam II 780 to 850 C II of Baghdad
has generally not created credited with
inventing algebra which I suppose you
could argue this is my commentary was
just to figure out how many oxen it
would take how do you get the plow to
plow baby huh
well wait a second I've got this big
field here and how many ox would take
what is the X in this he also invented
the algorithm which is an Arabic word
well Ben again that was a very practical
implication how remind you if you feel
of flowering fields
Ben Shapiro's got some problems with
algorithms lately yes
Hassan banal hire them
known as Allah Zen in live in the 11th
century is among the first scientist
explicitly to have laid out the
scientific method of hypothesis and
experimentation that Shapiro praises
more than likely he found it from a Jew
or a Christian and just adopted it or by
his own he also first explained optics
as light bouncing off an object in
hitting the eye which is also very
important as you're plowing when you're
plowing the field plowing the fields you
need to know how it goes through
translucent body is when you're plowing
a field there'll be times where you are
plowing the field and someone will come
over and say how do you know that oxen
is there and you must say that it's
because the light bounces off the oxen
and goes through my eye and I call that
optics but the most important part I'm
talking about is the plow just
technology just technology the
sophisticated astronomical observatory
in Elk on Iran during the 12 hundreds at
the moraga made breakthroughs in
understanding planetary motion which of
course is extremely important when you
are plowing the fields if you are not
aware that the moon will rise and the
Sun will rise then you cannot plow the
fields because it'll be too dark when
you go out to do it honey I'm heading
out to the fields I have no way of
predicting weather at least sunlight out
or moonlight and then of course he goes
on to say like and this is to say
nothing of thousands of years of
sophisticated Chinese science China and
the era of the Song Dynasty 962 1217 I
essentially saw the invention of marred
initi with high levels of urbanization
industry woodblock printing progress in
engineering science and mathematics
along with paper money gunpowder weapons
in the invention of the compass those
are all technological and China India
whatever yeah it's so crazy like
non-muslim Chinese I mean not not that
that has anything to do with my
assessment
it's just how is it that I gotta say
like how desperate are these guys for
their business model that they're all
having to go and like sort of all roads
lead back to the judeo-christian
values that are predominant I want to
find out a nice way to say this well
he's trying to do this weird
Orientalism on the entire Arab world and
say oh you only invented science because
of material factors when the West which
by the way modern concepts of the West
are fairly recent and have not always
existed it's kind of a made-up fantasy
thing the West did it fur for
philosophical for ideological reasons
like it's this utter resistance to
historical materialism or like material
explanations for why people do things
like late could possibly be a material
explanation for why people in the
quote-unquote West believed the things
that they believed like he wants things
to be driven completely by by ideology
and by stories by myths which is like
pretty anti-scientific if you ask me
it's also biology biology is also what
makes these people just question things
in a more sophisticated manner well yeah
I mean it's ironic in that like the main
reason that Western quote/unquote
feudalism would support something like
astronomy is is mainly for things like
going across seas so you can take over
land from other nations and things like
that like there's always a material
basis for the things that happen in
history right well that's different
it's a your yeah let me make an analogy
I'm saying that let's just say for the
sake of ease non-white people who don't
believe in Christianity or Judaism they
look at the field and they're just
interested in playing field and I'd
think it is to the credit of the white
people who are like we need more fields
so how are we going to get that and we
will then you're it's it's that first
jump well we need more the argument
against practical science to is
interesting come from the right where
normally they say like why don't you do
something that can lead to like making
money on the marketers right of course
well you just took it he took a break
from that like the Muslims should be
like why don't you guys get a real job
exactly
