so Rachel in the last segment you were
telling us about the the growth of the
financial literacy market industry I
guess if you will one of the things that
strikes me about this and and and I
should also add that you you let us know
that the data shows that financial
education doesn't really seem to work
but there's a whole group of people out
there who continue to push it let's talk
about why people might be pushing the
notion of financial literacy so hard
obviously look I don't think it's a bad
idea for people to learn about
everything frankly but problem is this
trying to solve so that we can get it
though maybe the heart of as to why some
people are so adamant about solving this
problem through the I guess the demand
side as opposed to the supply side of
the financial business ya know it's the
most important question I mean I think
it's obviously a very American ideal we
believe we can teach people and
education is a is an important sort of
mechanism to better our lives and so
people say well there are all these
problems so let's teach our way out of
it let's impart students and people with
the skills so that they don't have
problems anymore and I and I agree with
you I don't think there's anything like
inherently wrong with teaching and
certain concepts in schools the problem
is that it's grown to this point where
people say you know and you have you
have state legislators and federal
lawmakers and state treasurer saying
we're going to teach kids so then when
they go out into the world they're not
going to make the wrong choices and the
problem with that is it completely up
ends what's going on is it says if
people are you know buying predatory
loan mortgages and being sold you know
voracious loans because they're just you
know uneducated and too stupid as
opposed to you know being manipulated
and defrauded and and so I think like
the the leaders of the financial
literacy movement are very explosive
they're not just trying to teach things
they want to teach it to meaningfully
change behavior and you know help people
lead more financially secure lives which
sounds good it's just that there's not a
lot of evidence that the way to help
people lead financially secure lives is
giving them a class in 11th grade on you
know credit cards and and we may see
much more effective ways through other
things that could be more politically
difficult than passing a state mandate
for a required course in k-12 and before
we get to those other things because I
have to say that you know the more that
we talk about this it sounds like what
we're doing is providing teenagers with
these shields that they need for this
onslaught that's coming towards them and
obviously what we're not doing is saying
hey wait a second we have the ability to
impact the onslaught side of this
equation - right so before we get to
that who are the people that are like
behind this push like the your article
talks about how many different outfits
are providing free courses like they
must be getting something in return in
some way let's talk about who these
people are and what are they getting in
return or what are they for stalling yes
I mean so there are a lot of people who
are interested in this obviously I mean
there are people who are interested in
because they truly want to help others
and they think education will help and
they're not convinced that the research
you know contradicts their goals in any
way you know if my sister is a econ PhD
season and I told her I was working in
the store and she was like oh I love
that I support that so much and I was a
girl
then he's noted you know draw you back a
little bit like a lot of people are just
generally enthusiastic about it because
it sounds like it should work one of the
people I interviewed for my story who is
a critical Anil and is a journalist she
said you know when he started critiquing
some of the research you know she was
like everyone made me feel like I was
you know hating on apple pie that's the
sort of reaction so there are some
people like that you know there's a lot
of bipartisan support Democrats and
Republicans both you know like
how it sounds but my piece also looked
really closely at the fact that some of
the most active backers of this movement
come from the financial industry itself
Thanks insurance companies credit unions
credit card companies all of these
institutions are seeing a lot of
opportunity and you know if you talk to
them they'll say well yes we just want
to help we we think education is good we
want to help consumers etc and but at
the same time those same groups are
often lobbying against regulation over
their industries and and so that's
something I looked at this in the piece
and in terms of what might be in it for
them you know there's a lot of
advantages to to a bank from a banks
perspective if they sponsor if they
sponsor curriculum about how to you know
buy you know budget safely or or or use
credit responsibly they get you know
credit they get sort of the good PR that
comes with sort of doing something for
the community they get to put their
brand name inside classrooms for
teachers for students for their parents
there's great marketing opportunities
that come with that and a lot of
cash-strapped school districts don't
necessarily have the money to afford
fancy technology and so banks are like
oh well we'll do it and then we'll
actually that's also a nice way to get
in to your classrooms not all not all
not all curriculums are sponsored by
banks and there are there are
foundations and other groups but one of
the things I also looked at is that
there are just so many different
curriculum providers no one knows who is
using what no one really knows which is
best nobody's studying which is best so
it's just a sort of like explosion of
options that is growing bigger every
year and it's pretty overwhelming so
there's two things that occur to me
Rachael as you tell me this one is that
these corporations see this as a good
bulwark against regulation right if they
can frame the conversation like you say
about the problem being the failure of
the individual to be able to assess when
they're getting ripped off or not
essentially
if that's the problem as opposed to the
fact that we have an entire industry
that in many respects as a business
model is designed around the idea that
we're going to rip people off or at the
very least we're going to play on their
ignorance about these issues that's one
thing that they get to frame the
argument and they get to forestall a
certain amount of regulation but as
you're telling me this the other thing
that occurs to me is like this sounds
like camel Joe right like Bank of
America gets to put their financial
literacy stuff in the in the classroom
when you're a teenager you grow up as an
adult you're like Bank of America I can
trust them you know they were helping me
as I was a kid I mean is there been any
research as to like you know does this
end up actually hurting people I mean I
don't know if there's been research
specifically on the that aspect but
there has been note there has been real
like you know a lot of psychological
research on that on that exact
phenomenon of like brands that people
grow up with our brands that people then
trust for life so yeah I think I think
it absolutely is a valid concern that
you know if you have visa or you know
Bank of America in your classroom you
know as your third grader you're gonna
grow up and say you know they're out for
me they're like US Disney you know a
brand that I've known since I was a kid
for sure
well I gotta say that you quote sherrod
Brown in your piece I guess during maybe
what was a Banking Committee hearing and
his point is well-taken I'm paraphrasing
here as he basically asked these
executives you know would we would we
ask when we train people to become you
know medical uh medically savvy when
they're looking at assessing whether
they should get surgery would we we
train people to be able to fix their
engine when they're looking to buy a car
I mean we have a problem where in this
country the car salesmen the surgeons
are basically selling Americans products
that they don't need that are
destructive to them and instead of
asking Americans to learn how to assess
that we should step in with
professionals and regulate these people
Rachel
an amazing piece I hope people check it
out thanks so much for your time today
