CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in their hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar it is Monday
February 11th 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal
in the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today the
coming of the American Beamen the
origins of fascism in the United States
from 1920 to 1940 may give us some clues
about what's going on now by Michael
Joseph Roberto also on the program today
another shutdown looms as Democrats
insist on capping the number of
immigrant prison camps we can have in
this country
meanwhile in Virginia lieutenant
governor Fairfax impeachment now being
discussed as Northam digs in and in
Colorado Denver teachers strike and
they're doing it for the first time in
25 years meanwhile Amazon claims they're
fee fees are hurt and may go somewhere
else
boy guy dough in Venezuela weighing
whether to authorize the US intervention
must be nice not just spitballin
maybe I'll authorize it baby hey I am
you know I did declare myself head of
state so I was like I welcome a foreign
intervention anytime I please just an
idea an idea just isn't it yes just
crowdsourcing endogenous ideas Klobuchar
enters the race amid reports of her
abusive behavior two staffers but
Republicans love her so Republicans
lover and staffers flee from her Clovis
chart 20/20 alon omar attacked for
criticism of Israel and Steve Schmidt a
little touchy about selling his soul
meanwhile the estate tax touches no
family farmers as we know however
Trump's trade war has pushed twice as
many family farms into bankruptcy in
2018 and lastly Arizona license plates
secretly fund anti LGBTQ groups that's
nice all that and more on today's
program not all of those license plates
just of course the ones that say In God
We Trust we'll talk about that later but
why wouldn't they if you're that's just
the price you pay for religion folks
that's just the price you pay
gotta have God that again can have a lot
of God we will get to the shutdown I
mean on some level you know there's not
a lot more that we can say about this
situation other than that's where it
stands now I imagine Republicans are
very concerned about this and I hope
that labor unions of folks who work in
the US government or I should say are
impacted in any way by the US government
shutdown so that includes you know the
flight attendants who don't work for the
government but rely on federal air
traffic controllers and TSA folks to
keep them safe when they fly
remember I mean if you're flying as much
as they do you don't want there to be
any any even minor nevermind appreciable
reduction in the amount of flight safety
and so hopefully in the event that there
is a shutdown and we will know obviously
by Friday and today Friday these folks
are not going to wait around a month
they're just going to say we're done
with this we know where this goes
we just were there so we shall see
meanwhile you know don't like to usually
um talk about the behind the scenes at
other podcasts because I mean who cares
although this is an interesting story as
you know we've been talking about Steve
Schmidt a little bit lately because he
and his brother in arms Bill Burton both
what's the name of that god with the
with the money what's the mammoth know
who is it who do you sit to you know you
you bow down to me no I don't know I
think in Hindu god well I can't remember
now look yeah maybe mouth no not Moloch
said money right anyways these guys um
Steve Schmidt's like so here like you
guys don't know the money god I mean
look I like Mammon Mammon Yemen ma'am I
like money money's good that's great but
I think it would take a tremendous
amount of money for me to not just sell
out but to sell out so naked Lee and so
vividly right like it's one thing to say
like yeah 15 years ago I believe that
but today I don't so I'm going to take a
big chunk of change it's much tougher to
do that when it's like six weeks ago I
believe something wholeheartedly and
then all of a sudden put somebody drove
Brinks trucks up to my house and I was
like who's gonna notice well apparently
a lot of people know
when Steve Schmidt did it and I don't
know how exactly how much money Howard
Schultz is paying Steve Schmidt but I
imagine there are a lot of zeroes at the
end of that figure and that the figure
itself may very well be double digits
maybe it's just single-digit but I have
a feeling that there's at least at least
six six zeroes after it right and
apparently he just thought oh nobody's
gonna notice certainly not the people
who work on the podcast I do every week
are gonna notice and so Steve Schmidt
has this podcast called words matter
[Laughter]
which of course is a little ironic
because that's the Trump degree yeah he
said a lot of words though about Wow in
fact there was a piece in Vanity Fair I
think when they were launching this
podcast and he does it with Elise Jordan
who is you know sort of a is a I think
she's now a former Republican and always
had sort of you know those were moderate
leanings and she's nice I've met her
multiple times who did a panel with her
political but also at MSNBC for years
she was married to a journalist who you
know people may remember row for Rolling
Stone who ended up dying in a car and
was I'm totally anyway so let me I just
want to read this before I forget so
back I guess this was in August they
launched this podcast words matter as an
answer to pod save America which is like
what could be more pod save America than
pod save America and they said words
matter now I made that part up and at
the time Schmidt told Vanity Fair
that he thought the conservative
movement and by extension the Republican
Party which he had left two months
earlier had become a racket in other
words people were just doing a taking
these political positions for money
right I mean that's what we mean when we
say a racket it right is just a way in
which you can make money it's not it's
not legit it's disingenuous it's just
done for the money and then now granted
this was all the way back in August of
last year so that's almost I mean
someone do the math that's almost eight
months ago maybe a little bit less a
long time but it was 2018 so it's a you
know you could also argue it's a
different more than midterms and it was
before the midterms which which seems
like a year ago and time is dilated so
in many respects you know during the
Trumpy era a human year feels like a
like a dog year in some respects so he
may have forgotten that he was he was
launching his new career based upon like
we're not about record you know pulling
some type of racket we're not gonna just
we're not up here just doing this for
the money
America is important and then somebody
comes around a billionaire and offers
them God knows how much cash but I
suspect if it was like in a hundred
dollar bills you would not be able to
carry it if it was in a hundred dollar
Dom it would appeal to carry I don't
think anybody I think you need a truck I
think you would need at least a pickup
truck and I'm talking like an eight foot
bed turns out words aren't the only
thing that matter yes words parens and
other things sometimes to matter but so
his podcast is EP by a guy who is sort
of a a I think a longtime Democratic
operative sort of like probably like a
moderate democratic operative and I
think he was the one who set up the
podcast
and this guy Levine Adam Levine and so
at least Jordan Adam Levine
sat down last Tuesday with Steve Schmidt
to interview him about Schultz and
apparently there was a lot of screaming
and yelling according to this Newsweek
article or Daily Beast article before
they sat down finally he agreed to sit
down and talk about the Schultz thing
but seems like he something was eating
at him a little bit and well he snaps
will this be if Howard Schultz does
decide to enter the race
Willie running issues driven campaign
and will reducing the deficit continue
to be as he said his primary focus I
think the thing you that you will most
see from him in the conversation that
lies ahead is honesty can have a very
honest conversation a very adult
conversation with the American people
about all manner of issues that have not
been talked about seriously in a long
long long time I mean we have a debate
that rages in this country if you look
at all of the issues facing it that is
about a wall on the southern border that
is completely unnecessary in a moment of
time where there's zero net illegal
immigration coming across the southern
border TV City wants to have an it I
posit for one second before we get to
just learning to contemplate the idea
like what topics there Howard Schultz
gonna talk about like I know what what
what Donald Trump is talking about but
what topics of Howard Schultz are gonna
talk about that are not covered by
somebody running for office in the
Democratic Party right like we've a full
range of voices in the Democratic Party
were gonna see more right we haven't
even begun to see I think we have I
think we're at the halfway mark in terms
of the number of candidates we're gonna
see and they're gonna range from you
know Joe Biden and maybe Biden maybe
Bennet on one end of the Democratic
Party we're going to be talking about
deficits maybe I'm gonna be talking
about like you know we don't want to be
we don't want to go crazy with some of
crazy crazy policies with the deficit
but we do we should we should attack
different nations we want a childish
conversation careful you get the
childish you know of course the childish
and who are like maybe we should just
provide benefits to the American public
that they're really excited about and
would help their daily lives so all of
that's gonna be in there I don't know
what Schultz is talking about it's
almost as if like the words he's saying
or not true that they're like just spin
but then his co-host or his executive
producers not his hosts
but his is for today says let's talk
about childish
TV say he wants to have an adult
conversation last week he called a 70
percent tax on incomes over 10 million
dollars ridiculous from a United States
Congress woman who happened to have been
elected to something now I know you're a
guy of words Steve and ridiculous means
deserving or inviting derision or
mockery absurd synonyms comical
hilarious
you go on farcical is that what he does
he really mean that attacks on incomes
over 10 million dollars at seventy
percent which is widely popular with the
American people is ridiculous is that an
adult conversation yeah I think he
thinks it's ridiculous and it's
confiscatory and that it's anti growth
that would be his point what is will
Derek Jeter another athlete not hit
another home run because they're gonna
get taxed at 70 what's the economic
behavior that he thinks it's anti-growth
other than his own pocket Adam visible
Steve he got again sir the question he
got his data
I'm not unfortunately the interview
ended there we wanted to ask Steve some
serious and important questions about
his new role yeah you Steve we hate
you back well Steve basically just
screwed them over to ended the the
podcast more or less I guess blew it up
because he has to go work for Schultz
and you know that's a full-time job
are pretending to I mean so the confess
Kotori approach to that podcast earnings
exactly
he's also confiscatory approach in terms
of some money he's gonna take from Steve
from from Howard show yeah he's got a
very confess Kotori approach to Howard
Schultz's money now let me just say this
I will say this okay in all fairness
Steve Schmidt he has shown that he has
got more comfortable that there is
something I want to say there's
something inherently with being a
Republican that makes you run a racket
right because as much as he sort of left
the Republican Party because it turned
into a racket and the conservative
movement could turn into a racket he
ended up falling back into another one
very shortly after that which
incidentally threatens the very thing
that he left the Republican Party for
which is to reelect Donald Trump and
they also just stayed this guy gave us
Sarah Palin and I was gonna say Paul I
remind you this is the guy who basically
I don't know if he was the Midwife 4.4
Donald Trump he was like the doula for
Donald Trump he just helped in the
birthing of Donald Trump by bringing a
Sarah Palin but to be fair as bad as
Steve Schmidt is Bill Burton may be
worse because Bill Burton you know
supposedly not only supposedly came from
a better pedigree in terms of his
politics right but he got his old firm
to try and tell Democrats to lay off
Starbucks because Starbucks was taking
grief because of Howard Schultz I think
we're gonna need to really think about
this guy's yeah cuz what did I'm not
ready to make a stupid amount of money
yeah listen
so that doesn't Trump everything but it
should Trump most things and so can we
just lay off Starbucks please
to risk having a bigger imagination
about the Starbucks brand sort of feel
like you guys are inhibiting your
risking of a brave new imagination about
the things I could buy but Bill Burton
would have been better on that pod
though he would have sat there anywhere
just look I'm really glad you asked that
that's total nonsense right that's a
great question that's an awesome
question wish we could go longer now
what's gonna be interesting is how
Howard Schultz reacts to this because if
it was Donald Trump Donald Trump would
be very pleased with Steve Schmidt you
told those guys off you said fu to them
it's gonna be interesting to see if
Howard Schultz doesn't distance himself
from Steve Schmidt now or if he likes
that a la Donald Trump so I guess that's
the question Howard Schultz are you
Donald Trump are you Howard Schultz are
really is there a difference decaf
Donald Trump's probably the difference
between four and five percent yeah
that's right decaf Donald I'm a real
billionaire he did what I said the real
class oh I already told you guys what
happened last time we get a shipment of
Sherry's berries in here we had a lot of
the crew who had traveled to see the
Michael Brooks show was here and thank
God I think Jeff from Georgia had about
four of those things but I mean I begged
him to because I can't have I mean I can
have one but if I have if there's more
of them than now eat all of them they
were delicious huge strawberries dipped
and they had milk dark chocolate white
chocolate they're beautiful
any discerning palate will love these
they're topped with a decadent chocolate
chips and heart and glitter sprinkles
I'm having trouble reading this now your
Valentine will fall in love with every
bite these are the perfect companion to
a candlelit dinner a bouquet of flowers
or a night on the town and they ship
anywhere nationally they always arrive
fresh with a hundred percent sherry
berries guarantee
valentine's Day is just days away so
send your Valentine the gift of their
dreams at the price of your dreams just
starting at $19.99 plus shipping and
handling
order now make this valentine's day
really special by adding a dozen red
roses roses for just $19.99 more Jamie
took those home and said they were
beautiful
the shipped with your sharise berries at
no extra charges go to berries dot-com
click on the microphone enter my code
Cedar at checkout
so that's berries calm BER RIE
is calm click the microphone enter the
code cedar order today and oh yeah this
is this is a big problem in this country
every two seconds there's a new victim
of identity theft which means a criminal
could be spending your money applying
for loans in your name even damaging
your credit unfortunately you can miss
certain threats to your identity just by
checking bank statements and modern
airing your credit there's all sorts of
look every day it seems like we're
getting hearing about another massive
data leak good thing there's LifeLock
identity theft protection
LifeLock uses proprietary technology to
detect and alert you to a wide range of
identity threats like you're so scary
number for sale in the dark web for
instance and if you do have an issue
involving identity theft one of life
locks identity restoration specialists
will work to help you fix it this is the
hardest part about all this I've heard
nightmare stories of it back taking
years to deal with this stuff it screws
up your ability to get a car loan it
stirs up your ability to get a student
loan and screws up your ability to get a
mortgage screws up your ability to get
other credit cards or when they check
you out maybe even to rent a car of
course no one can prevent all identity
theft or monitor all transactions at all
businesses but with life lock you get
identity theft protection and additional
features to help protect
devices against cyberthreats for as low
as 99 999 a month I should say don't
waste another second visit LifeLock
dot-com / majority now to save 10% on
your first year
that's LifeLock dot-com / majority for
10% off LifeLock comm / majority check
it out alright folks going to take quick
break when we come back professor
michael joseph roberto from the
university of north carolina
oh excuse me in North Carolina and T
State University on his book the coming
of the American be Emeth the origins of
fascism in the United States nineteen
twenty nineteen forty right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program michael joseph
roberto a retired faculty member of the
North Carolina agriculture technical
State University where he taught
contemporary world history long time a
political activist in Greensboro North
Carolina and the author of the coming of
the American beam a--the the origins of
fascism in the United States 1920 to
1940 welcome to the program Michael well
thank you very much Dan for having me
like let's start with your definition of
fascism so that we can you know make
sure that everyone's terms are at least
aligned in the in this context okay
my definition of fascism first of all
comes from how others defined it
specifically the people who make up the
pages of my book their writings and they
define fascism more or less in I think
it in a way in which there was a
consensus and a discourse that fascism
in America represented the power of big
business that fascism was in fact big
business in power business as a system
of power in its essence in its essence
finance capital itself was fascist the
fascism was defined as the rule of
finance capital and that's pretty much
my definition because many of them were
Marxists and so am i to the extent that
we we all we all followed a basic method
in determining who had power who lacked
power and what the contradictions were
and how fascism came it came it came to
being in embryonic form in the US and
the 1920s
in the 1930s so my definition of fascism
is is not an original definition I see
myself in the wrong line of Marxist
analysis and also people who are
inspired by Marxist analysis but we're
not themselves socialists and my book
has many examples of individuals like
that so I hope I've answered your
question that way I mean to this extent
fascism as as a function of capitalism
is is not right now
paramount in the discussions that we are
having about fascism in the present and
and I think that what my book points to
is necessity for having this kind of
discussion so we can broaden out what we
mean by fascism in the present and
fascism in the present is again is still
is is is is what it was in the thirties
even more so and so my book is about the
coming of the American behemoth and now
that the Hemanth is at full strength so
ok so just I mean help me let's just go
a little further in terms of you you say
the business system and the rule of
Finance capital I mean how does this in
the context of the 20s and and then I
think maybe people can start to see
those see it a little bit clearer today
in relationship but how does that in the
20s manifest itself in a in a you know
in a day to day month to month basis in
America in America okay well I guess one
way to do that since the 1920s is a
starting point is to just briefly begin
to answer your question by contrasting
life in America in the early 20s and
life in Italy in the early 20s
specifically in 1922 when Mussolini came
to power and many many people many
Americans have an understanding of
fascism first
peirong in history in Italy in the 1920s
and then of course a decade later with
Hitler now going back to the US the u.s.
is the epicenter of the capitalist world
system after World War one it is the the
world's leading creditor nation it has
surpassed Great Britain as the world
power but in a way in which its power is
unprecedented as a capitalist empire the
1920s for in the United States is known
as a period of great prosperity the
prosperous 20s the great room it's in
the 1920s when when American capitalism
in its monopoly finance form takes
greater and greater control over
American life over American society over
its political institutions and over the
life of the individual itself and it
does this primarily in two ways in two
fundamental ways if we define fascism is
the rule of Finance capital and that
means that fascism is inherent in
American capitalism then two fundamental
processes two main categories of
processes come out of this one is what
we call terrorist processes and the
other or non terrorist processes both
seek the same thing the domination of
capital over societies during the great
boom when America when American
capitalism is reached unprecedented
power not only in terms of its national
economy but because of its global
outreach is an empire in the process of
becoming one life in America is suddenly
transformed into an agile in town in
which production of different kinds of
goods is unprecedented
and and in and and in this boom we find
the greater and greater power of
monopolies of capitalist enterprise and
it is based on on being able to first of
all pacify labor in 1919 1920 where the
challenge the great challenge of labor
to it to the capitalists is is is put
down and then and then the boom begins
in 22 unless until 29 this bloom is
based on the need to constantly produce
and and and it is a it is an explosion
of production that is directed toward
consumer goods and of course the capital
goods are used to make consumer goods
itself so we get this tremendous burst
of production and prosperity and it has
to be sustained on the basis of on the
basis of capitalist production and the
laws of capitalist accumulation which I
argue in my book in which comes from
watch this means this means that that at
at home in the 1920s the seeds of
fascism come at a time of prosperity
when there is growing all kinds of
products available which some people are
able to buy and then more people are
able to buy because they borrowed to buy
it and so we did installment credit
here's where the whole non terrorist
aspect of fascism comes into play in a
moment of prosperity you must keep
people consuming by in order to keep
producing and and this relies
increasingly on a on an American
population that has promised
uninterrupted prosperity and in 1929
finds out that the process were we
discovered that so-called prosperity was
actually only prosperity for a few and
very little changed in terms of material
progress for the vast majority of people
in this country so that's the long
answer on the twenties in other words
fascism we usually think of fascism
terrorism
well fascism is terrorism but it's also
as a function of capital it's also based
on acquisitiveness and and and and the
ability to sell and the ability to
convince people to keep buying into the
system where consumer where it were
where the marketplace becomes a more
democratic thing a place as many
Americans are taught to believe in the
polling place and these are all fascist
processes because they extend the role
they extend the power of capital over
all of us okay so the idea being if I
can if I understand you correctly
because I'm trying to sort of you know I
think like when people contemplate the
idea of fascism it involves a one-party
dictatorship right and it's necessarily
have to be obviously a political party
per se it is fundamentally
anti-democratic it is in some respect
totalitarian it is involves sort of like
a rigid set of or a you know a rigid a
set of rules in which one can you know
function without getting in trouble
essentially in the context of society
and so your argument is is that finance
capital essentially because they were so
dominant in this era that they were
imposing both what you call a
terroristic and a non terroristic a
fascist accrual in that sense yeah and
the non terroristic is almost like a
soft is the function and I'm just trying
to you know
sort of
to bring folks into you know the
understanding these terms the non
terroristic is is sort of like a like a
soft terrorism like where look you know
you have to where you start buying into
the notion of being coerced on some
level I guess right by yes by material
needs and whatnot and and the and the
let and the more terroristic is hey you
don't pay your bills we're taking your
house essentially yes yes yeah that's
that's how the legal arm that's a
legality or or in a state that becomes
more and more gangster like because it
departs from constitutional principles I
mean what you have are legalized the
legalities and yes that's a form of
coercion and I guess it's a form of
terror when it comes to the terror are
that one can inflict on the mind but let
me let me try to paint this kind of
portrait here with respect to our
understanding of what we commonly think
of as fascism as the opposite of
democracy as dictatorship we're in a
case of Italy in Germany fascism comes
to powers as a result of a mass movement
less so in Italy because it's because
because even though it's the first
regime of fascist regime that comes to
power it in many ways is the first and
therefore an experimental kind of model
in other words it carries it has all the
characteristics that make for what we
understand to be fascism but we had we
should try to recognize it as a as a
European manifestation of fascism in
which the driving force was a movement
from below in the case of Mussolini and
and the fascists who were once were it
built a movement very very quickly or
one big enough to basically convinced
the
is parts of the ruling class in Italy
that they were the only bet against
socialist revolution and so what you get
out of that is then the rise of a
corporate state the where where there's
this phony existence between a capital
and labor but of course the whole thing
is held together by Mussolini and and
his ability to basically always promise
the capitalists that they're going to
get whatever they want my point here is
is that you what you get is a
dictatorial regime in Italy and then of
course you get there's something even
more intense in the same way in Germany
where the forces at work are much
greater in magnitude and the end result
is a dictatorship that is unprecedented
in world history which you and from
which we get the Holocaust we get
genocide Holocaust and World War in the
u.s. in the in the 1920s again if we
understand that these folks in the 30s
in the early 40s who were writing about
fascism were really onto something and
we then look at fascism as a world
historical phenomenon that is unique to
what the to the the twentieth century
and now into the 21st century
then what we see in in the u.s. is the
actual genesis of fascism as the aim of
a capitalist dictatorship which is a
reflection of the dictatorship of
capital so in the US during the prior
period of prosperities the during the
period of the boom you get this you get
this tightening of capitalist control
over American society where we're we're
Labour's more and more chained to
capital in people's fate in in so many
ways is connected to deprive to to
capital to capitalist enterprise and
while
is going on sort of peacefully in the US
and the 20s it's us capitalists it's us
capitalism that is also primarily behind
fascist Italy in from the mid 1920s
right up until into the early 30s until
until Italy until Mussolini invaded
Ethiopia so my point is here that is
that you if we understand fascism in a
famous from the standpoint of terrorist
and non terrorist processes we see all
this developing within the within the
framework of the you of the US Empire in
the 1920s and then as a result of the
contradictions within capitalism which
is something we have not talked about
here then the crisis the crisis then
creates an intensification of both
terrorist and non terrorist swarms
during the period of in the u.s. during
the nineteen thirties I mean in my book
chapter at the end of chapter seven you
will read about how in the desperation
of Hoover's inability to end the
depression you got people calling for a
Mussolini in this country what America
needs is a Mussolini when Roosevelt
first came into office he was he was
urged to suspend the Constitution create
a Council of state that would
temporarily manage the u.s. and and pull
it out of the out of the crisis out of
the depression so these are all very
complex historical questions that my
book just begins to introduce to the
public I mean all on all I'm trying to
do here is is bring bring to our
attention this earlier discourse on
fascism that was buried by later
historians and the reason why it was
buried by linear historians is because
it it because it demonstrated the
absolute connection between fascism and
capitalism okay and that and liberal has
the liberal historiography has has
buried that for decades
yeah and I want to talk about you know
to what extent and I I think you know I
don't want to jump ahead here but I
imagine the for the most part we've been
dealing with that non terroristic I
guess fascism that capitalism is exerted
for much of the remaining twentieth
century after the post-world War era but
but before we get there let me just the
how was it that and I think I know the
answer this but but I think it's worth
exploring how was it that capital
created a greater in particularly
finance capital created a greater I
guess reliance of the people on finance
capital as we entered into the 20s as
opposed to say the turn of the century
or you know the the late 1900s well I'm
I'm not an economist but I would have to
say that that the reason for finance
capital having as much having the
control that it has has to do with the
the stages of capitalist development
once we enter the monopoly stage and
through competition the monopolies get
fewer and bigger in number they require
more and more credit and so and so to
the extent that I understand what Marx
is saying about in chapter 25 of Volume
one of capital the necessity for credit
isn't it is it is becomes become credit
becomes necessary for further capitalist
accumulation once the monopoly state
chief and again in the US if the US is
is the strongest capitalist power the
epicenter of the world system in the or
after World War one and then it becomes
an even greater power after World War
Two then then that means that that
finance becomes supreme because because
the whole system runs on the basis of
Finance so if I understand your question
you know a correctly that's that's about
that's the answer that I would give and
and and this is how despite the failings
or whatever the Occupy movement in 2011
looked at the source of the problem the
source I mean the source of all power of
all inequality in America and despite
the problem of the 99% we know we know
with that we know how important it is to
to see the divisions within the 99% and
see how capitalism how capitalist
depression and brutality operates on the
basis of race and gender and promotes
greater greater inequality so we see we
see these differentiations but the power
of Finance capital has never been
greater and and this at these and I
think the law of the laws that govern
the movement of capital in the period of
late capitalism which corresponds to the
period of contemporary world history in
other words a period of 1880s from the
1880s to the present the period that
Lenin himself said defines defines a
modern in imperialism imperialism is the
highest stage of capitalism we are
living out the what I think is the is
the end game of capitalism which is the
complete power of Finance over all of us
and the extent to which it creates
spectacles for us to continue to buy
into
which none of us are immune I mean very
few of us can say that we're a moon from
the spectacle and the magical the
magical spell of capital over our lives
these this this is this is in its
essence fascism because it seeks and has
succeeded in taking control of the
government and so what what we get now
is as a ruling class that I think is it
wants more and more of whatever it can
get from the moat for most of us while
it seeks to get more of what it does it
desires or it thinks it needs or it had
it must have and that is Venezuelan oil
so I think we're looking at a very very
dangerous moment and this is this to me
as somebody who's written a book about
the origins of American fascism this is
pointing more and more for me towards
fascism as the end game of Monopoly
finance capitalist okay and and before
we get to that endgame let's go back to
the 30s and just follow that transition
because this is the era in which it's
born in much of it's sort of the
relationship that fascism as a as a
result or I guess as a phenomena of
finance capital rule right so that
dynamic is is created I guess in the 30s
which well I mean explain to us how that
how that is the case you know relative
let's say the New Deal right I mean okay
which is which presumably on its face
seemed to be maybe diametrically opposed
well the New Deal is fair as you know
and and in my book I have a chapter on
the New Deal and it's an and that the
chapter is called is entitled the New
Deal as a transition to fascism it's a
question
deal as a transition to fascism and this
this is a very very difficult a
difficult view for us to wrap our heads
around because we identified the new
deal with with a bold and successful
plan to take America out of the
depression led by a political party and
an individual himself who was who who
promised the common man in America an
end to the depression and a return to
prosperity but not the prosperity of the
1920s that had actually led to the
crisis and led to Hoover Hoover's
presidency would show to the world that
that that the word that that one part of
the political machinery in this country
the Republican Party was hands-down a
friend of big business and and it had
always been a friend of big business and
so the so called prosperity had led to a
great bust and a great crisis and then
Hoover and his friends in Hoover and the
Republicans and there and the people who
basically in big business still sided
with them turn their back on the
suffering of the American people
Roosevelt promises a new deal but
Roosevelt is not going to go he's not
going to go down he's not going down a
socialist road he's going to preserve
capitalism how do you preserve
capitalism once it's reached its
monopoly Finance stage well you save the
monopolies and you save the banks and of
course if you examine a new deal and I
and I go over it again in my book and
not in great detail because many many
fine historians have done that but but
in essence what
the New Deal did was to stabilize the
system by giving power in in all the
agencies that had created especially the
net International recovery agency the
National Recovery Act in which in which
there was supposed to be codes on prices
and and commodities to be sold all of
this was supposed to come about in
principle to create equilibrium but the
Roosevelt administration gave the power
the big business to work out the
arrangements that everybody else labor
consumers was supposed to follow so what
we get is is is a kind of next a new
development a new level of cooperation
between government and and and the
private economy and business in the
world of business and what comes into
existence for many of the people whose
works I again use in my book is is what
what is it is a marriage is is the
culmination of a process in which in
which government and business comes
together to form a corporative whole so
so many people in the 1930s are looking
at the New Deal and saying well the New
Deal promised us recovery but again as
many of the sources revealed the
recovery was a limited recovery from 34
to 37 years enough to save Wall Street
but not enough to bring prosperity
enough prosperity to Main Street and so
you get a second new deal in 1935 as a
result of the increasing pressure on
labor because 1934 is a very very
difficult year the New Deal is has
stalled and people are beginning to
wonder now why why the recovery hasn't
hasn't come to the vast majority of
but business is doing well so so what
you get is you get a number of writers
who are looking at the New Deal and they
what they see is something that that
resembles what Mussolini brought about
in Italy which is a cooperative state a
partnership between between capital and
labor that is a phony partnership
because capital has all of the power and
the state is essentially sanctioning
that because that's what you have to do
to save capitalism and so the New Deal
does that but in the process of doing it
it means the advance of state capitalism
which which then is if state capitalism
goes into a crisis then then the fascist
processes that require the capitalist
class to maintain power become become
even greater and then you get then you
get something that could resemble what
had happened in Italy except except that
again these people who were writing in
the 30s we're saying that if fascism
comes to America or it's already coming
it's not going to look like Italy it's
not going to look like Germany it's
going to work utterly American its
particular American form will mean that
that fascism driven by the needs of big
business and capitalist imperatives room
it could mean that that fascism would
evolve would develop within the
framework of the two-party system which
is what a woman in Carmen Haider
argued in her 1934 book do we want
fascism and although it says there's a
very there's a need there's a need to
examine what the New Deal did what it
promised and what it actually achieved
which is opposite of what we usually
think that achieved and therein lies the
the problem of
liberalism and the extent to which
liberalism represents the interests of
of Monopoly finance capitalism and and
and and and then to the extent to which
liberalism in the end serves fascist
processes and this is this is startling
you know this is really startling well
I'm gonna can you be like more like you
be more concrete in that the like the
the idea being or let me just restate to
see if I understand
but the idea being that the the New Deal
promises a a certain level of freedom
for labor through that that the
government will provide freedom from the
four freedoms let's say that yeah that
FDR outlines right from freedom from
want and in and other sort of freedom
from the shackles of material needs in
many respects and yet what it ultimately
delivers is really a freedom from those
things only as mediated through finance
capitalism which will it's a it's a
freedom with an asterisk as long as you
function within our parameters in terms
of debt and in terms of allowing us to
have you know more control over the
economy then you're not gonna quite get
all those freedoms but you'll get close
enough that you think that it's within
your reach
on some level I mean is that essentially
what we're looking what would you say
see there are world historical forces at
work here that shape America that shape
what happens in the US was so for
example in in the in the spring of in in
1936 Roosevelt
in this cabinet you're looking at the
1937-1938 budget right and they decide
Roosevelt decides to listen to Henry
Morgenthau his Treasury Secretary who is
one of the who's a conservative Democrat
and a friend of big business and an
advocate of big business and and
Roosevelt because he had always been a
concern cystal conservatives and it
decides that well the government is done
enough were on the road to recovery so
they balanced the budget right and as a
result of balancing the budget and
taking federal spending out of out of
the budget in which the the government
plays a compensatory role against
whatever excesses and and and debits you
know it whatever doesn't happen within
the private economy and so what we get
is as a result of the contradictions
again between production and exchange
and the problem of overproduction that
begins to develop in the summer of 1937
as a result of that plus the federal
government balancing the budget we get a
recession in 1937 it's a recession
within the depression and within within
a couple of months two million people
are out of work and winter in Chicago in
Detroit and many many other northern
cities is the nightmare for for millions
of people
you know starving children out in the
street again
so what does Roosevelt do in 30 and 38
he he reverses himself he admits that
yes the the Liberals around me are right
that that government has to be a
permanent spender it would balancing the
budget was a fair stuff is gone now so
and so we get we get the Keynesian time
the Keynesian revolution in the US which
had been coming about gradually but is
complete when Roosevelt some
it's to that so you know and this comes
I mean the 37 recession comes after the
two years after the second new deal
where workers and the American people
win when and and Social Security they
workers win the right to organize the
year and it was militant labor that
achieve that but then again you see
everything is on the line in its in a
recession within the depression and then
the government comes back and basically
says yes okay we're going to restore
spending and then we're going to add
more to it and some of it we're going to
add is for rearmament so so the recovery
the recovery is in part based on the us
getting ready for a war a war against
him war against fascism elsewhere and so
you see this is I think this is how we
students of history need to need to
begin to understand it fascism as not a
one-time thing in Europe in the 20s and
the 30s and not not as a ruthless
dictatorship that that as my sources is
say in the 30s you have to look at the
particular forms that fascism takes in
different parts of the world and what
I've done in my book is to try to
explain that more deeply on the basis of
political economy and how the u.s.
fulfills a specific role within the
world economy and ironically then if we
define fascism as a function of monopoly
finance capitalism and we follow up
these two these two riders in 1938 who
who said that he said that the germ of
fascism is an American monopoly
capitalism in the 1920s but it doesn't
become a force of ominous proportion
until the 1930s then as students of
history where do we look for fascism do
we look at it just Italy and then
Germany now we have to look at the
entire capitalist world because fascism
is the unique characteristics
unlike all the other isms that we know
of it is fascism that is unique to the
contemporary world it's fascinating the
coming of the American behemoth the
origins of fascism in the United States
Michael Joseph Roberto thanks so much
for your time today we'll put a link at
majority dot F M on the site well thank
you very much for having me Sam alright
folks I'm gonna head into the fun half
wearin we will get a little bit less
involved just make fun of Mick Mulvaney
etc etc um I was waiting for the
professor Steve Schmidt material oh we
do have a riptide riptide has a new
remix I like this that's pretty good
alright we will we will play this out I
guess today just reminder this program
relies on your support you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm when you do we say thank you
by giving you extra content every day
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off Michael today is
Monday tomorrow will be Tuesday as
you're aware of and it is a return to
the mean in terms of the Michael Brooke
show yeah people who are getting very
unsettled by these schedule changes
Michael excuse me mark Blythe will be
joining us
a legendary professor to be me up Scotty
economist we'll be having a conversation
on austerity 2020 the economics of the
election cycle a whole bunch of other
stuff will I be wearing a suit or a
track suit find out also patreon z' of t
MBS are going to be getting some a sneak
peek at some exciting news tonight or
tomorrow as well some West Coast related
news patreon.com slash T MBS
and Matt yeah literary hangover coming
up this Saturday is the unparalleled
Adventures of one hunts for by Edgar
Allan Poe which some people think is the
first science fiction story mmm some
people especially people who want to
slight Mary Shelley's Frankenstein there
you go
hey thanks again to LifeLock identity
theft protection for supporting today's
show of course no one can prevent all
identity theft or monitor all
transactions at all businesses with life
lock you get identity theft protection
and additional features to help protect
your devices against cyber threats for
as low as $9.99 a month don't waste
another second visit LifeLock dot-com
slash majority now to save 10% on your
first year that's life lock dot-com
slash majority for ten percent off
LifeLock comm slash majority we'll see
you in the front
[Music]
I'm doing it because I think Howard's a
great guy he loves his family he loves
his country he loves his family
oh nice doing it for America till I
forget about what Howard Schultz thinks
is that that the polar opposites of the
parties are so far apart but the
American people are close together and
maybe what we need is a choice for the
American people to something different a
different path so beautiful
I hope he's making so much money why
what his big idea is politics is broken
it's like a perfect of cynicism politics
is broken and maybe we need a solution
to it that risks the imagination of a
new kind of possible yeah yeah see say
that one more time to me again
[Music]
the imagination of a new type of
possibility
your Obama with job experience your
bomber that did build that yeah your
yeah now I know why Starbucks is so huge
Wow Wow that is really good
[Music]
[Music]
Wow there we go
oh boy that was good I was good I really
like that uh-huh
the more I watch Bill Burton the more at
my room that was pretty good
yeah that is impressive but I can't
quite get over that risk the pot and pot
what is it again
there's the imagination of a new kind of
possibility yeah we can we like type
that up and print it up and put it on
like it's on the wall cuz I feel like
our productivity in this office would
probably go up like 15% if we had that
on like maybe just even post in the
bathroom if we just and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
that's my alarm in the morning around in
the office and laugh and laugh about
that dude you actually said it on TV
risk the imagination of a new hey man
that's what Howard wanted me to say
you're not someone getting the check
paid about $10,000 for that so yeah oh I
got news for ya that bats no no he's
talking about cost per second oh I feel
like Burton needs to go back to Schultz
and be like might look at me on TV look
at Steve on that podcast what are you
doing yeah exactly
you know what you know what Steve did
not do during that podcast he did not
risk the imagination of a new kind of
possibility in fact if he specifically
shied away from risking the imagination
of a new kind of pot that's what I'm
saying you need Ville burned out for the
like hey you're a total opportunistic
sleazebag who's undermining your entire
public brands and ruining our business
you need a burton for that like i don't
suit that way we agree let's talk about
Ray I really disagree let's go I think
what Howard Schultz gotta say I'm not it
might even mean that our our podcast
ends up being better
Donald Trump might lose twice Howard
Schultz could be building a time machine
which means that Donald Trump then get
elected to begin with yeah if you think
time machines are possible it's probably
because you don't work for a billionaire
I think it's time to drop the cynicism I
love how people say drop the cynicism
rather like invariably the most cynical
people and you on earth yeah you got to
drop your cynicism to make room for my
cynicism if your cynicism exists there's
no room for my cynicism in which case
let's talk a little bit about cynicism I
mean I hope we're we're flushing the
system of this stuff with Kamala Harris
you know what I mean like let's shining
like clean it out I hope a cranberry
juice in this because this I found a
little bit cynical and a little bit just
stunning someone asked me this morning
like what what are the problems with
Kamala Harris again and you know they're
not they're not they're not any I think
that ultimately are going to sink her
candidacy but they could and I think
that I probably have a greater issue
with these problems than your average
Democratic voter which I think I would
like to think that's not icky
anecdotally we were talking about this
and you know she's been following this
very closely in writing on it and no I
mean again we're we're just catching rep
riptides from social media so far so who
sees but that being said it is
definitely not just the usual suspects
critiquing this that you'd expect
there's a much broader range of hey wait
a second yeah I mean it's it's just
I mean was trying to think if there was
you know the the comparisons to Obama
are inevitable because so far at least
no one else has open their campaign with
20,000 people at the rally
now you could say what well you know
what you will or not it's just it is an
indication of at least a good
organization it is a good indication of
some level of enthusiasm and and whatnot
but I don't remember at the beginning of
Obama's campaign they're being
substantive critiques of of him that
there are with Kamala Harris with that
said Obama did not have the was a little
bit more studious and not taking certain
positions in certain you know in his
roles he wasn't a prosecutor and he
wasn't a very some death and I agree
with you that yes of course there's
progressive prosecutors and you don't
want to have a simplistic no prosecutor
view but I mean she was a highly
aggressive prosecutor which Obama right
not right the highly aggressive part is
that he's wrong I agree yes I just
wanted to add that so we didn't do this
simplistic frame you don't and in an era
where we are still I think in an era of
and in many respects I think the whole
Trump epoch could be considered a the
hopefully the culmination maybe just a
just an era of of lack of accountability
for some elements of society whereas
there is an over accountability for
other elements of society I hope I'm not
being obtuse there but the the elite the
establishment the moneyed have one set
of rules whereas those who are not have
another set of rules why people in
society have lived with one set of rules
whereas people of color have lived with
another particularly in the context of
law enforcement right I mean that's what
the stop and frisk was about our drug
war was about and so here is on with The
Breakfast Club The Breakfast Club we did
here is that's not true I know my family
are you kidding me I do so if it was
legalized you listen I think that it
gives a lot of people joy and now I
think it's a great attitude to have
frankly I think we would be in better
shape if all our politicians had that
perspective and move towards
legalization we're basically headed
there the problem is is that she has no
history of promoting that position she
has that set of she has that awareness
she had it in college
her family was Jamaican certainly you
have to Macon certainly before now right
she opted not to join other states in
their attempts as the AG of California
to take marijuana off the DEA a list of
most dangerous substances and this was
crucially important during the Obama
years because you had some states that
had legalized it or used it for medical
purposes I mean this people forget that
even when states went ahead and okayed
it from miracle marijuana there was
still aggressive attempts by the federal
government to raid these places I mean
it's like it seems years ago now you can
go to like legal dispensaries for for
just recreational use ruined a lot of
people's ruined a lot of people's lives
and there were people this is when it
was medical marijuana - in people who
were desperately trying to provide
relief for a whole host of people who
were going through an immense amount of
pain when Obama when the Obama
administration raided California's
medical marijuana dispensaries I think
this was in 20 was it 2010 or 2011 maybe
it was 2012 Harris barely put out a
statement in 2014 her Republican
opponent in for I think it was if for
the this would have been for was it
Senate 2014 would be Senate her
Republican opponent ran to the left of
her on the issue of of of criminal
justice reform now look I take with you
know this is I think it's a legitimate
critique of like where are you on these
subjects I mean and what's going on it's
one thing to sort of like laugh this
stuff off now but you were in a pivotal
position to to change the policy on this
I also just find it very uh I'll draw
red because I I think you know there's a
clip of her floating around from several
years ago where she kind of laughs off
the marijuana question and I remember
when Obama was president you know Obama
you know he got some decriminalization
questions early on and he kind of was
like what's what's the question big
stoner kind of thing and you know first
of all whatever forget who cares about
hypocrisy but I'll make an exception in
this one which is like you know
especially for people who are open about
their drug use and laudably so but the
fact that other people who got caught
couldn't get college loans or spent time
in prison for nonviolent offenses
instead of having you know a career or
or a family is pretty sick but I really
don't I guess what I'm saying those I
don't like this flip where it's like
almost the same tone but the substance
is shifted it's literally like several
years ago it's hahaha whatever pothead
and now it's like hahaha of course I
support it and it's like well what
happened in the interim I when there
wasn't any substantive shift I think
what you just said just before that is
more relevant because there has been a
history of her in her role as AG okay of
look these are documented things there
was a significant amount of support
within her office to bring charges or to
investigate I should say investigate to
start a more than a preliminary
investigation because the preliminary
investigation was done on Steve majima
nooshin and one West okay she killed it
that is this is reporting that existed
prior to her even anybody contemplating
the idea that you might run for
president there is a pattern here of
pooh-poohing criminal justice reform and
when we talk about criminal justice
reform the even the the most moderate of
edges of that of the reason why people
engage in that advocacy is that the
system is really on
and there's no one who's listening to
the sound of my voice who doesn't agree
with that that notion that the system is
really fundamentally unfair we know it
in the context broadly speaking of of
the drug war but we also know it just in
terms of you know across the board that
our criminal justice system incarcerate
s-- far far too many people that is
unfair in terms of who is targeted and
who is policed and how and even if she
was not sensitive to that issue and was
across the board of harsh prosecutor I
would have less of an issue with this
but at its heart what she does not seem
to have any appreciation of her any
record of appreciating is this
unfairness which she was actively
engaging in and supporting and that's
what I find problematic is that the
subtextual narrative here is there are
some people who deserved to pay the
consequences of things and there are
other people who are not and that I
think is very problematic because that
also can translate into policy that has
nothing to do with criminal justice
reform that has to do with who
government works for and who government
protects and in my mind to the extent
that there is any sign of that in the
context of the work she's done she its
flipped who at least relative to to what
I like third to what I would want so I
mean that that I find is a little bit
problematic we'll see maybe there will
be other instances where you know she
projects something different
and of course I just have to register
that I find all over punitive approaches
of any kind profoundly problematic and I
also think the other thing they had in
the mix was the other piece that came
out from the intercept of her running
her first da race or maybe as a
reelection I think was her first race
significantly to the right of another
prosecutor who had a much more basically
rehabilitation oriented record and her
basically doing ads like ms-13 style ads
like here's a picture of a Latino guides
holding a gun throwing a sign and we're
sick of this as a city and we need to
lock people up this is the policy and
the kind of you know hacky Jamaica jokes
but I mean you know I don't know if that
makes up for it also if you polled
Jamaica I these might be changing but a
lot of Jamaicans supported criminalizing
marijuana that's kind of an off Rasta
joke yeah I've get Betty here but it
annoyed me I I'm less concerned why more
can horny dad situation I'm more
concerned pledge make the humor
but I mean if that's the case she feels
comfortable saying that now how did she
feel comfortable before right with all
that stuff I don't know that's so Chuck
Mulvaney
excuse me Chuck Mulvaney Mick Mulvaney
goes back on to Meet the Press he's been
on Meet the Press it seems like every
every weekend he's got regular slot
there regular slot and it seems like he
says the same thing every time and one
has to wonder who is muck Mick Mulvaney
threatening now because we've already
established who pays the biggest price
well Wayne put it this way we already
established who pays the first and
second two biggest prices the biggest
price is paid for by well I guess
contractors folks who do all sorts of
support staff for the federal government
they don't even get back pay then we see
the second tier of people who pay the
price and that is federal workers
coming in at close third in terms of a
political price it's number one it's the
Republican Party it's the Republican
Party now Donald Trump obviously thinks
like it helps me by a point or two which
I'm not surprised by and so a Mick
Mulvaney I don't know who he thinks he's
threatening here but it's gonna look
pretty bad for Donald Trump if they have
another shutdown and within two days you
start to see workers basically say we're
not going through this again it took us
thirty five forty days last time to get
to the point where we were gonna start
to do some work actions we're gonna do
that on day two that's what I think is
gonna happen and I would be surprised if
we don't hear that from some of those
unions within the next day or two where
they say guess what we don't have the
patience we had last time for this
but here's Mick Mulvaney on Meet the
Press now and really what I want to know
is why isn't there a representative of
the flight attendants Union or the TSA
union sitting right next to Mick
Mulvaney and say like you're gonna do
this to us again good luck buddy
whatever Congress handsome he'll sign he
just may not be enthusiastic about it no
I don't think so I'm not ready to go
there I do can't definitive we cannot
definitively rule out a government
shutdown at the end of this week you
absolutely cannot and here's why okay
let's say for sake of this discussion
that the Democrats prevail and the
hardcore left-wing Democrats prevail it
was a Democrat congresswoman who put out
a yesterday about zero dollars for DHS
so let's say that the hardcore left wing
of the Democrat Party prevails in this
negotiation and they put a bill on the
President's desk with say zero money for
the wall or 800 million sadly low number
how does he sign that he cannot in good
faith sign that it takes a presidential
signature spending Billy can you imagine
Senate Republicans would go along with a
proposal like are you that skeptical of
Senate Republic I don't think so what
you asked me a question yes they shut
down entirely off the table the answer
is no so
but two billion you sit here with this
loose compromise that we see and
supposedly you guys are coming to an
agreement tomorrow because in order to
get it passed by the end of the way SATA
is that still the loose deadlock I've
been told it's today I was at Camp David
with a couple of conference members on
Friday night and they were told to be in
town today to get ready to sign a
conference but is it yeah guess what
that didn't work out so well
negotiations collapsed I guess either
late Sunday or early Monday because the
[Music]
they've been trading back and forth
according to this is the Washington Post
the 17 member it was a conference
committee that's between house and and
Senate leaders Democrats and Republicans
they were looking at between 1.3 billion
and 2 billion dollars for the the wall I
think that's probably just like the
architectural fee that you would pay
Democrats also had been focused on
limiting Isis ability to detain
unauthorized immigrants not there it
really should be capacity not so much
their ability because it basically said
hey this whole thing where you're now
housing 15,000 kids and where you keep
finding money to build more and more
detention centers we don't we're not
down with that anymore it the proposal
from the Democrats included a limit on
the number of detention beds for
immigrants in the interior of the
country they wanted to cap that number
at 16,500 that's the number of the level
of interior detentions in the final
years of the Obama administration this
is inside the the country not at the
border and apparently the Republicans
said no way we want to be a way this is
a growth biz
this for us and so talks have broken
down we shall see what happens next it
can get very it can get very
disorienting to follow this on a
day-by-day basis but it's that just like
keeping him and some type of like
emotional equilibrium for the next like
we talked tough and then whatever like
fake deal we get we're gonna say that we
was because we talk tough that's
definitely part of it I think so I also
think that there are people in the White
House who might have you know an idea
that either the American public is more
anti-immigrant than they think that is
or that that they maybe maybe they need
to run against the Republicans on this -
let's go to the phones come from a310
area code who's this where you come from
New York good how you doing who's this
Samer okay now have you listened to Joe
Rogan on Friday now all right so he had
a guest at alone but maybe do temple and
he said the new that the green new deal
it included economic security for people
who are willing to work that's correct
that is correct well it speaks to people
for instance I can tell you that the
chief of staff that AO C's chief of
staff spoke to this there are instances
right let's say you are you are 55 years
old and you're a minor
okay you're a minor and you're starting
to contract black lung disease and you
you stop working the
because or the coal business let's say
is is drying up 50 years old let's just
say that the coal business drying up be
50 years old 55 years old it is
conceivable and I think quite
justifiably that someone that age living
in West Virginia thinks I'm not gonna be
able to find a new job I'm not going to
go into some type of training program
where because it offers training off so
for these folks the where I'm gonna go
and learn some other trade at age 50 and
I'm not gonna find any new work I think
providing support for that any for folks
like that if they you know they'll say
alright I'm gonna go do some part-time
work or whatnot but that's not going to
sustain them obviously right I mean it
can't live on that I think providing I
think providing material support I think
providing material support for them is
worthwhile I think it is addresses an
important reality that in the context of
of this business I mean like this
imagine it juxtaposed to the idea of
Medicare for all a lot of people have
made a you know made a lot about there's
gonna be two million people put out of
work if we go to a single-payer system
because the private insurance industry
is going to go away the private
insurance industry is going to go away
but wait a second Samir but all those
people who who work not all but the vast
majority of those people who work on
administrative things dealing with
health insurance are gonna find new work
in the context of of Medicare for all
and this is not the same as having a
specific skill like I'm a coal miner how
am I gonna transition at age 50 you're
gonna have to provide support for these
people and for some it's gonna be job
retraining and for others it may just be
early retirement when we see the buyouts
all the time right I mean this is how
we see Ford offering buyouts to
engineers because they're not going in a
certain direction with a certain with a
certain type of thing that they're
developing people take buyouts and so
this is basically a buyout for you know
coal miners or people who are engaged in
some of these fossil fuel businesses
that are going out of business that's
all no but there is a difference between
people who are out of work because of
automation or because the industry went
away and they are too old to be
retrained in which case these people are
not able to work not unwilling to work
the wording when you say they are for
people not willing to work it's as if
this are young healthy people wanna work
and you'll get money from the government
this is what the word means unwilling if
you are willing to work but your skills
are no longer in need and you are 1555
this is not a situation where you be
labeled as unwilling to work I mean III
guess I mean that's the the language
they chose maybe they could have chosen
better language but that's the happier
you know this is a stupid choice of
working and that's what I think it
should not be have but if I understand
the concept of a universal basic income
and that there are people who are work
and there will have no chance of ending
you know in common to all and the
government can I ask you question how
many jobs do you work more than one job
yourself
frame of it just kind of offend you
because of how hard you're working on
some level work and I understand and you
know you can get fired from the job or
I'm an uber driver so realize this today
I'm so I understand that
and it does happen that people can be in
need I will never people to work for
rest of my life for example I come in a
wheelchair or something you know it's
not that but idea of the wording of
being willingness that not willing to
work this is not the same as not able to
work yeah my okay I I wonder I may be
projecting on you but I just know like
even people that like in my family who
are a hundred percent on board with all
these policy sets a hundred percent and
there's something about that kind of
word choice given their own sort of I
find my understanding is that is that
that wording is from I'm is according to
the hill on on Saturday that the the he
the the what was being floating around
with that language was an early draft of
an FAQ that I don't think is in part of
the resolution but I'll dig into it but
the concept the concept is people who
are it's not quite unable to work but
look you can't be an uber driver
necessarily in Kolkata country and make
anything close to a living I you know I
getting increasingly harder to frankly
to even do it in New York but but you
know so there's you know I think that is
what it's addressing but I'll look into
it and I think the man clearly is not
opposed to the merits of it I just I do
think we shake the call language for
whatever I'm not sure the wording let me
double-check on this okay
Samir listen let me check the wording
let me check the wording on that can we
pull up the resolution and just someone
go through that and see what how its
represented now Colleen speaking of the
flight attendants Union they are I've
already called for a strike if the
government shuts down again there you go
so a square Sam fascinating and
depressing interview Obama did something
similar no he saved capitalism for the
fascist on Friday
oh and Friday hit the nail on the head
that money was in part from
increasing the prenup payout big league
I think her so-called friend got spooked
when she found out how much money was
being moved through her you know some
people prefer to steal a little versus a
lot guessing she was not sure if she
would be literally holding the bag yeah
I am feelings I think so choppy
remember how Mondale said I will raise
your taxes and so will Reagan the
difference is he won't tell you that
turned out not to be the greatest
strategy it doesn't look like the word
unwilling appears anywhere in this
document okay so I mean what was being
spread around was an early draft of the
FAQ that was basically a shorthand for
saying folks who are in a predicament
where they don't they don't have a
physical m'lady malady but they do have
a m'lady malady they don't have a
physical malady but they do have
basically it they just think it's going
to be too difficult
it's a buyout essentially it's abaya
aggrieved Schmidt Sam if someone from
the Mr Universe were to sell out consult
for a lame candidate and then when
called on it storm off in a huff who
other than Michael would it be well the
here's the difference here's the
difference I would be the first to take
that contract no doubt after Sam but I
would I would Bill Burton it I would
love to spend three hours be like no I
think you guys you're missing the
optimism of the promise of the mo bit of
the opportunity it's actually kind of a
challenge like can you put in a verbage
out there that makes your boss happy but
also maintain some kind of like maybe
I'm doing this yes yeah listen I like to
think that every member of the majority
report staff when after selling out
would not storm off the set and talking
about it that they would all have the
ability to spin a yarn about how you
know their grandpappy wanted them to do
that come on man there's some good
talent here give us some credit
yeah we're not all like guys who
consulted for Dick Cheney and sit around
MSNBC and apparently are on the verge of
a psycho emotional breakdown and like
slightest hint of questioning look you
know it's that seven millions got away
in your head and well you know you yeah
every night like seven million it's like
helium from chiffon oh who knows when he
marries Oprah and every time he thinks
she's gonna finally get fed up with him
he just he has a gold crown and he just
holds no human someone needs to write a
book about this Schulz campaign they
gets adapted into a movie because I want
to see woody Herold reprise his new part
of Steve Schmidt's life zero-sum Sam so
what does right-wing Mandela think about
this bolson ro bull bowls and bowls and
bowls uh no not at all I'm not totally
sure but seems to be like he doesn't
like Marxism and he's taking the sjw's
out of the schools and really like
making Brazil big in the world again so
that's good
Rams ain't hey Sam great interview today
wanted to let your listeners know that
if you want to hear a beautiful singing
voice they should check out the nudist
episode of Bob's Burgers to hear your
breathtaking rendition of the theme song
from The Karate Kid that's true that's
available I think it's available on
Spotify the tenor Andrea Bocelli buried
Weiss recently a friend of mine said
that ayo sees green New Deal was useless
because it doesn't majorly scale-back US
military presence abroad I'm still
formulating an answer what's your
response I would need more information I
would need more information as to what
that's about if I feel like this is so
my real quick I think sometimes there's
a certain left tendency twitch is just
alike sometimes even bring in things
that are relative non sequiturs to like
poopoo anything because there's a kind
of like comfort and familiarity with
always just being opposed on the other
hand if the point is we need to have a
green new deal can't happen in
one country without some kind of like
global coordination with other countries
energy policies that's true so what I
would say is that Yanis varoufakis you
know who knows how well they'll do but
they're compliant they're campaigning on
euro wide elections on a green new deal
for Europe and actually not on on issues
like clear cutting in Africa there's
huge China's a lot of problems but China
is actually transitioning to renewables
much faster than we are so there is
seeds of this at elsewhere what's that
meet the press one you got up there the
Brody
oh yeah that's a Katy tur versus David
Brody let's get to that in a minute but
I would rather let's so apparently the
latest in in Virginia is that we have
credible increasing reports that the
Lieutenant Governor Fairfax was involved
in sexual assault in 2004 the DNC
committed I should say sexual assault
there's another report that claims that
he sexually assaulted and I think the
allegedly raped a woman in college the
reports are are out there we'll see what
that stands there's mounting pressure on
Fairfax to resign there are some people
who are talking about impeachment
obviously these type of charges are I
don't wanna say far more but but I think
are significantly more serious than the
idea of a guy wearing blackface or a
hood in his picture in you know medical
school that's certainly Northam skalle q
Latian he is seems determined to stay in
office and to rededicate rededicate his
office to anti racism and he has picked
up Donahey C's Coates book
and I'm not joking and I think TD also
he did the case for reparations that
magazine piece and then roots
ungawa black but yet you know the roots
is not good you should have watched the
roots in the 70s right that's a little I
get Tana he see Coates is pretty Kurd
but roots
well maybe the book is a little bit more
sophisticated than the miniseries it is
what a book is he read but I believe it
was also released in the 70s yes that's
just part of he's just covering the you
know all the bases but here he is
apparently he didn't get to the part yet
where we refer to what what position we
put people coming over from Africa well
I should not say coming over people
being being taken from Africa and
brought here nobody gave him he hasn't
got that part roots yet where they refer
to them as slaves I know this has been a
very difficult week for you in the state
of Virginia so where would you like to
begin what has been a difficult weekend
and you know if you look at Virginia's
history we're now at the 400 year
anniversary just 90 miles from here in
1619 the first indentured servants from
Africa landed on our shores and Old
Point Comfort what we call now Fort
Monroe and Wow also known as slavery yes
and
no no now now listen oh yes yes lost
cause to be fair in colonial Virginia
okay they were women were brought over
to to be indentured servants in colonial
Virginia this is back I guess you know I
think it's like getting a little hair
splitting he wanted I think show well so
I think he might have got a lesson that
he didn't entirely take incorrectly so
before in 1619 the first 19 or so
African slaves did come to the United
States to Jamestown Virginia now there
was about a thousand indentured servant
servants already there the reason that
those slaves were called indentured
servants was because that they let's see
I have this right here the first 19 are
so Africans to reach the English
colonies arrived in Jamestown Virginia
in 1619 brought by Dutch traders who had
seized them from a captured Spanish
slave ship so they were slaves and then
because those Spanish ships baptized
them in English law you couldn't have
slaves that were baptized so they call
them indentured servants Oh
so there you have it I mean I think we
are maybe missing the forest for the
trees
when we when we bring we call them
indentured servants I mean you could you
know the fact is is that Virginia could
have basically called them whatever they
wanted which i think is indicative of
why we really should refer to them as
slaves
anyways that's mannish common-law if you
like I could do the moonwalk for you but
if there's nothing else to cover I gotta
go listen to Afrika Bambaataa and the
Zulu nation up on hold a tract up in the
governor's mansion I'm right now it's
actually really interesting time in
myself education right now because I'm
listening to hip-hop from exactly the
same era I was in blackface so if you'll
excuse me got more education to do
that's also why they like to imagine
that black people from an
entirely different line of creature than
what people were because it made it
easier to enslave them and I not mess
with the Bible so my he walks out
whistling Dixie hey speaking of white
privilege and one of the things that we
as white guys always have the ability to
do is to to talk about is to have a
certain amount of delusion about what
was so much so that even in loss and
this is clip number nine even in a loss
we can talk about how this reflects well
on us and I don't just mean oh it
reflects well on us because we did our
best and whatnot it is well here is Joe
Crowley talking about how much he helped
aoc simply by existing out of it is
because she beat me having so I take
some you know I take some solace in that
thanks plane well that I was important
enough that people actually took note of
someone beating me would you say the way
that when Eric Cantor lost he was in
leadership he was a big figure you were
a big figure in leadership and so
beating someone as big as you yeah and I
think that didn't happen overnight for
me it took 20 years to get or I should
say 16 or 14 years to get to that point
of leadership but I also think you know
it's a point of saying I didn't
underestimate her I then I appreciate
her closet so his point is the reason
why she is so well known today is
because she beat him you know you
remember of course and and Melbourne you
know makes it draws the parallel with
the beating of Eric Cantor you remember
of course how david bratt was the cause
celeb
in in washington four months four months
after he beat after he beat Eric Cantor
oh my gosh
it was david bratt this david brett
dancing on the rooftop or should i call
ya when that 50p as we affectionately
called them around here ole DB and
all the great proposals here at
rolled-out boy oh boy I don't think so
but let's listen Joe he's got some more
stuff to say about how much he helped
her by being him breast tomater I then I
appreciate her our point about that it
was there were a lot of factors that
went into the race and probably more
time that that we'd have to talk about
that but I wish her well and I want her
to do well I wanted to why only half my
constituents and for the country as well
not your constituents anymore chief
photo dude he also took her so seriously
that he sent a former Councilwoman in
his place to debate Alexandria costume
that's because I think Hispanic so
seriously what do you know there you go
it was he was so well placed in
leadership it would have been unfair
he's becoming Boston Thank You Preston I
like that well you know if you're if I
wasn't in leadership no one would know
this little Puerto Rican fathers but
look I wish it about what's he doing he
did some K Street so yeah lobbying thing
to do
you know she had any courtesy she would
help my clients exactly that's the thing
she really I hope she appreciated how
much me being me
helped her to be her it's always the guy
behind
oh she was was because of who I was
allowing her to be who she was it's just
a mic it's just it's just unbelievable
right like there's just no that's that
is what like that's what True Grit is
like being a white guy and always being
convinced that even the success of
others as they beat you is a function of
how great you are
it's like being a Chiefs fan and saying
like yeah we we were so tough for the
Patriots that they had to beat us and
through beating us it's really what made
them exactly even that has actually like
a little more validity yeah
on some level because it's like well we
toughen them up or you know but Ryan
grim pointed out that it is true
they they did spend a lot of money to
try to beat back AOC so it's not
necessarily that they just
underestimated her that's not why I OC
one there was some genuine you know
reason I'm sorry well I think I think
everything I just said there is totally
fine except for this she is who she is
cuz of me part yeah well what clip is
this of no of this is Elizabeth Warren
from her announcement in 2020 and and
the messaging is is is pretty good here
and it's going to be interesting to see
how much it resonates I think there's a
well let's listen to what she has to say
subsidies for corporations that pollute
that's what a rigged system looks like
to little accountability for the rich to
little opportunity for everyone else
[Applause]
no now when I talk about this some rich
guys scream class warfare well let me
tell you something
these same rich guys have been waging
class warfare against hard-working
people for decades I say it's time to
fight back that's pretty good a little
tougher to get in a major crowd in
30-degree weather and Lawrence
Massachusetts just put that in context
for people is a former industrial city
that is seen better times really over
the past 4050 years it's been the mill
closures started early in mass to be
will see the big questions for I think
for Warren are gonna be can she raise
enough money to stay in the race while I
get the sense other people are gonna be
fighting like I don't think there's a
lot of candidates out there who are
gonna be focusing their ire on her and
in many respects the questions gonna be
can't she stay in the race you know to
Super Tuesday let's say can she have the
money to compete in Super Tuesday and
perhaps because Super Tuesday one of two
things could happen it's a little bit
early to make this assessment but but
Super Tuesday could either consolidate a
lot of strength behind one person or
it's going to disperse and make it
possible for other people to sort of
sneak in we shall see
let's turn towards the Whitaker hearings
these were Friday just before we went on
air the there was no big big takeaways
from this
other than that Whitaker I think largely
was playing to a and I think other
people have said this to an audience of
one he was looking for
it seems to me either another job in the
administration or a job back in the
conservative movement from whence he
came
so what he says to the chair of the
committee I can't remember his name
right now who is it
yeah Nadler when he says to Nadler you
you've used up your five minutes like an
a-hole that was a calculated attempt to
be an a-hole that was not a misstep that
was a marketing ploy and it's gonna sell
with Donald Trump as Donald Trump looks
for you know a chief of staff and it's
gonna sell with the Adel 'sons out there
who who pay big bucks for particularly
former US attorneys who can have some
air of legitimacy theoretically and
Jamie Raskin congressman from Maryland
digs into this this part of Whitaker's
background it's been reported publicly
that there was one donor and is we
understand it I think you're testifying
today that you were the sole employee of
the group so there was one donor and one
employee do you know who the donor was I
posit we should clear he he was a
one-man political action not political
action group but I think advocacy group
I don't know what the name was is like
yeah I hear it is it's like the judicial
you know something like you know and I
understand this is not unprecedented you
know the Catholic League the people
remember that with that guy oh yeah I do
I can't remember his name now but he was
this Catholic guy who would huh no every
time
but he would say anything about the bill
donohue anytime anybody would say
anything critical of the church bill
Donaghy would show up on television as
the president of Catholic lead well he
was not only the president was like sort
of like you know I'm not only president
mom I'm a client
I'm also the sole member but also the
treasurer I'm also the vice president a
lot of those relationships with kids was
very romantic
I thought you guys were opposed to
homophobia he was he had a secretary in
his office and that was it that was the
organization we've heard a lot less of
him since it turned out that there was a
reason why people were talking about
those priests but so here's Raskin
basically saying you were a one-man band
here and got paid 1.3 million dollars
what was going on donar and one employee
do you know who the donor was to the
group that funded your salary for 1.3
million dollars
yes I do who was the donor the donor was
a another non-profit 501c3 organization
called the donors trust okay now that
was the pass-through vehicle but who
reached into their pocket and wrote the
check to go through that to pay your
salary Congress as you know because
you've looked at this issue the donors
trust is a is much bigger than the
foundation for accountability Civic
trust and raises millions if not
hundreds of millions of dollars every
year I actually as I sit here today have
no idea who the donors to donors trust
okay then thank you well then I've got a
theory that I want to flow with you and
it goes to something very strange that's
been happening at the Department of
Justice really recently a casino
billionaire and magnate Sheldon Adelson
hates online gambling for obvious
reasons it's competition for him he
wants people in the casinos not online
and he spent more than a million dollars
lobbying Congress to override a 2000
opinion by the office of legal counsel
at DOJ saying that the wire act plainly
prohibits only sports gambling online
not gambling in the states which is why
Florida Pennsylvania New Jersey lots of
states have built
important businesses for themselves
online
Congress wouldn't change the law
according to the demands of mr. Adelson
so rather than changed the law he
decided to try to get the Department of
Justice to change the interpretation of
the law and he threw millions into a
campaign to remake the DOJ and get the
Office of Legal Counsel to perform a
complete reversal and say that the wider
Act bans the kinds of lotteries that
states run online even though its
language plainly prohibits only sports
betting and when Donald Trump won and
mr. sessions became AG and you became
chief of staff DOJ leadership ordered a
revaluation this legal question and what
do you know the Office of Legal Counsel
found some subtle and invisible points
of law that apparently escaped the
Department of Justice back in 2011 and
it reversed the plain reading of the
interpretation which talks specifically
there you go we cut it off there but
that's what we call good business folks
that's good business comes in a law
that's passed it says you can't do
something and you can't get the law
changed you can get the people interpret
the law changed maybe right you through
it a lot of words that be there that
order stayed Oliver but I would've taken
his offense the conservatives might have
got that point by this I just change the
judges will be good Yeah right there was
one other moment where Louise Whittaker
is questioned by Veronica Escobar she's
a Democrat from Texas and I think that's
a room border district there's a new
policy we talked about this briefly last
week where called remain in Mexico
it basically says to refugees we are no
longer you no longer come to the states
to go through the process of declaring
or seeking refugee status you've got to
stay in Mexico now I knew the problem
with this is that to the extent that a
lot of these people have
in the United States they know that they
they have a place to go while they wait
to find out their disposition in terms
of their refugee status
it is also significantly safer in the
United States for them there is a reason
why these people travel in caravans it
is because they're afraid to travel as
individuals and the fears can range from
anywhere from I would imagine the gangs
that they are trying to avoid in their
home cities and countries perhaps the
domestic abuse that they have suffered
they're trying to avoid the United
States basically issued a new rule that
said you can't come in here that we're
gonna set up an office in Mexico where
you apply for asylum it is the most
radical change to asylum practices that
we've had in this country in the history
of its country here is Veronica Escobar
asking Matthew Whitaker about it the guy
who would oversee this process from the
DOJ the Department of Justice oversees
the executive office for immigration
review will the Department of Justice
ensure that asylum seekers have access
to counsel in Mexico in order to allow
them to prepare for their hearings yes
or no we're going to continue to follow
the policies of a tea or that are
currently in place will you facilitate
assist help ensure that asylum seekers
have access to legal counsel in Mexico
yes or no congresswoman there is a very
well-defined process for asylum seekers
to obtain counsel and we're gonna
continue to follow that I was your
Whittaker even while they're in Mexico
as the acting Attorney General I I
cannot make an assurance especially
regarding what happens in a foreign
country I mean I I know you understand
and this is part of the reason why this
is set
a terrible policy another so in other
words US statute say that we we have to
provide a legitimate system for
adjudication which involves providing
some form of representation for these
folks and the way that we're avoiding
that is like well our hands are tied
it's happening in Mexico why is it
happening in Mexico because we moved it
to Mexico that's basically what we're
seeing there oh you know that's it's a
real shame apparently they don't have
the the capacity in Mexico to deal with
this but there's nothing we can do we
don't control Mexico hey we're all for
legal immigration in the Republican
Party
totally I'd like to take this
opportunity said I spoil Eagle
immigration thank you very much oh my
god he's such a tough guy he's so tough
like a football player oh here's an
update
hey ladies and gentlemen you know that
turning points USA is an organization
that's dedicated to speaking to the
youth in this country and specifically
college-age youth that's what their
whole process is for that's why they
raise millions of dollars every year
from respective donors right and because
they're dealing with the incredible
incredible suffering of conservatives on
on college campuses how they're shut out
of the out of the conversation and so TP
USA headed by Charlie Kirk and Candice
mmm domestic fascism's okay oh and
Hitler in three parenthesis owns
well they put out all sorts of videos
and advertisements and propaganda
yeah let's stamp a one this is an
example of one of the things that they
put out and let's check this bad boy out
this is we gave you Liberty this is the
image of George Washington but you
couldn't figure out how to pay for the
roads without stealing four others from
others here we go
it's George Washington rolling his
eyeballs is there no sound no there's no
sound we could find what was just one
image that's a video yeah you see look
at his eyes move oh yeah
pretty clever stuff so there it is we
gave you liberty but you couldn't figure
out how to pay for roads without
stealing from others that's the old
chestnut that taxation is theft and etc
etc what what what suggestion do they
have besides taxes I wonder private ok
yeah private and so somebody looked at
the statistics for how well these some
of their ads but this is the taxation
with that is theft how well they perform
because remember this is targeted to
college youth they spend a you know
young people they spent a lot of time
online finally someone's talking to them
yeah finally what's uh let's take a look
at this here over a hundred dollars
spent on this one to five thousand Kay
impressions I guess let's look in deep
here and they have locations where this
thing is Texas Ohio that's big I was
important Florida mmm-hmm Indiana
Michigan and let's look here Oh does
very well with men it appears like it's
that's hot
65 and over represents 22 percent of the
people that that watch this video okay
1/5 65 and over 14 percent women 65 and
over and does very well with folks
between the ages of 55 and 64 in fact
that is the highest performing group
26% of the impressions this add are
looked at by people at 55 to 64 or older
I should say men only 7% but that is the
number the second number highest number
it's about a third if you include women
there you go
yeah and then 45 to 54 17 make up 17% of
the audience of this 2% of of women in
that category and then 35 to 44 it's a
little younger now this it's only 6%
don't you know you shouldn't freak out
about that because grads they're not
college students they're they're out of
school that's not who it's meant for 25
to 34 also not out of they're out of
school for the most part but maybe
they're still interested in the message
that they heard at TP USA they're still
recovering only 1% now let's see I'm
trying to do my math here 22 + 26 + 17 %
+ 6 + 1 % oh that's why from 18 to 24
this is the audience that it's targeted
to college students 0% that doesn't mean
no one but it does mean probably like 5
or 10 people wait you're telling me that
the George Washington I roll isn't
burning up to college all right but wait
a second this is gonna perform much
better because this is this is a picture
of aoc seeing a society it allows
billionaires to exist it's wrong and
then it's gonna piss kids off and then
they have a nail-biting white-girl model
who says if we confiscated 100% of the
wealth of every billionaire in America
we'd have enough money to run the
federal government for less than eight
months our problem isn't how much
billionaires have it's how much
politicians spend loop turning points
USA
well that one performed much much better
in fact well start at 0% it's tough to
say what it's a multiple of but that one
only did Oh
1% of its audience was 18 to 24 but the
good news is that it picked up 1%
between 13 and 17 year old crowd but
want to get once again 55 to 64 year
olds 20% of the audience was interested
in that so the real good news is that
Foster Friess liked it
foster feelers employed to do there you
go and there's another ALC warns the end
is near and this one ooh
struck out well they did really well 25
0 % 24 yeah I think about that like this
is just somebody who does really good
like if you're just doing basic social
media verticals like oh yeah include her
in the tag throw it in the name whatever
they can't even barnacle numbers off of
her name
well alright here's where they get smart
because now they're talking about a
college leftist and this is a video
system real deep college leftist quote I
mean a semicolon there are over 100
genders she was arguing and that
garnered 21% of the audience came from
the 45 to 54 year old 1% college kids
yeah got a 50 to 100k impressions on
that too so they did well yeah twenty
thousand fifty year old men so Charlie
Kirk is going to maybe what is the other
organization he can read it's that a
turning point like already turned point
maybe post turning yeah
no more turns us a turn point are just
like story head USA over the hill point
oh boy USA that's core point that stuff
makes us look like a like a teenybopper
show 300 genders I that's crazy they
love this go to the phones come from a
706 area code who's this where he come
from Lauren
hello-hello-hello
be there yeah who's this sorry sorry
this is Lauren calling from Alabama
what's on your mind uh you guys had I
appreciate everything you guys do by the
way
oh you guys had some Cohen like Friday
and he said he was um from Georgia and
Alabama and he he said I've been I'm
from I go back and forth between Alabama
and Georgia so I kinda I think I have
sort of the same background as he does
and I think his patience argument was
like the South wasn't racist as racist
because like I don't I don't I didn't
really didn't get what his argument was
that the South was less racist but from
personal experience I mean like the
South like it's extremely racist cute
like it's it's it's like blatantly it's
plainly racist like I have antidotal
incidents and I also like I mean I was a
kid like when I was a kid when Obama was
kind of running for election but like I
remember I remember like the day after
he was elected a bathroom in my middle
school boys bathroom in my middle school
was like vandalized with KKK all
over it
and before he was even officially like
elected into office there were there
were spikes of hate crimes and like
black families waking up with like
burning crosses on the front lawn and
like it was a serious like she finds
Rose for about a good solid year and it
was insane so to say that the south
isn't as racist and it's perceived as
kind of it's insane like I think I think
the North like people on the north or
are a racist but they're not as covertly
they're not as blatant racist was more
convert for birth and I think I don't
know if that's what he was trying to say
but I mean the South is extremely racist
it's just and the North is also
extremely racist with the South is
racist and a completely different and
systematic way yeah I mean I think you
know to the extent that I've heard from
folks you know via emails they tend to
echo what you're saying and that's not
to say everyone in the south is racist
it's not to say that the south isn't
changing but you know there's a there's
a long history of it and it's also not
to say that there isn't racism in the
north and it may be different in some
ways and maybe and I don't know
you know it's I don't know if it's
quantitative go ahead I mean one example
I can think of for like an example of
racism is north is I think I read was a
few years back like 2015 though
something like our like schools in New
York or more segregated than schools and
like Mississippi and Georgia and things
like that New York City school yes are
some of the most segregated in the
country it is not by design and the
school system is constantly trying to
deal with it but the hard part is is
that so much of it is about
gentrification and the way that you know
neighborhoods get formulated and the
difficulty in trying to figure out a way
of maintaining some diversity in schools
I mean it is an ongoing struggle there
is you know on one level in the city
there is an attempt they just changed at
least in the I know I don't know if this
was a citywide thing but within the
district that I live in in
Brooklyn they changed the the middle
schools to a complete lottery system now
the problem with that the difficulty for
some the is that well if Mikey gets into
a school that takes like literally an
hour for him to get to when I have a
school that is ten minute walk from here
huh that doesn't work out that well the
problem is though is that if I'm living
in a wealthier neighborhood that 10
minute walk that school is gonna be
appreciably better because the parents I
mean largely because it's just going to
be better funded and so there's a lot of
different things that go into that but I
would also argue look we know that there
were two counties in New York City that
were under the preclearance conditions
of the D of the Voting Rights Act so
yeah the East is not I mean the East the
North rather is not it's not racist free
it's it's a different type of I think
it's more like polite racism right I
mean not quite but I think you know I
mean not quite as public and just like
up in the north
yeah like there's some shame I think
whereas here's kind of it's more
shameless like again I'm young and like
Obama was president well in high school
and I think you know I constantly heard
Obama like being called the n-word is
like every every single day like
it was disgusting and alright and I
remember actually got into a lot of
because I told a person to stop doing
that and they got really pissed
and I just also wanted to bring up
another thing I don't know if you guys
have seen this but like we're like we're
rumors has been emailing Joe Rogan and
begging him to go on her podcast and she
says um because she was banned from
Facebook uber list
Cooper Yeats
Meeny and GoFundMe every man paid how
that she's the most dangerous pirate it
so she's the most dangerous journalist
in modern times
nothing but respect from us to her
nothing that anybody needs to be no she
doesn't need to deal with us we don't
need to doesn't seem dangerous
appreciate the call she seems super I
would say a highly stable highly safe
appreciate me Bella
very steep I've been very stable very
safe I've been rejected from seamless
and from very stable and very cool very
stable very cool yeah if she just read
the review she wrote at the Lebanese
restaurant and seen this maybe was
little avoid maybe should have counted
to ten come from a 509 area code who's
this where he call him from damn this
was Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan how are
you sir getting any sleep uh yeah you
know eventually your body just shuts
down
right no I just takes care of all that
yeah yeah been there shout out to all
the women out there who don't have that
option that's to keep those little
creatures allowed and thrill work yeah
Sam I want to say two things first of
all Northam that's the gara the virginia
go yeah
and also this Kamala Harris clipless
he's joking about we'd like she's you
know down with the cars yes
these people have me thinking about you
know how we want to give space for real
change and how about sort of hits close
to home as somebody who was raised like
very conservative when I you know I
don't think I was ever terrible but I
know her
homophobic and you know said things were
gay or don't be a or whatever like
you know stuff like that and I feel
horrible about that and you know
something that I think when you have
made real change you know you should be
able to very instinctively issue a
heartfelt apology and and to explain
your progress and your journey to other
people and what both of those people
have done it strikes me as like you know
a real lack of reckoning or just your
 in the case of comely her well
I don't even think acknowledging any
change like that well exactly and and I
don't think he is either really well
he's to at least like he's reading about
reparations and he's like I'm trying to
become more sensitive to this watching
roots my he's really although I bet he
roles are burdened well I mean it's Star
Trek exactly no but I think they're I
think I'm right about this like look I
you know and we and we said this in the
context of Northam we said it in the
context of even Kavanagh like if you
acknowledge that you know you you had
you did something wrong you you had an
understanding that was wrong
particularly in your youth and and and
that's changed like they're even I mean
obviously you would want it to be
sincere but at the very least like have
the it's not even the political savvy
it's like you're a public figure it is
important for you even if you're being
cynical and disingenuous about it there
is value still even if Northam is just
doing it to save his own political hide
to get up in front of people and say
like I have a greater understanding
now of what was wrong about what I did
so that you can actually provide some
positive benefit for society for young
people I mean for Kamala Harris to say
like you know in my role as a prosecutor
I realized I was a little bit myopic and
maybe I was a little bit you know maybe
I was too single-minded and too focused
on this to the exclusion of seeing the
real pain and the real dynamic
underlying dynamic that was going on in
society and I've seen that and my
experience as a prosecutor in some ways
kept me from seeing it as a prosecutor
but now enhances my vision of it and I
understand why criminal justice reform
is so important in a way that I don't
know that I could have you know like at
least you may be disingenuous right and
it may be but at least there's some
benefit like you're pushing the ball
forward even if you're doing it from a
cynical perspective they don't even they
don't even care enough to do that in a
way like their refusal to address it in
an honest ways you know maybe not worse
but just as bad as the underlying
problem it could be worse I think it
said yourself we're all like all of us
are fallen all of us are far from
perfect and all of us have made mistakes
but the process of improving is really
ultimately the test for most things I
mean yeah and I think I think Northam is
making a fool of himself but Harris
isn't even acknowledging the shifts
which is weird to watch yeah super weird
let me also just real quick talk about
ice detention because that's apparently
at the new border a wall and this is
anecdotal you know just in my own
experience but three quick things on how
our anecdotes I guess on how ice
detention currently works the system is
already driven by bed space so if there
is bed space available they'll fill it
and they'll fill it sort of regardless
of the under why
facts or circumstances of the the
detainees so I I had I know I may have
told this story earlier on the show but
some time last year I had two people
detained sort of back to back one had no
criminal history was only one of them
was detained the first person had no
criminal history and he was sent to this
private geo detention on the other side
of the state
it's a jail right and a couple weeks
later I had a lady who was arrested for
DUI and she was not detained which was
unusual and so I and I was happy that
she wasn't detained by eyes when she'd
already been detained by local law
enforcement and done her you know the
judge let her out of county jail and I
selected not to detain her in ice
custody and I asked the officer how are
these decisions being made and he said
well one it's a function of who's making
the call and to like which ice officer
makes the decision in two it's a
function of bed space so if they have
bed space they'll detain somebody like
the first guy with no criminal record
with kids born in the US with you know
dozens of years in the country taxpayer
cetera they'll detain that person just
by virtue of having a bed available
which means on the back end sometimes
people retained you know what's
interesting about that - aside from it
being you know giving a clue as to why
you might want to limit the number of
beds but it's also the same type of
prosecutorial discretion it's a little
bit you know of a blunt or instrument in
terms of how you're making your you know
what what constitutes discretion but
it's the same functionally equivalent to
the prosecutor prosecutorial discretion
that worked that that brought us daca
right and I mean it's the same idea
we're not we are either we either have
the capacity to do this or we don't have
the cash
to do this and you know in the case of
doc people were screaming with their
hair on fire as if it was like some type
of dereliction of duty so I mean the
same thing goes on in terms of this it
just from a strategic standpoint and
wanting to have less of it you give them
less capacity to hold people right and
while it doesn't really force them to
make smarter choices so as another
client was betaine din October and she
was breastfeeding a baby at the time not
literally at the time she was arrested
but her baby was at home and she was
begging the officers you have to let me
go home I've got this baby who's in the
temporary care of my older children and
they said no we have to detain you and I
made requests with ice to let her out on
an order of supervision which they're
allowed to do and they refused until she
was at her 90-day review and suddenly
they decided to let her out even though
there were no change circumstances at
all between October and January so they
just sort of randomly detained this lady
and randomly decided to let her out
which shows again how arbitrary the
whole thing is you know that a person
can be sort of detained and then let go
and it just shows that it's all very
meaningless and again if they had a cap
a stronger cap they would be forced to
to look at somebody like that and say
you know look we can't have her taking
up space when we could have you know
drug dealers or human traffickers coming
along so you know the whole thing is the
more bed space you give them they will
find a way to fill it and that whole
system is really terribly broken on so
many levels but you know people need to
understand that they're out there
talking right now about we need the bed
space because we know ms-13 whatever the
hell
you know whatever scary term is going
around and what's actually happening is
single mothers of six including a
three-month-old baby are getting you
know scooped up and detained for no
reason because they can and because they
have the bed space and so you know don't
don't let your foxnews viewing family
members get away with you know arguing
that this is somehow going to inhibit
the ability keep yeah all right Ron
Reagan thanks so much I appreciate it
very very interesting and yeah but right
folks that's it for our phone calls
today
sorry about that we got obviously as
always have over 20 people on the line
people have been hanging on for almost
90 minutes I'm gonna do ten more Iams
and then we got to get going
turn up Bega Sam what is the persuasive
argument against people who say raising
marginal tax rate won't matter much
because the effective tax rate for the
one percent never got above forty three
percent or so even when the marginal tax
rate was at ninety percent or higher
well that was built into the cake that
effective tax rate was there ostensibly
because ostensibly was that forty three
percent as an effective tax rate and I'm
not sure about that but I know
definitely the idea of loopholes and
whatnot was was problematic we can make
the tax rate land wherever we want it to
it's really just a matter of political
will these loopholes are in there
because they're designed to be in there
but the marginal rate is it's definitely
lower than forty three percent at this
point that's for sure so Jer bolson ro
pneumonia hello ml crew contacting you
to declare myself the new acting
president of Brazil requesting
international recognition solidarity
enmity
real sport from us comrades John
McCain's brain tumor and Charlie Kirk's
blood clock
both are neuro lula libre lu la libre
jonathan Armstead sam on the
inauguration show you started a story
about how you interviewed with sorry
night live to direct their short films
he got interrupted and didn't get to
finish what happened there like your
stories about politics of the industry
and also think this would have been cool
since you dig albert brooks that's
exactly why i was so excited to do it
and I cannot remember for the life of me
what I pitched but I do remember the guy
saying to me what did twelve-year-old
get that and I was like I don't think so
and he's like yeah well that's why it
wouldn't work I'm like excuse me we got
a you got to make it you know I wanted
you cultural you gotta make it funny
free twelve-year-old and I was like I
don't know how to do that um I'm an
adult
I thought the real is like mister like a
situation is joke with me Lauren like it
wasn't mr. Michaels where's lavender
flavored Cologne sophisticated of a you
know it's a short film like a
sixteen-year-old could get it yeah well
I think a sixteen-year-old could've
gotten it I mean I wasn't you know I was
twenty I was my mid to late 20s I mean I
wasn't you know it was his way of saying
oh you're too heady and then Foucault
comes in it's all revealed I did get
like a little fender I was like you
serious yeah job but but if you watch
sorry Night Live for and you know any
any extended period of time you watch
the full 90 minutes and you watch over
the course of like six months and you
have that in the back your head all of a
sudden it becomes a lot more
understandable how could they do this
that's when I look Saturday Night Live
the most I was watching like the best
doves and I loved it I mean I was gonna
say if you go back to like like like
Eddie Murphy or dan Aykroyd like I think
that was not
of year-olds were not copping that
Farley in a small joke here but here's
probably got that that's pretty awesome
though here's the thing about twelve
year olds total is also smart and even
credit for first of all they're smarter
than people give them credit for but
they also get you know and I think
there's across the board they get when
things are supposed to be funny
like they don't necessarily get all the
references you can listen to like you go
back you listen to you know like some
Lenny Bruce stuff or you know anybody in
the 60s who was was really good there
are cultural references you don't get
but you get why they're funny like who
they're supposed to be and that's what I
think I perceive like twelve year olds
looking at comedy half the time like you
watch something you thought was funny
when you're twelve you realize like I
totally got the joke wrong when when
Gary comes in you laugh by implication
it's a joke about text next year Super
Tuesday is the California primary in
March yes kind of favors Harris in deed
mr member I will will majority report
end like words matter podcast I can see
it now Sam's try to return to the show
like nothing has changed after working
for the Bloomberg twenty twenty KF aide
to face the wrath of Michael Jamie and
Matt does not go well Sam denies being
paid to avoid sharing a payday
JJ cool I watched an interview with one
guy doe on on al-jazeera this morning he
was he asked a question about
international support he started as R
wants with a green saying and the people
I'm not sure I follow
golde tell yo if you did research like a
oh thank you it's the largest
historically black your guests taught at
North Carolina A&T University its
largest historically black university in
the country meaning they teach more than
AG and tech there yes I did know that I
did not know that it was an alma mater
Jesse Jackson soon senior and junior and
challenger Ozma or Ronald McNair so more
black eraser no I know it was
historically back a black University
it's right in the description of the
book somebody should clip that you could
not make f news happier FoxNews happier
I don't know what that is oh the disco
Stu one thing that's been revealing
about the whole Olano Mar debacle is the
consistency of those and the media
labeling her tweet anti-semitic did you
notice there's been no racially tinged
or controversial speaks volumes that
there's no hesitancy to call something
anti-semitic but at the same time they
won't dare to call anything racist yes
indeed well because there's a full-on
push to portray what she's doing is
anti-semitic as opposed to being like
broadly based I think sort of accurate
and inartfully communicate but that's
the tell I look people could go to her
behind scenes and say here's the problem
with that tweet from a framing
perspective which is totally valid but
having a big pile on and now you get to
the point where Steve Scalise has the
temerity to tweet out to like oh I'm so
glad David Duke without the baggage is
glad that they've condemned this hateful
rhetoric and also you know David
Rothkopf of all people who's a very
mainstream foreign policy guy and you
know Jewish background was like yes it
wasn't good phrasing but this is also a
major freak out because this is changing
right they're trying to fight back this
is and this is an argument I used to
have with Indy Mike in those email
exchanges and I was trying telling him
like look dude the fact of the matter is
is that people like you who support the
the the right in Israel and this was
five five years ago you know when when
was there was still sort of like almost
making that distinction still still had
some at least fumes of relevance right
like I mean less and less
that does that distinction mean anything
I understand there's a left and I
understand there's an anti-war and I
understand there's social justice in in
Israel but in terms of just sheer power
in numbers it's a its ability is add a
lot as low of an AB as it's ever been
but the failure of American jewelry to
to influence the debate in pushing
Israel away from the the the right is
going to lead I think to its isolation
because the Democratic Party in 5-10
years 15 it's not going to be supportive
of Israel as a matter of policy it's
just it's m'm possible based upon you
know it's irrational to think that you
could force the Democratic Party to
maintain support for a government that
is doing this to a huge segment of the
people who live in their country and and
the fact is is that when the Democrats
when they when they the support for
Israel is diminished as a plank in the
Democratic Party Israel is going to
become increasingly isolated and and and
that is going to be a problem for that
country well that being said I mean
hopefully but I think that they've
already made the cut this is the reason
that Israel's building tighter relations
with China with Russia with far-right
parties and governments like the one in
Hungary that is an overt neo-fascist
government and clearly the Republican
Party has no problem with apartheid and
you know toxic identity politics which
is really frankly what it is so I think
they've been making that calculation for
quite some time this argument happened
in Israel a long time ago people like
Olmert invaded Barack said liberals in
the United States and the traditional
Jewish constituencies are not gonna like
this and they meant like a pragmatic not
moral argument and they lost and the
forces that are winning are like why
don't we just align with global
far-right governments
go all right four more of these
street-legal
not one single human being was put on
earth in order to punch a clock not one
Eon cucks
Sam Ilan cooks Sam needs to ask Samir if
he thinks working 80 90 hours a week
it's fair there's more than enough money
to go around to not require everyone to
do meaningless jobs indeed I agree I
don't want to say really I'm sorry
really quick I do think there's some
people with immigrant experience and
mentality who just find that frame
offensive because if Frank Lee how much
they're putting in I think that that's
why I had sympathy with the call I it's
nothing about the substance I had
nothing about the surface I just think
that he I think that's why that I think
was in agreement with us he's totally
interfering with us it's just that term
caught his attention door it's still
probably stinging from that in exchange
with the Nicole Wallace on our MSNBC
show she was very aggressive calling him
out he was very pissed and the number
and dollar amount taken by cheaters of
social network can't compare to the
amount of damage and funds stolen by 1%
of cheat the system lots of us why
people have unconscious unaware racism
as we become more aware of it we can
change that's growth apathetic
steamroller I'd love to see the Dems
start talking about homelessness
according to HUD employee 2012 the cost
to effectively end homelessness in the
u.s. is only twenty billion a year Scott
Walker Texas Samir sounds like he's just
unhappy with the wording like that
because it makes it easier yeah I think
that's what it was but the wording turns
out not to be the case the Chris lapacho
will be the final I am of the day talk
about Candace Owens
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was late I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
