[Music]
Donald Trump still in the real estate
marketing business the latest let's see
what do we got here where the heck is
this so you will recall that Donald
Trump has has a special relationship
with a Bibi Netanyahu Bibi Netanyahu is
still in trouble right oh they have to
do another election they call that
election right so he's having a lot of
problems and what is the last refuge of
the scoundrel well of course that is
patriotism but what if you are already a
goober nationalist well then it's Trump
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu unveiled a plaque marking the
location of the newest settlement in the
Golan Heights on Sunday you're too kind
the marker proclaims the settlement will
be known as Trump Heights yes here it is
Netanyahu said the name was chosen to
thank President Donald Trump for
breaking decades of US tradition and
recognizing the Golan Heights as part of
Israel in March prior to that point the
u.s. observed the international custom
of considering it occupied territory the
custom they're all international customs
Trump Heights called Ramat Trump in
Hebrew is a symbol of the airtight
alliance that's developed between the US
and Israel Trump has repeatedly aligned
himself with Netanyahu's right-wing
policy vision for his country arguably
fascistic the new town has yet to be
built Netanyahu called it a historic day
in a tweet Trump thank Netanyahu and the
State of Israel for this great honor
who wants him land there you go can't
wait to sell that it's just they're just
the grossest I can't even begin the road
tell you how sort of like viscerally
disgusting I find that all of it I mean
to be fair I think of all the
settlements as Trump Heights so this is
really just making it official I mean in
some respects it is nice at least to
call a spade a spade as it were right
yep and you know people who consider
themselves progressive but are mmm maybe
not so progressive on Israel's issues
the connection between Trump and
Israel's right-wing government is made
very explicit now here's somebody who
apparently does not have
