do this one clip about of limbaugh this
is this is this from fox and friends or
yeah okay Fox Infinite Playlist
so what do you do if you're Fox and
Friends and you want to make the
argument that there is a lot of support
for Donald Trump in his shutdown despite
the fact that you're looking at polling
that shows that Trump's base is even
abandoning him right now
not totally there's you know we've said
for years there's thirty five percent of
the country that will never ever that
will always support somebody like this
and there was it's down even
significantly under among suburban men
he has his approval rating according to
this NPR PBS Marist Poll thirty nine
percent approved fifty three percent
disapproved that's a seven percent
change from December this can go back up
who knows but also there's only thirty
six percent of people said they would
definitely vote for him while forty
eight percent said they definitely would
not fifty seven percent said they will
definitely excuse me it's fifty seven
percent said they would definitely vote
against him those are bad numbers now
it's quite possible somehow Trump brings
out more even more people the last time
but fifty seven percent of people saying
they're definitely gonna vote against
you does no matter who the candidate is
you know he could win there could be
three candidates three major candidates
in this election
I mean it's conceivable right I mean so
it's not like
but in terms of any conversation about
you know who who the Democratic Party
should nominate the idea that there are
people you know I'm sure there are some
people who cannot win in any situation I
like the joke that Martin O'Malley would
have won in 2016
I don't know specifically martin
O'Malley would have won it's just my way
of saying most Democrats would have had
the same liabilities would have matched
up better with Trump in particular I
think you know Clinton matched up
perfectly well with all the other
Republicans but you know people who play
sports know the the you know you can
have certain traits that certain
candidates or players have that match up
Oh better or worse against other ones
that's a you know a dynamic that's not
hard to see but so Fox and Friends is
trying to make trying to salvage this
and what's their argument as to why
Trump still has a lot of support and why
you know Trump can win well it's obvious
Rush Limbaugh does a radio show today I
want the president to continue doing
this even the people that are furloughed
said please president press on Rush
Limbaugh has a say we should just say
that's not true I saw segments about a
government worker rationing her insulin
and takes which was actually mortifying
and depressing but just as point of
reference for like what they're asking
the president I am sure there are
government workers out of the 800,000
who have been furloughed who have said I
hope President Trump continues this sure
I would say with more assuredness the
vast overwhelming majority of federal
workers do not want this to continue
does it stay
I'm just gonna tell you folks that
President Trump can hang in there if he
can if he can hang in there not go
wobbly he can win this it's gonna be a
few more weeks give me a lot of risks
they're gonna be a lot of temptations to
drop the ball and came I don't beat but
he could win this if he just hangs in
there I went to a commercial can we get
a Photoshop of Trump on that cat poster
like hang in there baby yeah no kidding
but what do see was drunk what was going
on there and then he went to a
commercial yeah hang in there
you can win by still compromising he's
not going to get everything he wants
it's impossible for everybody three
months but yeah but he's got to get he
wants between obviously over the 1.3 up
to five point eight maybe give up some
daca pathway to citizenship there's
something else they could do there but I
think doing a deal also shows great
leadership because right now the polls
show he is getting most of the blame 49%
blame him
33% player Democrats that but the
general population right but going in he
said I'm gonna own it
and so the American public reflects that
all right meanwhile the now they're so
confused about this first of all they
play a limbaugh clip now now kilmeade
has a show on radio and i would imagine
he's he he needs to be in Limbaugh's
good graces to be on to get more
affiliates but it's odd that he's
completely undercutting Limbaugh's point
in many respects the deal that he was
talking about was on the table last year
the dacha stuff the democrats i think
would make that deal
Trump will not make that deal maybe at
one point he will but that that's a deal
that was on the table that the Democrats
thought they had that they'd agreed on
and then Stephen Miller says somebody
stepped in and said no no no no and then
you've got Ducey seems to be drunk and
mad at Kilmeade like oh I'm gonna
contradict everything you're saying then
he went to commercial mr. book author
mr. guy who writes his own books
you Brian yeah in the but but he said he
owned it that's why the public's
responding that way and you can see kill
me just gone like ruining it I love it
you're ruining it for me there's that
real tension there that would be great
yeah I would love to hear the tell-all
book about that that would be here is
