[Music]
let's since we're with the dim-witted
apparently Dave Rubin is in Sydney
Australia he's having conversation with
John Anderson and American politician
named John Anderson yeah he ran for he
was a independent Iran in 1980 I think
it was a Carter and Reagan okay but
different do differently they're in
Sydney Jordan Peterson Dave Rubin Dave
is going to explain what's going on with
the left okay because the left it's like
they think they're oppressed but they
don't know what real oppression is I do
we walk away from people we can trust
warning us of the consequences what it
was an interesting reason for that that
sort of brings the solzhenitsyn story
into 2019 which is that he was truly
oppressed this was a life of actual
oppression right now we have people that
are walking around everyone in this room
has this in their pocket and if you have
this deposit I should tell you that he's
pulled out and not a card that says I'm
not oppressed he's pulled out a cell
phone we got in their pocket and if you
have this in your pocket and your hug
yeah hopefully it turned off but if you
have this thing in your pocket and you
think you're oppressed you're very
confused we we live in a time with such
absurd freedoms in the West that are so
beyond imagination of what people could
only dream of two generations ago even
one generation ago especially with this
that people now have a perceived
oppression instead of a real oppression
so one of the things that I does he
think that there are no cell phones in
the East I mean he said like we I don't
know well hey Natalie is not only I'm
looking I in fact I am looking this up
right now cuz I did want to by your
logic it and I believe China has the
third
concentration of cell phone use in the
world number super super non approach
yeah super freedom Qatar the United Arab
Emirates Bahrain Saudi Arabia ultra
freedom trying so hard
Russia's up if you've got a Telegraph in
your community you're not oppressed well
you know I don't know the number but I
know that a lot of Venezuelans have
cells so okay I'm just trying to
understand I'm just trying to understand
what his what what what point is he
trying to make he's so dumb he's saying
it's like the same argument is like oh
poor people have refrigerators now so
they can't complain about anything ever
like if you have access to certain
consumer goods which are now very cheap
to produce you can't complain about well
economic or political oppression but
with was the problem with show it's neat
some that he that he didn't have like a
phone like Elsa Nielsen was alive today
he would be on Rogan maybe he'll do a
white rotten sufferable disruptive
he'll be deceived does a reset because I
just wonder like what everybody else in
the room has gone like people now have a
perceived depression instead of a real
depression so one of the things that I
posit incidentally I should also say I'm
sorry but like one out of every four of
Dave Rubens tweets is how YouTube is
unsubscribing people from him and we'll
get to that because but but like
literally like every third tweet he puts
out is a complaint to YouTube that he's
being oppressed that his subscribers are
being underdone or that patreon is not
doing it right or the technology
companies are but good love two
generations ago even one generation ago
especially with this that people now
have a perceived depression instead of a
real depression so one of the things
that I find when I go to when I go to
college campuses is that you know these
kids will protest and they'll scream and
then you know they ever
all right and everyone's neo-nazi and
the rest of this and I I always find
alright well how do you how do you break
through to somebody like that how do you
actually when they have you know you've
talked about this when they have that
look in their eye truly a possessed look
and and they're you know it's this this
postmodern monster has become sort of a
secular religion and I think that's also
one of the reasons why what Jordan is
doing is resonating because they've
they've removed religion from the
economic jargon Petersons fades like I
just wonder like what's going through
their like Peter since just like I'm
making so much money it doesn't matter
that I don't the stuff yeah the
other guys oh my god Jesus how many
followers does he have on YouTube Lord
what's going on in America good-o
meaning and they put it all into this
really competing set of ideas where we
call the the oppression Olympics where
they're constantly competing for
oppression because they believe that
victimhood
is virtue and victimhood of course is
not virtue what's virtuous is getting
your life in order and going out and
doing something so I'm always looking
for a little trick to get through to
these kids and it's really hard because
when they have that sort of glossed over
zombie look it's it's tough and I found
one trick that actually kind of works if
you can get it to them in the most
simple personal way and this
particularly works in the United States
and I have no doubt that it would work
here in Australia as well I'll say to
them anyone in this room does anyone in
this room have it worse than their
grandparents now I've done this I don't
know a hundred times probably nobody has
ever raised their hand
nobody ever if you live in the United
States you basically short I mean the
only outsider case would be if your
grandparents were oil barons or
something like that and then they lost
all the money in which case in which
case the leftist would actually love
that too because it would show that well
it would show that that accumulated
wealth doesn't stay beyond generation so
they're all about that right so yeah
that's the whole point of the leftist
argument is that sometimes fortunes are
squandered he caught that
I can't hold but if you see why you
something like that I mean if you say
and everyone in anybody's sitting next
to him looks like a galactic like
intergenerational this room can do it
like can everyone picture their
grandparents
do you have it better or worse I mean
does anyone in here have it worse than
their grandparents and that shows you
that it's a perceived oppression not a
real oppression does it I mean first off
generationally speaking your generation
is making less you know relative to the
cost my grandparents just got back from
a cruise so they're doing pretty well as
well but but your grandparents when they
were your age when of course they read
house yeah I mean yeah when they had a
house that's my I mean that you're
oppressed but the I'm doing better than
my grandparents because I'm following
but here's our journey but but but but
but know the other thing that I just
I've this really irritates me because
this like the premise of all of these
right-wing arguments that it's like if
you can't point to another time in human
history that's better than now when
coupled with like the blind devotion to
technological innovation it's like well
how about you just drop a little bit of
that into the political and economic
realm and there's this whole concept of
the idea of like things actually getting
better yeah I mean it could just be bad
all the way through and I really
questioned as to whether these people
that he's performing in front of all
perceive themselves as oppressed but why
is he so obsessed with college campuses
all these people like well Eve the
children alone we will we will get to
the the the colleges are the hot because
this is this is just like a genre of of
grift on the right like it okay they
stayed the same straw man here is here
is a Dave Rubin again claiming to be
oppressed by YouTube
on Twitter portion of an email I just
received from a viewer who I've gotten
to know personally was a highly
competent VC guy not a bot or a fake
account Annie writes hey Dave hey Dave
hadn't seen your videos in a while
search for them on YouTube and sure
enough I was no longer subscribed to
your channel I am a hundred percent sure
I did not unsubscribe why would I do
that
this is getting creepy and this is not
the first time either I also found that
I was unsubscribed from and then he cut
that off so maybe it had a problem to do
with him but but but Dave makes it about
himself
hi Team YouTube getting more of these
than usual I would be happy to email you
but I don't have a human contact at your
company after six years most a million
subscribers despite constant
unsubscribes this is the biggest whiny
upper self oppressed I've never seen
this and then then it all becomes clear
on Dave Reubens
reddit I'm the one sending
emails to Dave about not being able to
watch his videos on YouTube in case
anyone's wondering laugh my ass off is
that you Sam no it's not me there you go
that's why Dave that's mystery solved
that's why you're getting more than
usual because there are people already
if you have a youtube channel and you
think you're not oppressed you're very
confused
exactly right like this guy so talking
together bone you're not oppressed yet
alike exactly it's unbelievable how this
guy moves through the like just the
world completely unawares
honestly like I really my there I think
there's some some grifters out there who
are conscious of their grift but I
really feel like oh no Dave is just so
unselfish and just guided by
where he smells the money mini jet
thinks that's truth right he's in the
jet stream
that's basically what it is I mean but I
get me a few grandparents had a new
company when they lost but but I guess
the left would like that because they
like with great when Dukes and barons
gamble away their fortune section that's
what yeah the only way I can conceive of
an older generation having more material
wealth and younger generation there's
some sort of weird oil baron scenario I
always yes I always try to be fair so I
always has been Shapiro about the
blueberry I didn't quite convinced when
he gets back but he gets back from this
trip there's gonna be a lot of like wow
you don't really realize how hard you're
hit by the jet lag and really that jet
lag it's really tough really tough but
there is huge success on YouTube folks
welcome to it are the cream rises to the
top exactly a couple of months where the
TBS YouTube channel wasn't being
monetized right it's a fraction of the
size of Reubens fret like and I'm you
know it's not huge but you know
obviously paying somebody to do it
actually just like losing money I don't
and we'd see how we said we out of
eventually and we didn't even alleged
conspiracy we were basically just like
this is they're cold their
 go bother them on Twitter but I
didn't I mean this guy's does band like
a very significant amount of his online
time or like you me think talk about
feelings of oppression that's all I mean
like you know we've talked about this
many times how aggrievement seems to
drive the conservative mind now I know
Dave is he's in a gay marriage he's he's
against the death not really gonna wear
him babe
begrudgingly pro-choice but he's getting
he's having to to qualify that because
rules are Pro murder outside of the womb
and and he used to be for single-payer
until he found out that would that was
at odds with the smaller the others are
the beginning of it I didn't dig into
that oh I was in a really serious I was
in on Stuart Mill marathon it was just
so hard cuz they're just engaging the
ideas then it just my buddy Brad was
telling me that every green state is
making conservative students turning
their phones at the beginning of the
semester to impress them
[Music]
