[Music]
hi folks a lot of stuff has happened in
the past 24 hours since we signed off
the air yesterday I think that we knew
that a an announcement was impending
from Nancy Pelosi here is that
announcement yesterday afternoon this is
a big deal in our committees and
litigating in the courts so the house
can gather all the relevant facts and
consider whether to exercise its full
article 1 powers including a
constitutional power of the utmost
gravity approval of articles of
impeachment and this week the president
has admitted to asking the president of
Ukraine to take actions which would
benefit him politically the action of
the truck the actions of the trump
presidency revealed dishonourable fact
of the president's betrayal of his oath
of office betrayal of our national
security and betrayal of the integrity
of our elections therefore today I'm
announcing the House of Representatives
moving forward with an official
impeachment inquiry I'm directing our
six committees to proceed with their
investigations under that umbrella of
impeachment inquiry the president must
be held accountable no one is above the
law okay so this is important to note in
the past there has been a special select
committee which becomes the Clearing
House that's not going to happen this
time
and I think part of the reason why
that's not going to happen is because
Nancy Pelosi is still afraid for some of
her front line members in the case that
this impeachment stuff somehow goes
sideways and she doesn't want them to
have to actually take a vote on the
creation of a select committee I believe
I'm not a hundred percent sure about
this but in the past we've had select
committees instead there are six
committees who are looking on different
issues
ranging from emoluments to various other
corrupt practices by the Trump
administration maybe misappropriating
funds or something to that effect they
will all report to the Judiciary
Committee with presumably some form of a
report that is we believe that this was
conduct that rises to an impeachable
offense then they will gather those at
the Judiciary Committee now and I'm not
sure if judiciary will do the
investigations at that point if they
will call the witnesses for on those
separate topics or whatnot but we're
gonna know more about the process as
this winds out there's a great piece by
Ryan grim and in the intercept which
outlines the fact on just how close we
were to impeachment even prior to this
report from Adam Schiff which took place
now two weeks ago when he made it public
that there was a whistleblower complaint
they probably knew this a couple of
weeks before then but the real turning
point turned out to be when a lot of
these frontline Democrats these are
people who won in either narrowly
democratic districts or narrowly
Republican districts in terms of the
partisan rating in 2018 freshmen
Congress people who thought this is
according to grim Speas thought that the
big jeopardy to their re-election was
the radicalism coming from the squad and
at one point they realized particularly
when they went home to their town halls
that
the biggest problem with their
reelection was the fact that they
weren't doing anything to hold Donald
Trump accountable and that in fact a lot
of people wanted impeachment and so and
this is consistent with what we know
about how Democrats won in 2018 the
there is a negative partisanship for
better for worse that Americans tend to
vote upon based upon and people came out
and voted for Democrats in these House
seats because they hate Donald Trump and
now there's an opportunity to
nationalize that question and buy
nationalize it I mean not just in terms
of the presidential election but now it
is a question that is going to be
relevant and how effective it'll be will
be a function of how effective the
Democrats are which is a scary
proposition but with that said there's
now going to be an opportunity to
nationalized every local congressional
race every Senate race across the
country because every one of those
people running whether even if they're a
challenger they'll be asked this
question they'll hem and haw about it
and it may change over time but
certainly the incumbents will all be
asked whose side were you on
were you protecting Donald Trump or were
you holding him to account were you
draining the swamp or were you I don't
know how do you feed it's doing a
tremendous job or doing a tremendous job
I mean that's gonna be the question in
in many of these these campaigns you're
going to see ads I held Donald Trump to
account in but for Mitch McConnell and
my opponent blankety-blank
Donald Trump would not be president
right now and that's what you're going
to hear
