[Music]
Bernie Sanders has come out and we'll
talk more about the details on this in a
day or two but Bernie Sanders has come
out with a affordable housing plan that
involves rent control across the country
also involves significant funding to
upgrade existing public housing money to
support housing across the board and
what this is going to do is it's going
to shore up neighborhoods neighborhoods
that are in decline neighborhoods that
are subject to gentrification and allow
people to actually live in nice
neighborhoods without having to come in
you know without having it you know stay
in their neighborhoods be able to live
in neighborhoods that are improving and
enjoy the fact that they have like
invested their lives in these
neighborhoods here's Bernie Sanders -
living that speech on housing it is not
acceptable to me that wealthy and
powerful real-estate developers in
Nevada and throughout this country and
I've seen this all over America are
gentrifying neighborhoods and forcing
working-class families out of their
homes and apartments that they have
lived in for decades and forcing them
out replacing that housing that
affordable housing with fancy condos and
luxurious homes that only the very
wealthy can afford that is not
acceptable we're gonna stand up to
gentrification
now there is he had a lozenge that he
ejected the the issue that we have now
in the wake of the the housing crisis
and the financial crisis I should say
that was brought about by by an inflated
housing bubble is that you have so many
foreclosed homes around the country that
ended up getting bought by huge hedge
funds that were not in the business of
being landlords and they bought up all
these houses at a huge discount
obviously fire sales literally almost in
some instances and they're crappy
landlords or they're going in with
specifics and specific places and
getting the best of the properties and
doing tear downs and then the building
up like Bernie said much more expensive
housing and it's a problem it's it's
causing people to move further and
further out it's causing 2ms rating
people it's keeping people from living
in decent neighborhoods it's I would
imagine also adding to the segregation
of schools in many respects what was the
last time we had a presidential
candidate talk to my housing well
honestly yeah Sam Stein also gives a lot
of good background in his book and on
this very show and on my show about why
the economy has developed in this way at
this particular time to be so heavily
reliant on real estate it's it's a
problem but it was Bernie you know again
expanding the terrain in which the
candidates have to address policy
failures but there's two sides to every
coin Bernie
of course was horse during the last
debate and some people watch that I'm
talking about clip number 10 and some
people you know some some pundits some
voters they don't want somebody who is
in any way aggressive or any way
fighting they want someone who is like
visually appealing and you know
good-looking soft-spoken reasonable guy
and some people particularly like I
guess when Bernie was voice was a little
raspy maybe they could look at Bernie
and think like Oh his voice is raspy
he's he's elevating his volume he seems
angry now I don't think most people with
that but if you're sensitive you're one
of those people who thinks like you know
I want my politician to be good-looking
and and just sort of and and not
confrontation you know
Bernie's a snack yeah well some people
disagree like for instance this excuse
for a human being who was relentlessly
mocking teachers who were his
constituents who cars flamed out after
his his attempt to punish people
politically by causing traffic jams
going on to the George Washington Bridge
I'm of course talking about the ACE ABC
pundit chris Christie quite frankly
Sanders to me looked unglued but well he
was also having some trouble with his
throat daddy was such as his throat
George I mean his eyes were bulging out
of his head
visually I could tell you because I was
watching it on TV
he looked disturbing to me that he
really looked angry and I don't think
that Democratic primary voters want
angry I think they want effective he's a
passionate politician who brings his
emotions to the table I thought he did
an effective job in it yeah what they
Ward Isambard with blue
please corrupt who terrorizes
teachers between stuffing his face and
literally chased a teacher down the
boardwalk with a melting ice cream
called his hand that's the kind of
integrity it's 2 felony if they why
and it's cool because then you still got
rewarded with a TV kick even though
you're a national embarrassment and left
with record under high on approval
ratings and word early endorser of
Donald Trump which is also speaking of
stability and emotional health I you
know what I would like to see like a so
unlike a host like a George
Stephanopoulos at that time or maybe one
of the other panelists like what makes
you like what gives you this insight
into what Democratic voters want
I made this in Saigon shouts all the
polling we know there's three top
candidates in the Democratic primary
right now is there one who has not
expressed anger of one sort or another I
mean honestly you know Biden's been a
little bit more sort of focused on Trump
but in Warren and Bernie's like I mean
to what extent who in the Democratic
Party represents the non angry like is
not trying to express some measure
includes is it clos Bashar
oh it's Pete Buddha judge that's who it
is
it's people to judge who is polling it
around what like three percent is it
three percent
I mean I'd just be curious if a pundit
is gonna say this stuff you gotta let
people like respond to it not just on
the question of like Chris Christie's
perspective that Bernie Sanders is out
of control I mean the basic premise of
what he's trying to argue as to like
maybe that's what people want never mind
does he know who won the last time
around exactly and and who didn't win
