[Music]
Jesse Watters is really on the case has
figured out that well we're gonna talk a
little bit about a la Nomar today
because it's fascinating to me the
amount of concern over Alon Omar's
comments which you really have to take
in the worst light to presume they are
anti-semitic at all and it is as if
there has been a complete mobilization
of our government out of concerns of
what Alon Omar is doing when we have a
record number of white nationalist
extremists actually killing people in
this country but yet well there's no
room for this conversation because of
Olano lamar but well then can I just
also add I mean not only that but let's
put a fine point on it
I mean you they're actually putting a
target on her back oh how they're
demonizing her and lying about her and
exploiting racism and Islamophobia so
they're not only being mine well we will
talk about that yeah I sorry yes I've
discussed it but yes and so much of this
is a means in which to distract from
obviously the the problem of the Trump
administration and the racism bigotry
and anti-semitism that it is promoting
across the country it is a shame that
Democrats are participating in this we
can talk about that more but in the
meantime this is this is allowing for
this this meme on the right it's super
important for them to to push this
everybody's on the same page even our
friend Brandon Scott Ronnie at the CPAC
was was calling the Democrats the party
of hate and here is the Ingram angle
Laura Ingraham noted the promoter of of
hate in a myriad of fashion
hand gesture enthusiast right waters is
sitting in for her she got she got her
start by outing people in college who
were gay because you know it's against
the law at Dartmouth apparently to not
be subject to homophobia in that era and
so she was just fulfilling her civic
duty as a student at Dartmouth but
nevertheless she let Jesse Watters
fill in for her on the Ingraham angle
that is a perfect fit if you ask me and
here is the argument that Democrats have
forced Donald Trump to be a racist
all right just told everybody that
Donald Trump has never said a racist
thing in three years these two people
have just said that do you believe them
go ahead okay Leo it's clearly insane I
don't know how he managed to bypass the
Booker this guy's out of his mind I'm
sorry but Donald Trump there has never
been an allegation that Donald Trump was
a racist until he ran for president as a
Republican leo is nuts
he's race-baiting people on this show he
has no evidence of anything he's saying
being true and he just lied to the
audience saying that Muslims are banned
from the United States I was unaware of
that because if you're Muslim you're
allowed the United States like anyone
else he's making that up to bait me and
star it's with me because he has no
facts because he's been vaccinated
against facts at an early age like every
other liberal all he has is this garbage
nonsense that Donald Trump is a racist
it's disgusting it's disgraceful he
should be embarrassed for saying it all
right yeah you know it's like what what
possible evidence could you have that
Donald Trump is a racist
I mean do are we supposed to have some
type of affidavit or some type of
consent decree from the Department of
Justice oh wait here's one this is
actually a consent decree filed by the
United States District Court Eastern
District of New York United States of
America that would be the country
against Fred C Trump and Donald Trump
and the entire Trump Management Inc
because they were
they were literally breaking the Fair
Housing Act by keeping black people out
of their uh out of their their
apartments in their rentals and this is
actually only one of two consent decrees
because they blew through the first one
then of course I suppose you need to
actually exercise even the slightest bit
of imagination when Donald Trump took
out a full-page ad and then actually I
hate for it and actually paid for it
supposedly saying that death penalty
should be bragging about it should be
brought back and our police should be
brought back because of the Wilding that
was taking place by black people in
Central Park the Central Park five they
should be killed and oh they turned out
to be completely innocent but put up the
apology that he he put up there all
right
which apology there was none yeah on
four so holding there is five innocent
teenagers there's there is evidence from
the Department of Justice and there is
just evidence that is in print because
of the massive expenditure that Donald
Trump wanted to expend based upon his
own racism I have another one if we want
to go into a sure a book by John O
Donnell former president of Trump Plaza
Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City quoted
Trump's criticism of a black accountant
quote black guys counting my money I
hate it the only kind of people I want
counting my money are short guys that
were yarmulkes every day and Trump at
first denied the remarks but later said
in a 1997 Playboy interview that the
stuff O'Donnell wrote about me was
probably true yeah
and then of course we just had testimony
from sworn testimony from michael cohen
of numerous things that Donald Trump had
said that were racist when Barack Obama
was president which I believe was before
Donald Trump was was a Republican cuz
that out of me when he was president
yeah except for all that evidence there
is no evidence which is probably more
evidence that you would get from like
the vast majority of racists in the
country I got the paper trader a pretty
impressive stuff Dan bond Geno walked
right into that those are probably all
comments that mark Meadows does not
consider to be racist right I would
imagine
