is actually interesting I wanted to
cover this do we have the the kilmeade
with the number one this is actually
interesting exchange here the you know
just as on the left we you know there
it's there's I don't want to say there's
a dilemma but you know it is I think for
me personally net-net
it's a good thing that we're pulling out
of Afghanistan or at least half our
troops certainly and a good thing that
we're pulling our troops out of Syria I
would have done it maybe differently and
yeah well I mean that's the point is
that you know try and get something for
it maybe protect people who were our
allies but for the right they have their
dilemma too because the they they really
want more war and they don't want Isis
to be refounded he's giving Russia a big
win Vladimir Putin praised him he also
is doing exactly what you're posit I
guess I should say this is the Fox and
Friends and Kilmeade is talking to Sarah
Sanders and Sarah Sanders I think it's
like sort of sideswiped by this I got to
give a little caught you were my friend
like two clips of Kilmeade yesterday off
the reservation ranting oh excuse me I
that's not an appropriate term but he
was dancing about this like it's very I
mean in a very weird way he's a war
monger
although what he said about the Kurds I
agree with but he's a ridiculous war
monger but in a weird way because all
the rest of them it's so transparent
that they're just like the flavor of the
month
he's the only one even though he's wrong
that actually takes this stuff somewhat
seriously for something other than just
a daily shifting talking point right
whether or not we kill people in foreign
countries right dudes he's like I'm
willing to do it either way no literally
like oh that was the Bush era right just
our isolationist just make sure I get
the script five minutes beforehand I'm
gonna be there no matter what you need
and just oh also I love those um
chocolate frosted doughnuts can we get
those too literally as a
kill me yeah exactly he's giving Russia
a big win
Vladimir Putin praised him he also is
doing exactly what he criticized
President Obama for doing he said
President Obama is the founder of Isis
he just rebounded Isis 30,000 men there
and they're already striking back with
our would-be evacuation the president's
got it he's really on the griddle with
this I have to respectfully and candidly
disagree with you the idea that the
president has had anything to do with
helping Isis really being is how raising
his hell president has put so much
emphasis on rebuilding and making sure
we have the strongest military on the
face of the planet
if Isis wants to pick a fight with
somebody they sure as heck don't want to
pick one with Donald Trump because he
will destroy them and defeat them and
he's made that extremely clear we've
wiped out 99% of Isis in Syria
the president doesn't want to be in the
middle of a civil war in the Middle East
and continue to put American lives on
the line were afraid to do that all
right Sarah thank you so much oh he
doesn't even say thank you or he's mad
he's gonna he's an Obama man he's a he's
a interventionist who's also the least
racist of them and we're like when
Lindsey Graham's like well you know what
the Persians are like kill measly well
not all Persians only their government
that probably not very late second term
he's a 2011 I mean I think that is also
the least accurate critique oh yeah
because the Russians and Assad are going
to be you know killing continue to kill
these people
Oh without and the 2000 military
personnel that we had there are not
going to be terribly missed the issue is
going to be more about the Kurds and
and protect and the Russians did this by
the way in a freen last year they did
this they had a deal with the Kurds they
sold the Kurds out they left and Turkey
did this they F nicly cleansed a mass
murder at Ephraim we already have seen
this the Turkish military spokesperson
said last week we're gonna go ditch to
ditch yeah we're gonna eliminate the
ackley that for you know it's that's
yeah
Jonathan Armstead
