[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday November 15th 2018
my name is Michael Brooks and this is
the five-time award-winning majority
report were broadcasting live steps from
the industrial ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program an
interview that Sam just recorded called
the schoolhouse gate public education
the Supreme Court in the battle for the
American mind with Justin driver it's
gonna be a half-day episode as Sam is
not here and we are gonna duck out and
skip the fun half today but we will be
here in full force tomorrow a few more
headlines for you which we will get to
tomorrow hot save America caught in a
much bigger story about Facebook and a
story that should be used to remove
Chuck Schumer as head of the Senate
majority the US House has blocked a
resolution to end US military support in
Yemen Trump suggests that Republicans
lost because of people's because people
put on disguises to vote illegally I
hope he does not find Matt's phantom of
the opera' mask
a federal judge weighs in ways a delay
as the deadline looms for the Florida
recount and Cuba has announced that they
are pulling thousands of doctors out of
Brazil
which was part of a significant
collaboration between the Workers Party
government and Cuba to deliver health
care to the Brazilian people even as the
Brazilian regime you can call it at this
point attempts to wealth level new
charges a political prisoner Lula da
Silva those are some headlines we're
gonna be back live tomorrow but first I
got to tell you about a few things
2018 has been a difficult year for human
rights but have you ever wondered how
rights abuses are documented around the
world you probably have with the sheer
volume of global crises we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing in Myanmar to the
caging of children on US borders it's
crucial that we exposed the truth in
order to defend rights of all bring
those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that
they're an independent not-for-profit
organization known for their Africa
accurate they are an independent
nonprofit organization known for their
accurate fact-finding and partial
reporting and targeted advocacy often in
partnership with local activists and
human rights groups they accept no money
from any government but they rely on the
support of informed dedicated people
just like you so if human rights are
important to you visit human you visit
HRW org slash majority to make a
donation and supports work around the
world when you do you not only is your
gift tax deductible matched
dollar-for-dollar until 2019 that means
your donation will go twice as far to
advance justice and defend basic dignity
of people who need it most again that's
HR w.org / majority and also I think
this is perspective we all share a life
is too short for bad Wi-Fi thankfully
0ee are Oh home Wi-Fi brings you fast
reliable connection every room of the
house not to mention the
second-generation hero an ero beacon
allow you to build a Wi-Fi system that's
more perfectly tailored to your home
than ever before when you add ero plus
you'll get a total network protection
with the ability
block malicious and unwanted content
across your entire network Sam my bet is
all over this but checking the sites you
visit against database of millions of
known threats arrow prevents you from
accidentally visiting malicious sites
without showing without slowing anything
down and this is incredibly helpful
because we all know that the Internet is
just like obsessed poll it's like
everything euro euro Plus automatically
tagged sites that contain violent
illegal or adult content so you can
choose what your kids can and cannot
visit right from the Eero app you can
you can also get rid of annoying ads and
pop-ups awesome on all your devices and
blocking improves load times for add
heavy sites you can browse and stream
faster than ever before I've honestly
just started using it and as I say what
is always a big deal for me with all of
these things is ease of installation
because I don't like to have to figure
anything out it's incredibly easy to set
up it makes it a lot easier to do
research for me as an example because a
lot of the sites that we use to get
sound clips as an example are just
deluge with ads and pop-ups and getting
out of that situation is like breathing
clean air and it's faster it's just all
around better than particularly the
Wi-Fi access there's a lot of very slow
Wi-Fi and Brooklyn believe it or not and
it was incredibly easy to set up I set
it up without any help without calling
anybody
that should speak volumes never think
about Wi-Fi again what get $100 off get
100 off of the ear Oh ease unit and two
beacons package and a year off euro plus
just visit eurocom slash majority enter
Croydon majority at checkout that's EE R
o comm slash majority and code majority
a checkout so and continuing plugs
tomorrow we're all here tomorrow there
is a special usually Tuesday nights
obviously but T mb/s is going to be
streaming live at Friday tomorrow at
7:00 p.m. we're gonna do it on the
Michael Brooke show YouTube channel
contra point and Cory Cory pine are the
guests there's going to be a sartorial
surprise in store for tomorrow and check
out the Bell house to get your tickets
to the Michael Brooks show and also
check out which is at February 1st and
also check out the Bell house to get
your tickets to the majority reports
show which is on January 12th January
13th at pod fest see you hopefully I get
Matt and I will see you both of those oh
yeah beep rose by that point indeed and
you know all the ways you can hook up
with a majority report and TMDs Jamie
alright so I am actually going away to
Mexico for 10 days we starting tomorrow
oh yeah I'm very very excited to visit
our Zapatista comrades who make the
coffee for just coffee co-op but in the
meantime we have some great content for
all you anti Fattah super soldiers out
there we have our episode on the Greek
debt crisis out now and I really
encourage people to listen to it even if
you don't think you know anything about
economics because I think it's really
important to understand this stuff boo
schwa economists don't want you to
understand it they want you to think
it's too complicated for you to
understand but I think it's important if
you're you know an anti Fattah fan
perhaps not a fan of capitalism to
understand things like the Greek debt
crisis we also have a bonus episode with
the same guest Pablos Rufus about some
of the uprisings that happened in Greece
recently as well as a crossover episode
that Sean did with our friend Jake
Flores at pod dam America on the history
of the IWW and I believe our producer
Andy is also doing an interview with
Knoll ignatiev of a magazine race
traitor so check it out dope um Matt uh
yeah literary
hangover check it out on YouTube
podcasts and patreon.com slash literary
hangover perfecto
alright folks we will of course be here
tomorrow ana kasparian and david feldman
guests and stay tuned now for Sam's
brand new interview with Justin driver
on the Supreme Court in the future of
public education
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program Justin driver he
is the Harry and Wyatt professor of law
at the University of Chicago Law School
and he is the author of the schoolhouse
gate public education the Supreme Court
in the battle for the American mind
Justin welcome to the program glad to be
with you tale
so from your perspective the public
education is the one of if not the most
I guess the the epicenter of
constitutional interpretation as we look
back on the body of constitutional law
in this country that's exactly right it
seems to me that when one steps back and
examines constitutional law it's
fascinating how often the anxieties that
exist in the larger American country
come to the battle that over the in the
school context and so if you think about
you know Brown versus Board of Education
and battles about patriotism and
equality and Liberty these cases arising
from public schools are often
significant of larger anxieties that
exist in the country and and we should
say the the the cases that you hand on
here are our constitutional cases as
opposed to statutory and I think you
know that is you know just to clarify
for people because there's obviously
plenty of constitutional questions over
the course of this country's history in
regard to to public school but I have to
say too that it you know there's I'm a
little bit reminded I spoke to Carol
Anderson about her most recent book one
person no vote and the the Supreme Court
in its relationship to the vote in
particular you know is a is another lens
and what
to look at the history of this country
and what I'm struck about and and and I
think we see it here too because you
start with you you break down by by by
topic sort of the the the history of the
Supreme Court in dealing with these
Constitution questions but you start
with the courts early encounters with
race culture religion and patriotism
within the context of the schools and
you return at least to the question of
race later in the history of the Supreme
Court so let's start with with those
early encounters like what were the
seminal cases that within the context of
public schools that dealt with race and
culture and religion in the early years
of this country yeah there are a few
cases that spring to mind that were
decided a very long time ago that have
important resonance in modern America
let me give you two examples one would
be a case called Pierce versus Society
of sisters where Oregon sought to
require all children to attend public
schools the fear at the time was that
folks attending Catholic schools were
insufficiently American because they
attended Catholic schools and so this
was a referendum that was pushed by the
Ku Klux Klan who thought that if we get
rid of these private and in particular
parochial schools we will have one
United Nation and a sort of nativist
impulse and everything so obviously
there are ugly echoes of that that
exists in American society today another
example of a major case from the 1940s
is the Barnett case where localities
sought to require students to pledge
allegiance to the American flag and if
they refused to do so they were going to
be expelled and so this race problems in
particular for Jehovah's Witness
students who believe that it violated
their religious phase in order to recite
the Pledge of Allegiance
the Supreme Court of United States
invalidated that measure and said that
the freedom of speech involves a
corollary right not to speak that you
have the ability to remain silent
during the Pledge of Allegiance and of
course that has lots of echoes today
with Colin Kapernick situation in the
NFL protests more broadly well I mean
and and you know I'm struck by that the
the right not to speak has implications
even in the context of the Janis case oh
yeah I mean so I mean to contextualize
the importance of these cases I mean it
would be your argument that there's a
lot of interpretations of the
Constitution that start in the context
of public schools but disseminate their
I mean that that ultimately then get
applied across society and I mean right
that's exactly correct that's exactly
correct oh so the Barnett decision
announces the right not to speak there's
a prohibition on compulsory speech and
exactly as you suggest that has
applications well beyond the schoolhouse
gate another example of this phenomenon
where cases that begin in schools spill
over into the larger society would be
Brown versus Board of Education right
the most celebrated opinion certainly
from the 20th century and perhaps in all
of American history there's a
prohibition on Jim Crow that Brown says
itself is sort of limited to education
but over time of course the prohibition
on Jim Crow official laws requiring
children to attend separate schools went
beyond the educational context so this
is yet another reason exactly as you
suggest that the the schoolhouse is a
particularly vivid and captivating prism
through which to examine broader
constitutional phenomena all right you
know and I want to return to to brown
versus Board of Education but let's
let's stay with that that law in the in
Oregon and I believe it was in the 1920s
that the KKK had supported banning
private and as a way of banning
essentially parochial schools the on
what grounds did the court find that
students had the right to attend to know
that there should be an exception I mean
how did they tell us what the the
construction of that that case was and
what the the the sort of constitutional
principle that came out of that and
where that principle has led us down the
road yeah
so this is a case from the 1920s the
court said in Pierce versus Society of
sisters that this law violates the
Constitution in particular they are
thinking about a fundamental right and
they are thinking about a Liberty
component the most famous sentence from
this opinion says that the child is not
the mere creature of the state meaning
then the state cannot do whatever it
wishes with individual children and so
this is one of trio of opinions written
by Justice McReynolds a widely reviled
jurist with good reason I should say he
was an anti-semite a racist sexist but
in this particular instance I think that
and Justice McReynolds was correct to
say that that it would violate the
Constitution to say that you cannot have
private or parochial schools and so
let's uh let's move forward in time as
we talk about you know freedom of
expression this tell us what some of the
seminal cases in terms of freedom of
expression within the context of schools
and what the implications were that for
those outside of them we just mentioned
one in terms of the Jehovah's Witness a
witness can't be compelled to speech I
would imagine all
so now that I think about it that would
also had that would have also impacted
the Hobby Lobby decision within the
context of the ACA on some level that's
right that's right so that's one of the
really interesting parts of this this
book in my view is that the court for a
while did an admirable job in protecting
student speech the most famous case in
this area is the Tinker vs. Des Moines
case where during the 1960s students in
Des Moines Iowa wanna wear black
armbands in protest of the Vietnam War
school officials get wind of this plan
and they say oh no this is too hot
button of an issue it's worth saying
that this protest happened in 1965 long
before the mass mobilization against the
Vietnam War
and the school administrators say that
there's a student from Des Moines who
graduated from this high school and he
still has friends here and this person
died over in Vietnam and his buddies who
are still here they are going to view
you as dis honoring his legacy if you
wear this black armband the Supreme
Court upholds the right to wear these
black armbands and says in this gives me
the title for my book it can hardly be
argued that students shed their
constitutional rights at the schoolhouse
gate this was there was a vehement
dissent in the case written by justice
black and says that this is a terrible
decision students are there to be seen
and not heard and while the court did a
really admirable job in tinker in
recognizing student speech over time the
court has announced a number of
exceptions to the core rule at tinker
and so it's a deep irony exactly as
you're suggesting Sam that the Roberts
Court has a much thinner rated at least
in certain circles reputation for
defending the freedom of speech and deep
some people believe that it's recognized
the freedom of speech in areas where it
doesn't properly belong but one area
where they have fallen down rather
consistently is in the area of student
speech including in a case that was
decided when I was a law clerk at the
Supreme Court called Morse vs. Frederick
of course no one calls it by that name
everybody instead calls it the bong hits
for Jesus case
tell us about the bong hits for Jesus
case yeah happy to do so that's that's
the case that was out of Juneau Alaska
where a high school senior you know took
a banner to school it was 14 foot long
and he stands across the street from the
school while a parade is happening in
honor of the Olympic torch making its
way through Geno Alaska Joseph Frederick
he's an eighteen year old senior he
unfurls the banner the principal sees
the banner marches across the street
grabs it out of his hand and then
proceeds to suspend him and the question
is does this violate the freedom of
speech the court in an opinion by Chief
Justice Roberts says it does not violate
the freedom of speech he says if the
principal reasonably believed the speech
in question is designed to promote
illicit drug use then it's permissible
to punish the student in speech this is
very unusual from a First Amendment
perspective because you're generally
required to be viewpoint neutral you're
not allowed to silence one side as a
debate with an idea that the marketplace
of ideas should function properly
properly justice Stevens wrote a really
important and quite convincing in my
view dissenting opinion where he was
quite elderly in 2007 and he said I can
remember the days of prohibition and why
should we not view Joseph Frederick as
trying to participate in a growing
debate about the legality of marijuana
he's participating in this debate
perhaps in articulately but the
principle that Stephens was trying to
identify is that what's illegal today
can become legal tomorrow and it seems
to me with the 11 years that have passed
since that dissenting opinion justice
Stevens's argument assumes added force
well would with the Roberts would a
Roberts Court I guess we still have one
in fact maybe even more Roberts II than
before in some respects
would a with with that same court a rule
that a non-student could couldn't do
that banner I mean to what extent I mean
was it was this a question of what the
relationship was between the student and
the principal or the student and whoever
was receiving the message the Roberts
Court would not say that if this were
just a ordinary person in a public park
that had a banner they would not say you
could be punished for that speech and so
the core it's a good question as Sam
because the the court conceived of this
as a school event and so for these
purposes it may have well it may as well
have taken place in the lunchroom or
something like that
and so but these were very unusual facts
and so many observers were surprised
when the court decided to grant
certiorari as they agree to hear this to
resolve this case at all because it was
so unlikely to be repeated and there are
many important debates that divide the
lower courts where they really do need
some guidance including with respect to
say off-campus speech you know what can
students say online and then it makes
its way to school and be punished for
but the court has routinely ducked these
issues and another important area would
be with respect to speech about gay
equality which has been a number of
high-profile lower court decisions about
the Supreme Court has yet to get
involved in this area was there a
principle that derived from that case in
other words was the and because that
that ultimately creates a limiting
principle for the for the First
Amendment rights right of students and
I'm not quite clear on how you would
articulate those limited principles
because of the the facts in the case but
has that structure been the the the
principle that was created there has
that been applied to other areas of free
speech within our society it's a very
shrewd question that you asked because a
number of people suggested at the time
that this rule the Chief Justice Roberts
came up with about it being permissible
to punish students for prodrugs
speech would not be confined to that
area
Roberts suggested that because drugs are
a particular hazard to use then it was
permissible because this was an
especially important area but lower
court judges have exactly as you
anticipate imported this principle to
areas that don't have anything to do
with drug usage at all and so people say
well there are other important issues
that exist in schools and so why
shouldn't we make it permissible to
punish students for this type of speech
including in a lower court opinion
written by Judge Richard Posner in one
of the most formidable Court of Appeals
judges in recent history he tried to
import the logic of Morris versus
Frederick to an area that had nothing to
do with with with drugs and was that
confined to something in the school in
other words like this type of principal
right can go one of two ways it can go
it can apply back to other aspects of
school but it can also end up being a
principle that's applied in society at
large no this is confined to schools
people have not tried to take the logic
of Morris versus Frederick and apply it
out to non student situations would be
the most effective way to say that
because there are as I suggested a
moment ago some decent amount of speech
that's uttered by students happens when
they are not within the schools but
instead when they are online and you
know at home so they're not in school
technically but people have applied it
certainly to to that extent but people
have not taken the logic of the bonnets
for Jesus case and said okay you are a
25 year old person who said something
this has covered my pockets for Jesus no
one's been quite bad at grammar
there's still time I guess let's talk
about the
Brown versus Board of Education this is
a case that I guess was resolved in 1954
I imagine it worked its way up in the
years before that and just tell us what
issues what was that issue here with
this case and I think it's I mean I
sometimes I think people lose sight of
of just how long these Jim Crow laws
basically lasted in our society and so
just tell us what the issues were there
and then we'll jump ahead until the to
this century where some of these things
were unwound a bit but that were there
so Brown versus Board of Education is a
decision from 1954 it's a unanimous
opinion and it invalidate s' regimes
that are found in 21 different states
that either permit or require racial
segregation in schools and as I
suggested at the beginning of our time
Brown versus Board of Education is a
widely venerated opinion every justice
on the current Supreme Court believes
that Brown versus Board of Education was
correctly decided but that is true
because they ascribe radically different
meanings to Brown versus Board of
Education the opinion was incredibly
sinks like and people thought it meant
different things did Brown require
integration or did it merely forbid
segregation many people would do those
things as being synonymous but Brown set
off a fierce debate to control the
meaning of brown and over time it seems
clear to me that people who are
conservative and have a colorblind
vision of constitutional law in effect
co-opted the meaning of brown in order
to forbid even
my view legitimate programs designed to
promote racial integration and our
public schools can we can we go through
how that happens because I think you
know one of the interesting you know
things I think that people should
understand is we're headed into an era
where there is at least a a I mean I'm a
little bit cynical about it I suspect
you you might be a little bit too
particularly having a clerk for Breyer
but that this notion of original intent
and that the Constitution says what it
says and where we as judges or justices
are here to just interpret the plain
meaning of the case it but yet we're
talking about cases that have been have
been resolved in in in the modern era
with people writing uh you know not only
of their briefs but you know everything
isn't fully documented and yet the
principles that are adjudicated in this
case that was a unanimous are
reinterpreted and reinterpreted in the
way that that that people with a certain
hoped outcome have on some level or
certain you know ideologically frank
ideological framework so I mean what
tell us how the what principles were
reinterpreted in how in India so so is
you know the best way to do this is to
think about a single individual and his
effort that ultimately proved successful
to co-opt the meaning of Brown senator
Sam Ervin of North Carolina was a
graduate of Harvard Law School he served
on the North Carolina Supreme Court and
he was a segregationist and also a
sophisticated legal thinker I say that
without admiration with respect to the
way that he used his sophistication
immediate on the heels of Brown Senator
Ervin said Brown versus Board of
Education is a deplorable decision but
it's also not as drastic as people think
in overtime he
saying it was deplorable when people
became clear that Brown versus Board of
Education was not going to be overturned
and instead he focused his attention on
an effect taming the meaning of Brown by
saying that it doesn't require
integration it merely forbids
segregation indeed he would say that
Brown versus Board of Education properly
conceived forbids
race consciousness on the part of school
districts even if they are trying to
bring about racial integration and bring
people together and so senator Sam Ervin
made these moves in the 1950s into the
1960s and he again initially was saying
Brown was wrongly decided and then says
Brown doesn't mean all that much at all
and over time this carried the day
including in a case that was decided in
2007 when I was a law clerk for Justice
Breyer in a case called parents involved
in community schools I tell you about
that case yeah this is a there's
actually two cases if I'm not mistaken
we're a case out of Seattle that parents
involved in community schools and one
out of Louisville which I think was
Meredith versus Jefferson County where
they were combined where we saw the well
yeah go ahead I mean it begins to
unravel of Brown versus Board of
Education that's right so you're exactly
right these are programs in Louisville
Kentucky and Seattle Washington and the
school boards get together and say we
like many cities in the United States
have racial isolation in our
neighborhoods and if we simply send
people to the closest school to them
we're going to have racially isolated
schools and so in order to combat that
they have race-conscious admissions
practices where people are allowed to
rank their preferences of schools and
then within reason they would take
account of race in order to try to
ensure that the schools reflect the
larger racial diversity of
Chief Justice Roberts writes an opinion
where he says these programs are
unconstitutional because they are in
effect the exact same from a
constitutional perspective as the Jim
Crow era Chief Justice Roberts says
Brown versus Board of Education
invalidated programs that told children
where they could go to school based on
the color of their skin these programs
in Louisville and Seattle tell students
where they can go to school based on the
color of their skin it matters not one
whit from a constitutional perspective
that programs in the modern era are
designed to bring people together and in
the bad old days there were programs
that were designed to keep people apart
and indeed keep racial minorities
subordinated you know my old boss
Justice Breyer wrote a very long
impassioned dissent where he said this
is a cruel distortion of history to
compare what happened in Topeka Kansas
in the 1950s to Louisville in Seattle of
today and he offered an integrationist
vision of the 14th amendment what's
really interesting is that Justice
Kennedy wrote an opinion only for
himself where he sought to split the
difference between the Roberts opinion
and the breyer opinion where he said
that schools need not be colorblind in
all instances they can take account of
race when they are drawing the district
boundaries for schools or when they are
building a new school and this of course
is important because Justice Kennedy is
no longer in the court and he's been
replaced by cabin on there's every
reason to believe that Kavanagh will
take a more conservative line on these
issues in K through 12 education but
also with respect to higher education
and affirmative action okay and I want
to just I want to just put a marker
there is to what the implications of
that gonna be what that's gonna look
like but but what what were the
constitutional grounds that were found
that you can't because we don't see
anything in the Constitution that say
you can't consider race when you're
setting up public schools right I mean
and I think what what if the concept is
that there must be that
that there must be some equal treatment
under the law isn't that basically
saying the delivery of services ma you
know must be equal in that sense or tell
us what what it was the principle what
what gave room to the idea that you
cannot have any race consciousness in
the context of setting up public schools
well this goes back to your earlier a
very shrewd question where you asked
about originalism you know in the during
the era that the 14th amendment was
ratified it would be very hard to make
the claim that the original public
meaning of the 14th amendment which is
what originals are supposed to be
looking for required constitutional
color blindness of course Justice Scalia
it was on the court then in Justice
Thomas who remains on the court today
are the people who are most readily
identified with originalism and they are
skeptics of race conscious decision
making but during the 19th century there
was of course the Freedmen's Bureau and
other mechanisms where the there was
race consciousness and so you might
think that this would require them to
uphold the legitimacy of affirmative
action if they were true to their
guiding principle but here we don't see
any effort whatsoever to deploy
originalist thought instead they start
with justice Harlan in his dissenting
opinion in Plessy versus Ferguson where
they say our Constitution is colorblind
but of course that's a dissenting
opinion from 1896 and this sort of
tension in their jurisprudential
approaches which is and reconcile able
tension in my view makes people think
that originalism is not some sort of
just neutral principle but instead is
sort of politics by other means and
they're using their jurisprudential
purposes to promote an agenda a
jurisprudential agenda that's associated
with with the right wing that i mean
that that's a polite way of saying
basically they're there they're sort of
full of it when they make these
because because we see this in the
context like the and people should be
aware of this dynamic because we're
gonna see this in the context of so many
other we saw in the context of the
Voting Rights the Voting Rights a
amendment particularly in section five
we see this we're going to see this in
the context of roe v wade it would be my
suspicion that there's not going to be a
direct overturning of roe v wade but
rather it's going to be reinterpreted in
such a way that you could drive a truck
through all the instances where the the
right of a woman sovereignty over her
body you know is abridged and so this
dynamic is one we're going to see I mean
this is like basically the the the mo
isn't it I think you're exactly right
one of the dominant and sort of themes
of over the last 50 years of the Supreme
Court has been the way in which many GOP
appointed justices had sort drifted to
left over time this is true of Justice
Kennedy
justice O'Connor justice Stevens justice
Souter justice Blackmun even justice
Powell can be understood this way but in
recent years the GOP has been quite
shrewd in the appointments that they are
making and they've looked to people who
have time working in a Republican
presidential administration that's true
of all five of the current justices and
this is to say that the days of right
making in effect would turn out to be
mistakes and there are judicial
appointments have come to a close and so
I think that you are exactly right that
current five members of the
of the Supreme Court who were appointed
by Republican presidents are quite
committed to vindicating a conservative
vision of the Constitution and a way
that we have not seen so for supporters
of women's reproductive freedom and for
affirmative action and many other areas
besides it seems as though we are
entering you know a some very dark times
indeed I should say that in the area
that I write about most in the book that
I am actually somewhat hopeful that
there may be a way to cobble together a
coalition of liberals and the
libertarian inflected vision of
constitutional law that is ascendant in
some right-leaning circles and so I hope
that a coalition we possible to
vindicate students speech rights if
you're a libertarian you're skeptical of
state authority in that realm the 4th
amendment dealing with suspicionless
drug searches which is a major area and
then the single issue that I care the
most about in this book is the issue of
corporal punishment which still exists
in this great nation of ours I want to I
want to touch on that in a moment I was
shocked to find out 22 states still have
this but but just to stay for a moment
on that those the implications of
Kennedy not being there in the wake of
the those two that 2007 ruling because
Kennedy basically opened the door to a
practice which which is basically seems
to me to be the predominant practice now
in terms of trying to achieve some type
of racial diversity in schools which is
to use other mechanisms which are you
know somewhat associated with with
racial diversity it's not one-to-one but
it's looking at economic diversity for
instance or or
programs where you're choosing from a
varied amount of schools in any district
in terms of of creating some form of
affirmative action those are the type of
things that would be under assault with
a Roberts court
- Kennedy + Cavanaugh you know I think
that as a formal matter those sorts of
programs that you mentioned paying
attention to wealth or say socioeconomic
status of the education level of the
parents things that are as you said
correlated with race but not race itself
have not been under attack yet but I
think that you are correct to suggest
that could be the next frontier for the
moment people on the right are focusing
on race conscious and rates of race
conscious measures themselves including
racial classifications but over time I
think you're exactly right to predict
that the frontier here could move and
become more aggressive and they will say
the reason that you're using you know
class or parents education level is
because of its racial dimensions and
they would say that is an impermissible
purpose and so even if the means
themselves are not raised conscious that
the goal itself is impermissible of
course if that logic were taken
seriously imagine how that would be
applied to say legacy admissions and
higher education that could end up
boomeranging back but somehow I have a
suspicion that they'll figure out a way
to avoid that fate or also its
implications on what it would mean for
the way that districts are drawn in the
context of voting because there's a lot
there's a lot of that that goes on
that's not even I think is legitimately
sort of like the you know a surrogate
the surrogates not so far away but let's
let's talk about corporal punishment
because this sort of stunning I had no
idea of the the to the extent that
corporal punishment is still legal in
this country within the context of
schools yeah that is uh as I said the
issue that I care the most about and I
think you are far from alone
and being unaware that corporal
punishment exists and I believe it's
nineteen different states where and we
should say what we're talking about here
because corporal punishment is was
somewhat on an antiseptic term we're
talking about students being struck with
wooden paddles so much so that they
sometimes have you know bruises that are
lasting for days the court heard a
challenge to a corporal punishment
regime in the 1970s and it's your
decision out of truly egregious facts
where a student in junior high school
was beaten so savagely that even three
days after the attack he had a six inch
in diameter bruise that was tender
purplish swollen and also losing fluid
he received a whole battery of medical
treatment and prescriptions including
pain relievers and cold compresses and
sleeping pills and laxatives he could
not return to school for more than two
weeks and couldn't sit down for three
weeks without discomfort the Supreme
Court in this decisions in 1977 said
unbelievably in my view this doesn't
even qualify as punishment for
constitutional purposes the Eighth
Amendment of course prohibits cruel and
unusual punishment but justice Powell
wrote the opinion to say that in effect
it says cruel or unusual punishment that
stems from a criminal conviction and so
this is one of these instances where you
know we heard a Kavanagh during his
confirmation hearings talked a lot about
the importance of starting with the text
of the Constitution and you know that's
the that's the guidestar well if that's
true then I hope that the court will
revisit this issue as you said there are
about 20 states that have corporal
punishment but in some ways that
overstates its prevalence because just
five states all located in the deep
south account for more than seventy
percent of the instances of corporal
punishment and so
you know if you're committed to being a
libertarian and a skepticism of state
authority in what instance is the state
exercising dominion over an individual
then when they are hitting someone and
we should say that public school
students are the sole remaining group of
individuals that the government can
strike with impunity for just you know
failing to follow directions
all right so lastly what what do you
anticipate and obviously there's a
there's a we have a whole host of other
cases particularly in the context of
funding disparities and and immigration
and whatnot but where do you perceive
are there any cases in the pipeline that
you think are going to have particular
relevance in the context of schools or
in the context of a of the greater
society yeah
one issue that springs to mind is the
issue of trans students accessing
restrooms you know this was a case that
the court agreed to hear and a few years
back and then they ultimately decided
not to address the matter because the
Trump administration rescinded the Obama
administration's guidance on this area
and this is one that could be in flux
you know Justice Kennedy was the
foremost vocal proponent on the courts
history of gay equality and many people
of course associate the trans issue with
gay equality and so Kennedy quite
conceivably could have joined the
Liberals in order to protect students
rights to access the restrooms that are
congruent with their gender identity and
there's no reason to believe that Judge
Cavanaugh would do it another issue to
keep an eye on involves illegal
apartment unauthorized immigration and
students being able to access schools
the court issued a decision in 1982
saying it's impermissible to exclude
unauthorized immigrants from public
schools
young lawyer working in the Reagan
Department of Justice called John
Roberts wrote a memo suggesting that
Plyler versus doe was wrongly decided
and so this is another area where I
suspect in the next few years we could
hear a legal challenge to Pilar versus
doe and that would if the court reversed
course that is a decision that would
have catastrophic consequences for our
constitutional order the book is the
schoolhouse gate public education the
Supreme Court and the battle for the
American mind Justin driver thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you for having me
family the pleasure was all mine
[Music]
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
