from a to15 area cut who's this where he
come from
hi Sam it's Mindy how are you hi Mindy
how are you good listen I'm probably not
gonna like this call but I'm at the
point now where I'm like so disgusted
with politics that like if we don't win
the midterms I'm just feeling like my
friends are too like we kind of like
just want to check out until 2020 and
like get back in close it's taking a
toll everyone I mean are you feeling
this yeah yeah like no I listen I
totally understand that that's in fact I
had this conversation with someone last
night
that there's this sense of like you just
you want to check out like if you're
going to do any you know legitimate
self-care in this context would be don't
follow this stuff and engage in it but
the problem is is that it's not going to
go away in that instance and there's no
guarantee that it's going to go away if
you stay engaged but it's a little
better odds than say like you know
winning the lottery I mean it needs like
well but I mean I understand the I
understand the desire and I think like
you know the idea of taking you know a
couple of weeks you know is important I
mean frankly you know that's what I try
to do to the extent that I have like a
obviously a higher tolerance for this
stuff than most normal human beings but
I'm I still am you know arguably human
and so I I i think that if frankly if i
was doing you know five days a week if
there wasn't you know a day where
michael did this and i I'm still working
but I'm not like immersed you know for
half the day I have basically take a
half a day off and I do more sort of
administrative stuff I think I would
have I would have gone nuts by now to be
honest with you right so
your shell-like so down so now I'm down
to what listening to your show I guess I
watch Rachel four to five times a week
depending and once in a while I'll catch
no koalas we're sorry Melbourne and Elsa
and yeah sometimes I watch Crusades but
other than that I'm like streaming like
90 day and Michael should say and
prepare so I'm like streaming 90 day
fianc√© I'm watching like old episodes of
I don't know Breaking Bad I mean I would
that sounds great just don't stop with
my show obviously the rotation I think
look I think there's value in you know
consuming less media and going out and
expending that effort in something that
is you know like real world constructive
for two reasons one is you're
necessarily going to be adding something
it may be you know butterfly wings type
of stuff and you know but and I and I do
think like you know the social media
stuff it's having it it's toxic but it
does have it does it does influence I
think you know well you're doing good
work on social media yeah that's the
truth I'd also think wait let me just
finish
are you saying I think I think there is
value in going out finding a local group
even if it's not necessarily totally
aligned with your your politics that
it's close enough in this day and age
and expending like you know physical
energy on whatever they're doing because
a it will it will have some impact a
positive impact and B there'll also be
opportunities to do you know like to
have some socializing involved which is
sort of like simultaneous self-care let
me tell you I did some door-knocking for
Medicaid expansion in Idaho my friend
Luke's campaign and it was nothing was
more refreshing than that
be honest well I mean I'm trying to do
my share I contacted my congresswoman I
have you know I wanted to do work for
her she hasn't called me back yet my
girlfriend did door knocking the other
day in canvassing and they didn't get
dating give her any like information
like they just said go you know just go
but that was okay but and I'm trying to
do a lot on social media as much as I
can I mean like you said Michael I have
57 thousand followers I mean I can tweet
something and get like a lot of traction
on it so this morning I put on my
Twitter account like I'm not going to
twit tweet anymore about Trump
I hate them whatever he's anti-semitic I
mean all those things are done they're
said there's nothing left to say there's
no other way to rephrase it and I said
this morning on Twitter I said listen
everybody just drop a candidate into my
Twitter feed and I will retweet them all
day long for the next eight days like
just do that so I mean so maybe there's
like 200 people retweeted or 300 people
but it could be the difference of making
somebody bills like somebody could just
see it I don't know where sometimes you
know on the other hand I think like
we're kind of preaching to the choir
well listen there's no listen first off
I will tell you this that I think like
you know going out and and and doing
door knocking even if it's an
inefficient like I say I could be
annoying
could be worth a little bit but at the
very least it's also I think like
literally for self-care it's a good
thing to do to sort of like localize
this stuff enough so that you know you
can you're not in this sort of toxic
stew in terms of preaching to the choir
listen yeah I know I know you are but
I'm saying you know walking around even
if it's door knocking on some level like
you know makes it you know releases some
of that tension as far as preaching to
the choir it's not just that the choir
votes the choir is the ones who go do
the door knocking the choir is you know
all the people who are feeling burned
out that's the choir and so they need
that girl from the other day went and
she went and canvassed with her husband
for helens hi the one I just said
earlier her husband's black and she went
and or not and two different people told
her husband that he should not be
knocking at doors because it's a toxic
some environment right now I mean she
lives in the community I mean the
Democrats were telling her husband that
he should get off the street
well I mean I don't know about that but
that's just well I live in a very red
area really really bad Sam
I will not stop listening to you and my
friends will not stop listening to you
I'm just as far as everything else I
mean just tweet to me when you're on
Chris Hayes when I'll put it on but
other than that yeah I mean I saw you a
Barbara Boxer and I was like whoa is she
 crazy like I heard what she said
and I was like that was totally the
wrong message she gave well thank you
Mindy I'm glad he's not around what I
appreciate the validation no really so
just tell me when you're gonna be on
Chris Hayes I watch other a butcher on
the distribution list it's my parents
I love you and I love you too Michael I
love you all just very different I'm
just in a bad with I think so if I had
to bet somebody keeps calling I was just
gonna say I really cannot emphasize it
enough getting out in the real world and
doing things will make you feel you know
both a little bit worse but also a
little bit better right because I spend
a lot of time on the IRL left and I
don't know that we're gonna be able to
transition to socialism in the amount of
time that we have before we have an
ecological crisis and some sort of
social collapse but at least I want to
be able to say that I tried and I'm
trying really hard but also I
did take some time out to go to some
Halloween parties
for the weekend and that was fun too so
it's a balance you're talking in these
language come from a three
