we wanted to start this Friday off with
some fun and what did you say Brendan
did you she said what did you haven't
you call this Steve Doocy
and Sebastian Gorka in conversation
I think funds of bed sum like PBS music
underneath it's like Steve Doocy and
Sebastian Koch I have a different bed
planned okay let's go for this according
to Senator Jeff Flake sending those
troops down to our southern border
that's just a stunt it was all for the
election it was to bolster the president
what do you think are we talking about
Jeff irrelevant flake why doesn't this
guy you know he is more lame-duck than
the House of Representatives right now
[Laughter]
all right
the mob deep sound is perfect but can we
just play that one more time for a clean
listen as to what his major burn on Jeff
Flake just was all for the election it
was to bolster the president what do you
think are we talking about Jeff
irrelevant flake why doesn't this guy
just you know he is more lame-duck than
the House of Representatives right now
[Laughter]
he's like he's a senator who is retiring
so he's in the lame-duck and just like
the sessions of Congress between the
Congress's are referred to as the lame
duck I guess he's like other people that
are not coming back so he's super duper
lame duck incidentally it's a stunt and
a total insult and waste of time to
military service members who were there
actually in really harsh conditions as
sort of a broader test plan for
authoritarianism terrorizing
immigrants is a the seriously at we
would like to add to that and you know
there's some and some were like it looks
like flake might be doing some actual
things with regards to some things on
the Trump agenda right but I don't
really want to hear about it until that
stuff is done until he's actually thrown
until the wrench has been thoroughly
thrown in and the machinations are
completely gummed up I don't want to
hear anything from that's exactly right
you know a hundred buck campaign
contribution to Doug Jones like people
act like this is you're not Vaslav Havel
you're not Nelson Mandela buddy you
managed to endorse a right-wing Democrat
over a serially alleged predator like
what do you want a cookie every
everything that it's happening right now
with Trump all roads lead back to a
Chris Rock routine which white people
should have never listened to but it
always applies I think just like these
people like Jeff Flake want credit for
like things you're supposed to do I
think he said it was the best hundred
bucks he had ever spent no really skip
it yeah Wow
maybe tell it to your son yeah some of
these problems start at home Jeffy Jeff
Flake is laughing at you and he says
 like that he is he's laughing at
you he's noting a dozen African
elephants the guy got his start in
politics lobbying on behalf of I believe
a mining company against sanctions
against apartheid South Africa now you
might say that in contrast to say a Kris
Kobach who got his start in politics the
1980s being like hmm what's the great
situation that white people have over in
South Africa I guess Jeff Flake is
better than that because I'm sure he
would say oh oh you know we learned a
lot Oh Nelson Mandela oh I saw that
Invictus movie with Morgan Freeman what
a great man but I mean Jesus Christ talk
about the soft bigotry of low
expectations with these people they all
suck
I don't understand the need that people
see if you're actually on the flip side
like people get pissed off at like
Bernie for saying that like he was sad
that McCain died as an example it's like
dude Bernie's a senator he has to work
with people and build relationships okay
so like he's not gonna be on the Senate
floor of being like an employer of the
land youth class patreon.com but if you
like this content please like and
subscribe and the bonus episode me and
my office are gonna do a read from Frank
Bruni slate his column what a loser okay
he doesn't do what we do so like relax
they're gonna say it's sad that my
colleague died but on the flip side
people who are on Twitter all day with
no need to cut deals with anybody of
relationships than anybody like Jeff
Flake is not your Savior daddy Jeff
Flake is a right-wing I hard extreme
far-right Republican as they all are who
has voted for every pertinent piece of
the Trump agenda and likes the
grandstand on TV occasionally and yes if
in the next couple of months if he
actually I don't even know what he could
do at this point it's the lame duck it's
already done
you know if it's McCain and he and one
other person that people fantasized
about year ago said were caucusing with
Democrats for a year and we're just
doing investigations on Trump okay fair
enough
there you go you can have your little
resistance wet dreams all day I'll be
like they're not doing that and it
it even and it's like I want to see it I
want you to have the receipts I want it
to be in the past
I want your accomplishments to be done
and accomplished indeed what he wants to
do is not confirm judges on the Judicial
Committee and he no need for Berets and
he hasn't they'll bring them to the
McConnell can still bring these people
to the floor so it's an awesome point
yes it's another empty gesture it's it's
nonsense he had it he had his vote if he
killed the Cavanaugh nomination even
people like me would have to say like
you know what the same with McCain
McCain was totally full of it ridiculous
sense overpraise but he did that thumbs
down and it was grandstanding and he
actually if he knew he was gonna vote no
he should have just said it and not had
such people you know people are
literally sitting there to wait for this
guy's piece of theater wondering whether
they're gonna live or not my last hurrah
yeah but the truth is is he gave the
thumbs down so you know what and for
that day you had to say okay alright
you actually scuttled something that
would kill millions of people
points on the board all right thank you
for like a scratch of basic human
decency just make sure you do it well
and you do it with passion oh i think
john mccain did grant standing with a
lot of passion but i gotta say when
every time I see megan mccain it's like
whoa like it makes me realize some of
the talent and capacity john mccain did
have because it clearly did not get
transferred although they're both pretty
they were both pretty messy
