calling from a 206 area code who are you
where you calling from what up Mike its
boy Alex from 206 aka ya know how you
doing man doing well good to hear from
you what's on your mind oh well I this
is a sequel to another call I did I
finished reading Jordan Peterson max of
meanings and I thought I might share
with you some of his daring insights
well I feel an impending sense of doom
and you're basically a true overwhelming
sense of impending yeah I say I have to
read the thing too for this book
I'm writing
alright go ahead alright well I first
want to say that like Nathan Robinson
had it take very well it's one of the
most nonsensical books I've ever read
like it took me four months to finish
because I'd be reading a page and I'd be
like what the hell is this Apple talking
about and I'd read it over and over and
over again oh that's what he's saying
absolutely nothing of value but like
yeah and but there's some parts of it
that are really creepy and all there's a
lot I could get to but I think I'll I'll
talk about his stuff on immigrants
because that's uh
that's the creepiest part that's in maps
my rope most yeah maps of meaning okay
so the politics are already there okay
all right go ahead yeah so uh
unfortunately I didn't I wrote I started
writing things down as it got weirder
and weirder is fine but uh right now all
of it down it's fine go well you go uh
yeah yeah no I'm just telling you that
uh I won't have page numbers for all of
this but I'll have some of it because
last time I called you displayed it but
uh around page between page 90 and page
100 he says that culture and
European culture is a cat is like a
castle and a walled garden and that if
let in too many immigrants they will
completely destabilize and destroy the
entire society and culture and he caused
this impulse feminine for some reason
well because the the feminine is open
and I'm not yeah I need to make a dirty
joke I mean I am but that is actually
what he argues yes it's open and weird
here the feminine open yet masculine
builds walls
oh no I drink soda later here's a
footnote from footnote on 481 some
around that idea by the way I've read
the book he's quoting food it doesn't
say at all what he's saying he said on
immigrants it is of additional interest
to note the Egyptians prohibited
foreigners from entering their
sanctuaries which were microcosm
microcosmic images of the country David
Egyptians were the only rightful
inhabitants of Egypt foreigners only
brought this order I mean yeah here's
another one
early on I couldn't find this quote so I
might be miss remembering it but he says
at one point that if different cultures
and races live in the same society it
will inevitably bring chaos so you need
to have societies that are racially and
culturally homogeneous I couldn't get
one but I found a similar one on page
250 the promotion of cultural diversity
at pentia is likely to produce only
nihilism and conservatives a collapse
loathing into a coherent culture can
only be accomplished by a war between
paradoxical elements such as integrating
those people and making them like
subvert to the normative culture such a
war is so difficult that the murder of
every single anomalous other in the food
no morally acceptable way yes are you
physically morally acceptable guys more
frequently scenes they can compelling
alternative that's true in terms of like
in some ways he's diagnosing I think
some like actual history there but that
see this is the part where he gets more
complicated and when I'm dealing with in
the book where he he puts his fingers on
actual legitimate challenges and real
things and then has a horrible diagnosis
for them so you know that that's the
part where he there's like parts where
he's just like hey I'm a fascist and
then there's other parts where he's like
here's something that's actually going
on and now I'm gonna lead you down a
pathway to fascism but it's tricky has
at times because because I think at
times that you know were to if we want
to defeat these people at some points
we're also gonna have to like deal with
where they're actually identifying
actual like challenges so that's part of
the paradox of it
not to mention Jordan Pearson himself is
from another country so what are we
really talking about get out of country
like equivocate right flawed caveat
everything of course but I mean just
like the general to me like the first
basically a reactionary manifesto he
talks about I need to set up the divine
state and that women and married couples
need to subjugate themselves to God
fucking-a later later
like occasionally liberal thing the
reason I think that passage and because
of other things he said like yeah we got
it we got to keep it going we got to
keep it going but I I get I mean as I
say I'm where I'm working through this
to thanks for the flag man I hope you
didn't spend too much money getting that
book over over the internet I hope you
were able to find
use copy the whole thanks man the whole
thing about the the culture as a
councilor is is that's a way that's what
that is that is that's pretty overtly
fast well and it's also been if you look
at when that has been sort of felt
throughout history which is definitely
in American history right that's what
the sort of city on a hill but Puritan
thing don't go into the woods right sort
of thing right and what that led to was
a completely psychotic culture where
they were like killing people for being
witches right exactly
because they knew that the woman's it
wasn't that they were but it's not like
they were witches it's like their period
juice went onto the flower beds and that
causes a hormonal change well which we
need to be precise about it was it was
specifically cultural paranoia that
caused that like one of the leading one
of the first figures in in the witch
trials as far as I remember was I think
it's uh slave girl Indian slave girl I
believe called analemma and they've
freaked out at her and they're sort of
like paranoid about race-mixing at the
time did you not literally see like I
don't even know you need to pluck him
out of his modern suit you could just
drop Jordan Peterson back in that time
was like the council's been disrupted by
which is exactly if they didn't want to
get burned at the stake they wouldn't
have put so many curses on me if they
didn't want to be burned at state then
maybe they wouldn't have tried to pass
me cider she said it's a refreshing
drink that I know it's an assassination
plot now her whole family needs to be
burned all females going back to each
generation backwards and forwards Sam
Harris and I are gonna have a debate
about this later that's so depressing
actually
cuz it's like no it's like not the same
time but like thinking back it was like
no the transcendentalist were better
Tituba was the slave sorry by the to
boat was the slave it's really on my
list I need to read Caliban and the
witch by Sylvia Federici
if you guys are that it's kind of about
the history of capitalism and patriarchy
specifically through the lens of the
persecution of witches it sounds really
a job sounds super interesting you're
calling room a 203 area code who are you
where
are you calling from
