it seems to me it's a very hard argument
to make that there are some candidates
that are more electable broadly speaking
or that there are some candidates who
can't beat Trump and some that can it's
a very hard argument to make you know in
terms of specifics there are some of
course that I think probably couldn't
but I feel quite confident that anybody
who can win the Democratic primary can
beat Donald Trump it seems to me for the
most part now you know
famous last words but but it's it's hard
to make an argument that there are some
people who could win the Democratic
primary and then get into general and
not win in this day and age so it really
does open it up to make it more about
the issues as opposed to the the
electability of any given individual and
Kamala Harris as you said came out and I
was really impressed with how strongly
she came out for medicare-for-all now we
should say she was one of the early
supporters one of the co-sponsors of
Bernie Sanders bill she was also the
co-sponsor of two or three other bills
that were far less dramatic if you will
one was a Medicare buy-in bill that I
think Schatz from Hawaii had entered and
there was a another bill that I think
was co-sponsored by Tim Kaine that
basically just added a public option in
the Affordable Care Act exchanges which
I feel like is you know we're six or
seven years too late for something like
that by the time 2020 rolls around but
she did walk it back a little bit the
next day which was the the first
indication that I've seen from her
campaign that they weren't quite on the
ball and it undercuts a little bit of
how sort of strongly she feels about
about the about about the question of
how to deliver health insurance right I
mean because that's something that you
you should have introduced that night it
seems to me had she done that there
would have been a lot less controversy
about it
like I happen to think that we should
get rid of private insurance that's the
what Sanders bill calls for but I'm open
to different plans that gets us to
basically the same place and you know
and and I from a policy standpoint I
think people could perceive something
like that the other thing that I think
people should just keep an eye out in
terms of Kamala Harrison it's gonna be
interesting dynamic in the race and then
we can move over to talk about Warren a
little bit Kamala Harris was a
prosecutor for almost all of her
political career leading up to her
becoming a senator in in California
first she was in San Francisco then she
was the state AG and there's been a
number of clips that are out there
watching her talk about things like
trying to threaten parents with jail
time and prosecution if their kids were
involved in truancy and not going to
schools there's a clip of her out there
sort of pooh-poohing the idea of
criminal justice reform no we're talking
about 2013 2015 this is not that long
ago
criminal justice reform and sort of
straw Manning those who would say more
money for education less for prisons now
broadly speaking I don't know in this
day and age that the the Democratic
Party is going to be too concerned with
that I don't know that they will be but
it's going to be interesting to see if
those folks particularly in the black
community folks like a black lives
matter and other people have been
working on criminal justice reform if
they start making this a big issue is
going to be an interesting dynamic with
Kamala Harris because she doesn't have
that much of a of a big record or it
seems to me of a brand you know like a
like a Gillibrand she you know I could
tell you what her number one you know
legislative I guess push was when she
was a senator right I mean she was
heavily in
and things like sexual harassment and
and rape in the military even Cory
Booker who I have very little affinity
for very well associated with criminal
justice reform and not so much with
Kamala Harris in her Senate time it's
only been there for two years but
nevertheless if she gets branded as
someone who has this criminal justice
reform anti criminal justice reform
mentality it's gonna be interesting to
see how she deals with that I'm curious
as to what your sense if you think
that's gonna have any play oh I think
it's going to I think it's big I mean I
really do I mean we're talking about a
primary here I mean I think and excuse
me in general I think it's probably less
salient for the general you know voting
population I think it may it may even
help her for all we know in some fashion
I mean that's why she did it that's my
sense of why she did it I'm coming from
San Francisco I want to run statewide
I've got to actually be sort of like a
counterintuitive on crime and and she's
an african-american woman from San
Francisco so you know she may have very
well that may have been a calculation
and it may very well turn out to have
been a wrong calculation considering the
current state of you know the Democratic
Party and how they're looking at these
issues it's going to be the test as far
as I'm concerned of her political
ability if she can find a way to sort of
you know walk that line and explain
herself in a way that sounds reasonable
and make it and you know I basically
soothes and some of the concerns that
people would have about her on that
issue then I think it will show that she
has some political abilities that that
that will you know stand her in good
stead as she goes forward but I think
it's going to be huge for her and mainly
because of what you said this is this is
who she is she even said it in her in
her speech in Oakland over last weekend
she said you know I've only had one
client you know the people well by that
she means she was a prosecutor her whole
karate and it was never a defense
flourish never worked in that realm and
she basically you know she was Attorney
General of the of California and that
brings with it some also some issues
she's going to have to discuss which you
know on the economic side there's a lot
of you know varying accounts of how she
dealt with the fight with the
foreclosure crisis and she's going to
have to explain all that but you know
hey we've got two years here and
certainly at least a year and a half
before any of this was decided she makes
it that far this is going to come up I
mean not just in debates there's going
to be a lot of interviews and various
you know various sort of exchanges that
she's going to have to explain this and
I think it's the big one for her you're
right I mean that's her brand and to the
extent she has one that's it and and
it's going to be very important to her
you know and I know just let me say
though that I do think she's an
impressive politician as she comes
across in a very accessible way there's
something about you know she's one of
those those politicians who's good at
the retail side of it so yeah I'm hoping
that you know she she that there's some
authenticity and sincerity underneath
all of that she had 20,000 people come
out for her announcement I mean that's
incredibly impressive right I mean you
know it's it is it two years is a long
ways away and anything can happen but
it's hard for me to imagine that if
there are three or four people who are
still you know sort of involved in this
process you know this time next year
January February March in particular
that she wouldn't be one of them I mean
at this point because she'll be in it
she'll be in it for sure all right we're
gonna take a quick break we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back we
should at least touch briefly on on
Elizabeth Warren's wealth tax but we
also going to talk about the what's
happening with the Mahler investigation
the acting Attorney General seems to
think it's wrapping up and he'll have
the chance to tell the Senate Judiciary
Committee all about that in about a week
we're going to take
break I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of
fire radio
