[Music]
meanwhile we mentioned earlier that it
was funny to watch Bernie say like you
know we're all Americans we all agree
that we should have $15 minimum wage we
should not allow tax cuts for you know
wealthy people well here is another
person running in the Democratic primary
who's doing it all wrong this will
probably be the first and the last clip
that we play a Varrick saw us wall well
on this show I know but it is he might
produce a few more it's pretty good
pieces of sound his his slogan go big be
bold
do good what could be in to be fair this
is a joke it's pretty bold at this point
to say what we the real problem we have
will be cured by bringing Republicans
into my democratic administration I'm
the son of two Republicans I married a
Hoosier from southern Indiana who grew
up in pens country I've worked with
Republicans my whole life reaching
across the dinner table and reaching
across the aisle
pausing even the audience that has been
hand-picked to come and see him speak
they're laughing at this stuff because
they can't possibly believe that he's
going to go where he's going right they
all think they're like he's about to say
and I'll tell you I'm surprised that how
much of lunatics they are and we should
have keep them very far away from
government nope get across the aisle I
go on Fox News just so most of my family
can see me on TV
we must unite our deeply divided country
so I pledge to lead our country with a
team of rivals a blended Cabinet of
Republicans and Democrats and we may
have to send out a search party to find
more Republicans who can put country
over party yeah are we sure this is not
a Sacha Baron Cohen character no kidding
right
played by Matt Damon yeah exactly that
does not sound like somebody who wants
to win the Democratic primary I mean is
he he is in Congress so presumably he's
got more going on and being a clip
enstein brother or what are they called
again not clip it's the I always present
Stein I by the way I like the cross in
science I'm the defender of the cross in
science but like what is the play here
like you already have a seat in Congress
so that confers a little bit of
legitimacy I think like this is just him
I think he's running I think he's
running for vice-president and I'm not
sure who well for for somebody I don't
know who's know I've been laying down
markers of when I go dum-dum I'm gonna
add if he is vice presidential pick I
will not be voting for the demo - dit
very hard to believe well it raises your
profile right I think that's why a lot
of these no-name Democrats are doing it
yeah I think that's dodo Eric SWA well
some very good things Russia's a bunch
of we all need to sit down
across the table give each other health
care have protectors protect each other
from fluoride in the water resist Putin
well someone used him as an example of
the dangers of because I think in that
same speech he said like you know Donald
Trump was controlled by Russia or
whatever it is or he's that I don't know
if he said that or if it was something
like that he's pleased yeah
Donald Trump is
you know Putin's you know greatest
dreamers I can't remember I can't
remember what trouble totally gay
I can't remember oh I couldn't I
couldn't remember what I can't remember
what the quota is but they're like this
is the problem with Russia gate and I
couldn't help but think like yeah
exactly looks I'm polling like 1% right
exactly saying nonsense like a guy who's
just you know shows up on on MSNBC a lot
and another thing you know here was
another thing you're not gonna like to
hear Martha is that Donald Trump was
sucking Vladimir Putin and Elsa key here
and here it is he's on morning general
way out there on the question of his
campaigns relationship with Russia and
you said even in January and MSNBC when
you're asked by chris matthews if the
president is an agent of russia you said
yes do you regret saying now or do you
believe the president from still is an
agent of russia what do you mean by the
acts on their behalf he puts their
interests too often ahead of our own
interest and that again that affects
opportunity at home if we become more
like russia where it's a top-floor
economy and only orders taking orders
from Vladimir Putin when you say agent
what do you mean by the way if he wasn't
taking orders he wouldn't take the
interpreters notes if he wasn't taking
orders he would release the report that
he said he's a hundred percent
exonerated with and and so why does he
act so suspiciously with Russia in ways
that he doesn't act with Teresa may or
McCrone or Trudeau it just all of my
experience as a prosecutor tells me
something is wrong with the way that
he's acting the way that he's lying and
that we should all be concerned - were
you surprised then that at least in the
summary from the Attorney General that
Bob Muller could not find evidence of a
conspiracy no because as a prosecutor I
know that proving a case beyond the
reasonable doubt is the highest standard
we don't need to hear any more of that I
mean the he didn't say that in the that
there was no evidence he said maybe
there wasn't enough to commit but like
you know both things can be right one is
he's acting in a very strange way that
doesn't make sense why do you take the
translators notes because
talking about something so sensitive
with Putin like I don't want people to
realize that we're doing reproach montt
I find that a little bit hard to believe
frankly but that doesn't mean that he's
an agent for Russia but here's the other
thing it makes no difference what Eric's
wall well says on MSNBC in my estimation
and I still contend like it's just small
well could walk into this office without
his congressional pin on and I think we
would all just be like who's that dude
if he serves Matt Damon yeah exactly if
he starts pulling at twenty percent on
this stuff then maybe we can worry about
the idea that there could only be that
reason for Trump acting weird and making
no sense is funny to me well I mean it
is weird
it is definitely weird but it could very
well be he's not an agent he's just like
what are the chances we could still do
that Hotel yeah
also he like thinks he's a cool guy he's
like a big macho muscle man on a horse
like it's not that hard to figure it out
huh so cool he's the coolest did you see
that Meryl of trompet potent kissing
