[Music]
come from a 4-1 nine area code who's
this where he come from
I Sam this is a bike I'm Conference
Detroit Mike from what's on your mind I
made I'm calling I'm a long time you
listener longtime member and I love your
show thank you my laptop
I want I'm calling about a couple of
things that happened the past week and
they're pretty minor but the first is
last night I was playing poker and
sitting at the table of ten middle-aged
men who decided to start talking about
Trump because his CPAC papain came up so
about eight of them were like just not
in love with Trump and love of what he
what he has to say there here's a couple
of books just let him build the damn
wall
he's the president he's a real man they
lost and now they're trying to take away
his rights this was the level of
discourse there I decided not to engage
because I just wanted to take their
money anyway they didn't part of next
time I'm sorry go ahead could record
them surreptitiously next time well
never mind if you dropped it if you drop
the microphone in there like and and
that was a podcast just like this
conversation of eight Trump supporters I
I would listen I would listen to that I
find that endlessly fascinating I you
know just go to a poker room and sit at
the table bring them up it'll cut just
start going off Wow it was nuts all
right and you know what what occurred to
me sitting there was that there is
nothing in the world that will convince
these guys nothing in the world that
will show them that this this man has
does not have a single interest their
their interest at a heart at all you
know there is like Latinos there blacks
or working-class whites union members
they're all there and we're all just in
love with them
Wow so a completely complete mix of race
and and and what about but but all
working-class guys
yeah absolutely absolutely I bring this
up because I received a fundraising text
from Bernie campaign this week and I
started to engage with Skye a little bit
because I I love Bernie I love
everything he stands for I worked for
him last camp or I campaigned for him I
donated to him I bought a damn t-shirt
all in for birdie and then when he lost
I switched and and went over to Hillary
I I'm not going to engage this this time
with Bernie and I'm not going to support
him this time because I was so upset
with the ways that we could not turn
Bernie supporters to actually support
their candidate and I don't think that
did you trust him again
what percentage of Bernie supporters do
you think supported Hillary you know I I
it's probably a high percentage but I
will tell you with my Bernie friends on
I'm social media and in my workplace
they were sold Israel against vitriolic
against Hillary they're so horrible
online and in public about Hillary and
her campaign I just couldn't it was
horrible I you know all the effect of
that in the ways that they might
persuade other people just to decide not
to vote or to decide to vote for Jill
Stein or whomever I don't know what kind
of effect that has overall but it was
it's pretty nasty and I think it had
some effect I mean it it may have had
some of that but it certainly wasn't
inconsistent with with what we've seen
in the past in fact I think more Clinton
voters from the 2008 primary abandoned
Obama than Sanders supporters now yes
it's not an apples to apples comparison
because there was a decent amount of non
Democratic voters who voted for Sanders
but in some respects that makes it even
a more stark difference I mean all I can
tell you is that I wouldn't predicating
your support
on a candidate based upon you know sort
of your anecdotal perspective of some of
his supporters I don't think is the
wisest way in which to assess who should
be the bet who should be the next
president frankly oh well so so I will
absolutely support him if he if he earns
the candidacy I just can't I don't want
to support him or early I don't think we
can trust the Bernie supporters who
don't understand the idea of a two-party
system who I think a lot of money's
gonna support I will probably hold off
but Warren is I think the most obvious
choice at this point
fair enough i I think one other thing I
think Bernie's supporters believe that
the or many of the Bernie bros believe
that the power their arguments are gonna
allow them to win the guys at the poker
table will not be persuaded by the
arguments I think we oh my god news for
you those guys know poker table are not
going to vote for Elizabeth Warren
either no Harris I think we can we can't
win by expecting people to wake up I
think we can only win by motivating
young people and women and people of
color to get out and vote
I mean the bottom line is in Michigan
and in Wisconsin in particular you need
to motivate people of color to come out
and vote
that's how Democrats win I mean that's
just the bottom line
I mean I think you know there is
obviously a significant particularly and
you know in in in Wisconsin but also in
Michigan a lot of voter intimidation and
suppression that I think we won't see
the same amount and but and and maybe a
visit or two to those states by the
Clinton campaign could have made a
difference it certainly wouldn't hurt I
don't think but you gotta motivate
African Americans to come out and vote
in the numbers they traditionally vote
in you know over these presidential
elections and and then you know I think
the strength of frankly of women
who have become now a massive driver of
our elections at least in 2016 I'm
excuse me 2018 and yeah I don't think
we're ever gonna convince your buddies
sitting around that poker tail but and
so that shouldn't be the bellwether but
I think look I think your your remarks
are a cautionary tale
you know for somebody who donated and
worked for Bernie's campaign to be
disillusioned by some of the people that
you were working with I can understand
that
I again I'm not necessarily I don't
think that's necessarily the best way to
vote for a candidate by by by assessing
the worst elements of their supporters
but I guess you know you know at least
Elizabeth Warren I think is sort of
consistent in terms of her politics I
appreciate that I appreciate the call
okay thanks
I mean I I think let's say having white
supremacist support you is a little bit
disqualifying or that should be a first
you know flag that's one of the problems
that Donald Trump has but he also has a
lot of other problems like outwardly
courting these people I don't know if
Bernie Sanders in some ways outwardly
courts you know dead-enders and I really
bros yeah but numbers on the Hillary
McCain defections as opposed to the
Bernie Hillary defections it's 25
percent 25 percent where do you where is
that Judy on sides wrote a piece in the
wopo last year about it okay more from a
few polls aggregation okay where was
Bernie so Bernie's was at well 12
percent for two polls and six percent
for another voice is good now now that's
Democrats right yes so there was also a
percentage of Bernie voters who were not
Democrats
who may also not have voted for Clinton
and maybe those people voted for Obama
but in terms of delivering Democrats
I mean well and any of the non Democrats
that Bernie actually did eventually
deliver for Hillary are like dessert
bonus right so I don't know that's a
very II I just think if you don't vote
for a candidate because you find their
supporters on Twitter to be obnoxious
you need to take a step back and say why
am i why am i supporting a specific
candidate like on some level that's just
as performative as some of the idiots
who are like I'm not you know I'm gonna
teach the Democrats a lesson and I'm
gonna shoot myself in the foot this is
not being bad this is not being back
this is not being back
