so Ferran thanks for joining me and
let's dive right in to this week the
week started off with largely the same
theme that the Trump administration has
been pursuing in one form or another
since the day that Donald Trump rode
down the escalator to announce his
candidacy in 2015 which is an assault on
immigrants not necessarily undocumented
immigrants but all immigrants and really
maybe not necessarily on all immigrants
on immigrants who are from non-european
countries like the president said
countries like Norway I'm trying to try
to bring out the theme here from non
from countries that are not primarily
are these immigrants who are not
primarily considered white and Donald
Trump did that in the form of sending
Ken Cuccinelli out there there has been
on the books as you know really for a
hundred and fifty years or so a law
about public charge that if you are an
immigrant coming into this country or
are in this country and are looking for
a pathway to citizenship or permanent
residence here because maybe you have
family or you have your getting married
or something to that that you need to
prove that you will not become a public
charge
one of the ways in which you could do
that and one of the way that it's been
working basically since the mid-90s
public charge is a pretty vague you know
becoming a public charge is a pretty
vague sort of assessment right and one
of the ways that you would prove that
you would not become a public charge is
that you would have your soon to be
husband or your soon-to-be wife or your
parents who live here basically or your
cousins or you would find a sponsor that
says I am the guarantor I'm making a
contract with the US government that
this person will
not become a public charge and that has
been quite effective
we don't have particularly high rates of
immigrants who come here try and get on
you know an attractive permanent
residency or citizenship who end up
needing much by way of government
services you know it's certainly less
than the number of people that it would
make it likely that these people would
become public charges and that is what
the law says likely and how you
determine that now has been expanded to
include a whole host of things that
really have nothing to do with that and
so this is just an assault on the half a
million immigrants who are seeking
permanent residents they're here legally
but they're seeking a more permanent
situation and this is Trump playing to
his base right foreign it absolutely is
and what it does really though is it
helps destroy if they accepted reality
it would help destroy one of the biggest
talking points that Republicans have
been saying for two years which is no no
no no we just want the illegal people
out legal people you're fine you can
stay you can come and just do it the
correct way I mean that we've heard that
so many times and now they're saying
okay well we're gonna tweak the laws a
little bit so even if you want to come
in Legally it's gonna be a lot harder to
do that unless of course you can prove
that you're never ever going to need any
kind of public assistance basically as
you point out we want the Norway people
we want well-to-do people coming in that
don't look like somebody who's gonna
cause trouble we know exactly what all
of this means you know cuccinelli
spelled it out for us very clearly when
he described you know what he wants on
the bottom of the Statue of Liberty now
they they're they're not even masking it
anymore and again they came for the
illegal immigrants they've done a
horrible job with those people and you
know we saw that with the raids that
have taken place and and now now they're
going after the legal immigrants to
and this is exactly what a lot of us
said the machine it's always going to
get worse and here it is you laid bare
this week and I would add that they're
not just going after those who are
literally in line to immigrate here
right and those who are doing this in a
legal process a lot of these people when
they file for things like food stamps
Medicaid Obama care they're doing so on
behalf of their children who are US
citizens and now that
Cuccinelli who is let's be clear on his
job he is in charge of benefits for
immigrants and he is now weaponizing
that so if a father who is here as let's
say on a green card or a resident or not
a citizen is filing on behalf of his
children who are citizens there is a lot
of indication a lot of anecdote data not
the same as data it's a little bit early
to tell but anecdotally there is a
belief in in within and without the
government that people are basically
failing to apply and seek the help that
they are legally entitled to because
they're afraid and so they're actually
going after in many respects American
citizens who may be the children of of
immigrants who are either documented or
undocumented by denying them services
that they are legally entitled to and
this is a problem because when we talk
about what these services are they're
nutrition support there are things like
health care so this is this is the the
program here the project the Stephen
Miller project is not like you say
limited to undocumented immigrants it
is not limited to legal immigrants it is
largely an assault on this entire
community regardless of their
immigration status and/or their
citizenship for that matter and so you
know this is where when people talk
about the idea of how immigration plays
into things like white supremacy and
plays into a prejudice this is this is
what we're talking about
we know the the other thing too and you
mentioned this was he's doing this to
appease his base we we know this we've
known this the the question is does it
work this time right obviously 2015 2016
when he's running on this platform the
economy was recovering it was not
statistically as good as it is today
even though I know we're gonna talk
about that hopefully later that it's
really not as good as it seems but
nonetheless you did have people who were
suffering they needed someone to blame
Trump gave them someone to blame now is
it gonna work because kind of the gig is
up a little bit I mean aside from the
hardcore and Coulter let's kick them all
out people average American citizens
agree that immigrants coming into this
country is a net good you know the
photos and videos that we saw last week
from Mississippi those are gonna be in
textbooks what's in history books you
know in probably just a few years Farren
about this dark time let's take a quick
break we'll talk a little bit more about
this we'll talk about Donald Trump's
assaults on other parts of our
government as well are we gonna take a
quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
we'll be right back with Ferren cousins
after this
