[Music]
so Tim Ryan has exited stage left
what was he Tim Ryan was a guy running
for president mm-hmm he is no longer
running for president but good for him
appreciated the way that he stepped out
be a great time for Beto
to do this I go back to Texas better be
a great time to do it here is Tim Ryan
on MSNBC Sunday basically with a piece
of parting advice she's at parting the
the campaign not the house but he has an
advice for Republicans I think it's a
good good I think it's a good piece of
advice to address gun violence but how
realistic is that do you think that's
going to happen well it's time to put
public pressure on Mitch McConnell I'm
suspending my campaign for the
presidency I'm gonna head back to Ohio
and you know we need leadership right
now and and enough enough is enough is
enough is enough I mean you watch these
videos and you see Dillard's in the
background then you see Walmart in the
background where you see a church in the
background and no one feels safe anymore
and there is a bottleneck in the United
States Senate with Mitch McConnell we
pass in the House of Representatives a
few weeks back background checks a basic
step that 90% of the American people
support and the Republicans need to
quite frankly get their together
and stop pandering to the NRA because
people are getting killed all those
people we saw and you've been doing this
all day long they had hopes and dreams
they had plans this week they were they
were gonna do things they were gonna
meet with their friends they were gonna
meet with their family they were going
to go to church and and now
they're gone because in this country
were so dysfunctional that we can't do
basic things and it's got to stop and we
need to have to put pressure on Mitch
McConnell to start with the background
check bill we need an assault weapons
ban we need to study this as a public
health crisis that it is I'll just tell
you quickly I was in Nevada yesterday
huge shooting in Nevada
how many months back at the concert I
come to campaign in South Carolina
Immanuel Baptist Church now I'm gonna go
back to Ohio
it's Dayton it was Chardon you go to New
England and you have Sandy Hook I mean
this is happening everywhere
he's right it's not I should just
correct myself he's not withdrawing from
the campaign he's suspending his
campaign he may or may not come back but
and and you know in light of our guest
Igor vole skis advice it would do well
for Democratic lawmakers to take that
next step so when they talk about how
we're going to put pressure on on
McConnell III I think our guess was
right we could go there and light
ourselves on fire on his doorstep and he
wouldn't care you've got to actually
make his job harder you need to cause
him some inconvenience and really
Democrats in the Senate are the only
ones who are the ability to slow at
least part of his agenda the value of
doing a filibuster even if there is even
if it's on something like it's
procedural is just that like you're
slowing down the amount of time that
they have to ram through more judges 1/4
of the federal judiciary incidentally
now appointed by Trump 1/4 we are only
three years through his tenure these are
judges who have lifetime appointments so
bad so bad this is why okay one thing
that passed this year at the DSA
convention that I'm really excited
is the mass strike for reproductive
justice resolution and I've been talking
about this for a really long time we
can't rely on the courts to protect our
rights the courts are EFT for a long
time to come now so what we do instead
it's not a plan for a general strike
right away it's a series of escalating
direct actions and that may be the end
goal is a general strike but we're gonna
need to see more of these kinds of
actions as the courts continue to be
left forever yeah I mean I think people
are gonna have to actually see I think
before we get that in a widespread way I
think we need to see we need to go
through the exercise of lawmakers
passing laws that everybody wants and
having the court strike them down oh
yeah and so that people can understand
this because well vote out of fear
exactly there's too many people out
there too stupid to understand to like
to do that calculus without actually
having to see it happen or if they
overturn if they overturn Roe vs. Wade
that's gonna be a wake-up call for a lot
of people yeah I think so I mean I'd be
as surprised if they do a head-on
overturning of roe v wade as opposed to
just sort of like allowing other laws
that infringe upon that right to the
point of making it useful oh they will
if they can they will oh they will
overturn it if they can oh yeah okay why
do you say that it's such a sureness I
mean I think it's possible but they can
right now I mean maybe maybe I'm wrong I
just feel like they they're not the
Republicans always go for the things
that they say they're gonna do in this
arena right well no they run I've been
saying they've been saying it for 30
years and they have conveniently
appointed judges who didn't do that I
think that they like to string along I
think we're close to the point where I
think we're as close as we you know it's
really gonna be a question of who the
next judges frankly I think John Roberts
will slow their roll a bit but if it's 7
three excuse me if it's if it's six
three in a year or two I think he may
not even john roberts may not be able to
put the brakes on it in the way that he
wants to I mean it's true that it
matters more that they've been able to
chip away at this right through passing
laws year after year but what I'm
suggesting is they're going to diminish
the scrutiny that laws that curb woman's
right to choose so you get trapped laws
like in Texas they had that law like I
don't know your ceilings need to be for
abortion clinics need to be 32 feet high
on the west side and you know 7 feet
high on the east side yeah that's also
what I'm talking about and well laws
regulations right and the point being
they don't have to overturn roe v wade
to basically make it impossible for you
to get an abortion I mean we've seen
examples of that on a state-by-state
basis but it could get more egregious oh
I agree I just think a lot more people
will be paying attention if they do
overturn Roe vs. I agree with that yes
my point they not do it head-on and they
make sure the time to start this series
of escalating direct actions has already
passed so I hope people more people
start paying attention regardless I will
second that
