the whole point at least from my in the
education that I got about the Holocaust
which was a big part of my Jewish
education you you know I was going to
the Hebrew school in the early 70s and
through the 70s we were only thirty
years out from the Holocaust many of my
teachers were survivors and this is nin
Oh 40 years ago there's more time has
passed than had passed with the
Holocaust and the reason we were told
and I think that you would find this
with any Holocaust education program or
museum even the reason we were told why
we were studying this was because this
can never happen again
and it wasn't 1939 that we were trying
to prevent we can't go back in time it's
something happening in the future
and we were taught and I don't even
think this was that particularly of a
progressive if you will education it was
just simply you know some type of moral
education this doesn't just apply to
Jews this is about humanity these were
crimes against humanity that took place
and when we say never again never forget
never again it's you prevent this from
happening you don't wait for it to
happen again so if you have people who
are children in this case but it doesn't
matter who are being concentrated in
these camps who are dying because we're
prosecuting people who would leave water
for them in the desert or they're dying
because we're not providing them proper
medical care or they are having their
lives destroyed because they're being
separated from their parents at a very
young age that's the time where you say
never again and you intercede you don't
wait until whatever happens next because
that's what happens next the whole point
of the whole point of it was to
intercede before it gets to that point
and when they start putting a
new bob wire fence and new cages and
whatnot it seems to me that's when you
speak out and maybe we've gotten maybe
as a society we have become more
sensitized to this to what's going on at
the border because of Donald Trump and
that's good
but just because we weren't that
sensitized before during Obama or during
Bush won or whenever it was doesn't mean
that it's any less valid for us now to
say like was a like a supposedly a
humane country supposedly we can't do
this you know in a way that like you
know it's one thing to sort of and I'm
not in any way a pause it's one thing to
wage war and kill hundreds of thousands
of people like we did in Iraq because
it's thousands of miles away and the
American public can easily pretend like
it's not happening but this is this is
in our country it's I don't know I it's
it really is stunning and I agree with
you I think the Trump administration
realizes like mmm
this may be a little bit more of a
problem than we thought it was going to
be and and you know on one hand we want
to promote this as you know sort of
driving our people to the polls but on
the other hand we may not want to
promote it too much because it's going
to drive other people to the polls well
right I mean there is you know that the
backlash is pretty you know obvious I
mean I remember when Trump went to
England actually not this last trip at
the trip before and they interviewed a
bunch of people in the in the streets
that were protesting and various other
you know just man in the street
interviews and the Brits this was their
this was what their their concern was
about Trump I mean it was the top thing
he's putting children in cages I mean
there is a you know that it is more than
than the act itself it's all the
rhetoric that surrounds it the
demonization of immigrants this kind of
you know speaking of them as animals and
vermin and not human I mean we know what
that is the never again they're right I
mean you can see the beginnings here
when you hear that stuff and you see
what they're doing and you see
they have absolutely no real concerns I
mean look what happened I mean even
Kirsten Nielsen who it you know was in
it was an absolute enabler of all this
stuff actually a proponent of a lot of
it it became too much for her and now
they've got this guy Ken Cuccinelli in
there who is known as you know he might
as well be with vide air or one of these
hard core you know xenophobic groups
that really want to you know eliminate
all immigrants from the United States
that's where they're going I mean this
has become it's becoming more and more
extreme and you know you can't be I know
the proverbial frog in boiling water is
not an apt metaphor but it's it's an apt
one in the sense that these things don't
happen all at once they happen over time
and you see just ratcheting up and
ratcheting up and ratcheting up and
that's why somebody like Nicasio Cortez
coming out there and just saying that
word you know in this concentration
camps it kind of startles every to get
got you know that is what it is and
that's what's needed you know that's
what you need people to stand up and say
wait a minute you know this is beyond
and it's not just you know as you know
lefties out here just kind of you know
ranting and raving I mean this is stuff
that's happening on the front pages the
New York Times and it is something that
is absolutely a you know this is the
Trump is willing probably to take the
risk to do this stuff because he has to
keep his base on board has to keep them
excited and and this is obviously this
is the way he sees the path he sees to
re-election but the Democrats have got
to and other people you know not just
Democrats decent human beings have got
to you know be very clear on what's
going on and and stand up and follow the
lead of someone like you know Ocasio
Cortes in using the proper words and not
being afraid to say it
