[Music]
when I say the USDA is about to fire a
ton of the majority of its scientists I
mean well first off about means I think
close to today and the vast majority
could be like 75% of them and that's
what the USDA is basically all about
science in terms of keeping our food
supply functioning and safe etc etc the
Trump administration wanted to move a
research agencies to the Kansas City
area from Washington DC pretending that
the USDA scientists work with farmers
like individual farmers but that's not
actually what they do
staff have until midnight tonight or
last night to decide whether they will
uproot from Washington DC area and join
the department as it moves its research
branches from Washington DC to Kansas
the move is set to be completed by
September 30th it is basically a
strategy by the Trump administration to
sideline scientists and researchers and
to really essentially assault the agency
right like I mean there is according to
people who work there you're basically
looking at this is from Laura Dodson an
agricultural economist with the ers ers
is the
is the Economic Research Service which
is a wing of the USDA the other one is
the National Institute of Food and
Agriculture so the economic research
service obviously does not that need to
be out there in the fields checking on
the soil quality she characterized ers
is this this agency is the product of
like 50 years of institutional knowledge
and gathering up researchers who are
very specialized in their fields and as
of yesterday just 27 out of the 250
staff members of ers had committed to
moving to the Kansas City area the
agency is not even accepting or
contemplating allowing for people who
maybe have children who are going to
school in the Washington DC area or
maybe they have a sick relative or maybe
they have a family member who is getting
cancer treatment in the Washington area
there are no exceptions there are no
mitigating circumstances
the decision comes as other agencies are
also planning to relocate parts of their
teams amid around the country this is
also going to be happening to the Bureau
of Land Management
Rebecca Bohm of the you know Union of
Concerned Scientists told the hill it
keeps science out of the policy-making
process as that we've seen many times
that this administration doesn't like
facts our research that isn't convenient
or is an impediment to their agenda so I
think moving them away accomplishes that
I will tell you something that in the
brief tenure I have had working in
companies really any institution I mean
I guess to a certain extent that's even
that's even accurately accurate in terms
of this what we do here close proximity
is perhaps one of the most underrated
elements of of influence within an
institution maybe it's not maybe it's
not underestimated maybe it's exactly
estimated correctly which is the point
here but if you bring the scientists who
are there to advise Congress and you
move them to Kansas they will not have
the same impact both the agencies voted
to unionize in response to the move SME
estimates tallied by employee show that
70% of the ers employees designated for
Kansas City will not be moving for knife
ax that's the Institute of Food and
Agriculture forty five percent of those
surveyed said they'll not move the move
is expected to impact about 550 staff so
accomplished here I'm gonna be really
hard you know I keep thinking about that
interview that we did with Sam Bagenstos
now probably two years ago about how
agencies get destroyed with eight years
worth of Republican rule and I would say
that this four years pretty darn close
to what eight years of the trunk of the
Bush administration was like I guess
this was back in December of 2016
Bagenstos worked at the Department of
Justice under the Clinton administration
and then again under the Obama
administration and so he had a very
unique perspective on how that could
destroy he also ran for a Supreme Court
in the state of Michigan last year I
don't think he won in 2018 but you can
check that out that's episode 14 89 from
December 20th 2016 and I keep thinking
about that if Donald Trump is booted
from office and decides to go and
frankly we have a clip today that makes
me believe I don't think there's going
to be a tan armed coup but it does make
me believe that it's going to be
complicated more complicated if he loses
then I think that I had earlier
suspected and a lot of the reasons I can
give you two reasons
bill Barr and when you hear the clip we
have from him today relative to the what
we heard from Donald Trump the other day
I think you'll understand if there was
any questions that this guy was full on
Roy Cohn and I don't think with Bill
Barr it's just about protecting the
institution of the presidency that's not
what I'm get that's not the vibe I'm
getting from this dude now but this is
going to resonate for a long time a long
time
