[Music]
the story out today that billionaires
billionaires are paying a lower
effective tax rate than the working
class in this country and I think it was
something like twenty three percent
versus twenty four percent something to
that effect goddamn it you know all
taxes combined relative to their income
that would include sales taxes and etc
and that is why Rand Paul when he hopped
on the view today got laughed at it
wasn't because Rand Paul was introducing
it wasn't just because of his mock
turtleneck that he's wearing it was
because of what he said in the middle
class so we have massive taxes here but
we don't get any free stuff we don't
have free health care
[Applause]
the only difference tuff Mar they're
very very well we have a different form
of Taxation in our country ours is much
more progressive so we've taken the poor
off of the rolls they don't pay income
tax anymore most people below $50,000
don't pay any income tax the top 1% in
our country pay 40 percent our audiences
that's not true well the IRS statistics
say that the top 1% our country pay 40%
of the income tax and that those making
less than the middle class so well look
I mean here's the the reality is and
this is the trick that you will hear
conservatives do like when you look at
the dollars they will talk about the
dollars that come in on the income tax
right because they don't now we don't
call the wage tax income tax because it
which really it doesn't matter it's a
tax but the reason why billionaires pay
more actual dollars than other people is
because the taxation works on a
percentage and they have so much more
money that at the same percentage it
accounts for a lot more dollars that's
not the issue the issue is what
percentage of what they have of what
they've gotten for society do they pay
that's the issue the issue is
everybody's supposed to pay a certain
percentage of what they have for the the
government services and the benefits
that they get from society and the
benefits that you get from society are
measured by the amount of money that you
get as well as services because you
would not be able to make that money
Bill Gates could not have made that
money if we did not have a society
around him to support him it doesn't
mean that everybody I mean you this is
not a hard thing to understand right
like
every Golden Retriever is a dog but not
every dog is a golden retriever I mean
he was also just lying like did you hear
what caused the upper and the audience
it was when he said that people who make
under fifty grand a year don't pay
income tax well they they very well may
not if you're if you had a family of
four you may not pay an income tax you
get you get you pay wage tax I mean I
make way less than 50 grand and taxes
are a huge bite out of my income as a
single person family's money they're not
necessarily income tax right
they are your taxes on your wages I mean
he's just he's just taking a specific
you know what else you know what people
who have make fifty thousand dollars a
year less they pay almost nothing in
capital gains tax right right all the
properties I own exactly you know paint
you're getting away like sky I'm plenty
of people to pay 50 grand to pay income
tax I mean I would be very interested to
get some people don't but here is I mean
this is the only graph that you need to
say from the New York Times look at the
look at this
it's just crazy it is taxes on the
wealthiest people have now dropped to
the lowest point that they've been in in
70 years I mean you see all that graph
is flattening out based like basically
becoming less and less progressive over
time imagine what of actual flat tax
would do to them right like you guys
always say it's gonna be hard to get
people on board with the idea of a
global proletarian revolution and then
you show me graphs like that well it's
gonna be hard to show everybody like I
don't know I have a said that but uh
okay and these graphs unfortunately have
been looking like that for like 40 years
let's go to
