[Music]
so there's quite a bit of talk about a
recession largely as the world goes so
do we in many respects and there's a
couple of things to note before we hear
Donald Trump pretend that it's not
happening one of the one of the things
that people are pointing to is this
yield in the inverse ye'll a inverse in
the yield curve which basically means
I'm gonna do broad strokes here because
frankly I only have a rudimentary
understanding of this long term interest
rates are rising above and this only
happened very briefly I guess it for
like an hour or two the other day but
every other time it's happened 50 times
it has been predictive of a recession
long term interest rates rose above
short-term interest rates which
basically means that people have
concerns about the economy down the road
that but that's basically what it is I
mean it has to do with Treasury bills
and where investors think that safe
places to go are and what yields will be
etc etc but that's the long and short of
it it happened very briefly so who knows
the big concern though however is that
the Fed does not have much ability to
lower interest rates more than they have
which is a tool that you need to fight a
recession the other tool that you could
use would be government spending which
of course there's going to be massive
reluctance to do it particularly if a
Democrat comes into office in 2021
they're gonna use the excuse of this
massive deficit
in debt to say that cuts have to be take
it taking place and you could raise
taxes on the very wealthy poor that
money back into the economy in a myriad
of different ways but unlikely that you
know the politics would have to be
pretty pretty different than they've
been in the past 30 years there's a
report out today CNBC writes about
economists who have examined the impact
of the 2017 tax cuts and job acts say it
isn't helping in much in any of the ways
advertised overall growth business
investment or worker pay all flatlined
tax cuts have not generated the promised
growth of 3 percent or more
there was an uptick then some of that
stuff was revised down we've already
seen the bulk of it a Congressional
Research Service analysis I want you to
remember this because this is exactly
what happened in Kansas now in Kansas it
destroyed them because they don't have
the ability to print money and borrow
money they have to balance their budget
every year but the argument is if we cut
taxes revenue will actually go up from
taxes because there'll be so much more
business activity that more money will
come in complete disaster in Kansas so
much so that a fully Republican
legislature voted to increase taxes
three years later because it was so
devastating four years later a
Congressional Research Service analysis
concluded that the law has produced you
ready for this because when I say to you
I'm gonna cut taxes and we're gonna make
more in revenue that means that tax
revenue after I cut the rate of taxes is
actually going to come in at like a
hundred and one percent or 105 percent
or a hundred and ten percent of what we
cut in terms of taxes
the Research Service Congressional
Research Analysis collude the law has
produced no more than 5% of the growth
needed to offset the tax cut losses so
they missed it by that much are both my
hands out of frame because that's the
only way to communicate this here is
Donald Trump when asked about the
economy
he thinks it's like a tennis match with
China for some reason I don't see a
recession I mean the world is in a
recession right now and although that's
too big a statement but if you look at
China China is doing very very poorly
they've had I just saw a report they've
had the worst year they've had in 27
years because of what I've done and they
want to come to the negotiating table
you know they're having companies losing
I mean they're leaving the companies are
leaving and they're laying off millions
of people because they don't want to pay
25 percent and that's why they want to
come to the table I don't think there's
another reason other than President Xi
I'm sure likes me very much but they're
losing millions and millions of jobs in
China and we're not paying for the
tariffs China is paying for the tariffs
for the 100th time and I understand
tariffs work very well other countries
it may be that if I do things with other
countries but in the case of China China
is eating the tariffs
at least so far I'd be a pivot time
later today right I say right go far
because I don't actually want a
recession right slight lack of
understanding of the global implications
we have incredibly interdependent
economy with China which is why if we do
bad we do bad uh everybody says when I
wanted to start trading with Mars that
it was a pie in the sky that now we have
a backup don't need China have Mars it's
a great signal for our economy that
China is shedding jobs and having
extreme instability so it's exactly what
you want a lot rhyme trade partner
people are a little skeptical about
Donald Trump and his grasp on these
things so who better to send out to
assure us all that there's no recession
coming that he had a steady hand then
the guy who was famous for being the
biggest booster of the stock market in
the economy about nine months before it
had its biggest crash since the Great
Depression
I will say this this must have been
pre-taped because this aired at 10 a.m.
and later in the program we're going to
play a performance of his at 10:30 a.m.
and they're simply unless they have a
one of those beer funnels in this studio
there's no way he could have had this
type of evolution let's say which is not
to say that this is gonna be sober right
which is I'm just saying that it takes
usually a couple hours to get that but I
don't know here he is one last point
okay low interest rates low interest
rates which is across the spectrum is a
very good thing for housing for
construction for automobile sales so low
interest rates no inflation virtually no
inflation Chuck Todd so I actually think
it's a pretty good story and again let
me echo my theme let's not be afraid of
some optimism okay you say that but you
know
you actually said that in 2007 right
before the work the second worst
downturn in American history this is
what you wrote there's no recession
coming this is in December of o7 the
pessimist a--'s were wrong it's not
going to happen the bush boom is alive
and well it's finishing up its sixth
consecutive year with more to come the
more to come was a massive downturn so
I'm I admire your optimism but the the
data is pointing in another direction
well I plead guilty to that late 2007
forecast I plead guilty by the way every
other forecasters seen you weren't alone
you wanna be that road ship you weren't
alone they were all there however just a
wee bit of Kudlow defense now by
February and March I said weak on CNBC
in those days I did go to I did go to
the recession call so III will plead
that I I did see it I don't know that
anybody saw that kind of crash but look
this is not that cause I just want to
make it clear it's not a question first
of all there was a lot of people who saw
a crash a lot of people actually saw a
major crash I know this because I was
talking about it if I was talking about
it with with only really an ability to
read other people in terms of the
economy then clearly there were people
talking about it but let's not make a
mistake here
he didn't say there's a chance for a
slight downturn he said we're in booming
this guy was out there optimism optimism
optimism every day on TV every day
that's the bush boom great time advisor
ever do Chuck Todd you know here's the
irony that was one he was more sober
despite the fact his analysis was less
sober as it were I'm speaking
metaphorically continue this is not then
this is not then our banks are well
capitalized our financial systems in
very good shape and I must say is the
president is transforming and rebuilding
this economy he deserves enormous credit
a new policy of lower taxes and reg
halation and energy opening and trade
reform you know we didn't quite get to
three percent but look Chuck first two
years of the Obama administration we
were just a hair below three percent
okay we're moving in the same direction
to be a nice healthy Obama
administration did he just call it the
Obama administration I think that's what
he said we didn't quite get to three
percent but look Chuck first two years
of the Obama administration we were just
a hair below three percent okay we're
moving in the same direction and let's
be honest what are we talking about
there bombing in the first years of the
Obama administration of we were in a
deep recession yeah oh talking about the
Trump administration austere Damas well
hey
bottom line we don't need to see any
more of this because the really sad Lou
shod but the real problem I mean he's
right to a certain extent that we don't
have the same exposure in terms of the
financial system although who knows but
more than likely not the problem is
there is no slack there is no room and
in the event that there is a downturn I
mean we can spend but you know you know
if a Democrat is elected president all
these guys who don't care about the one
trillion one trillion dollar deficit I
mean debt right now they're gonna be
freaking out about this I'm gonna
downturn this shot into my face Chuck's
ad
