[Music]
as this impeachment inquiry goes on they
should be asking for more and more and
more there should be some I don't know
if they can do it on a rolling basis but
every Tuesday should be voting on a new
impeachment indictment and they should
keep going for more and more and more
and I would say that as they start to
look at this and I don't think you can
call I don't know if you could call a
senator to testify but I'd like to hear
Ron Johnson explain this away Ron
Johnson there was a story that came out
three or four days ago that Ron Johnson
sometime in late August called the
president because he had talked to the
guy sunland the guy who was supposed to
testify today and didn't the guy who
said I think the president wants the
deliverable on text messages to other
people who wanted to know if the
president was prepared to have a meeting
and to release the funds so Johnson
heard from Sunland that the president's
holding up the the defense funds because
he wanted dirt on Biden and he calls the
President and then Johnson says but
because Ron Johnson's not a bright guy
he's just not a bright guy this is what
I've heard from people in what kind is
not a bright guy he must have realized
like oops
I shouldn't have told everybody that in
a political story
Hajis but but president Trump denied it
so there's that but here he is and Chuck
Todd is just getting incredibly
frustrated because well I don't know I
don't know why Chuck Todd is getting
frustrated maybe he just sort of thinks
like this is come on seriously
or maybe he thinks it's you know and
it's best interest whatever I'm happy to
see it when it does happen he vehemently
angrily denied he said I'd never do that
so that that is the piece of the puzzle
I'm here to report today
that unlike unlike the the narrative of
the press that President Trump wants to
dig up dirt on his 2020 opponent what he
wants is he wants to an accounting of
what happened in 2016
who's fed him Oz it for one second okay
so Ron Josh has just said that Sunland
told me that he was doing this but the
president denied it so that's why I'm
here I'm here to deliver the fact that
the president denied it because he
realized Ron Johnson realized like I
screwed up I'm not very bright I screwed
up but I'm gonna try and make it better
now and here I here I go I'm gonna make
it better for the president I'm gonna
talk about this bizarre conspiracy
theory about 2016 think of what happened
in 2016 who set him up did things spring
from Ukraine you know there's a good
piece we've got an oversight letter on
from political in 2017 where let me let
me quote the article it says the
Ukrainian government officials tried to
help Hillary Clinton and undermine Trump
they did so by disseminating documents
implicating a top trump aid and
corruption suggesting their own
elsewhere in the matter Ukrainian
officials also reportedly helped Clinton
allies research damaging information on
Trump his advisors there is potential
positive now I just want to make it
clear Clinton allies I don't know who
that constitutes Paul Manafort was
involved in some very corrupt stuff
apparently in Ukraine and so they did
investigations on it
but I also want to remind everybody that
no one he's just mentioned was a
government US government official at the
time not to mention not President John
Trump his advisers there is potential
interference in the 2016 masculist
that's what Trump wants to get to the
bottom of but the press doesn't want to
ambassador will this article are being
pilloried I'm being called a conspiracy
theorist John Psalms being called
conservatives conspiracy theorists
because the press is horribly biased in
Trump and his supporters and unclearly
eyes and that I understand that the a
way to avoid answering a question is to
attack us in the press I'm well aware of
that and that's
I'm trying try me ask you something that
Volker said let me tell you what
ambassador Volker said under oath and
I'm curious if you shared this concern
ambassador Volker said this I explained
that I believe that mayor giulliani
continues to have a negative view of
Ukraine based on assertions of actions
that happen in 2016 and that this
viewpoint is likely making its way to
the president were you concerned that
Rudy Giuliani's disinformation campaign
sort of Ukrainian propaganda campaign
was negatively influencing the
president's views of the current
Ukrainian president well silver the
reports Natalie from you Giuliani but
from Ken Vogel out of political and John
Solomon doing some pretty good
investigative reporting now the
Washington Post is attacking him
undermining him all that information we
have never got the answers to those
questions Chuck I want to get to the
truth I'm not here defending the
president I'm not here to denounce him
either
what I'm here is telling you my my piece
of the puzzle here giving you my honest
assessment of what I heard how the
president told me repeatedly in the May
23rd Oval Office visit on the phone
another 31st the reason he had very
legitimate concerns and reservations
about Ukraine is first corruption
generalizes endemic we all know that and
then specifically about what they Paul
Manafort was for a 2016 election
well this is this was not the clip that
where he went off there's a point in
this where he went off we don't we don't
have a themes pretty lit oh no there's a
there's a point where where he goes off
I don't know where that clip is but he's
about to pop off oh yeah no he goes off
a big time on him because this story is
just a joke Paul Manafort was not framed
Paul Manafort was not framed here let's
pop this one up
you don't trust the CIA no I'm just a
ghost here apps you don't try to use
your page okay after James Comey believe
the FBI and the CIA John do say these
guys in the Obama administration I don't
trust you if you don't trust him now you
trust him now no I didn't trust him back
then and you don't trust them now I do
not trust John Brennan I do not sure you
trust that CIA FBI because none of them
have your conclusions you're trying to
come to I'm just curious do you trust
them now no who are you talking about
the CIA and the FBI Andrew McCabe do you
McCabe I don't trust James Comey I don't
trust peach Peter struck I didn't trust
John Brennan senator let me ask you this
I've got a lot of the things that you
face not hear me do I truth so you know
you set this thing up totally biased I
could never really get into the full
narrative we don't have to go through
all the things I can talk about it
you're right because you can hear and
chose to bring up something about Lisa
with something incredibly biased that I
I would never be able to get the truth
out senator
III don't know why you just came on here
to personally attack the press and avoid
answering questions about peace what's
happened here those review center it's
pretty clear we're only dealing with the
facts that we have not the family and I
can't get the answers and I can't get
the answers the American people can't
get wait there's another there's another
clip that it gets even even here I mean
it's an it's an amazing it's it's it's
it really is a like amazing because you
know in to a certain extent you know I'm
not I mean this is just about Chuck Todd
but all of them for years have allowed
Republicans to come on and just outright
lie about things even the even like but
sort of more but now less controversial
things like if we cut taxes revenues
will go up stuff that everyone knows is
not true everyone knows this is not true
but
Paul Ryan spent an entire career going
on these shows saying that and nobody
questioned them and this is where it
leads of course and now not only does it
lead to this he's just gonna go on to
Fox and he's gonna be able to deliver
his message they like they've reached
that critical mass at Fox where they
don't need this show
in fact he's gonna go on to Fox and
they're gonna play this exchange and
it's going to prove his point because
they allowed the Republicans to lie for
so long oh they were always gonna do
that though like whether the press was
going after them or not they were gonna
go on and say the same lies but the
point is is now because of this sigh
because of the polarization in the media
worlds that this was not the case ten
years ago 10-15 years ago you needed to
launder stuff through Meet the Press
through Fox News to make it to meet the
press and now it's going the other
direction here is he like the the media
the media environment 15 years ago was
the trick was you get it on to Drudge
you get it on to Fox then you get it on
to Drudge then it ends up on ABC and now
the goal is not to get it on ABC they
don't need to they just get it on Fox
they don't even need Drudge anymore they
just get it on Fox then you go on NBC or
ABC or wherever it is to have them deny
it which proves it to the people on Fox
they don't need this part of the media
anymore only as a punching bag to show
off to their base well that's what I'm
saying and and and that's why in many
respects Chuck Todd is reaping what he
sowed and others sowed by allowing
Republicans to come on and fabricate
things and now you get this Looney tune
stuff general intelligence entity asking
to just confirm just confirm are you
investigating those leaks that Peter
struck talked about nine senators I
ain't no idea I know that's
dances setup what doesn't work at this
point why a fox news conspiracy
propaganda stuff is popping up on here I
have no idea I bet I know that is lying
exactly that's present Trump is upset
and why your supporters are up several
news media okay senator Johnson doesn't
Silas Johnson please please answer the
question that I asked you instead of
trying to make Donald Trump feel better
here that you're not criticizing on I'm
just a simple question Airy bubbles made
uses what made you wince what what is
I'm asking a simple pair of intelligent
senator okay and what made him wince was
in that story when Sunland said he's
holding it up he's holding up the stuff
for to get this information and and and
that him making him wincing is what
Johnson said he did he went waste he
winced to how appropriate it was there
you go I always wince when things are
really good the news is getting so lit
it's making me wince it's so late
