[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elisa's they are
unanimous in that hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
it is Wednesday March 6 2009 teen my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Michael Cohen returns to Congress and so
much for that North Korea rebuilding
missile test sites hate to say we told
you so and so much for that part too
despite his obsession and promises Trump
has not only failed to close what he
thinks is a problematic trade gap he's
exploded it and meet the theocratic
homophobe who will be on the federal
judiciary until well past I am dead in
fact meet a bunch of them in the House
Dems delay vote on the anti Omar
resolution Kristen Nielsen grilled by
House Democrats and Mitch McConnell will
not allow a vote on HR 1 because it is
aimed directly at corruption and voting
difficulties meanwhile Trump's roll
backs will increase co2 by 200 million
tons annually and when it comes to
disasters in chemical dangers the EPA
just doesn't want to know and lastly a
Clinton triangulate er finds a new
center or I should say really lastly
Mike Bloomberg we hardly knew you
all right what if one but you know what
do you do all this and more on today's
majority report ladies and gentlemen
Matt is behind the board today Matt how
are you Matt Brendan Matt is not I I'm
real I thought you were joking right
you're setting up a name I'm really
having trouble accessing things over the
past day or two gonna get you some
narrow topics I think that's probably
what it is we need to mean something oh
I don't have my neurotropic this morning
I mean I'd never do but I didn't have my
puzzles yeah exactly
cry oh you know John Benjamin was
actually doing neurotropic know the
answer to the New York Times crossword
puzzle of the week oh that's pretty he
has arrived right that's cries that's I
look forward to explaining who he is to
my grandparents
well they don't they could not get it
all right let's uh let's first start
with this as we speak
Christian Nielsen is lying to Congress
and this is really pretty shocking how I
mean we have a couple of clips it's
ongoing but one of the things that she's
complaining about is that the and I
don't know exactly how this is but one
of the problems apparently if according
to her is that there's so many migrants
coming that it's unfair to them to be
able to look at their asylum claims as
opposed to we just to have specifically
degraded the apparatus to a look at
their MA their asylum claims B we have
narrowed the ability for them to claim
asylum in a myriad of ways that's not
the problem the problem is you're just
too much demanded it's unfair to the
demanders here she is
I don't know what you would call this
just a performance to your knowledge are
you aware of family members who've been
separated from their children and
deported back to a country without their
children yes sir can you provide this
committee with a list of those
individuals I'm happy to do that with
the one caveat that is you know that's
part of ongoing litigation in micelle
and as long as there's no privacy
concerns from the court of course we're
happy to provide that a lot of the
information is in the micelle court with
respect to each migrant I would also
just note that consistent with
long-standing practice and the law
before we deport any alien after they
have gone through the process and
receive a final order of removal we do
ask them if they would like to take
their children with them at that same
time their consulate or embassy for
purposes of issuing them travel papers
also asks them would you like to be
removed with your children as your
removed as part of micelle the judge
also asked us to go back and ask the
parents again in conjunction with the
ACLU which we did so there was no parent
who has been deported to my knowledge
without multiple opportunities to take
their children with them there you go
yeah to her knowledge there all those
stories you're hearing about that are
all fraudulent to her knowledge they've
all been asked really disgusting
the only thing that is in any way the
only thing that gives me any solace is
the the the dry mouth that she has makes
me indicate at least that she knows deep
inside her that she is full of it
let's just look at the first of the
protests of there were young people who
were there in a silent protest who ended
up getting led out looking very small
children here it is
here that you can see and then there's a
couple of there there's a small child
being held baby and they are here as
part of you know while she's testifying
and they're being I guess assured out of
the room at this point so some some
sense that at least there there are
people who are protesting this and this
is of course the government
accountability or government oversight
committee in the house and you know what
that means the the Republicans have
brought out there a team here is the
here is what's his name Cal Higgins is
that clay Haley let's start with clay
Higgins and then just sort of like if
you can just shove him out of the way so
that we can once so here put him up
there and this is clay Higgins he's from
Tennessee he's the one who couldn't
quite follow the idea and the Cohen
hearings that Cohen was looking through
his boxes of evidence to pull stuff for
the committee hearing but it was boxes
of evidence that had been collected by
the FBI had been sorted through by the
FBI to determine what they wanted and
what they were gonna record and then
given back to him
Higgins kept saying over and over again
shouldn't investigators have this
material and Cohen kept trying to
explain no they've had it and they gave
it back because they've already done
their investigations
apparently Higgins himself was in law
enforcement and was not aware of this
dynamic but here he is I believe that
talking yes I do too I believe there's
nothing that Higgins says that I find
beyond belief here is Higgins talking
about the desperate migrants coming to
the border families children heard that
story the other day of police officers
in El Salvador escaping the country
because they were afraid
and here's Higgins explaining what this
dynamic really is I mean just put this
in in context for the American people
perhaps the most famous invasion in the
history of the world d-day seventy-three
thousand American troops let's pop this
baby up there we have seventy six
thousand 103 according to my numbers
apprehensions along our southern border
last month we have d-day every month on
our southern border just to put this in
context for America yes physical
barriers work and as technology works
let me just put this in in context with
the American people perhaps the most
famous invasion in the history of the
world d-day seventy-three thousand
American troops landed them in the d-day
invasion okay we have said we've seen
enough to any 6103 a cordial there it is
Higgins providing us context what's
happening with these families that are
walking up to the border hoping to get
asylum is just like d-day that's the
context that he wants there it's like an
invasion of tens of thousands of armed
troops just sheer insanity that's going
on with these Republicans and the the
border at this point
armed with dangerous workaholism perhaps
right exactly
a real they're coming with the most
violent aspirations of their children of
getting an education and working hard
for their future a
have SAT prep books that they have
translated into Spanish this is like
d-day just like D just like d-day in the
same way that we want to make America
just like Venezuela people seeking
refuge just like d-day just like d-day
folks reminder one of the most important
things we do for our health every day is
brushing our teeth yet most of us don't
do it properly quip is a better electric
toothbrush created by dentists and
designers quip was designed to make
brushing your teeth more simple
affordable and even enjoyable it has
sensitive sonic vibrations it's gentle
on your sensitive gums and the built-in
two-minute timer pulses every 30 seconds
to remind you when you switch sides
guide you to a full and even clean and
here's the best part in my estimation
quip does not require a clunky charger
it can fit basically in your toothbrush
holder on your sink so you don't have
the thing that's gonna knock over and
fall on the floor and then your
toothbrush she's gonna be dirty the
whole point I'm sewing rows been they're
gross keep it clean with clip that is my
favorite part about the the quip is that
it's basically like a normal toothbrush
except for it's an electric and electric
toothbrushes ones that have these pulses
are far more effective and the whole
point is you use them in fact and this
isn't in the copy but I just noticed
that they have kids version now so a
guess who's gonna get one um me yes both
my kids but I mean they've been using a
regular size but now you know Saul in
particular gonna get him a little small
one it's gonna be as bright it's for his
birthday
ah slowly that's why I love quip and why
they're backed by over 20,000 dental
professionals quip starts at just 25
bucks if you go to get quip dot-com
slash majority right now you get your
first refill pack for free with equip
electric toothbrush every six months
every three months I should say they
send you a new brush head and a new
battery a new little thing a toothpaste
that's your first refill pack free at
get quip dot-com slash majority also
support for today's show comes from
third love third love uses data points
generated by millions of women who have
taken their fit finder quiz to design
bras with breast size and shape in mind
the results a perfect fit and a premium
feel all you got to do is you simply
answer a few questions to find your
perfect fit within 60 seconds then once
you receive your bra you can wear it you
can wash it you can put it to the test
for 60 days and if you don't love it you
return it in third love will wash it and
donate it to a woman in need so part of
that 100% fit guarantee this is
hands-down the most comfortable bra
you'll own it has straps that won't slip
tagless labels and lightweight super
thin memory foam cups they even have a
line of incredibly soft and breathable
cotton bras I am NOT a bra wearer but
really but our official our official
majority report bra wear says I like
they don't have a zillion options it's
easy to choose something quickly the fit
is great I usually have to return most
bras I order online even though they're
in my size I ordered to both fit that
almost never happens super comfortable
for an everyday bra but not as boring as
most t-shirt bras subtle cute details so
I don't feel basic third love knows
there's a perfect bra for everyone so
right now they're offering my listeners
15% off your first order go to 3rd
love.com slash majority now to find your
perfect fitting bra get 15% off your
first purchase that's third love spell
it out th ir d love.com / majority for
15% off today so check does I should
also say before we move on to to some
other stuff I want to talk about I want
to talk about what's going on with the
Elan o mark because this is just a real
crap show despicable disgusting it's
also just like politically shooting the
Democrats are shooting themselves in the
foot but
before I do yesterday was my sister's
birthday and tomorrow is my son's
birthday and I won't be here tomorrow
and so happy birthday to Julie and happy
birthday to Saul Saul is turning six wow
that's amazing um a lot of Pisces in
your family huh I had no idea is that
right I mean I'm a Pisces and my
birthday is March 9th so I assume they
are ah haha Sam you have a thing with
Pisces something's going on here well I
mean but so happy bro all right let's
get into let's get into to this oh we
should probably just talk about schulz -
I will do that in a bit I want to do
this Alana Omar stuff so today was the
day that HR 1 they were going to do the
big rollout right HR 1 the first bill
that the house the first House
Resolution 1 this was going to be the
first piece of legislation that the
Democrats roll out this involves all
sorts of voting reforms mode of voter
registration campaign finance matching
funds anti-corruption measures a great
piece of legislation that was not going
to get passed in the Senate in fact
Mitch McConnell has said he will not
even put it up for a vote and but the
value of this is basically to stick a
you know a flag in the in the ground as
it were and say you know this is what we
intend to do the day that we take the
Senate it is an attempt to restore the
protections under the Voting Rights Act
it is looking to restore voting rights
for
formerly incarcerated it supports the
u.s. election assistance Commission
there's redistricting reform unfair
purging the voter rolls stopped
modernization and some type of
consistency in voting across the country
there's a lot of very positive things in
this bill and Mitch McConnell part
because I think K Street is obviously
super upset about this because it deals
with lobbying and ethics overhauls as
well Mitch McConnell announces that the
bill is not even going to get a vote in
the Senate and the reason why you're not
going to hear that much about that story
today is because a the press is pretty
bad at covering Mitch McConnell but be
Democrats are not spending the past
three or four days or week frankly
building up to this moment and hammering
the Republicans over this they're not
gaining the the advantage of publicizing
how Republicans want to suppress the
vote the part of this bill also makes it
a federal holiday for federal workers so
that they can go vote this voting
reforms should have been a marquee
package there should we it's all that we
should be hearing about particularly in
the past couple of days it's been a slow
news days however they're not because
the Democratic leadership buckled may be
buckled is the wrong word but has been
insistent upon writing up a censure bill
essentially to censure alon omar because
of statements that you didn't even make
or statements that they have miscarry
to rised and we touched on this the
other day and I wasn't gonna bring it up
again but we got an email address to us
in respond to the to the thing that we
talked about with Barry Weiss who was
commenting on this on the view okay and
put Barry Weiss aside all right she is
lovely I mean but but honestly my black
swan and I do not like her
right put her side because she's really
a sideshow to this this mailer writes
that he agrees with us that claiming the
criticism of Israel much like criticism
of France cannot be considered
inherently anti-semitic on this I agree
with you entirely the problem with this
offering the email of Rights offering
this as a response is that on not one of
these three occasions that Ilan Omar has
been publicly censured for alleged
anti-semitism as she criticized a
specific policy or conduct of the
Israeli government instead of delving
into the actual detail of where US
policy has gone wrong visa vie the
israeli-palestinian conflict she chooses
instead to peddle an anti-semitic tropes
about Israel supporters in the u.s. be
invoking the image of Jewish money being
nefariously used to control American
politics with her AIPAC statements or
accusing Israel supporters of dual this
is a quote dual agencies or dual loyalty
I want you to put just I want you to
note those two to everything that's been
said there the email or rights to be
clear it's possible to level legitimate
criticism of the Israel lobby without
falling into anti somatic thinking
however that requires understanding the
Israel lobby for what it really is which
is a loosely connected off a competing
group of organizations across which wide
ranges of spectrum of opinion on what
Israel ought to be doing what the Israel
US policy towards Israel ought to be it
requires actual specific issues with
what these organizations do then rather
than attempting to deal agenda my
support for Israel as reasonable in a de
ma
krisi he goes on to say if you actively
criticize a pack you'd have no
disagreement for people like me or Barry
Weiss well put aside very wise because I
think you're wrong about that but
totally wrong but that's not the point
her dad like I say I don't want to get
caught up in that in summary of this
specific point while criticism of Israel
is by no means inherently anti-semitic
full disclosure I've actually been to
the West Bank and participate in
activism with the goal of ending the
occupation that doesn't mean it can
never be goes on to say you begin
applying old anti-semitic ideas that
were previously leveled at individual
Jews for example using money to control
the world and just transfer the target
from the Jew to the Jewish state you're
getting two very tricky territory
alright so let me show you how this guy
has moved the ball in the same way that
critics of Alon Omar have okay because
Alon Omar was not criticizing even
Israel in these statements she was
criticizing the fact that she is unable
to criticize Israel without being
attacked and she is criticizing the fact
that Congress would take up a bill that
would punish people for supporting
protests against Israel she never ever
ever uses the words quote dual
allegiances or quote dual loyalty and to
the extent that she talks about anybody
having loyalty to another country she is
criticizing not Jews she's criticizing
members of Congress let's listen to what
what one of the things that she said and
we know that the exchange on the untwist
where she's asking like why people are
voting on behalf of AIPAC and she says
because of the money which is exactly
what Thomas Friedman said exactly
although Thomas Friedman to be fair was
far more explicit yeah and he also said
people in non electoral rolls
well yeah it was a publicity and broader
he was explicit and broader but let's
listen to what L on Omar said that
supposedly involves duo no well first
off let's listen to this what will this
exchange here is on where is this
exchange by 24 on i-24 where the debate
is happening as to what L on Omar does
and this woman here I don't know who it
is
she's on Fox News about some Fox News
person does exactly what the emailer
does we're allowed to talk about the gun
lobby that were allowed to talk about
the oil lobby and the fossil fuel lobby
but only the Israel lobby we're not
allowed to talk about is completely and
utterly absurd that is not true and I
think about American Jews having dual
loyalty you are making this up I mean
just have the deeper can you sign it
when did you want the chimp when did she
say that Jews have dual loyalty to the
US when did you see sad she questioned
citizen I challenge you that reference
she's saying she say she said that she
challenges those citizens who have
jeweled loyalty and conflicted loyalty
to the United States that is utterly
utterly ridiculous you never made that
comment okay we're also so she didn't
use the word citizens she didn't use the
word do a loyalty listen listen to this
and when I am fearful of is that because
I am Muslim a lot of our colleagues our
constituents allies to be an
anti-semitic because we are Muslim and
so to me it is
it's something that becomes designed to
end the debate because you get in this
space of yes right like I know what
intolerance looks like and I'm sensitive
when someone says the words you use are
on our resemblance of intolerance and I
am conscious of that and I feel pained
by that but but it almost as if every
single time we say something regardless
of what it is we say that it's supposed
to be about foreign policy our
engagement our advocacy about ending
oppression or the freeing of every human
life and one indignity we get to be
labeled in something and that ends the
discussion because we end up venting
that and nobody ever gets to have the
broader debate of what is happening with
politics okay so she or she's just
simply talking about the fact that she
is subject to critiques because she is
Muslim and she is automatically
considered suspect do we have the other
clip where she talks about specifically
where she talks about people being loyal
to the other country I don't think she
said that in there did she I think my
understanding is that that's the clip
that they're extrapolating that from she
doesn't say about another loyalty does
she certainly know what I heard there's
another one I think where she said but
she doesn't she never uses the word dual
loyalty she never uses the word that in
regards to Jews oh you know I know I
know where the exchange is I think that
was written actually hold on for a
second Paul Waldman has written very
well about this actually and she said
okay I should not be expected to have
Allegiance pledge support to a foreign
country in order to serve Mike
entry in Congress or a serve on my
committee so there's not she's not
referring to Jews having that she's
saying that I should not be expected to
have that she's not even referring she's
referring to Congress people she's
referring to herself as a congress
person here it is here is the tweet our
democracy is built on debate
congresswoman she's responding to Nita
Lowey
I should not be expected to have
allegiance slash pledged support to a
foreign country in order to serve my
country in Congress or serve on
committee the People v elected me to
serve their interests I'm sure we agree
on that she's not implying that Jews
have this dual allegiance because let's
face it as Paul Waldman walden points
out for decades now the vast majority of
Jews in this country are critical of
Israel that the the most amount of
support in terms of sidon Airy in this
country comes from Christian
evangelicals and plenty of Jews in
Israel are also critical that's true but
in the context of Americans she's not
even talking about actual citizens or
average citizens she's talking about
Congress people and when she talks about
signing a pledge how many people
listening to me now in this email or who
has emailed me from Britain are aware
that in half the states in this country
you must sign a pledge if you are
getting a contract with the state that
you will not participate in a protest
against Israel this is not a joke there
was a lawsuit that was brought by a
Texas woman who provides speech
pathology services to the school and she
had to sign a pledge in Texas that she
would not participate in BDS if she was
going to take this job
there is a where was it in in Arkansas
very the state of Arkansas the are a
Little Rock Arkansas times the owner
Allen Leverett I don't know if levered
is Jewish or not but the University of
Arkansas Pulaski Technical College would
not advertise in the Arkansas times
unless Leverett signed a pledge that his
business does not boycott Israel now
Leverett does not boycott israel but he
considers a state law that forces him to
pledge not the boycott Israel
unconstitutional that's what she's
referring to and we mentioned that the
Democrats are shooting themselves in the
foot because they're not talking about
HR 1 this week well SR 1 was a bill
brought up in the Senate to federalize
this ban so that it's not just the 27
states it is the entire country you
cannot have a contract with the federal
government unless you pledge not to
boycott Israel I mean this is bizarre
this not me I mean well it's an actual
assault on free speech it is actually a
dramatic assault on free speech it kind
of makes me think that BDS might
actually work on some level I didn't put
that aside is that bad that's wholly
irrelevant the effectiveness of it
whether people are supported or not the
idea that you would have to pledge to
not protest a foreign country or this
country for that matter or anything for
that matter is absurd and when she calls
that out
she is smeared as saying that Jews have
a dual loyalty to their country no she
saying I shouldn't be forced as a member
of Congress and frankly none of the
citizens in the country should be forced
to pledge allegiance to not protesting
against Israel I mean regardless of
whether you think there is a comparison
or not with South Africa the idea that
people would have been that you could
not do business with the federal or
state government if you protested
against South Africa 30 some odd years
ago would be laughed out of the room
particularly by Democrats so at the
expense of a Markey bill the Democrats
decided to bring up this essentially to
codify this smear against one of their
frankly rising stars and it's incredibly
disingenuous and I will add this that I
took this critique from this email even
though it was doing exactly what the
smear is she never says dual allegiances
quote unquote she never said dual
loyalty quote unquote she never talking
about Jews she's talking about Congress
people and herself being expected to do
this she doesn't and talk about Jews
whatsoever in fact Jews that smear of
Jews that they had dual loyalty is silly
in the context of modern America because
75 percent of Jews in this country
critique Israel and beyond that I will
say I'm going pretty far down the road
by taking this seriously because it was
just reported three days ago maybe was
last week that former Mossad agents
formed private security firms that
harass people who support BDS
and I can for my thanks korazin harass
yeah I can tell you from my own
experience then 2004 when Janine and I
would critique Israel on the original
majority report on air America the next
day the next day we were contacted by
the Israeli embassy and were basically
told we're gonna send I think it was
Pincus at the time was the ambassador
we had the Ambassador on a couple of
times I mean so this type of stuff and I
said it yesterday I will repeat it again
this is the greatest existential threat
to Israel in my opinion because the days
of pretending that Israel is not
problematic and ignoring it and doing
stuff like this is going to isolate
Israel may take five or ten years but
the tide has turned and largely because
of the actions of Israel and I would say
because of the right in this country
because if you stifle debate in this way
you're doing a disservice to Israel and
I say this is someone who is a supporter
of Israel you're doing a disservice to
Israel you're basically saying like em
you know what they've had a lot to drink
but you just don't let them drive let
them drive that's basically what's
happening I also just can I broaden in a
bit everything is 100% on point but I
think that also you know in addition to
her courage on Israel and also by the
way I'll this is ridiculous to have to
do but this is somebody who said it as
an example that the Hajj should be
boycotted because of what's happening in
Saudi Arabia which is an extraordinary
position of a Muslim to hold
she's also been obviously opposed to a
coup in Venezuela and what she did to
Elliott Abrams seriously pissed a lot of
people off and I think the real
dangerous play here and this is I'll
bring Barry Weiss up not to bring her up
but Barry Weiss in the clip yesterday
said she's on the Foreign Relations
Committee and Steve Scalise David Duke
without the bag
which I know we'll get to you know is is
getting at this as well so in addition
to the disgusting Craven display of
Democratic leadership to even consider
throwing her under the bus like this and
also just the pure disingenuous nough
Slyke I said a couple of weeks ago is
the only quarter that I would give on
this is like if somebody had a genuine
concern about this you could easily have
this conversation with her privately
which frankly I think in general is it's
a better thing to do with allies period
across the board with regards to these
things but the real aim here is to get
her off of the Foreign Relations
Committee because she represents more
broadly a courageous and different voice
right and that's why I just said Latin
America
Saudi Arabia across the board I mean she
is somebody saying something different
here and then you add this to the
context of the levels of incitement in
this country
we're on simultaneously you're
completely under playing the fact that
there's an example there was a terrorist
attack against Jews a couple of months
ago by a deranged right winger and I
don't even want to put out into the
atmosphere God knows the types of
threats that Ilan Omar is facing and
leaders in her party are not
unequivocally condemning it and
protecting her is both a political
threat maybe even a physical threat and
I have to say like you know I will I did
this more last night but I'll just do
one sentence like a o'seas prevaricate
and there's no room for prevarication
she needs complete utter no BS
protection this is disgusting and
dangerous yeah I totally agree on that
she needs to stand up for her colleague
and comrade also I'm sure all of the
free speech warriors in the intellectual
dark web are rushing to condemn this
literal restriction on freedom of speech
I'm I need to read more about that but
YouTube monetization listen listen to I
mean specifically to get on to the point
as to why they want Ilan Omar off of the
Foreign Services Committee here is a guy
who literally introduced himself to a
some type of Elks Club I can't remember
exactly what the context was when he was
out running for election in the first
time as David Duke without the baggage
now I suppose there's a there's a good
interpretation of that that someone
somewhere has the imagination to come up
with I for one can't maybe there was
other things that David Duke was
involved in was it like financial
chicanery
maybe yes finance I don't know being on
an all meet that right but here is Steve
Scalise this is the height of
disingenuousness but I don't you know
this
I expect this I expect but the idea of
Democrats echoing this unabashed
line of thinking and this idea that
somehow I mean here he is accusing her
of dual loyalties right and good well
the resolution only addresses a piece of
the problem she continues to display
anti-semitic remarks comments
these are her beliefs and so if they
really are serious about addressing the
problem Nancy Pelosi has to remove her
from the Foreign Affairs Committee she
is literally getting intelligence
briefings on foreign policy of the
United States including our relationship
with Israel as she makes these kind of
comments where she thinks any support of
Israel is is denouncing your own
nationality where does that come from
it's a deep-rooted belief that shows the
core of our convictions and again
everybody's entitled to their own
beliefs but why would you have her on a
committee that important that sensitive
to our foreign policy if she has those
kind of anti-semitic beliefs unless
you're willing to tolerate it and it
shouldn't be tolerated she ought to be
removed immediately from the Foreign
Affairs case the response by Nancy
Pelosi to skeeves Steve Scalise is
you've got to be joking that's the only
legitimate response to that guy you've
got to be joking because he's got to be
Joe guy who runs on a overt white
supremacy message is put in again this
is incitement
and I don't throw those terms around
like I've been you know I'm someone
who's critical I think of people on the
left for going to that too quickly in a
fair amount of cases particularly online
but like that literally if you couple
that with the atmosphere and increase of
hate crimes in this country the West
Virginia travesty with her and the 9/11
poster this guy is I mean what's he
implying by that he's saying this is a
Muslim woman who's getting intelligence
briefings the clear implication of some
frank gaffney
nut conspiracy that what is she passing
intelligence somebody at what of course
that's what he's doing he's inciting it
right there and and and and and I think
the idea of this is of course is this is
you know this is one of the ways that
they hope to run and this is one of the
ways that they hope to sort of get the
Democrats off message and frankly it's
worked and Nancy Pelosi should Greta get
a grip and frankly censure those members
of her caucus who go out and smear a
fellow member of the caucus make a list
oh well
Democrats get money from AIPAC - right
yeah absolutely
like Bernie and AOC need to be brave in
this instance like they are and other
ones and they're kind of spoiling me
right now Bernie's was better on this
frankly let's um at least he isn't sort
of hemmed and hawed and prevaricated on
Twitter all right this is sort of a fun
I want to just switch topics here and
and talk about this because Brad DeLong
is a guy that I've been aware of you
know like online for an extended period
of time and I have various times he's
had blogs that I've read to get his
perspective on on some of these things
because it's interesting to know who is
advising the Democratic establishment in
any given time and so he was a guy who
was I think Deputy Assistant Secretary
for the Treasury under the Clinton
administration he is
a self-described neoliberal Ruben ight
he wrote a piece I don't know where he
posted this but calls himself a Ruben
Democrat he speaking of Robert Rubin who
was the Treasury secretary under Clinton
and and then also had a lot of influence
under Obama as well
he wrote a an op-ed the other day
basically saying we failed politically
and it is time for us to hand over the
baton to the left of the Democratic
Party and let me just read some of this
interview that he did with Zack
Beauchamp and Vox Beauchamp
because it's interesting but there's
another point I want to make here too
that starts with the baton rightly
passes to our colleagues on the Left
we're still here but it's not our time
to lead the core reason the long argues
is politically goes on to say when asked
what I move many identifies with its I
would say it's largely neoliberal market
oriented and market regulation in tuning
aimed at Social Democratic ends Rubin
Democrats believe you should prioritize
economic growth the idea being that we
can look to the market to provide the
material needs of at the very least the
those people who are who are in the
worst positions economically in in the
in the country right so that's how we
provide a safety net and we raised all
boats by you know a rising tide and he
goes on to say we were 100% wrong on the
politics particularly in the context of
the Obama administration he says Barack
Obama rolls into office with Mitt
Romney's health care policy with John
McCain's
policy with bill clinton's tax policy in
george w HW Bush's foreign policy he's
all these things not because the
technocrats and his administration think
they're the best policies possible but
because White House adviser David
Axelrod and companies say they poll well
and he says all of these would the idea
that you could then collect a broad
political coalition behind what is
indeed Romney's health care policy
McCain's climate policy HW Bush's
foreign policy and did George HW Bush
and Mitt Romney did John McCain say a
single good word about anything Barack
Obama ever did over the course of eight
solid years no they did not he
says no allegiance to the truth on
anything other than the belief that John
Bainer Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell are
the leaders of the Republican Party and
since they've decided on scorched earth
where we back them to the hilt this is a
guy who learned the lesson sadly not in
real time but better late than never
he will be show see the inside of a
gulag today there's literally nobody on
the right between those frenetic
frantically accommodating Donald Trump
on the one hand and us on the other
except for our brave friends in exile
Nikaido Institute now trying to build
something and then he goes extra is a
good line about that though later on I
don't know if it's that same point yes
well it's it's similar he goes on to say
like he says when you say he's asked
when you pass they passed the baton to
the left does that mean give up on
substantive policies meaning when you
meaning Rubin Democrats who disagree
with left and goes no it means argue
with them to the extent that their
policies are going to be wrong and
destructive but also accept there is no
political path to a coalition built from
the Rubin Center out instead we
accommodate ourselves to those to our
left bend the knee
on some level he's that's what he's
saying to the extent that they will not
respond to our concerns what they're
proposing is a hell of a lot better than
the poke in the eye with a sharp stick
that's either trumpet proposals or the
currents
that'ss in other words he's saying you
can have an argument with the left to
try and fix their policy proposals but
at the end of the day know that the
worst case scenario in terms of
capitulating to the left is far better
than anything that is to the right of us
and he goes on to say that we need to
reorient who our coalition is and we
need to accept the policies that we
think are suboptimal because they are
far more they are far more acceptable
than anything we would get from the
right and he goes until something non
rubbish is built in the Republican
Center what might be good incremental
policies just cannot be successfully
implemented in in America as we know it
today
we need Medicare for all funded by a
carbon tax with a whole bunch of ubi
rebates for the poor and public
investment in green technologies that's
the best policy given the political
economic context if the political
economic context were distant we're
different
well I'm fundamentally a neoliberal
shill but he goes on to say our current
bunch of leftists as far as our
wonderful people as far as leftists in
the past are concerned they're social
democrats they're very strong believers
in democracy they're very strong
believers in fair distribution of wealth
he goes on he can't help himself to be
they could use a little more education
well what likely to work and what's not
but there are people who were very very
lucky to have on our side
that's especially opposed to the people
on the other side who are very very
strange indeed you listen to never Trump
conservatives like Tom Nichols or Bruce
Bartlett or Bill Kristol or David Frum
talk about all the people they had been
in meetings with biting their tongues
over the past 25 years and your reaction
can only be why didn't you run away
screaming into the night long ago that
was right that was where he's slightly
redeemed time so actor Cato that is
exactly what he's he's saying you know
I'll take as much neoliberal scolding as
he wants to dish out as
as he's willing to bend the knee that's
exactly right and so this is and and be
clear here what he's saying is that our
politics failed and we have no better
options than then I don't think he would
say bend the knee but he would say we
have no better options than capitulating
to the left even again if their policies
are suboptimal and I would not that I
would just add that my console from the
Roosevelt Institute jumped in on this
and said the failures of neoliberalism
are bigger than its politics right in
other words it's not just that there was
a misunderstanding and misapprehension
and Mis comprehension of what of what
partners they would find if they took
steps to the right of the the Rubin
Democrat the neoliberal perspective it's
not just that they failed to find
partners there because at the end of the
day John McCain was a was in it to win
it and didn't care about any policy MIT
Romney also not a good faith actor
neither George Herbert Walker Bush or
any of them it's also because their
their policies failed and konso lays it
out like this he says there are two
basic premises of the neoliberal
policies one is that these policies
would create more growth so that yes
inequality might increase but so would
wages so economic growth first
redistribution and beefing up the safety
second net second and he says the other
premise of neoliberal policies was if we
get government out of corporations way
the market would become more dynamic and
competitive and innovative and he goes
on to say that the first
premise that neoliberal policies would
create more growth and this in turn all
you know all boats would rise was a
total failure the positive effects he
says consul says of more inequality
never happened starting in 1980 the
growth rate of the economy slowed while
the economy grew at three point nine
percent from 1952 in 1980
since 1980 it's only grown at a rate of
two point six and more problematic is
the rate of increase of relative
mobility the rate at which people would
rise up and down the economic ladder
flatten compared to that same period the
the great compression as they call it
and he said worse absolute income
mobility whether you're better off than
your parents has also fallen so the idea
that neoliberalism would create more
growth and that this growth would
provide more opportunities even if there
was more inequality every aspect of that
fell apart it didn't create more growth
and it certainly created less far less
opportunity and that was the core I mean
when people like Peter Mandelson and New
Labour said that we're intensely relaxed
about the rich getting super rich this
is the but it was always followed by as
long as everything's going on as long as
we're cutting poverty as long as we're
improving living standards than the oleg
arts can go to the top the second was
that if you take the shackles off of
business they would innovate and grow
out of social problems so there was
relaxation of antitrust enforcement
because it would lead to more
competition right we've talked about
this talked about the Bork school of
antitrust taking over in the 80s unions
would no longer get in the way of
business an unleashed financial sector
would fund didn't lead the entire
enterprise right all the innovation the
idea of market power concentration was
seen as laughable concept stacked
against the disciplining power
the markets themselves well the story
the financial sector is quite obvious
but he also goes on to say there are two
broader things that happen alongside it
first at the India at the level of
individual firms is that firm diamond a
diamond
deine ISM has fallen dramatically the
rate of business startups has fallen in
turn this has shifted the age curve of
businesses further out with firms over
11 years accounting for 70% of the
workers in 2000 but 75% of the workers
in 2014 this is where jobs are created
when new firms are created and I also
just want to remind people that this
kind of policy has not in practice been
a truly free market policy like they
have made many laws and measures to sort
of tinker with the market and prop it up
which is not generally what you
associate with the era look
neoliberalism but is a very important
part yes and but I think like you know
the regulations that are in there are
our target he's talking about the broad
perspective of neoliberalism which is
basically get out of the way of of
antitrust being the biggest single
roadblock to the to competition and
dynamism in the markets and none of that
worked out
you had a decrease in the number of
firms that are created a decrease in the
number of jobs that are created you had
less labor market mobility the the
politics of neoliberalism have failed
but so to have the policies failed and
it's probably the case on some level
that they're related although that's
probably another post at one point but
it's interesting to see when you have
folks like Brad DeLong stepping up and
basically saying let's give up the ghost
there is real value to this there is
real value to this because it makes it
that much harder
nevermind for Howard Schultz but it
makes it that much harder for those on
the right of the Democratic right like
you know what does Joe Biden gonna say
now there was a there story by Zack
Carter about Joe Biden's being one of
the the Democratic architects of this
new era of antitrust that has been so
disastrous fighting Ted Kennedy on this
thirty years ago but even for folks like
Booker and Harris and Chloe char and
others I mean there's probably
Gillibrand
Gillibrand Hickenlooper Hagen looper but
for these folks to lose the cover of
intellectuals in that movement at the
very least in terms of the politics it
was a really problematic for them well
and also you're gonna have a very you
know a more base level just the the
resentful destructive Clinton
apparatchik still putting out to like oh
the Clintons are just really concerned
that Bernie can't beat you know Trump
which is like okay guys I don't know if
that's the people we want to be
listening to advice on how to be Trump
but more broadly like there's the all
intellectual edifice of it right like
this is this is the stuff that's
supposed to sustain all of the pettiness
I think these are the actual arguments
that are evaporating to be fair fair
from his perspective I should say to be
fair but to be clear-eyed about this
where I worried about where I him and I
was worried about a Bernie candidacy I
would be telling Booker in Harris you
got a position yourself to as far left
as you can get it right now oh
definitely
um you know cuz he's not out there
saying Bernie's the true I don't know is
definitely not saying that I'm not I'm
not putting that on to him at all I just
think that you know particularly well I
mean you're right it's actually with
this some ways but this is the dynamic
we want this is exactly the dynamic
they're out there with pitchforks right
so you guys better be doing something
inside here to keep the keep in it but
indicates the left argument and then it
gives another example for like
Center of how they want to play it and
obviously people like Komal Harris have
a bit more room I think the thing with
Biden is like they're just how could he
possibly pivot because that's our card
apiece is so good I mean it goes there's
the top lines that everybody knows
credit cards a rock all of this stuff
but you go back to the 70s and it's like
wait Joe Biden was fighting Ted Kennedy
on half of crack all right Jesus great
well I'm gonna do something a little
uncharacteristic of me and defend Yola
realism for a second
not now but like in the 70s maybe you
know gonna drop a sound here yeah I was
gonna I can't find that hey what
happened all right good hey what
happened so clearly I guess there's
there's like a few distinctions I want
to make because I think neoliberalism is
a word that gets thrown around a lot
because it has well it has several
different meanings right there's the
policy like you've been talking about
there's the accompanying ideology that
sort of support to justifies the policy
and then there's just as a period as
periodization within capitalist
development so in the 70s we know things
got all messed up we were having oil
shocks we were having a debt crisis we
were having stagflation
which was a thing that was even supposed
to be able to happen but it did
everything was crazy and you know the
people in charge of policy and the
economy were like okay we need to get
rid of Keynesian economics we need a new
kind of policy that's gonna like get
everything stabilized so that you know
capitalist development can continue and
the world won't be thrown into a
recession because you know they're these
folks they were they didn't want the
they thought the alternative would be
worse right the alternative would be
global recession or even like a
revolution just like anything to resolve
this crisis so they came up with these
policies and you know in some ways it
did stabilize
economy but I think it's run its course
now and it was foolish for any of them
to think that we had reached the end of
history in the 90s and all that we had
to do now is like you know some kind of
technocratic tinkering around the edges
in which case being a centrist would
make sense so I guess in that sense it's
not
it wasn't the result of like bad people
having bad bad morals and making bad
choices from that you know it was like
it was very much over determined by what
capitalist development was doing at the
time and I think now the question is can
we set the clock back to the Keynesian
era Oh is that possible or do we need to
change the relations of production in
some essential way so that we don't keep
having these kinds of crises okay this
is like one of those those movies where
you get struck by electricity and then
we switch bodies because I'm going to
say I do not think those ideas came from
such a benign place they came 30 years
earlier in the wake of a world war two
at Mat mount Pelerin when guys like
Mises and Hayek got together and they
were basically saying they were worried
about sovereignty of nations overriding
corporations and they wanted to make
sure that governments functioned in on
behalf of business and so they were
always those folks with those ideas
don't get me wrong they are the ones who
launched these ideas they are the ones
who specifically developed them and then
basically sent people out in the world
to go and promulgate them but why were
they able to take power why were they
able to execute them at that exact point
in time in in the cities in the set well
I mean I think that they were they were
building on it but I think yes there was
the the opportunity arose but they had
been building infrastructure
and had been going and had been sort of
building an intellectual movement around
this these ideas of lazy fair-market
supposedly and so yes there was a
weakness in the system that allowed this
stuff to take over but I think it was
definitely - like was fundamentally
anti-democratic and oh yeah I'm not
saying it was democratic I just I think
it was I mean it's it's a dialectic
right to use a word that I probably
overuse there are there had to be people
with ideas and policies and there also
had to be a a breaking point a crisis in
the market and in capitalist development
that's the way all of this stuff works
that's how basically that's that's how
religions get started there's people
wandering out there and then one time
one day the that's how Donald Trump
becomes president in my estimation right
like you just things line up in such a
way and there happens to be sort of a
weakness and the stars align and then
all everything goes to the crap yeah
well I I think we kind of agree with
each other at some level but of well
it'll be interesting to see you know
what the next periodization is within
capitalist development because you know
I support reforms obviously without
being a reformist I think people need
reforms people need healthcare and jobs
and food and whatnot but um it'll be
interesting to see if at the current
point in capitalist development that
we're at which is very different than
the post-world War two ERA if those
kinds of economics are going to work the
same way or if you know maybe we'll have
another crisis and it'll help us make
the case once again that we can't really
reform this mode of production this
system we need to keep going forward and
with that we will switch back into our
regular schedule bodies and go into the
fun half of the program wherein you can
call us six or
- five seven thirty nine twenty we will
take your calls just a reminder this
program relies on your support you can
become a member today by going to join
the majority report calm and when you do
you support the the free show and then
we give you extra content every day and
we give it to you all commercial free
except for just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code and majority get ten percent off
because there are movement there are
movement supporters and there they're a
great company so check it out join the
majority report calm today is Wednesday
that means last night was Tuesday that
means Michael showed up for work and did
the Michael Brooke shared of courtesy to
show up to work on TPMS day I feel Ben
Burgess joined us we talked about logic
for the left we did a clinic on
deconstructing basically right-wing
arguments and what actual logic is David
Hume and the distinction between is an
odd it's fascinating stuff and then
commentary connecting the Bernie Sanders
launched with Lula's temporary release
to go to his grandson's funeral in these
two Social Democratic icons one a
front-runner the other political
prisoner and then we stood with Ilan
Omar and had it very sound for the show
dude this is like less than a fourth of
it a packed postgame patreon.com slash
TMDs get the whole thing this Sunday in
elicit history of Caribbean debt and
also tickets to the LA live show at the
homepage with ana kasparian big waz and
Nando Vela Jamie do you want to do your
show now too
and then in the thirty minute block
hello and welcome to the anti Fattah
where unrest is best know so yes this
week on the anti Fattah are you a nerd
like us do you read stories about robots
in space while also pondering a
socialist future well do we have an
interview for you fellow science fiction
fanatic we'll menaker of chopo Trap
House
joins Shaun and Jamie that's me for an
extended discussion with one of our
favorite utopian futurists Kim Stanley
Robinson holy
come for the revolutionary
potentialities of the post-capitalist
imaginary and stay for the psychedelic
polyamory and Matt's not here but check
out the literary hangover do you want to
do a pitch I think it's is it still
Wakefield with Nathaniel Hawthorne and
Henry James on Hawthorne as well seven
sources included include Dan McCall on
Henry James's Hawthorne in the New
England review from 1997 and Henry
James's Hawthorne by Matthew Peters from
the Cambridge quarterly in 2013 a little
more recently yeah all right well
polyamory quick break fun half see you
there
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
back
alpha males are back back back back the
alpha males just want to totally bring
back the ug theater yeah or a couple you
put them in rotation these your den well
the problem with those is they're like
45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough food will break Hawkinson
and the alpha males psyche
almost says what what watch watch watch
watch
on the back
the back
back
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
Oh
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists
[Music]
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expand it to foil the
alpha males of alpha males
[Music]
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here alright we are back it is
the fun half ladies and gentlemen number
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number let's go to the
phones you call them from a Oh hold on
one second I gotta get in there - hold
on one second caller there I am to push
that caller back out and then get back
on oh one second bear with us caller
sorry about that
I get it going first comm from a 3-0 one
area code who's this where you come from
hey guys this is Russ I'm calling from
on the Rockville Maryland area
Russ from the Rockville Maryland area
what's on your mind Russ so I am you
know you guys yesterday so I looked we
shade you uh let I mean get on the line
here this is incredible thank you so
much guys um thanks I've got a question
yeah I'm yeah I'm right leaning guy you
know not definitely far more right the
new guys but not nearly as right as a
lot of others and I guess the big
question I have today is what is the
expectation of the more progressive
communities for with the religious
community and I mean specifically Asajj
the piece you guys had while back about
him they was Ben Shapiro and Dave Rubin
and Ben Shapiro was cordial and he's
friendly but he drew the line at um
baking the cake right or the cupcake or
going to an anniversary party and I
guess that still wasn't good enough
right it was still kind of like wow he's
still a homophobe and I don't and that
was hard for me because I don't
understand what the expectations are
right like if the religious community is
willing to me go ahead okay I mean look
I am I'm perfectly okay I mean I look if
it's your belief that there's something
problematic with gay people
then you're homophobic I think it's
perfectly within your right to be
homophobic if that's what your religion
tells you to do but that's what it is
right
and that's fine I mean I buy fine I mean
like live and let live the problem is
when you engage in commerce in the
sacral secular world I don't think that
you should be able to discriminate in
that instance based on on those
religious bigoted values now I think
it's okay if your religion calls for you
to be a bigot then you then you're then
then that's your religion and that's
your business
and you know I practice religion I don't
practice the fundamentalist version of
it but I practice religion I have
nothing against the religion per se but
if anything causes you to do something
that I think is bigoted then you know
it's it's the bigoted part of the
problem that that it's the problem but
so that's that's my expectation that if
you have these precepts that you know
that we don't live in a religious
society we live in a secular society
that's that's what are you know some
people want to call it a Civic religion
fine but that's what it is well so the
commerce piece I mean I that's a totally
different argument right like the
masterpiece cake shop that that's a
totally different word of argument I'm
talking about just general getting along
with people and I think even using that
language is I know and that's why I'm
calling is I think that's a little harsh
to call a religious person who is not
comfortable going to a wedding of the
same sex right like that's the only line
they have everything else have them over
for dinner go out to dinner be there for
them if they're sick but they just can't
cross that line okay they're a little
bit I mean honestly it's like it's
homophobia almost like definitionally
like what like why like what like I
explained explain three the rationale
I'm there being called believe a higher
power right like whether we agree or not
right whether we take that Bible of the
word or not
some people do right and I just think
with the liberal mindset I just think
the left should be a little bit more
taller than that because well I'm not
listen I'm not gonna pass a law that
says that you are not necessarily you I
don't know you know what your stance is
on this but saying that that a person is
mandated to attend the wedding of a gay
couple I'm not passing a law that does
that I mean it's just my opinion that
religious persons opinion can be that
some some higher power has told them
that gay people getting married is icky
or wrong or evil and for me just you
know my hire a rationale tells me that
that is homophobia I'm most like
definitionally right like and I'm sorry
if my opinion of that person's opinion
is you know you know upsets them but you
know grow up you've got God on your side
who cares what Sam cedar says yeah you
could be as homophobic as you want but
you can't codify that into law right and
and and and by saying you can be as
homophobic as you want that doesn't give
you the the I don't have a mandate to
you know accept that you are without you
know without having an opinion on it
that's silly I mean I know that
religious people look upon that
fundamentalist religious people look
upon me as profane I don't walk around
going like how dare you think actually
crying not a little offensive frankly no
I mean I'm getting I'm being honest I do
that goes both ways right the offense I
just want to say in specific regards
that video like I am very much of the
belief that every type of a pourraient
you know belief or whatever I I on some
level really don't care as long as it
doesn't have to do with how you behave
politically or civically but what that
video
also about was the innate contradiction
in a crew of people constantly patting
themselves on the back for how
supposedly open they are and then one
who's supposed to be like a colleague
and friend of another literally looking
at him in the face and essentially
saying on some level you're a second
class person to me because of your
sexuality right and and him dave rubin
who's a you know a dunce actually having
a moment where it registered like oh
this isn't all just whining about
YouTube videos this is a guy that I'm
supposedly friends with who's literally
telling me that he thinks that there's
something wrong with me because of who I
am it was actually there was a lot of
pathos to it so and all right and also
like yeah I don't know what to say like
I don't it is what it is I mean I I
actually of course it's homophobia on
some level I it doesn't mean we have a
mandate about it made his choice he
would rather be a rich guy who doesn't
have to pay taxes then have the people
he hangs around recognize his basic
humanity does that mean I guess like I'm
I'm Jewish and my brothers Orthodox
right right I could not participate my
brother's wedding right because I'm not
I'm not sure mer Mitzvah right I don't
guard the Mitzvah and the only people
who could say the blessings on the Bema
with him were people who were observing
him for a while it pissed me off but
then I was like you know what he doesn't
that's just what he believes
really I mean he's completely open I
mean we have a great relationship but I
couldn't participate nobody in my just
famous wedding because we weren't
religious his in-laws participate in the
wedding he doesn't have animosity
towards me he just has a limitation to
what you can do well he can accept in
his practice and I guess you know I wish
some people from the left would accept
that people the right listen I'm glad
that you know that you can accept that
with your brother I don't know that it
would really particularly bother me or
not and like I say like you know it's
just it's just opinion at that point if
it doesn't interfere with civic life I
mean that's I don't really have
I mean Oh like the that's you know like
the expectation that everybody's I mean
you know how did your mom feel I mean
yeah it bothered her yeah okay so now
you accept the fact that it bothers your
mom right I mean so different people
different people reacted differently
well yeah because you know it's like
it's her fan it's her son what you gonna
do excommunicate him maybe I mean
certainly some religious people
excommunicate their children who are gay
they certainly do that I mean look the
aunt and the the other problem is is
that it ends up leading a basis for some
some scenarios that are that lead to
violence I mean look if there were not
religious fundamentalists saying that
gay people are sinners you would
probably have a lot less killing of gay
people and killing of transgender people
right I mean I mean there is a problem
with the fundamentalism it's not so bad
when you're you're Orthodox brother it
says well you know my my my my my
brother who's reform is traif that you
don't hear a lot of now it may be a
problem let's say if the fundamentalist
you know here's a scenario that I think
it's a Jew you probably you know have
some sensitivity to but if the
fundamentalist get a hold of the the law
and they have to a certain extent in
Israel the whole concept of Israel where
Jews have a place to go in the event
that there is a another Shoah that's out
the window because you're not considered
one you tell your brother to stop being
such a I mean so there is a scenario
where maybe down the road that could end
up you know violence could be implicated
but the reality is is that you know
people have been beaten to death because
they're gay people are beaten to death
once a month because they're transgender
in this country I think that if there
was not a religious edict that the
people are fundamentally sinful we
probably would see it very least less of
that violence so you know I'm not gonna
mandate that your brother allow you to
be part of his wedding and if that's if
you guys can reconcile that you know god
bless guys at work but you believe this
like could you be cordial and could you
while you disagree with them how what is
your personal feelings on a
fundamentally religious person you're
gonna be done I'm not gonna beat up a
fundamentalist who thinks that gay
people are sinful I mean I just Sam can
barely be cordial whose friends do well
that's true
but but I mean I'm not gonna I'm not
going to beat up someone like that about
religious coalition's or political
coalition's you don't have to like each
other to be in a coalition together
right I think I feel like what you're
asking I just want to maybe cut through
this a little bit because I feel like
everything that you're asking can you be
nice to people who have these beliefs
can you work with people have these
beliefs are you trying to eliminate
people's ability to have these beliefs
and the answer that is all categorically
no but if what you're asking I mean
excuse me yes yes excuse me not no yes
you can but if what you're specifically
asking is should there be a specific
exemption of something being accurately
objectively described because it has a
religious basis and any religion then no
like bench bureaus being homophobic
there and he has a total right to be
homophobic and it's not I not concern I
mean in his case cuz he has a huge
platform it's different but like I'm not
particularly concerned with his personal
beliefs as long as it didn't translate
to his behaviors at all but that
specific act whether that basis is I
like you know I just think it's icky and
I have no religious belief that's
homophobic or if you're religious Selma
phobic and that is what it is yeah we
don't have to be friends to be in a
coalition with one another right I'm
saying I would only add that the way
religion manifests in different people
and different beliefs is
it's not just a binary right it's not
like either you are Catholic and you
sign on to this rigid set of beliefs or
you're not and you don't believe any of
them right it's it's it's heavily
dependent on your interpretation who you
are psychologically like so many other
social and psychological factors that
like I I don't want to blame religion
entirely for the bad things people do in
the name of religion because there are
plenty of Catholics who don't hate gay
people and there are plenty of you know
practicing Jews who I mean there are
basically as many kinds of Judaism as
there out juice let's be real if you've
ever gone to Passover you know that so
yeah we did we can't blame the scripture
entirely for the behaviors of the people
it's still it's still on you you know
what is it about general feeling on
Israel as I know that where there's been
a lot of talk about criticizing Israel
I'm all for criticizing certain things
with Israel but I guess two questions is
what you guys are king for a day what is
the perfect outcome in that region does
Israel still exist and how do we deal
with Hezbollah and Hamas who are very
they're just they're just not good
groups of people right they don't treat
their people well so was actually I mean
there's a reason why did various times
they've had support but that's I mean I
I let's not get into that right now I
mean I you know I think like we've
talked about it a decent amount and I'm
aa cracy and full autonomy for all and
by the way if you went by National
democracy that really ensured security
and protection of all people in that
region
Hamas mullah coud would both totally
evaporate in terms of their vote chairs
in other words of every Arab had
Democratic rights in that area look
who'd would totally fail and if you had
to secure enough Jewish votes to win a
coalition government Hamas wouldn't
perform particularly well so that's the
best password for everybody the
two-state solution is dead at this point
in time
I don't think anyone here thinks it's
actually gonna happen I have the ability
to to to just step in and in and/or
orchestrate it but III think that there
is a mechanism that that that would be a
good resolution but I I agree with you I
think you cannot have a Jewish state
that is also a democracy right
as long as Palestinians are second-class
citizens within that landmass it's not
truly going to be a democracy so you
need to give everybody full rights I
mean long my long term solution is guess
what the no state solution because I am
a communist and yeah I believe in global
global communist government with knows
no states no borders but you know I'm
gonna be accused of being impractical
here so I'll stop there I appreciate the
call run at it
Thanks yeah I take care Mike Shalom
calling for me to give me an emergency
hang up button brilliantly column from a
four to five area code who's this where
you come from
hello Heather what's on your mind
they released in November around the
midterm elections talking about
rank-choice voting and allowing 16
year-olds ago so I just wanted to know
your guy's opinion on these things and
how effective they could be in America
if they were ever able to actually
achieve that at all I know that for 16
year-olds they turned that down in DC
and for rank-choice voting that's only
been affected in me in the United States
yeah I mean I I get to think about the
16 year old thing there may be something
to that I mean it's it's hard for me to
imagine that the the savvy of a 16 year
old is not equivalent to what an 18 year
old was
forty years ago in this day and age and
in terms of rank choice I think that's
good for the most part I mean there's
there are times we can go sideways but
that's the case with with everything so
I would I'm for rank choice voting sure
I think that would be good and I would
also like matching grants on matching
funds for for campaigns in fact that was
one of the parts of the build the HR one
built but I'd support both I think if
any I mean looking at uh I'm sorry
this I'm forgetting the name of the
student activists with the gun issue but
I mean I think that there's just so many
ample cases of young people who clearly
have the savvy and the capacity to
engage they should certainly be allowed
to vote appreciate the call thank you
very much right all right let's get to
some some clips here what's his face oh
well let's this is uh this is really
nice you have a Rand Paul here is at the
vaccines and public health hearing in
the Senate and this is highly
problematic as you know measles was
wiped out in this country some thirty
years ago and has returned and there is
particular concerns that it is going to
return with a vengeance when we get into
spring which is apparently the season
where it has its most ability to spread
there's some theory out there that you
know after a certain period of time
people forget there's an institutional
or you know sort of a generational
forgetting of just how horrific measles
can be and here is Rand Paul doing his
is his best to justify the spread of
measles that parents who refused to
vaccinate to vaccinate their children
risk spreading these disease to the
immunocompromised community there
doesn't seem to be enough evidence of
this happening to be recorded as a
statistics but it could happen but if
the fear of this is valid are we to find
that next we'll be mandating flu
vaccines between 12 and 56,000 people
die from the flu or a said to die from
the flu in America and there's estimated
to be a few hundred from measles so I
would guess that those who want to
mandate diezel's will be after us on the
flu next yet the current science only
allows for educated guessing when it
comes to the flu vaccine each year
before that year's flu vaccine is or
strain is known the scientists put their
best guess into that year's vaccine some
years it's completely wrong we vaccinate
for the wrong strand of the wrong strain
of flu vaccine yet five states already
mandate flu vaccines is it really
appropriate appropriate to mandate a
vaccine that more often than not
vaccinates for the wrong flu strain as
we contemplate forcing parents to choose
this or that vaccine I think it's
important to remember that force is not
consistent with the American story
that's it for one second alright so
first off he starts off in his opening
statements here sort of conflating three
or four different principles why we
shouldn't have mandatory vaccinations he
conflates the fact that the measles
vaccination has a success right a rate
that is XR superior particularly year to
year I don't know what it is well into
the 90s versus the flu vaccine he's
right every year scientists do not know
they just predict what flu strains are
gonna be out there and some years the
flu vaccination is like 50/50 which is
still pretty good some years it's 70%
effective but the measles vaccination is
not
97% 97% but he's conflating these things
as I said as if it's a principle as
opposed to a simple assessment that he
as a doctor should be aware is made
every single day in a doctor's office
right like the potential for you to get
a certain type of cancer is a function
of how much it's been present in your
parents etc etc therefore I as a doctor
would be more willing to prescribe you
getting a subject to radiation to assess
whether or not you have cancer then if
you have no reason no reason for me to
believe that you have an elevated risk
for cancer and so I won't subject you
that to radiation because it doesn't
make sense because I'm weighing that out
that's the the concept that's at worked
with vaccinations and then it becomes a
policy because that's the only way that
vaccinations work but let's hear him get
to the to the nub of it this is where he
really needs to deliver this so that his
dad's email business thrives important
to remember that force is not consistent
with the American story nor is Forrest
considered consistent with the Liberty
our forefathers sought when they came to
America I don't think you have to have
one of the other though I'm not here to
say don't vaccinate your kids if this
appearing is for persuasion I'm all for
the persuasion I vaccinated myself i
vaccinated my kids for myself and my
children I believe that the benefits of
vaccines greatly outweigh the risks but
I still do not favor giving up on
Liberty for a false sense of security
thank you now the fact of the matter is
that we have multiple examples of our
forefathers
engaging in mandatory force for health
right what do we do you have those
examples right there oh they're on the
Sanchi okay yeah
quarantine legislation which until 1796
was a responsibility States was
implement
port city's threatened by yellow fever
from the West Indies oh well maybe we
can just convince people what about
Liberty not to go around with West
Indies it's back in the 1790s maybe
that's not our forefathers weren't doing
then of course they were doing in the
States
because there's there's public policy
measures that actually prevent people
from getting sick they didn't need
convincing with the yellow fever they
just said this is the way we're going to
contain yellow fever we're gonna
quarantine people that gives you even
less Liberty definitionally right you
have no you gonna quarantine people come
back with Ebola I mean this is just
absurd it is such posturing and it's so
stupid the way that he does this it's
all literally all about an email
business that his dad has that he hopes
to inherit first the Senate then dad's
emails Eve trying to run for president
even my a narco communist utopia will
have vaccine requirements and hopefully
people will believe in less nonsense but
we'll see in my inner cone utopia you
sell a newsletter with secret investor
advice on gold bars that will also get
rid of liver cancer
so eh their own now with that said let's
turn our attention to how hypocritical
AOC is apparently she has not because in
her democratic socialist utopia where
she imagines everyone getting health
care without having to go bankrupt for
it without having to have an accounting
decree the degree or the idea that there
would be a opportunity for free college
or the idea that we would protect the
planet she's not only coming from your
your cows folks but she's actually
taking airplanes
that's right AOC
at the airport flying even though she's
talking about we need to take high-speed
rail she was taking the Delta shuttle it
looks in New York last time I checked
there's a pretty robust line why are you
taking a plane and not not taking the
car cane and she said cuz that would be
wasting my constituents time so now
she's a shipper list with her own time
man this is even more controversial than
Bernie Sanders wears a winter coat
hoarder she is she's trying to hoard a
time surplus so she can profit from time
you call yourself a socialist didn't you
hard time riddle me that they just like
they build a fake front like you need a
demented premise right like the green
new deal is gonna get rid of air travel
and it's like okay that's not true but
obviously that doesn't matter we'll be
right all programming with that just
it's like a lie but also like a paranoid
fantasy fever dream and then the next
step is like well you're a total
hypocrite for not observing the band
that we made up that you support in our
heads that you support what's also walk
everywhere what's also right and what's
also astonishing is that the Fox and
Friends who expect her to take a
high-speed rail would never support
high-speed rail there they are
it really is like an Escher painting you
know one of those graphics right where
they just keep it keep flipping over on
itself but there's no at least they're
not HIPAA quit so he'll be sure to take
chauffeured Suburbans everywhere so they
can have maximum waste at all times
speaking of Tucker Carlson and his
obsession with ASAE he apparently
thirsty is well having he's been on a
bad streak as of late Tucker Carlson he
was embarrassed because that Dutch
historian Bregman embarrassed him
and friend to show Adam green
embarrassed him on TV and so he's he's
he's looking for a safe harbor and of
course he looks towards the dayside
programming at Fox here is Tucker
Carlson with Melissa Francis the
outnumbered co-host but Tucker I mean
you made the point before think about
what socialism is like the very
definition is a government takeover the
means of production it's a power grab
yeah that's what she's been all about is
a power grab I'm in charge I'm in the
boss I'm the boss we go to Washington we
decide we get the means of production we
get control and we tell you all what you
get it's all has the same theme if you
boil it down to its most basic sense so
she doesn't want other people using
planes but Chile is the pan lane going
back and forth between DC and and York
because she's important it means she's
she's the ruling class she's powerful
Jack she's important so she gets to do
these things but for you and me we're
just you know the serfs along the way so
we we shouldn't you know have a carbon
footprint we should know these other
things and I wish it these billionaires
are the serfs the Delta shuttle the
Delta shuttle of course is the ruling
elites Delta shuttle between DC and
LaGuardia it's like yeah that's
definitely a Moratti air right there
yeah usually the serfs ride private jets
more than their ruling class right
exactly that's the hope that is out of
the surf
you want me to campaign for a neoliberal
shield will gas up the jet I think but
also let's be pathetic for a second that
is not the definition of socialism it's
just straight on power grab yeah it's
close to one definition of socialism but
it's uh it's not the government it's not
top-down thing right it's the workers
who market eyes who make the stuff
should decide what happens to the stuff
and the conditions of our own labor and
insofar as the government is doing this
it's the government as the elected
representatives of the people from the
bottom up power grab she wants did she
wants to be the only one to take the
Delta shuttle I want complete space it's
not gonna be Delta shuttle anymore it's
gonna be a OSI shuttle a LC one she's
just gonna be living like a dictator
well Tucker Carlson has to like fan her
and feed her grapes so Michael Bloomberg
has announced that he will not be
running in the Democratic primary for
president and it brought about this
headline which I thought was the
funniest thing that we're gonna see for
weeks
here it is I'll read it now Howard
Schultz hopes to benefit from Michael
Bloomberg's decision not to run for
president I bet he does apparently I
feel like the night in that Monty Python
movies I'm still yeah well of Marty
that's what's so funny about this is
that you know you know this I mean you
know you people heard the concept of
motivated reasoning right well you know
that there were at least two guys who
were sitting around Bill Burton and
Steve Schmidt going like if this is how
we spend it if Bloomberg doesn't run
it's good for him we could string this
dope for another three or four months
well that's more money they speaking of
private jet is not speculation that is
how they're getting paid Oh sir if he
stays into the election they are looking
at a few money the walkaway kind of
money which they need now I don't
support confess Kotori tax policy
because if my scam tu grift off of this
delusional goes through all being
a whole different tax bracket which is
where I really object the AOC seventy
percent plan
all right and then let's let's talk
about this too because this was
interesting there's been a lot of
back-and-forth online at the moment
about mmm tea this is the modern
monetary theory which argues that the
government does not need to tax for the
sake of spending specifically the US
government I think they would carry this
theory out to other countries that have
sovereignty over their own currency to
some degree but in the context of the
United States that their argument is
that there's a role for taxes but it
isn't to allow the government to spend
that spending happens first taxation
happens second and here is Larry Summers
and this is interesting he's on CNBC
arguing that that mmt theory is just
just bunk and dangerous yes fiscal
policy is a very important tool and
whenever the next recession comes we're
gonna need a lot of fiscal stimulus but
this modern monetary theory idea where
we can guarantee jobs for everybody or
i've medicare for all and just rely on
money printing to finance it I think
that's quite a dangerous approach and
I'm sorry to see that it's gaining more
adherence what my column points out is
that it's sort of the new voodoo
economics that there was a valid idea 40
years ago the taxes had incentive
effects which got transmuted into the
invalid idea that you could cut taxes in
order to raise revenue the Laffer curve
supply-side economics all of that that
turned out to be very costly and it had
to be reversed when the United States
tried it and I think something very
similar is true with respect to modern
monetary theory
well first off
ah I don't think it's been reversed that
it has had quite a bit of durability
that idea based upon the last set of tax
cuts we just got what I think the value
of modern monetary theory is that Larry
Summers is afraid that it's going to
bring about these social benefits and
that worst case scenario I guess they'll
have to figure out a way of paying for
it but here's stephanie kelton one of
the adherence to mmt where she says
Larry says it's dangerous to say that
the government can just print the money
was a dangerous win and Alan Greenspan
said it in August of 2011 when mourned
Buffett said it when Joe Stiglitz said
it or when Larry Summers apparently said
it she goes on to say no one is saying
that because the US can print the money
that we can spend on Medicare for all
job guaranteed greenio deal without ever
raising taxes that's not MMT I don't
know where you got that impression but
it's not mmt we're simply noting that
the federal government is not revenue
constrained and that the way we
currently approach the federal budgeting
process is we're stickering our
potential in other words she's saying
taxes in the context of of mMmmm tea
play a economic role insofar as it the
intention is to limit possible inflation
if the economy gets overheated you take
some money off the the board essentially
by taxing a significant number of mmm
tears also support confiscatory taxing
you know to deal with things like
inequality
but from an from an eek that's it more
of a political decision I think rather
than an economic one although I think
you could probably argue that from an
economic perspective it makes the more
efficient there's been a lot of attacks
on mmm tea I am not necessarily a strict
adherent although
I've yet to see a critique that I think
is that tackles it head-on Doug Henwood
had one in Jacobin and I was a little
disappointed in it frankly because most
of it was about the the intellectual
history of the theory and the pedigree
of the people who support it and not a
terribly robust like analysis of it from
an economic perspective I don't pretend
to understand you know monetary theory
that well but I can sort of read and
understand when someone is addressing a
specific theory and I just didn't see it
happened there and I was a little
disappointed frankly because I'm curious
about that I mean I think you should
have a mind to talk about I mean I
frankly like I just I was just assessing
the piece and I don't like I say I don't
feel like I know enough about monetary
policy to refute assertions but I just
just like ask him whatever questions you
had reading the article or whatever you
thought was missing well they were
assertions and there was no evidence
behind that as far as I could tell and
3/4 of the piece I mean are literally
about the people who proposed this stuff
and so but maybe maybe I actually
emailed Doug to ask him his take on this
particular thing would you like to hear
his response sure okay
quote they pull this con all the damn
time
free money well not really where did you
ever get the idea that we promised free
money the government doesn't need to tax
or borrow to spend but it does by law
the Treasury can't just create money out
of thin air and buy and it's not
allowed to sell bonds directly to the
Fed both are illegal what is all this
melodrama with the debt ceiling about if
there were no such restrictions the
Treasury balances its book
every day money comes in from taxes and
borrowing money goes out and spending if
income is greater than outgo the
Treasury's checking account at the Fed
Rises if income is less than outgo it
falls kind of like everyone else
but with a lot more zeros so the
question is how much can the Treasury
borrow is it a good idea to be running
deficits this large when the economy is
at relatively full employment what do
you do in a recession for a trillion and
a half a year from whom is it wise to
assume you can keep borrowing these huge
amounts forever what are the constraints
are there ever constraints do we have
enough spare capacity to start buying
high-speed trains and solar panels with
funny money it's weird to be turning to
Alan Greenspan as an authority greenspan
is the guy who's almost a second no
because i want to just address it as it
goes because i don't care about the
greenspan thing but the he concedes in
his piece that qe2 was sort of actually
like that that i mean that all the
quantitative easing that we had was sort
of like that and it is also the case
that i mean we have now statutorily
gotten rid of the debt ceiling and
people suggest that we can do that as
well that it's really we borrow and all
we're doing is allowing the Congress to
appropriate so we do we do borrow like
that we do print money and give it to
the banks we did that multiple times and
everybody said the exact same thing that
he was saying except for at that time it
was Glenn Beck and Bush in Chains saying
we're going to have run away why Mar
inflation well I think he he says that
you can do that temporarily to get out
of a recession but it's not a good
long-term plan and I can all admit that
I don't totally understand it either I
am really just starting to wrap my head
around Marxist economics and I think
it's a bad idea to learn two different
languages at once but doesn't it doesn't
really make sense
in terms of what I know about economics
either but like at the end of the day
I'm actually kind of agnostic about it
because if if it helps us get
progressive legislation passed like how
do we pay for it don't worry about it
then great
and if it turns out that the MMT people
are right and the Marxist economists are
wrong and we can just have a great
social welfare state funded by printing
money that's great
if we can't if it causes an inflation
crisis that is my job is the same
because it doesn't change the basic
relations of production right well that
I think is I think that is really at the
heart of his critique but I feel like
that ball was like hidden a little bit
because it doesn't it addresses some you
know material needs theoretically and
assuming that you can control inflation
and that it's you know that there isn't
an overheated demand like my job is the
same whether or not FFT turns out to
work right because I think some people
view it as a way around not just uh not
just changing the relations of
production but like even taxing the
wealthy or doing anything politically
difficult but like whether or not this
theory turns out to work like I and like
even leftist to buy into mmm tea we all
believe that it's not a replacement for
our I agree with a social revolution I
would say I just would add two quick
things to this one and we talked about
this this morning and I think the the
basic you know solid critique of mmm tea
is is that it couldn't be applied in
that many circumstances outside of the
United States so it's not a global
systems theory which I definitely have a
problem with or not even necessary
problem with it's just descriptive it
wouldn't help Greece get out of its
classes we don't know you know certainly
giving economic sovereignty the
Caribbean as an example we can't have
social democracy in one country the only
thing that I the other thing too and I
and I really I want to reread it because
I skimmed it quickly and I definitely
like I don't read and listen to
everything duck in what does but
everything I have I usually learn a lot
from me too it did seem but it seemed a
little bit more polemic than analysis
which is why I want to give it another
read and I think but what I don't like
is I really don't like when Marx
except like neoliberal argumentation
about the economy as like a starting
point so I sometimes I see like I
remember one time I was at a party and
it was like this funny argument spilled
out and I'll summarize it as it was like
two European guys once a financial
reporter and one's a Greek Communist and
I'm the one in the middle talking about
how Greek could be relieved through
various forms of you know the EU the
eurozone not implementing austerity on
them and the financial reporter is like
no no it's great because you know
Greece's banks were getting
recapitalized and the communist guy is
going they need to have austerity
because you know the market dictates it
and the only option is full revolution
what's his name Pavel is Ruffo it was
not and I'm just wondering like in
somewhere in the middle you know there
there it's like well I wouldn't accept
like pure revolution or bust and I think
the reality is in in relative politics
mmm teas doing a lot of work as you said
in the beginning of being like how about
you calm down with all of your deficit
hysteria and we take care of the green
new deal in health care right is
quantitative easing for normal people
which is what Mark Blythe calls it and
that has a huge amount of utility
regardless of the bigger critiques
including the global ones which I
definitely hold well they're okay we did
an episode of the Intifada specifically
on the Greek debt crisis and I encourage
everyone to listen to it who wants to
understand this stuff more I learned a
lot from doing the episode and
interviewing this guy like a lot of it
is very much over determined by what the
capitalist market is doing and you can
say like oh the cereza I should have
stood up to the World Bank yadda yadda
but like they didn't and we're looking
for like a world systems explanation why
it happened the way it did okay let's go
to the phones come from a 4-1 9 area
code who's this where you come from this
is me yes it is you hi Lukas for law
Columbus Luke
from Columbus what's on your mind Lucas
I just had a card two questions one was
more primarily towards Jamie just a
personal opinion I wanted to know as
someone who holds like more anarchist
leaning perspective on how you feel
about the use of the hammer and sickle
in leftist symbolism oh well I think
it's often a little ironic when people
use it like that
these days but like yeah like I don't
want to go to the gulag for being too
much of an anarchist in my communism so
like it always makes me a little
uncomfortable but it's fine most people
who are using it or not actually tanki's
who want to put me in jail and then and
then I just said one more if that's okay
um what what would you what would you
say to a leftist who is not particularly
interested in electoral politics in in
terms of you know shaping the Overton
Window to a more or less perspective for
the general public not to me I'm not
sure what the second part of that that
was leftist who's not interested in
electoral politics because they think
it's going to shift the Overton when I
say to them about what like what would
be like your critique of that position
or how would you maybe convince them
that it is useful to participate in
electoral politics for if nothing more
shift the over total in don't well first
of all it's not just a question of
shifting the Overton Window it is a
question of actual real policies I mean
take a look over talking about it in
terms of the Overton Window though right
well I mean forget the idea of what the
what we're the Overton Window is in
terms of what's possible in terms of the
conversation I mean I got stories here
today about a 37 year old woman who's
going to be appointed to the federal
judiciary for a lifetime appointment she
will probably it's possible someone like
that could end up on the Supreme Court
who you know is the theocratic
I've got a story today about 200 million
tons of co2 that is going to be dumped
into the atmosphere annually because of
rollbacks never mind
you know imagining like the opportunity
cost of what a different administration
would do
I didn't allow flyovers over you know a
hurricane area to find out if the air
was toxic by an NSA makes a NASA plane
that could measure that I mean forget
the Overton Window there are material
differences between the parties there
are hundreds of thousands of people who
are getting medicaid across the country
because a Democrat won their
governorship there are hundreds of
thousands if not millions who still
don't because their governor is a
Republican I mean I don't think okay I
feel like people misunderstand me when I
talk about this I'm not saying that
those particular policy manifestations
don't matter I'm saying that they
themselves are the manifestations of the
larger social social forces bubbling up
from below you know and the balance
forces so I went I guess I guess in this
course I've just come across people from
the left whether they be anarchists or
revolutionaries or whatever who just
write off electoral politics on the
grounds that it won't do anything for
their very specific narrow causes and I
just kind of wanted some ideas on how I
could like combat so much
solidarity that's either like super non
solidarity or incredibly delusional on
their part and so but if they had any
kind of good faith or broader strategic
sense and they're not just trying to do
like a little sub cult as performance
art instead of politics I think you
could definitely say that again even
just the 2016 Sanders campaign I mean I
literally know people it's comical to me
like I know people who were totally
disengaged in that primary and maybe
we're like yeah I guess Bernie may be
even I guess Hillary and now all of a
sudden they're like I don't think you
read mal fairly which you know is its
own kind of ridiculous thing in its own
way but it's like that whole campaign
that energy of that event generated
including obviously much more productive
and serious things than that a huge
amount of energy in social movements and
even just like a countercultural
discourse on the legitimate important
ideas from things like anarchism so when
people comment it that way they're
either just disconnected from reality or
really deluded or not in solidarity or
if they're in good faith and smart they
gotta enlarge their strategic lens I
mean look I believe that activists will
get the most bang for our buck when we
come into direct confrontation with
capital either in the workplace or in
terms of tenant organizing against your
landlord any number of things so if your
friends are doing those things you know
24/7 I don't really care if they're
getting involved in electoral politics
because there are plenty of people who
for whom that is their thing as long as
they're you know engaging on some level
fine that's more than most people are
doing I think again it is like a more of
a dialectic then some people think like
electoral politics do play a role and
they do have a feedback effect into all
of the other stuff but yeah I don't
just tell him to tell him to be be smart
yeah if you're I agree with that I've
said that myself
appreciate hundred percent working
against DHS and for housing and tenants
rights on the other hand I mean there is
a thing though where it's like the most
radical interventions and building that
possibilities unbelievably important and
you're still gonna run up against the
policy mechanisms appreciate the call
let's go to the phones again come from a
seven one nine area code who's this
where you come from this is Colton from
Omaha golden from Omaha what's happening
um I just want to ask you guys I think
two quick questions so first off with
the green new deal and the way that it
rolled out do you think there should
have been some plans included there to
maybe
negotiate some sort of cut down on the
carbon emissions of China and India I
mean I I suppose you could have like you
know put that in the preface but the
bottom line is like look we're you know
we're gonna have to come to the table
with something and the the it is implied
by anybody who has any good faith in
terms of of this issue knows that we
need to lead the way and yeah that's
behind China and I mean if you're asking
for me what they're doing yeah I mean
they're they're you know in some areas
right you know we're behind I mean I
guess we're me if you're saying from the
from a political standpoint like you
know from a talking point but I think
like we're past that to be honest with
you I think the real fight here is gonna
be just how dramatic is this gonna be
and I don't think the idea that like
we're going to also negotiate with these
other countries which is you know sort
of an obvious feature if obviously if we
if we're ever in a position to to
actually execute a green new deal
there's definitely going to be a
political will to negotiate and to work
with other countries to you know to get
them to fight climate change as well
just don't think that that rhetorically
is you know would be enough to convince
people but you know with that said I
mean I guess but I mean if someone says
like well it doesn't matter what we do
because China and India are gonna do X Y
& Z that is I don't think that's a
sincere argument because there is
nothing that our action let me put this
right there's nothing that within the
green New Deal that inhibits or
prohibits our ability to do that well
also yeah like not accurate wake that
are in China and India but listen you
gotta just know this empirically or else
the whole argument falls apart China and
India both of which are unbelievably
problematic governments so I am NOT a
one to idealize either obviously Modi or
the People's Republic of China but Modi
India is a leader in solar power and
renewable energy and China is
aggressively transitioning to
post-carbon I mean there's still massive
pollution problems because it's
industrializing and there's a huge
amount of problems there but the premise
that they're not doing something is
wrong and also if you want to have an
international binding agreement that
obligates everybody you need to have an
international binding agreement if the
green new deal if the preface said we
encourage other countries to adopt this
model that would be great but it
wouldn't be appropriate for a Chinese
policy document to mandate a green new
deal in the United States nor would it
be appropriate for them to mandate China
take action either in that specific way
appreciate you know I disagree entirely
what do you disagree with because the
thing is that what are China's
intentions China's intentions are to
expand their own economy and to really
focus on their own internal development
while the u.s. is at least on one side
of the aisle being more internationally
minded at being worried about the world
China wanted to push forward a plan to
save the planet in effect then yeah they
would include in their documents
policies or intentions to institute
international plans to save the planet
and when you say power
kind of arguing with yo they do your
you're wrong but we're the one who's not
a signature to the Paris Accords dude
we're not they are well I'm yeah I'm
just saying if the roles were reversed
but they're not there knocking about
reality in reality China's and we're
talking about we're talking about
reality and you said it wouldn't be
appropriate if China said the US should
do XY and Z in order to save the planet
and I'm saying it would be appropriate
if that was China's intentions and I'm
saying it would be appropriate if we the
u.s. worrying about the planet
instituted one yeah green New Deal style
plan to cut down our own carbon
emissions but also looked at the carbon
emissions of other countries and said
listen these are problems if we don't
get behind these things it's going to
ruin the planet that's we cut our
Strasse there is a global process of
which China you're saying that you have
the ability I mean we we don't have the
ability to pass a law that's gonna force
anybody to do anything other than our
own country you realize that right yeah
I realize that but there should be plans
laid out for how we can come to the
negotiation it's right is one just
stepped away from it
it was the Paris Accords which was
literally like a everybody agreed that
it was all it was was basically a plan
to make a plan right and we said we're
not gonna participate even in the plan
to make a plan while the rest of the
world is making plans to make a plan
right I don't agree with the Trump's
administration's decision to pull out of
the Paris agreements but Democrats who
are pushing for a green new deal like
the factsheet says if we cut our carbon
emissions to zero and we still have 40
percent of our admissions which 40
percent of emissions if you combine
China that's about 40 percent we're
still going to be screwed well we're
putting together a green new deal
why shouldn't Democrats also have just a
slight mention in there about India or
China well I mean I think the point is
is that it's it's implied and we've
both said though you could put it in the
preface but all it would be is window
dressing
none of it would be actionable and if
there is a political will to do a green
new deal there is no possible scenario
where there also won't be a political
will to engage with the rest of the
world to do so the honest Bacchus is
implicitly running on it in Europe and
so that you could have a corollary in
China very promising yeah the problems
and appreciate the call now I'll say
this about that one thing that does work
against solving the climate change
problem within the global capitalist
system is competition right because as
long as all the different countries are
competing on the market to you know have
the best economy it does look like kind
of a dick move for the u.s. to turn
around and say to all these developing
nations hey I know that we used the
environment as an infinite free gift
when we were industrial izing but we
know more information now and you can't
do that so in that context the US would
probably have to buy them off or just
give them yeah I'm not just talking
about China and India so in that context
it is a barrier but you know not
necessarily insurmountable oh it doesn't
doesn't discredit the green New Deal
well and also in the areas you're
talking about those countries are not a
problem frankly in terms of they don't
have the same they're not purely a
matter not same at all if anything
they're just vulnerable because they
will literally could be sinking
underwater in a couple years all right
this could be the final call the day
called from a 937 area code who's this
where he come from
Aden in Tallahassee what's on your mind
quick things to mention I'll try to be
fast I did want to say thank you Michael
for being kind of an inspiration for
like trying to be politically active so
just thank you guys for that other than
that I just want to mention that I'm an
education major at Florida State and I
just on Monday I got involved with my
fur
kind of political activism sort of thing
the teachers union here rallied on the
steps of the floor Capitol building to
promote for more school funding because
we are 45th out of 50 states for teacher
pay we just get railed for funding and
so it was just really great to actually
work with the teachers union as a
student myself getting involved in that
was such a great process I remember a
couple weeks ago somebody called in and
thanks Michael for mentioning that
getting politically involved makes you
feel better about the political process
and so that's what kind of inspired me
to do this and I can confirm so if
anybody else is listening and they're
thinking about it absolutely get out
there and do that and I did just want to
mention in that process I got such a
good sense of worker solidarity that I'd
never seen before so seeing like so many
vehicles that would be like stereotyped
as sort of like I guess Trumper cars or
something like big trucks with camo on
them or just local businesses honking
and showing support for us giving us
thumbs up and everything like that just
people from all different types of
backgrounds showing support for what we
were doing trying to raise the awareness
for more teacher funding more school
funding and then I also did just want to
bring attention to if anybody else was
in Florida to bring attention to House
bill 2055 that's not 2055 7055 my
apologies and it says that somewhere in
the in the text that if our unions don't
need 50% 50% dues dues-paying members
from the whole body of population that
could be a part of the Union then they
will be disbanded and so that's just a
big issue that I'm worried about being a
future teacher I don't want to have to
not have a union not have anybody
fighting for collective bargaining and
everything like that what do you know
what Union is are you guys represented
by is it the a of T or the NEA I was
local leon county early on classroom
teachers association for our county okay
and Florida is a
is not a so-called right-to-work state
is that right I I don't believe so we
may it if we are it would have been
fairly recently I believe but I don't I
don't want to speak on that not knowing
fully all right appreciate the call
that's good to hear
keep it up keep up the good work thanks
man thank you
all right let's just finish off off this
thing
there is a morning consult poll that is
out Brendan do you do you have that I
sent that over to you interesting
particularly you know at this stage
because look there is Bernie Sanders did
have and I think still has some
challenges in regards to older African
Americans in the Democratic primary I
think there is there is been undoubtedly
a concerted effort on his part to reach
out and to become more sophisticated in
some ways in in the way that he uses
language and you know
yeah and fashions his is his message and
I think he is you know doing a good job
in recognizing that I think he said
during maybe it was his the rally that
there are you know disparities within
the disparities in terms of the
experience of people of color but this
is a pretty fascinating and I mean it's
it's it's early enough where it's it's
sort of tough to tell what the meaning
is something like this is but a morning
consult poll shows that Joe Biden is yet
to announce but I think it's anticipated
comes in in first place amongst
african-american voters at 32% which is
on some level to be expected is
obviously associated with
Obama who was hugely popular in the
african-american community he's also
very associated with the Democratic
Party which again particularly for older
African Americans has a lot of
institutional importance Sanders is
comes in a close second at 28% Biden
does better with white people at this
point wait till Biden actually gets back
out there in campaigns by himself I have
a feeling look when you're not standing
next to Barack Obama you're pretty I
mean in all honesty like you know the
the the advantage that Sanders has when
we see these numbers is that they are
reflective of in many respects his floor
right he may not have any growth we just
don't know but this is pretty much his
floor because he's been fully exposed
and vetted over the course of a primary
and since then largely I mean it's
possible you know that people will will
care about you know his drinking parties
in Russia or whatever it is but by them
even more but someone like Joe Biden
hasn't campaigned in a primary as the as
the top of the ticket in eight years ten
years and so I think people are gonna
remember why this guy didn't win well no
I mean multiple primaries yeah it was
like two percent I just all kind of sad
I mean another takeaway from this I'm
seeing from grim and this tracks
perfectly and it's just again it's a
beautiful I know it's early but a number
to counter all of the spin and
propaganda Bernie Sanders biggest
problems with Democrats who make more
than $100,000 a year right now I have a
graduate degree because it's class
politics and then as of now to the
fuller layout is that among
african-american voters as you said 32
Biden 28 Sanders I would assume very
soft Biden will see I mean I think the
big question is Harris she's at fort
percent uh and then you know get Booker
at six Warren at four O'Rourke at for
someone else at four but you also have
to ya understand that with the rest of
the people in the field like Harris on
down the a name awareness is going to be
extremely low you know my sense would
actually and I I think though I think
this is anecdotal but I think Harris
that really applies to so we'll see with
her she might have a really high ceiling
but I just think Cory Booker is someone
who's relatively been in like the
national profile since like 2005 I don't
think that bodes so well it's surprising
to see him 4% like with beta or auric
ahead of them because I it's hard to
imagine that he has less name
recognition than beta O'Rourke and if he
does that's also indicative of something
I would love to have Joe Biden and
Bernie Sanders be the two frontrunners
who battle it out I think it'd be very
clarifying on a lot of things and people
couldn't use disingenuous identity
politics as an attack on Bernie and also
according this poll of Harris's 71
percent name recognition so you know
we'll see but that's not that's that's a
lot people are aware of her and I mean
let's I mean not the extent of Booker
but she's been a political star for the
last two years
alright folks on that note I am sorry
callers we just have run out of time we
have still 18 people hanging on the
phone but we can't do it but the show
will be back tomorrow and the next day
then the following Monday then the
following Tuesday and Wednesday and
Thursday and Friday and then the
following Monday Tuesday and Wednesday
and Thursday and Friday
check the New York City do-e website or
when our next vacation is all right
folks see you tomorrow in that state
[Music]
to get to where I want but I know
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
