I don't know what's more disgusting
watching Kevin McCarthy pretend that
none of the past 10 years have happened
or watching Chuck Todd legitimately act
as if he's been completely unaware of
what's happened over the past let's say
10 5 10 weeks 10 minutes 10 hours 10
days the past 10 days let's say here is
Tony Evers Tony Evers was elected
governor of Wisconsin
you will recall he Houston does Scott
Walker you will recall that what Scott
Walker came in on a pledge not to
destroy unions in Wisconsin he went
ahead and destroyed unions ability to
negotiate public sector unions in
Wisconsin he also got rid of I think
BadgerCare at the time and went on to a
point Supreme Court justices in
Wisconsin who would okay his program etc
etc as you know the Wisconsin state
legislature has severely curtailed the
incoming governor his powers enhanced
the Republicans powers hurt access to
the vote in a myriad of ways and so how
would you respond to this if you had
Tony Evers here what are you gonna do to
get this back how you must be incredibly
outraged this is one of the most
anti-democratic things I've ever seen
remember remember now folks on a federal
level Mitch McConnell would go on this
program and say look we can't allow
Barack Obama to have a choice on the
Supreme Court because we're a year out
from when his replacement will be seated
we're ten months out from on a
election compare and contrast when
someone has their the entire system of
government in Wisconsin is altered
during the lame-duck session because
they lost but so I'm not the particular
encouraged at this point in time but is
there it's around scott walker's legacy
he has the opportunity to change this
and actually validate the the will of
the people that that voted on November 6
did you negotiate with them did you say
you know what look I know X is really
important to you I get that but what's
with y&z here was there a y&z did you go
to them and say look III I really think
this part is just crazy
please veto that if you want to keep
this I get it no I I talked about a few
areas that are really important that
actually Republican business leaders
have talked about that that would take
away power and implicate and and make a
make economic development much more
difficult the state of Wisconsin but
that the entire thing is a mess it's a
hot mess and III believe that he should
veto the entire package in fact at least
three or four the pieces that are in
there now he has vetoed previously and
so it makes no sense to me and you know
he's he's been a longtime public servant
and and I am in he he he has a legacy
here so we're hopeful that he will veto
the whole thing I'm curious after you
were elected and quickly we heard word
that the Republican speaker and the
Republican majority leader in the
legislature there were considering these
bills did you reach out to them
personally before the bills started
going and and if you did what was that
conversation like well I met with Robin
vos the speaker much before those words
came of that rumor came down the pike
now I am and had a chance to talk I mean
it was last minute as one of these
here's a rumor and then here's of hers
the bills that have been worked on for
several months but you know Chuck yeah
if Scott Walker he didn't won this
election which Scott Walker had won this
election we wouldn't
sitting here talking to you today is
there any part you know one of the
things that the speaker said he goes
well in hindsight maybe we gave the
governor too much power
take the partisan hat off a minute all
right I know yeah perhaps many people
read that quaza for one second okay just
really contemplate this all right the
voters of Wisconsin have voted out these
people so the first suggestion in the
second suggestion by Chuck Todd is but
did you have like a man-to-man
conversation with these guys and say
come on guys what are you doing this for
come on come look I'll give you a little
bit this you give me a little bit of
that as if like what the voters voted on
was not was not enough right that the
obligation is you because you just won
the election so of course you need to
placate the people who did not just win
the election I mean this is just I
there's a pathology here there's a
pathology you would never never see this
in the reverse yeah and nothing he did
would placate them regardless of course
not he goes without they would laugh at
him they would laugh at him I brought
you a big lunch compassion hey how about
some of those cheese things that we're
so free we're famous for and brought
some luck Roy's yeah what are those some
those cheese nubs what are those the
cheese not cookies curds
yeah that's Wisconsin I brought you some
cheese cuz that might be what Schumer
would tell him to do but probably not
the best idea
Tony Evers I know you just won the
election do you ever think about going
over there bring some coffee he's
bringing him a cup of coffee and here's
some donuts and just being the nice guy
in the office let's see what else now he
twit now now he's not went out we're go
back a little bit because now he's like
really starting to go like well maybe
you really dropped the ball here
maybe you Walker I won this election we
wouldn't be sitting here talking to you
today is there any part you know one of
the things that the speaker said he goes
well in hindsight maybe we gave the
governor too much power
take the partisan hat off a minute all
right I know that that perhaps many
people read that comment tongue-in-cheek
but do you believe he's right well there
are things in that bill then it really
had nothing to do with giving Scott walk
or anything so no I don't agree with
that you know we have balance power in
the state of Wisconsin the legislature
and both sides a Republican I'm a
Democrat the current generals a Democrat
no III view this as completely different
than the what Robin vos please and that
is that it we are trying to invalidate
the will of the people who people of
Wisconsin then voted for me because they
know that I was four good schools and a
good transportation system and good
health care they didn't they didn't they
didn't elect me to fight over
administrative powers in the in the
state of Wisconsin visa vie the
Republican majority no I think this this
this gets us off to a bad start night I
I think it's a mistake but we will
continue working to get to people
Wisconsin to convince Scott Walker to
think about his legacy and make sure
that he vetoes this language Democratic
congresswoman Gwen Moore said the
following the legislators who engineered
this coup their actions amount to a
smash-and-grab hijacking of the voters
will you think who is the right word
here oh my god well it's as always it
seems it seems strong but the fact of
the matter is as it just said if Scott
Walker had won this election and he did
not I did we wouldn't be sitting here
talking about this today we wouldn't
that we wouldn't be talking at Scott
Walker wouldn't be sitting here talking
about jeez they're they're trying to
they're trying to balance the power here
so no I I think it is you know it's
directly related to the to a win to by a
Democrat and that be me and and we we
needed we need to have this in that we
need to have this vetoed one of their
rationales the line of questioning here
is just stop i honestly let me give you
a chance there is a there's a
congresswoman from wisconsin she's black
and she said the word coup don't you
think that's going too far
don't you think
that's going too far not the problem
with let's say we're going to shut down
the majority of early voting not the
problem would say that we're going to
strip the the the the the Democrat who
because won the governorship of powers
in terms of like the Business Roundtable
not because we're going to limit your
capacity not because we've taken the
Secretary of State who used to have a
staff of 50 of 50 people to work on
Elections not because we took that guy
and put him in the basement of the State
House with one employee but she said the
word coup don't we need to bring the
rhetoric down I mean this is just I mean
it is that is a pathology like look at
what they're actually doing look at what
they're actually doing in that
Statehouse look at what they're doing in
Michigan but there is a is a coup the
exact word that you'd want to use to
describe it can we spend more time on
this we did the coup make sure we're
getting the tone right yeah I mean what
they're doing is blank okay and that's a
negative blank but isn't what's
important is that we describe it in such
a way that isn't too offensive to
anybody isn't that what's really
important have this infant that we need
to have this vetoed one of their
rationales has been well governor like
the Ebers margins all came from two
cities Madison and Milwaukee we have to
represent the rest of the state what do
you say to that charge and more
importantly you want a very narrow
election how do you reach or how do you
reach across this divided state at this
point what caused it
are you effing kidding me are you
kidding me
the reflectiveness is just bizarre how
do you reach across the state oh I know
how about not during the lame-duck
session
we don't try and strip me of all my
power is that one way to reach across
the aisle God are you kidding to be the
all-time bad Chuck Todd cliff this is
but I got news for you folks they'll be
coming day I don't know if it'll be in
two years six years or you know in three
weeks when Donald Trump will not be
President
maybe it'll be because he just can't
take it anymore maybe his heart will
give out
maybe he'll lose an election or lose it
generally maybe he'll do that I that I
don't think he's kept anybody out of
office maybe he'll lose you know he will
serve out two terms would it one day
there will be no Donald Trump and you're
gonna expect that the media is going to
understand what just happened and how he
was enabled by the darling Paul Ryan and
the the old institutionalist Mitch
McConnell and etc etc and you're gonna
think ah the media they know better now
I want you to go back and look at that
clip over and over again until you
realize they don't they won't there is
there is gonna be no moment where you
can say like glad that passed now
everything's gonna be better than normal
yeah now and also you should also
understand if you're one of those people
who only recently engaged in politics
this type of crap has been going on for
at least two decades at least
it may have been worse during the Bush
administration probably worse because
you know George Bush was not was was
part of the the elite and was much more
well behaved than Donald Trump born
again except for I mean except for the
except for the killing in the hundreds
of thousands of people aside from that
part much better behaved you know they
say it's not it's not the war of choice
that kills the hundreds of thousands of
people it's the manners accounts
