[Music]
let's do a little bit of apps time
before we go so I mean look the big
takeaways about Jeffrey Epstein are it's
a stand-in for the total rot of our
society
the main thing obviously is that Donald
Trump's labor secretary Acosta gave him
a horrifying sweetheart deal when he was
a prosecutor in Florida basically let
him off with less than a slap in the
risk for pedophilia and human
trafficking and we know that Donald
Trump in a profile written during when
when there was it was a very popular
thing to write these gatsby s profiles
that was always the the hackneyed turn
they would use with who's this Gatsby us
figure Donald Trump said something to
the effective I loves women almost as
much as me many on the young side to
paraphrase well here is Donald Trump and
again you know this look there are so
many things endless things floating
around Donald Trump most of which I
completely believe uh we'll see you know
we'll see what this yields but this is a
good methodology a good set again this
is this is how he lies this is how he
turns and this is how he you know
connects with his cult well I knew him
like everybody in Palm Beach knew I mean
people in Palm Beach knew him he was a
fixture in Palm Beach I had a
falling-out with him a long time ago I
don't think I've spoken to him for 15
years somebody should ask what the
following yeah oh yeah that's that is
quite a good question what was your
falling-out with the human trafficker
that you both shared a love with women
on the younger side about Donald Trump
years I wasn't a fan
I was not yeah a long time ago I'd say
maybe 15 years I was not a fan of his
that I can tell you I was not a fan of
his so
I feel very badly actually for secretary
Acosta because I've known him as being
somebody that works so hard and has done
such a good job I feel very badly about
that whole situation but we're going to
be looking at that and looking at it
very closely we're also going to be
signing a big contract in a little while
so we're good to see you in a little
while
in a different room and a different part
of the white house so actually yeah I
think he is actually a little bit
uncomfortable about this so okay here's
what we know we know that Epstein got
sweetheart deal for these charges we
know that he accumulated a huge social
network in academia and science and
politics we know that everybody from
Bill Clinton to Steve Pinker to Chris
Tucker on the flight like logs at the
plane and we know that there's specific
allegations against a member of the
British royal family and I believe also
against alan dershowitz
allegations that's what we know now we
know that he's been arrested again and
has a whole new set of pedophilia and
human trafficking charges and we have no
I mean and again we also know that
Acosta gave him the most lenient
two-tier justice a deal imaginable oh
here's the Trump quote as is Trump on
Jeffrey Epstein I've known Jeff for 15
years terrific guy 15 weird how the the
the term 15 keeps coming up yes it's
almost like that son also the I think
the accuser was 15 when she ended up in
yeah I'll go into that but anyway you
could read the quote he's a lot of fun
to be with
Annie and and it is even said that he
likes beautiful women almost much as the
I do and many of them on the younger
side no doubt about it
Jeffery enjoys his social life that's
that bone chilling to quote okay but so
this is what we know and even if you
want to just say hey this is you know
this is this could implicate any number
of Republicans and Democrats it could
there is one person in American national
life
who from everything that we know of has
absolutely nothing to do with Jeffrey
Epstein and that is of course Barack
Obama what do you do if you're FoxNews
and you're dealing with this story do we
have that clip well you're gonna try to
do a Hail Mary pass about Donald Trump's
labor secretary letting a human
trafficking pedophile get away with us
less than a slap on the wrist who are
you gonna try to blame I think you
guessed it of what went on and and the
situation down in Florida with the cost
of just taking a total look here or with
Epstein excuse me well I don't think
people are taking a total look at this
because there's a lot of kick a lot of
things that go into these decisions a
when there's someone like this involved
this does not skip Washington that means
the AG knew about it
that means the investigative agency the
FBI let's go Steve Losey said some of
the faves and the Democrat Party on
administration right the nature of
political campaigns and how they are
sort of how we do campaigns here means
Obama was campaigning in 2008 I wasn't
actually in office then that was the
point that man is summarized the
Democratic administration right it's not
just a Casta making a decision like this
other factors go in if there was
corruption then every investigative
agency
all right so Lawrence B Jones and harris
faulkner think through I think the only
problem is is that George W Bush was
still President Obama was non president
and in fact there is no indication that
George W Bush administration in fact had
anything to do with this well we know is
that Acosta was responsible for this the
current labor secretary under donald
trump and his capacity as a prosecutor
that guy I forget his name ready but
he's from campus reform so that tells
you about Emmett which is basically like
the Pepsi to turning-points USA
definitely group you could trust I'm
sure it is funded through
Roots mechanism reading from a political
story the one weird court case linking
Trump Clinton and billionaire pedophile
this is about Virginia Gill free who
filed a civil suit
what says Guthrie formally Roberts claim
she was fifteen and working as a towel
girl at Trump's posh Palm Beach Club
when she was recued recruited nearly two
decades ago into sexual slavery by
socialite Jesus Lane Maxwell then
Epstein's girlfriend right weird that
fifteen keeps coming out of his mouth it
is actually extremely bizarre I Sam
mentioned yesterday I mean there was
somebody who came forward
