so just you know going back to the the
the theme that we were talking a little
bit with greg sargent in the interview
today the the notion all right and we
you know the notion that somehow a that
that in just criticizing Donald Trump in
just criticizing not even criticizing
his policies but criticizing him the
person saying he's rude essentially like
he's rude and uncouth is in any way
constitutes being a maverick like yeah
the the word itself is just sort of
almost nauseating just because it was so
associated with with John McCain but
Mitt Romney comes out with an op-ed and
says I am me virtually says nearly says
I am in lockstep with you on policy in
fact when it comes to immigration I want
to remind you during the campaign I was
actually to the right of you on Paul on
immigration policy but I'm in lockstep I
will vote with you 98% of the time he
says and but you're really rude and you
have no respect for the office of the
presidency this guy Schmitt right
I mean Murphy rather Murphy this guy
gives away the game a little bit Murphy
here because he says that MIT Romney is
putting down a marker I'll tell you what
he means by that now are some of us
completely out of line
to think whoa you know we've lost the
whole Republican Senate has lost bob
Corker they've lost Jeff Flake Rahm
let's see Alexander Lamar Alexander is
now a lame duck if you will not running
for reelection but in the closet now you
should know if you're listening to
there's a picture of departing Senate
Mavericks bob Corker and Jeff Flake
now Jeff Flake I think there was one or
two votes in the final two weeks of the
last term of the Senate where he in any
way did something that in any way
implicated the outcome
I don't know that it altom Utley made a
choice because I think in one instance
Pence came in and provided the vote but
bob Corker to my mind did zero in terms
of anything other than talk about Donald
Trump these people are not they're not
poets they're not like they're you know
like the the reason why you listen to
what they say is because it gives you an
indication of what they might do but
after two years of them not doing
anything why do you continue to listen
and if Mitt Romney announces here's what
I'm going to do exactly what Donald
Trump wants me to do however I'm going
to say mean things about him it is
useless useless less than useless
because it provides cover and content
for this kind of nonsense I battled
slahser the Republican Party's brand
which should be all of fascism white
nationalism there's a lot of people
whose civic engagement is gonna be like
are we sure this what they're saying
about the Republicans isn't true oh well
look we have guys like generally these
guys well these are like parting Senate
Mavericks now the new generation of
Mavericks is Mitt Romney who was
announced that I'm not going to do
anything I'm just going to say things
and Ben Sasse who has been there the
entire time doing nothing nothing but
continue running for reelection but in
the current Senate there are so few
Republican critics willing to stand up
and here you have Mitt Romney who agrees
with the president a lot of issues on
domestic policy but disagrees with his
character with his demeanor with his
approach
you know to public life in general is
this the opening round of a potential
2020 run you know I don't think so I
mean I publicly said I think Mitt Romney
ought to be President I'd love to see
him run but that's not what this is
about this is about putting down a
marker I think what's interesting though
is and somebody has been brave enough in
the past to call out the president on
his misbehavior and when frankly he acts
against our national interest mit sounds
publicly like a lot of senators I've
heard privately yeah okay well the value
of these private senators is even is
probably even more is probably more
valuable than than the public thing
because Romney's already announced he's
not going to do anything different but
but when Murphy says he's putting down a
marker what he's saying is Mitt Romney
will not challenge the president in a
primary what he will do is pretend that
he was challenging the president for
these past two years and in the event
that the president's not there he'll
step in as the guy who was challenging
the president that's what he means by
putting down a marker I just want
everyone to know that I was appearing to
be on the right side of history and he
disagrees very strongly with his
demeanor his demeanor has been just
really bad your whole approach to public
life Donald that's just but it's just
off-brand
but I think that the that's that is it
for these people right like this is all
they they just see it as like a series
of kind of spectacles and affirmations
of sort of like kind of almost like
American Civic religion that's why they
always have a melt like george w bush
giving michelle obama candy right
funerals is more important than even
remembering what was in the patriot act
right like a let alone debating the
merits of like this is such a massive
new surveillance state it's like greg
sargent may have some optimism that the
press has learned a lesson but i am
quite sure that the press revert back in
such
so quickly to the default position the
moment that Donald Trump has left the
office I'm telling you they're gonna say
that Mike Pence is some type of great
statesman the most disturbing maybe not
the most disturbing but an incredibly
revealing pieces of content I couldn't
say I think of maybe one I think Alex
Wagner talking to David Axelrod would be
an example of this
there was the period in between the
inauguration and you had like including
people I mean obviously the never Trump
Republicans who obviously were you know
they hadn't done the complete departure
yet but a lot of mainstream probably
democratic pundits we're doing like the
you know what I really hope is that when
he gets into office he'll just feel the
gravity of it and he'll really change as
a person like in a ways that like not
only we're contradicted by everything
Donald Trump has ever done but also like
defy the laws of almost like psychiatry
like to the extent there are like it's
just like no somebody in their 70s does
not change all of their life habits when
put in a highly stressful situation when
it'll probably race saw the desk and
then I knew I need to change I saw that
he general had a man then I've been they
looked better than Tom Cruise and I
realized I should say racist
anymore
they were so hot I was so hot and I
can't assault beauty queens anymore and
I can't say bigoted things about
Haitians or Mexicans because I'm the
president and then I downloaded fresh
air on my iPhone and I tweeted out that
we should respect Ramadan we don't know
Romney which of course exactly which of
course would be enough for these people
you know that's the thing if Donald
Trump celebrated Ramadan and was like I
like fresh air with Terry Gross and
every single thing else he did with the
exception maybe of some things with
Putin these people be totally cool
like I hope he rents her that all vague
said I would love to see Mitt Romney run
for president we totally should he's
enormous for the country training for
the cut yeah totally use a little comic
relief but even if we are gonna think on
Romney's level here if anyone's a
maverick in terms of demeanor within the
Republican Party it's still Trump like
sorry right being transgressive like I
said before isn't necessarily good but
you know he says the dog whistles out
loud and the rest of them do not I just
don't think you should get credit for
being a maverick when you're the only
person who's acting like even just a
remotely close to being a human being
and in public above you know in the
Republican Party that's like one of
those things like you know if you want
to volunteer step forward and everyone
else takes a step back well and he's
it's like they're doing the media bigger
favor than they're doing the Republican
Party it's right because they allow the
media to fill nonsense content and
continue these fictions
