[Music]
the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
back to this program the distinguished
professor of English and journalism at
Brooklyn College City University of New
York author of 10 books including the
New York Times bestseller what liberal
media the truth about bias and the news
Eric Alterman Eric welcome back to the
program thank you
I think Eric that I probably first read
you it's quite possible it seems to me
that I first read you maybe just as I
was leaving college or a senior in
college about Elliott Abrams 25 some odd
years ago well it's an honor to be
considered part of your education Sam
well yeah I wrote about Elliott Abrams I
guess I would say I have obsessed with
Elliott Abrams but I sort of am I first
I was at one time it's fair to say back
in 1986-87
I wrote a Syrian writing about him and
and then he when he was running El
Salvador and Nicaragua and Guatemala I
guess he could call that Central America
policy on for in the State Department
under Ronald Reagan and then he became
briefly famous or rather infamous
because of iran-contra and his timing
lied to Congress and on television and
then disappeared for a while
showed up again under the Bush
administration the second Bush
administration where he helped undermine
the Palestinian elections on the
National Security Council he was put on
the National Council because he was
understood that he would never be
confirmed by the Senate having been
convicted of purchasing himself before
Congress and then briefly he was
expected to be named the number two
person under State Department in the
trump administration that he was chosen
for that job but and he was lobbied for
by
sheldon adelson who usually gets what he
wants from the top administration and
Jared Kushner but he was vetoed by Steve
Bannon for being a globalist in this
case that doesn't mean Jew although it
helps but now he's back for the
umpteenth time like an undead zombie
being put in charge of Venezuela policy
by our current Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo
now now let's I mean let's I want to I
want to start with his most egregious
things that we know of anyways and then
you know and you've just laid out sort
of like the the times he's reared his
head the I think the most egregious was
his work in Guatemala if I'm not
mistaken right in terms of of supporting
what ultimately was deemed by a UN
sanctioned or overseen reconciliation
committee Commission in Guatemala as
being a genocide tell us about that um I
brought up some notes I can just read
you something I've written it hasn't
been published yet it could be published
in LeMond diplomatique in a few weeks
where I went through the main points of
what of Elliot's guilt with regard to
Guatemala El Salvador Nicaragua Panama
and then later Palestinian issue do you
mind if I read this circuit let me know
please by all means okay Guatemala in
general frying Rios Montt led a coup in
March 1982 Abraham's then Assistant
Secretary of State's Human Rights soon
credited him with quote considerable
progress on human rights issues and
insisted that quote the amount of
killing innocent civilians is being
reduced step-by-step that's a quote
familiar in fact according to a
Declassified document the State
Department had already received what it
called well-founded allegations of
large-scale Kilian and killing of Indian
men women and children in a remote area
by the Guatemalan army
even so Abrams demanded that Congress
provide the regime with advanced arms
because quote progress needed to be
rewarded and encouraged in 2013 in Weber
Rios Montt was convicted by the
Guatemala's Guatemalan un-backed
Commission for historical clarification
of committing acts of genocide
that's a quote but against the
indigenous people of the Ixil region in
the department of TJ i think it's
pronounced hmm Oh while he was defending
these this regime it was committing what
is now legally determined to be genocide
I'm going to go on we're still in
Guatemala promoted to assistant
secretary of state for inter-american
Affairs Abrams repeatedly denounced
organizations protesting the mass
murders perpetrated by Rios Montt and
his successor Oscar may ha victorious
and then Kenji oh sorry so are availa in
April 1985 Maria rho0 Godoy Cuevas a
leader of the Guatemalan mutual support
group an organization of mothers of the
disappeared was found dead and her
brother and three-year-old son
with her brother and three Olsen in
their wrecked car Abrams not only
supported the government scarcely
credible claim that the deaths had been
an accident but also brought legal
action against those asking for an
investigation in New York Times op that
challenged the official State Department
account of the mass murders it was
written by a woman who had witnessed the
death squad style assassination in broad
daylight in Guatemala City which had not
been mentioned in the press Abrams world
a letter to the editor in a barefaced
lie he cited an imaginary story and in
non existant newspaper to prove the
assassination had been reported in
Guatemala in and my understanding at one
point - there was there was a situation
where the the general had overseen the
bringing in of these indigenous people
into a I think it was a church and
literally slaughtered them and
slaughtered all the men by decapitation
and then proceeded to Rey
all the women and the I mean this is
something that Abrams must have been
aware of right I mean there's no way
that he wasn't aware of this well he you
know he didn't want to believe it I'm
sure he had reports of it and he chose
to ignore them gorgeous believe them
and so as we know the State Department
was getting reports on this yeah right
and and so in this there were similar
maybe not as explicitly established
dynamic throughout Central America El
Salvador and we were talking and then he
was out there's the famous case that was
brought up by representative Omar
although really appeared to know what
she was talking about but she didn't get
the facts wrong when there was a famous
massacre in a place called el mozote a
very early in Reagan's efforts to try
and support the regime there it was
reported in the New York Times in the
Washington Post and and it was a vicious
effort by the Reagan administration and
its supporters particularly The Wall
Street Journal to try and undermine
those reports because they were worried
that it would people were still
sensitive about Vietnam and they were
worried that reports of a massacre as it
had done in me lie in Vietnam would
undermine their ability to fight a proxy
war there and again Abrams insisted that
the reports were not quote-unquote not
credible to a Senate committee and it
appears that the incident is at least
being significantly me Missy is good at
best by the guerrilla so he was saying
that the times in the posts were the
puppets of the communist guerrillas
there in fact this another truth
commission this one in El Salvador found
5,000 civilians were deliberately and
systematically murdered in that place
most were women and children many were
raped you know you can't imagine a more
horrific scene it's a shame
representative Omar wasn't more familiar
with facts because Elliot got all huffy
and said he was being maligned but it's
a matter of fact and
a calm disposition of them as I just
given you would have mailed his asked
but yeah I guess I mean but at the same
time the reason why we're talking about
this and that is quite know that the
value of and
absolutely I just I just wished someone
else on the committee had followed up
well it would be nice but they probably
knew even less frankly I mean let's
let's be honest I mean this is not the
the idea and you know I don't want to
jump ahead of ourselves because I want
to talk about this dynamic where this
guy does not seem like you know it's one
thing to to question why he hasn't been
tried
you know like along with the many other
you know sort of arguable and I think
you know Elliott Abrams is on one end of
the spectrum of the arguable war
criminals that we have had over the
years in terms of our in our farm policy
apparatus but the idea that he's going
up there and he's not going to be
challenged on anything I mean the guys
lied to Congress right like he's
approval yeah liar to Congress and yeah
lying to Congress is pretty minor
compared to the engendering of genocide
I would say I agree I would say that's
not been called to account for any of it
and so he comes back Oh what there's two
there's two there's two really
disturbing things about avers and
presence in our political discourse I
think one is is that he he was chosen by
the Secretary of State killer soon to be
the number two man in the State
Department and this was treated in the
press as an example of a responsible
Republican yeah he lied to Congress but
but he's not one of these Trump crazies
and second in this case Abrams is being
vigorously defended by people like
William burns who was the number two
person in State Department under Obama
and max booth who is a leader of the
never Trump errs again a neocon
they member and of course standing in
the resistance and these these his role
in the genocide is being ignored now
there are other people you could have
you could accuse of engendering genocide
henry kissinger being the most obvious
I suppose Dick Cheney as well but we
don't have legal grounds for it in any
of those cases we've got legal decisions
here particularly by the Guatemalan
tooth Commission Eliot was the
responsible officer in the States at the
time and he's on record and yet no one
cares and this has been well covered I
know this stuff in part because I read
it in the New York Times when it
happened and so yes you lesson from this
is you can commit genocide or you can
help commit genocide you can engender
genocide as a government official in the
United States and be treated perfectly
honorably by the press by the Council on
Foreign Relations by the Jewish
establishment where this very popular
speaker among synagogues he's quoted
almost every day on a website that sends
me a news Bush every day Jewish and
signer so long as you have the right
patrons so long as you've made the right
friend so long as you you know go to the
right cocktail parties Elliott is on
record saying some of the worst things
I've ever heard an American officials
say and participating in them and he
didn't you know he did it as an
apparatchik he wasn't a grand strategist
the way Kissinger was or vice president
and secretary of defense relay Cheney
was he was just some punk doing this
because it's his career and he didn't
care in the slightest bit about the
moral impact of it which it turns out is
genocide just like genocide was
committed against the Jews
just like genocide was committed against
Cambodians just like genocide was
committed in Africa we all talk about
how you know we have museums we have
conferences we have palms we have
prayers and yet
here's a guy who's in part responsible
for it and we have no problem so it is
supposed to say hypocrisy of the
American foreign policy establishment
and the Jewish establishment to the
Greek like nothing else does I've tried
to write that article about the the
moral vacuum at the center of these
institutions and I haven't been able to
do I can do it in the nation right and
I've done it six times in the nation but
I've wanted to do it in mainstream
publications and in Jewish publications
and it turns out to be impossible what I
mean what is it you know like I'm
looking at like a series of tweets you
know ranging from like you said Nicholas
Burns to the the Center for American
Progress is not a national security VP I
mean you know write that one with that
was a record
okay well I mean okay so the the public
Proclamation has been removed but the
sentiment I imagine remains very well
fed what what what I mean what accounts
for this durability I mean what did what
what is I mean we saw him Club up you
know the only time the Council on
Foreign Relations has rebuked Abrams was
when he called Chuck Secretary of 10
right Chuck yes I can't even remember
his name now but he was Secretary of
Defense under Obama right Chuck Hagel
right and aim is called of an
anti-semite in order to oppose him
because he was considered to be on
sympathetic to Israel and and they and
then and then the head of the Council on
Foreign Relations Richard Haass said oh
I'm we're not really comfortable this
he's gone too far
all right well I mean I you know we
could go over to the the period where he
was brought in to but if you attack
people who are also in the club that's
not cool you know there's a famous story
of Larry Summers telling
Elizabeth warning that her ideas are
fine they can debate them support them
or disagree with them but when you start
attacking people who are who are with us
then we can't deal with you and so
that's what Abel's did and that's what
he was rebuked for it at one time I
guess he didn't understand that Chuck
Hagel was also considered a member of
the club having been a senator but
anything else you do it's not a as long
as you're in the club people are going
to protect you and if you start
attacking people like this then you're
going to be out of the club I mean there
have been people who have been in this
club who have been out of it because
their their criticism became you know
too pointed yeah I mean I guess I mean
with what so we just left with that I
mean you know I it's it's stunning and
in many ways it seems to me to the
extent that we have a vacuum of a
genuine left foreign policy right one
way or the demo you know whether you
want even center-left really I mean the
Democrats that seemed to me have just
there has been this I guess they call it
the blob and I can't remember who made
that that they created that term but
that's that's basic Obama was it Barack
Obama who talked about the foreign
policy blob he certainly doesn't seem to
get outside of it no let me let me pick
up on this I know what you're saying I
agree I began my mic straight out of
college career working for the Institute
for Policy Studies for a man named
Richard Barnett who was the leader a
leader of left-wing foreign policy
thinking of what I wanted to be when I
grew up I also greatly admired a Harvard
professor named Stanley Hoffman who was
considered sort of the anti Kissinger
had Harvard and I thought originally I
was thought I was going to make my
career doing the same thing Barnett was
he was it was pretty mainstream even
though he's quite left-wing he was then
the New Yorkers foreign policy writer
and people took it seriously but you're
right that that that the left-wing has
attenuated in this position it's
basically embraced Obama's foreign
policy ended up being sort of
old-fashioned conservative policy now
that the right wing has become so crazy
the old-fashioned conservatives or
liberals there was a moment you know I
bomb a-- he picked his battles and I
would have picked different battles the
battle he didn't pick was taking on the
foreign policy establishment until the
very end of his tenure when he talked
about the blob and he got a little
impatient with Israel but when Obama ran
for the Democratic nomination he ran
against this whole foreign policy
establishment where we have to intervene
everywhere and where military power is
is all we have to sell and he accused
Clinton of of representing it and at the
time I don't know how well this was
known Richard Holbrooke was running
Clinton Hillary Clinton's foreign policy
team and he was telling everyone if you
work for Obama he will not get a job in
the Clinton administration Hillary can
ministration of 2008 and he scared away
everyone who had these ambitions with a
few exceptions one of them being
Samantha power and another one being a
close friend of mine named Sarah Sewell
who together did most of Obama's foreign
policy right during the administration
and so a bunch of people including some
people associated with the Center for
American Progress took a risk and stuck
with Obama against Hillary in the hopes
of rethinking foreign policy from a
liberal perspective and Obama sold these
people out when he chose Hillary Clinton
could be secretary he vetoed a few of
her choices he wouldn't let her bring
Sidney Blumenthal into the State
Department but basically he he said the
the the the moment the opening he had
created
he decided was not a battle he wanted to
fight and so The Blob took over again
and towards the end he tried to fight it
a little bit ben rhoades writes about
this very well in his book
but that was a really lost opportunity
there's an article in the nation
apparently I believe about my friend
Matt Gus yes who is Bernie Sanders top
foreign policy adviser and Matt first at
the Center for American Progress where
he left I used to work with him there
because he felt uncomfortable with his
Middle East policy which he was in
charge of sort of then a foundation for
Middle East peace and now and Bernie's
office he has been not only trying to
rethink strategic ways to counter the
plot but also to come up with new
concepts and and I'm I'm critical of
Senators in a lot of ways but this is
the best thing he's done I think is is
not only challenged the precepts of the
foreign policy establishment but also to
try and rethink what new liberal
internationalism Eric Alterman always a
pleasure thanks so much for coming on
man I really appreciate
