so Erica you're running against a
sitting Democratic Representative
carolyn maloney
in the 12th district of new york tell us
a little bit about new york's 12th
district sure it is the only
congressional district in New York City
to span three boroughs it's about the
east side almost the entire East Side of
Manhattan as well as Midtown it also
represents Astoria and Long Island City
in Queens and Williamsburg and
Greenpoint in Brooklyn it's really
vibrant and diverse district there are
Naija housing complexes as well
and it is a really changing district
which is why we need new representation
that reflects the changes that we're
seeing in district 12
how is district 12 changing well you
know right now the median age for the
district is 35 so you know we are seeing
more young professionals moving into the
district we were seeing people who are
relying more and more on public
transportation seventy-five percent of
people who live in district 12 are
renters and so you know it's a lot more
people who have every reason to be
transient and and yet we want you
especially as a representative show them
that district 12 is a place that they
deserve to be putting down their their
roots and settling and we need to make
sure that the district as well as the
city as a whole is a place that welcomes
those people and so ok so let's talk a
little bit about the the your your
background you you have been in politics
on a state level in New York and in some
respects correct so I work for the New
York State Legislature as an education
analyst and attorney and during my time
there I was able to work with advocates
and experts and elected officials in
staying legislation negotiating budgets
you know in in those rooms with the very
people who create these pods and really
coming together and finding a way
forward to advance our agenda and in
some respects you also had an episode
that I don't know if I would say that it
would anticipate it I mean it was
obviously a dynamic that has been going
on for a long time it continues to go on
but there has been you know at least
some measure of some reckoning to a
certain extent but you resigned in 2015
why tell us why yeah so you know over my
lifetime I worked really hard to build a
strong sense of identity and self-worth
and that included envisioning a life and
career in government service but in an
instant a power of using man and in fact
one of the most powerful men in the
state at the time took that away from me
by forcing himself on me and I felt that
my best move was to leave government
work all together and it would take
almost three years before I could
publicly come out and say me too but I
knew that sharing that personal
experience that pain and the shame that
I had been carrying was really the first
step in fighting for changes and even
dismantling this broken system that so
clearly failed to protect workers and
this you know public vulnerability is
what led me to co-founding an advocacy
group with other survivors of harassment
and discrimination in state government
and you know together we did some
coalition building with other advocates
and experts who have been fighting for
workplace protections for years and we
secured two joint legislative public
hearings on sexual harassment in the
workplace and they were the first of
their kind in nearly 30 years and a huge
part of that was because of the
partnership that we were able to develop
with new leaders in our
State Legislature especially in the New
York State Senate we had a mazing
dynamic diverse class of freshman
senators who understood wouldn't mean
what it meant to have people with that
first-hand experience the unintended
expert if you will to provide them a
seat at the table and to let us tell our
stories because that is what's going to
help create real strong laws that can
protect workers and we should say the
the man you accused was State Senator
Jeff Klein he was defeated in 2018 by
alessandra Biaggi
and this he of course led the the IDC
which was a group of of nominally in New
York Democrats who would caucus with the
Republicans and in many ways a bottle
necked all sorts of progressive
legislation that one would have
anticipated coming out of a very blue
state like New York yeah that's that's
right and that's why the 2018 success of
bringing in these new leaders was so
important not just for the working group
but for so many advocates and experts in
activists who've been fighting for
things like access to driver's license
regardless of your immigration status
real rent control and tenant protections
and yes even you know stronger workplace
protections against harassment and
discrimination and this shows what can
happen when you have no new
representation of fresh perspective and
bold leadership that isn't beholding to
the status quo or fat-cat corporate and
real estate donors let's talk a little
bit about your issue set obviously
you're you're very focused on education
give me your sense of where the where
education has been both both I mean you
can talk about it in the context of the
state level but really I mean
we are in some ways on the tail end
hopefully of a decade long plus
so-called education reform movement that
was heavily influenced by large
corporate money by the Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation which have subsequently
basically said that our 3/4 of a billion
dollar investment into education was a
failed experiment and we need to return
this to to educators and be a little bit
less less sort of like a data assessing
in terms of a students give us your
perspective on education both in a state
and on a federal level what needs to
happen yeah and I think what you just
said is a hundred percent correct and
what also came with that is this
reliance on mandatory standardized
testing and it's not that I you know I
don't disagree that we need to be able
to evaluate our teachers and our and our
students but standardized testing is not
the answer you know what we're seeing on
the local and state and someone on the
federal level but I don't think enough
is seeking to educate the whole child
and incorporate wraparound services but
how can we sit here and talk about
educating the whole child when we are
still reducing them and their schools
and the school districts and even their
teachers to a single standardized test
score we know that standardized testing
is bad psychometrically it's it's biased
by gender by race by socioeconomic
status immigration status and it doesn't
measure things like school climate and
so sand-like SS socioeconomic status and
you know there are other options out
there there are other opportunities we
see this on the local level in New York
City there are schools called
performance-based assessment task
schools pee baths for short and these
schools have waivers that say that they
don't need to take certain standardized
tests that are actually required just on
the state level and these students are
not only you know up to par
our traditional schools are when it
comes to graduation and rolling in
college but in some cases they're
surpassing students who are required to
take these mandatory standardized
testing and so I think the federal
government really needs to invest and
get him away from the standardized tests
and invest more in educating the whole
child all right we need to take a quick
break when we come back I want to talk
to you about more of the issues that you
hope to a champion in Congress and how
how you differ from Carol Maloney who
you're looking to unseat in New York's
12th district this is a fairly reliable
Democratic district so the the primary
of course is that much more relevant
we're going to take a quick break we'll
be right back right after this
