[Music]
aybe waggles here with some production
tips
he is the political correspondent for
watching poses yeah there's they're a
bunch of us I'm the one who writes the
campaign newsletter the trailer trailer
yes I read that quite a bit actually
faux CIA was sign up and of course he
also back in the studio wanted me there
whispering about CIA yeah we never say
it out loud
oh no I'm more into the NSA now that's
that's my global denomination agenda
yeah that of my master tell him that I
say he's a he's a sellout
michael brooks says you're a sellout he
was upset that you've left the CIA for
the NSA that's right
so you're here in town and i want to
talk about i want to get super meta no
this obviously you're covering the
campaign we will undoubtedly get tips
from you or i should say
dispatches from you in the coming weeks
and months but again people should sign
up for the trailer they can do that over
the washington post site right and ever
if you follow me on twitter the pin
tweet gives you the link to follow up
and but you've been coming to these off
and on for a decade yeah I wouldn't I
didn't go to the two thousand six one I
wish I had which is the first I have
been coming since 2007 to get skipped
three or four of them but I've been to
most of them so there's fourteen I think
I've been to eight of them yeah I think
that's more or less where I've been at
to although I was there in 2006 with the
the first radio thing I don't need to
type that too much the panels were
really big that year I saw they were
there remember there's like a plane I
don't remember cuz I wasn't there I saw
a video of the plane scandal panel was
like twelve people
yes he's putting Joe will there was yes
well that was also a very interesting
era in terms of the the peak power in
some ways it seems to me of the Netroots
yeah like Marcos who
at that time I think was yearly Coast
was getting invited to washing talk to
Democrats yeah it's hard to imagine that
now no roots a part it part of it is
victory right I mean the Howard sorry
Harry Reid's office became sort of the
daily Co Senate office because he had
faster cure he had our he had like a
team that was trained up on on the net
roots and didn't deliver everything
people wanted the base of their I mean
so much of the early net roots was we
got to get Bush out of office that
eventually happened right if I think for
people so so victim it's I think it's a
constant you get really Meadows it
counts a question of is it worth keeping
this institution around forever if the
purpose is in there and never it's now
is there is daily kosis still going
strong
right there's a mine automated group
blogs but basically there's probably
more words written by Netroots attendees
than ever because everyone here is an
activist and they're on Twitter and
they're on everyone seems to have set up
in there there's a lot more
organizations here than there are you
know and that that trend has been
happening for four or five years
interesting this year I get the sense
that because because there is I mean
despite the fact it's sort of like a
wide range of the politics from the
center to the left here having a
president in opposition yeah sort of
changes the tenor of what's going on
here yeah I think it does it's easy to
imagine what it would have been like it
had Hillary Clinton become president
there was a lot of organized that went
on under Obama that was going to
continue but probably in a different
direction probably with less intensity
frankly would have had I think similar
amount of left-wing organizing but not
as much liberal like resistance mom
organizing there wouldn't been a
resistance I grass you wouldn't have as
many people coming on off silence and
some people I've met here actually
looking as if they're gonna be right
next to me which is good radio here
really it's their first time they're
involved indivisible
or they were involved in swinging like a
local state rep race and they heard
about this so it's it's been refueled by
a different kind of movie but I think
the movements actually less left-wing
than it would have been had Trump lost
the election because there's so many
more
I guess the Internet term message to my
head is normies have come into the
movement yeah right well I mean but the
odd thing is is that my sense during
those years when Obama was here is that
to the extent that things were co-opted
a little bit there was also people
weren't as comfortable with people
agitating against Obama yeah and I mean
that's the weird thing about the
politics here like it would be varied in
stitute support here I wouldn't call you
know now like you have you were at the
Socialists conference less institutional
the but there is crossover because you
get someone like aoc yeah who she was
here last year I believe she's not here
this year but the fighting partisan
quality that seems to be associated with
the more democratic socialists which
back in the Netroots day was just simply
like fight yeah like be like I think
there seems to be near unanimity here
that Nancy Pelosi is dropping the ball
and fashion you had more conversation so
far her than I have I've heard I guess
when people are in doubt they just focus
on 2020 but there was a sense that he
need to do is just stop the Trump agenda
I think people who wanted his
legislative agenda be stopped are pretty
happy but you can be happy about
something they need realize the other
problem you have which is so I noticed
and I've seen this in the left for years
because impeaching Trump would mean
Pence's president carrying on the agenda
without the baggage I think that as much
impeachment
momentum but it's more not picking every
fight you can not making everything a
slog for Trump I think it's more that
than Norah that getting in my office I
think it's when they're allowed to roll
how come they do this thing
and we hear about it for two days and we
don't hear about it again because and
I'm the we I'm using now is like the
crowd and never it says we had to watch
Republicans make Benghazi a thing for
three years how computers are dropping
everything exactly yeah or just like in
letting and not engaging like the idea
that you have no comment yeah on Alex
Acosta seriously yeah like what like
what the you don't want the taxes you
could get them from New York Richard
Neal but you're gonna take the taxes the
debt the New York thing I think is in
progress right the New York tax cases
like is actually kind of moving I'm not
talking moving slower no but but Cuomo
signed a bill that said that Richard
Neal could have Donald Trump's New York
state taxes yeah and Neil said I don't
want them yeah
why ya know it
I haven't again has many conversations
here I think once I once I mill around
more that's gonna be the anchor it's
because it's a Pelosi says she wants
Trump to lose and everyone here wants
drama to lose and there's confusion
about what her what her path is because
it seems to be as somebody who's look
her life is making sure that thirty guys
in Trump distance were reelected her
life is haste around those guys the
those districts are actually more
conservative than what you need to do
win the presidency and also she doesn't
seem to be shifting the terms of debate
in a way that the new members of the
House had been I mean I think every of
the squad that we talked about of Ayanna
Presley received Lee bill and Omar after
Alexander cups of Cortes who all of whom
were pretty different amazed he's the
only one who's never served and left
office for now three of them are here
and I don't the fights they have picked
up the ideas they have gotten we will
discuss I think I've been more exciting
than what what blows he's done when
Pelosi has done sent this please left
it's something that the left demanded
five years ago thought it was too crazy
right like $15 minimum wage for things
like that well you know you look at
someone like Katie Porter yeah who on
paper should be one of those Democrats
that Nancy Pelosi is worried about right
I mean she's in you would know this
better than I would but she seems to me
to be in a more or less like purple
district yes
and that a businessman could come
running who was like maybe somewhat
arm's length from joy from Donald Trump
but on board with probably the entire
agenda not how rude Donald Trump is and
she should be in trouble
yet she's outraged just about every
other King like how does not why why is
she so unique in Nancy Pelosi's mind
that that the recipe for Katie Porter
who came out for impeachment doesn't
work for the rest of those vulnerable
Democrats the thing is a lot of them are
raising a ton of money a lot of the
frontline members as they call them
Regardie makers actually have raised a
ton of money I mean I think I noticed
that one of the Republican recruits
raised $500,000 people said they put it
on the on the board but it was Tom
Malinowski who you've not heard a ton
about since it got elected in New Jersey
who's you know I he came out for
impeachment but in kind of sorrowful way
he's been raising half a million dollars
a quarter so all these guys been raising
money the idea that they're going to
lose it's just they're the perpetual
hand-wringing I think is what frustrates
people here right it is this that before
Democrats take any action the sense is
that they imagine how they're gonna lose
they don't imagine the win and it's it's
very Starkey compared to Trump who picks
and loses a ton of fights but he picks
them and through the picking of them has
excited his voters enough that Democrats
complete the loop are always worried
about right right
they're they're not worried about them
the only hit the hell only hesitation I
think might be legit is it turns out
that and Republicans emphasize this too
because they had interest in doing that
so that if you make em backfire there
was some backfire from that Breck havin
all thing and I'm not sure any Senate
vote any Senate vote with it a Senate
race votes but it did excite Republicans
more it turns out but terms that
Republicans are excited if they fight
about if they fight for things right and
they're Democrat responses well they're
excited if we fight for things so we're
not going to let us just play dead we're
going to come over aside by not fighting
this fight
yeah all right so let me go through the
list of people who are here and we'll
get your this is getting a little meta
but it's interesting to see particularly
in the context of a of a presidential
election and in terms of of just where
where who needs these people and what
they're looking for Elizabeth Warren is
going to be here she's had long time
supported in Netroots Kristin Gillibrand
is going to be here Julian Castro jay
Inslee then that's it you have sherrod
Brown jeff merkley barbara Lee Pramila
jeyapaul Ayanna Presley Ilan Omar
proceeded to leave and Deb Holland and
Eleanor Holmes Norton and that's it for
electeds at least you know of federal
positions what do you make of like I
don't know numbers 10 through 20 on the
debate stage is not being here well I
know that the organizers here didn't
want to invite everybody on the debate
stages and they don't want to get too
personal but there are people who might
have gotten the OK reception here or
what a tailor to speech that did pretty
well here and they're like we don't want
to look at some presidential forum it's
not a debate we need to give everybody
like 30 minutes do we really want to
make this a 7-hour thing so there there
has been some surprise so bill bradley
didn't I mean uphill Bradley excuse me
de Blasio did not get an invite isn't
going to Iowans dead but with you know
even with that in mind
like I think we were surprised that
Booker and Harris did not adjust their
schedules to be here it's not that hard
to get to Philadelphia I mean you you
want to fly out as soon as you're done
you can you can cut anywhere and buy and
they were both here last year and they
were both that's the era thing there but
here last year Joe Biden was here as
vice president Bernie was here as a
candidate for president people judge has
never been here but would have gotten a
fine reception and most of those people
decide not to come of the people
if you
look at the fundraising which is now the
bet it is a pretty good yardstick
especially because grassroots
fundraising has kept people and keep
that contention the fundraising of the
top five candidates one is here which is
Warren and so from a media perspective I
think we'll see more people on Saturday
I think but it you the average cattle
call put on by Planned Parenthood gets
19 people in this guy four which is
strange it's it's here
like the Leno and they're all here and
they're all like part of the coalition
wants to hear from the candidates what
do you think that's about
I mean is it is it that people perceive
the candidates perceive a danger in
coming here yeah there are not many
events like this where there's a risk of
being booed
I've even see people take be it forums
where they're not getting a great
reception but there's nothing that would
be used again look there's nothing that
would become a TV clip of them getting
heckled and there's frustration with how
Netroots does not I mean there's the
reason it doesn't fence everything off
but it doesn't prevent people from kind
of busting in and saying how annoyed
they are
right I mean we had that last year not
last year but 2015 or 2012 15 you had
Bernie also 22 and I was trying to think
of what the cause was and I don't
remember what it was it was the very end
of the conference like really the very
like 10 minutes from breaking from
breaking down the conference and there
was a protest of some kind I think it
was just generally not enough discussion
about black people's issues which has
come up several times that came up in
st. Louis that came up in New Orleans
that this was New Orleans so it was
frustration that there wasn't much and
people were confused there like we that
was half the cops right numeira New
Orleans is here activists are part of it
but if you're a candidate you don't want
your guy to get to look bad on stage I
don't think there's any way Biden could
have come here and not look bad I feel
like Joe Biden is the only person who
could come here with a guaranteed
conference wide would be I think sort of
impatient with him let's put it that way
everybody else I feel like there would
be different there would be you know no
there would be no unanimity but there
wouldn't be
I think like sort of a general hostility
maybe I'm projecting that but that's the
sense I get no I think that's right and
he didn't come in 2007 when they did the
first candidate for him so he's only
been here in the the vehicle of a vice
president who was time about how great
the administration was doing that's like
that's the only time he's been here
before
Bernie has never I wasn't never gotten
over it it's like he's doing but he he's
never fully embraced Netroots since
coming here 2015 having protested it
interrupt him right which is again
strange has had that happen before he's
kind of rolls with it but here he took
it personally and he doesn't like that
Marcos's
moderating they don't say that if you
ask the campaign they say that there's a
sensitive reason they can't discuss
what's not here
but you know be at he would have gotten
a fine reception I think even the people
who think that he cost Hillary something
wouldn't demonstrate at all and if
there's a battery if there's a matter
ception who cares right of the store
anything about it once you're president
even though all the problems lie on you
there's a whole security force designed
to make sure no one ever gets to protest
you near you hear they're still you're
still just on the minutes and it could
be approached you could be protested and
the fear people have about looking I
guess looking weak is strange to me
because that's part of the job and the
results of the Bernie heckling in 2015
was that he upped his engagement with
black lives matter the result of Harry
being his benefit yeah the result of
Harry Reid being interrupted in 2010 was
no pressure put on marriage equality I
mean I thought it was sort of like the
yeah that was where we first saw the the
intensity of the the pressure there in
fact it's marriage equality I think
gonna Ask Don't Tell at that point - yep
yeah well Dave waggle it's always a
pleasure I know there's a lot of people
around here looking to protest you yeah
and they're waiting for you to get up
and
and you know as well and operatives as
usual it's there's there's so many cross
currents you get caught in but I will
catch up with you later
it's good to be on the show I always
appreciate it thank you so much thank
you everybody
he can't hear you
I wish you could hear me I know okay and
coming
yes we're live right now
