I mean look we're gonna have a big
problem this and I think we knew this in
after 2016 but we're gonna have a big
problem with increasingly a ill informed
public right and there's there's two
dynamics that they're clearly in effect
during this midterm one is Donald Trump
is trying to motivate his base and it
does seem to be working to come out and
vote by scaring them with notions of a
caravan of who knows how many hundreds
it could be people by the time they get
to the border but they are now on foot
over a month away on traveling on foot
there are now 5200 US military personnel
with helicopters and barbed wire there I
guess ostensibly waiting for them
spending hundreds of millions of dollars
it's anticipated this is gonna be this
little Kabuki theater is going to cost
should let me have the parade there you
go we shouldn't let him have the parade
but and and I'm telling you this right
now you're not gonna hear much about
this after Tuesday cuz it's just not
gonna have the salience maybe at one
point Trump wall now it's like we scared
him off we scared him off so we're
bringing the military home one of the
dynamics is going to be what it tells us
about this country in terms of their
motivation based upon their disdain for
brown people the other thing is is have
Republican candidates successfully run
from the fact that the Republican Party
wants to destroy the good stuff in the
Affordable Care Act patient protection
bill
I have said many times the best parts of
the ACA PPI were the patient protection
initiatives that is pre-existing
conditions you cannot be denied
insurance and you cannot be overcharged
for insurance as a way of denying it you
cannot have lifetime caps you can't have
yearly caps you can't have rescission in
other words you have health insurance
that's taken away when you need it
you're under 26 you can be on your
parents programs there are certain ten
essential benefits that health insurance
must provide to actually constitute
insurance that's being undercut by the
garbage that Trump is giving waivers for
but nevertheless and like I said there
is a republican-led lawsuit against the
US government which the DOJ has argued
in favor of as opposed to defending
against that would do away with all this
in the meantime you have Republican
Congress people all of whom voted to
repeal the Affordable Care Act and get
rid of those things and now they're
trying to pretend that they didn't in
states republican-controlled States you
had Republican leadership denying the
expansion of Medicaid remember the first
year out that expansion of Medicaid is
zero dollars it cost the states down the
road it can cost up to 10% of the cost
goes to the states here is a clip of a
debate this happened last night or this
weekend Thursday or Friday of last week
in Ohio's 12th district Danny O'Connor
is the Democrat running troy ball derson
is the Republican is ball derson a
sitting he's not a sitting congressman
is he
and but listen to Danny O'Connor I have
a feeling this might be a district that
is not flip but a one where we've have
resignation but here
here it is do you also oppose Medicaid
expansion because one in every three
people in Muskingum County are on
Medicaid so that means if you're
watching at home tonight look to your
right and look to your left
Troy ball derson doesn't want one of you
to have health care you need that health
care we need that health care to ensure
that we can fight back against opioids
folks with breast cancer need that
health care so that they can live to see
their grandkids people who work hard who
paid their taxes who do everything right
need to have health care so that they
can live a happy healthy and safe life
but when you have folks like Troy ball
derson who want to take that health care
away you can't do that when I'm in
Congress I'll fight for you I'll fight
to make sure that your pre-existing
conditions are covered I'll fight to
safeguard Medicaid expansion because I
know what it means to people here in
Zanesville Danny when we did the state
budget and we look at everything and I
served on the Finance Committee when we
did this over 50% of our state budget is
Medicaid so what do we do we go in and
we look at it there are other ways there
is reform methods in the state
legislature we have reformed Medicaid we
have looked at we've addressed issues we
have saved 200 million dollars in the
last three GS
working on Medicaid and making cost
welcome that's how much a life is worth
from someone you can you can still
provide health care this is not about 20
people in my skinny or a my i want
health care for everybody if i want
health care for everybody i want
government for working people and we can
do and why do you want to throw people
off their health i'm not going to throw
them off for health you just said you
opposed medicaid expansion that's not
the monster that is not you're throwing
him off their health care but Medicaid
where the indigo that is not throwing
them off their health care one who we
have we're fairly we have fairly
qualified health centers in this
community well use that counties don't
even have doctors the accessibility in
your old Senate district has a doctor
all you got to do is go on google and
you'll find them okay okay let's move on
and I posit so this is just a turd it
exactly now he is the sitting
representative in Ohio's 12th because
Tiberi resigned and he was a
did I think just this in in this August
just to fill in this special election to
fill his seat but he was a former troy
ball dashing with former state Rep and
the bottom line is if you're going to
throw people off their Medicaid and you
don't have a plan to provide them with
some other type of health insurance I
don't know where you're gonna get the
money from if it's not this federal
program that's going to come in and pay
for it but they have had to adopt this
position and now they find themselves in
this rather unenviable position where
they thought for seven years as the
Republicans were voting to crash of the
ACA and it was just a sort of it was a
mantra and now it's clear that they have
no other plan they're the only thing
they can say it's generically speaking I
don't want people to lose their health
care but in terms of everything I'm
proposing it's for people to lose their
health care so they have a bit of a
problem and the best they can do is just
sort of smile and look you know must
smell him anxiety sweat him and these
two apparently these two ran against
each other in August in that special
election and apparently O'Connor lost by
something like 1,500 votes out of
200,000 votes so we just want to take
the last 30 seconds of this again yeah
let's just do that because it's a and I
I don't even know in August if this this
exchange had the resonance it has now
because we're seeing this across the
country where you know in in Arizona for
instance where the Republican is just
like can't you know literally lying
about the votes that she took and just
hoping that the people here like the
reporter said but but you took that vote
and
whining to Sean Hannity about it right
there kicking my ass for it exactly and
we can do and why do you want to throw
people off their health I'm not gonna
throw them off their health you just
said you opposed Medicaid expansion
that's not the monster that is not
you're throwing him off their health
care but I don't have Medicaid where
they any go that is not throwing them
off their health care what we have we're
fairly we have fairly qualified health
centers in this community or use that
counties don't even have doctors Danny
there are the accessibility in your old
Senate District has a doctor all you got
to do is go on google and you'll find
them okay okay let's move on unless you
have something to add congressman bonus
I have nothing to add okay there you go
Wow he even got the dissappointed
principle treatment from the moderator
right that's brutal
you had anything else you'd like to add
you've been totally humiliated you're in
a sweat now your lies are so transparent
and embarrassing or even the liberal
shows that will mock you later for this
will be uncomfortable watching you right
there any attempt you'd like to make it
a recovery here I'm assuming no because
that was pathetic backs damn it the cut
back to the moderator seemed like
something out of Vicksburg er actually
oh definitely that was real life maybe
that maybe the camera guy watches Victor
gur videos but that is that's the
dynamic that we're seeing across the
country I mean there are the other
dynamic is that you have like some
candidates who are literally saying the
Republicans saying like that the
Democrat is more aligned with Trump than
they are but that is the dynamic that's
happening for the most part Democrats
are leaning on health care as a major
talking point and good that's what they
should have been doing all along well I
mean that's I think that's what they've
been doing in these races
chata a lot of evidence that that's the
case
