[Music]
like I say the Republicans are on their
heels here is Scott Walker who was a
creation of the Koch brothers through
the AFP this is Americans for Prosperity
he was one of the early states to adopt
voter ID and vote suppression tactics on
voters and he also oversaw the
redistricting in Wisconsin which allows
for Democrats to win 56% of the vote and
yet control only 36% of the Wisconsin
Senate you heard that right here is
sitting with Pete hagseth talking about
the coup that is taking place in terms
of redistricting I mean there's so much
better at this in some respects but God
Ric Holder facing backlash for what Wall
Street Journal editorial board is
calling a quote redistricting coup
Holder is part of a national
redistricting Action Fund that's
launching initiatives across the country
to throw out Republican maps and turn
districts blue in time for the elections
and they've already had success in North
Carolina former Wisconsin governor and
finance chairman of the repository the
success they had in North Carolina was
because the Supreme Court found what the
Republicans did there was racially
gerrymandering well he literally just
admitted that their Republican Maps
exactly yes in North Carolina former
Wisconsin governor and finance chairman
of the Republican National redistricting
trust Scott Walker joins us now
remember how he's fighting back thanks
for being here governor great to do with
and I hear you played the drum so if you
want to join a little rally go over at
some point you can but this is this is
serious stuff it's it's
it feels like you're getting in the
weeds but you're fighting for the future
of maps that matter for who wins
elections and they already have I mean
Eric Holder has been at this for years
they have this whole suing - it's blue
mentality they're doing until the
district is blue right so until it's
blue so even in a state like North
Carolina where Republicans are in charge
of the assembly and the Senate the two
houses there they've gone to court and
over the years they've gotten involved
in Supreme Court races so now the
Liberals Eric Holder's team now controls
who's on the Supreme Court North
Carolina and after the federal
government the US Supreme Court said
they weren't going to get involved with
this it's now in every one of the states
so North Carolina is one of the many
states where holders been doing this for
years you mentioned North Carolina
here's a statement Eric Holder put out a
possible and have the fact that Eric
Holder has the ability to stack the
Supreme Court but can't get anybody
elected on the Statehouse I wonder why
that is
I wonder why it is Democratic voters can
elect the supreme court justices in
North Carolina but they can't seem to
take the house in the Senate I wonder if
that has something to do with those maps
that the Republicans drew here's a
statement Eric Holder put out about
those maps on September 27th he said
from nearly a decade the people of North
Carolina have been forced to vote in
manipulated electoral maps that were
drawn by Republicans in the legislature
to create a partisan outcome it's time
for this era of gerrymandering in North
Carolina to come to an end he says he's
just fighting for fair maps governor way
the irony is if you look at the for me
files they are s they actually say not
that they're fighting for fair maps they
talk about giving Democrats and
advantage in this this is what this is
all about his efforts last year in 2018
even before the next census in 2020
already had an impact on 27 different
House seats so in large part because of
what Eric Holder and his cronies and
he's got a lot of support with Barack
Obama Barack Obama's organization
organizing for America is now a part of
that as well they affected making the
elections in 2018 effectively making
Nancy Pelosi not Kevin McCarthy the
speaker yeah I just want to give you the
opportunity to look at the face of a guy
who is knowingly lying
and doing it with just total ease and I
mean this is this is terrifying stuff
it's terrifying to me
to watch a guy lie no he's lying not
only know that he's lying but know that
he was instrumental in all the
components of that lie in all the
real-world things that he was lying
about he was instrumental in in in
creating and yet he just sits there
maybe they paid for his flight in to New
York or I don't know maybe his election
trust team oh I'm sure he's getting paid
by some PAC super PAC that has hired him
to go around and do this stuff no doubt
