[Music]
you are calling from a 702 area code who
are you where you coming from
702 my codes bocalee hey how you doing
bro flamingo I have a bone to pick with
you my friends listen you already beat
me to the point I got two things I want
to talk about Mike I definitely
apologize for not mentioning you clearly
forgot I'm very sensitive you well you
you dissed me again you forgot I mean
I'm a sensitive guy he was just I was at
the moment I'm sorry by the way
excellent excellent takedown of Rahm
Emanuel very informative I really liked
that's probably my favorite Michael
Thursday I heard it cools very good yeah
I'm I am and um but what do you have on
your mind though what's what what's
really thinking okay Mike oh I'm sure
you heard cuz I know this you know you
talked all about the politics bump sure
you've heard about Donald Trump and he
basically said hey you know I'll take
foreign intelligence you know my against
you heard all that stuff yeah mice
here's the problem you know at this
point Nancy Pelosi is doing basically
political malpractice at this point
he has to be impeached it has to be some
punishment on the table now at this
point Mike you know we've been in the
basically been in the trenches for a
long time now all we're getting is like
lip service a lot of lip service you
know we all know in prison XYZ we need
we need punishment that is I just really
really quickly bro flamingo I'm glad you
said that because I know you know part
of the reason I cover some of this stuff
less is not be I think actually some of
it is very important but I actually
think you know and some that I thought
it gets overhyped and other parts of it
are you know the value of each of us are
finding different things to cover and
talk about so that more people are more
informed about more things but I just
want to say that I think the idea that
comment about he should be in jail there
are three
which that's a disaster because number
one I don't think frankly and this is
where I will be like a squishy liberal
while Donald Trump I'm sure I mean look
Donald Trump probably should have been
in jail for years right I actually think
that people should be very wary of
mindlessly aping when he says that if
you have any interest about preserving
any of these so-called norms and I'm
gonna say that things like not jailing
political opponents is a hell of a lot
more important than a quote unquote norm
livre yeah I know yeah Lulla Libre I
don't care about norms I do care about
not jailing political opponents frankly
so right okay so that's one thing now
the second thing is if she's saying that
from substantive place which she could
very well be then that well then that's
insane that she's not impeaching him
because if somebody if you actually are
saying other than some t cheap you know
talking point trick that a president
should be in jailed and you have to
impeach them immediately and third you
know one of the reasons that I you know
my position is and I I have not had a
strong feeling about impeachment one way
or another until Rashidah to Lib said
impeach the because I like
that ethos frankly and I just think it's
like do it or don't and every day that
they don't do it they look weak they're
miss reading history and it's it's
embarrassing that they come out and
throw those little trinkets like oh he
should be in jail which is by the way a
problematic thing to say in and of
itself if you're not going to justify it
and ludicrous if you're not going to go
for impeachment so anyways that's what
I'd say but but the problem is though
might actually right by the way but this
is all across the boy at this point now
for exam I'm talking about people like
from Brett Kavanaugh to brock Turner to
the police
to set a tangent in himself well you
don't punish these guys this is what you
get we get a lot of no thanks kidding do
whatever look I get it you're saying
that in my dad you know you've seen
political landscape all the liberals
must be but those in the room whatever
problem is it's also political you're
supposed to punish your political
enemies this is what happens when we
there it's a negotiate with these thugs
and rapists okay basically at this point
Mike you're absolutely and we're seeing
any kind of pick generations but here
you know in a schism in the party yours
dude I'm saying but at the end of the
day people want material tangibles
people like material material tangibles
uh punishment and justice okay cuz no
because what we see now Mike they're
saying we reset the brown shirts IATA
ice going at the Latinos okay so they
did with the domestic police thing I'm
sorry to interrupt you but that's
another thing frankly that really you
know and this gets into the tension of
the fight between supposedly left and
liberals though I have to say I just
don't accept I think especially if you
watch his speech yesterday Bernie's been
very clear about these things but that's
another thing you know make your pick is
Donald Trump this unprecedented
dangerous ocher which in many ways he is
in other ways he's just simply the
product of capitalism and all these
other things in my opinion but if that
is the case then you can't treat him
like you're in just some kind of normal
tussle and I think that you know that
there's a certain part of the democratic
and media establishment you know
Venezuela is an amazing example of that
you know to one hand say that this is a
racist and competent and then entertain
the idea of supporting a reach regime
change effort that he's in charge of
majest so even setting aside ideology
it's just so unbelievably incoherent and
it's gonna be effect you know it's gonna
end your and you know you're gonna be
rightfully pissed off by that I mean I I
agree with you I just really feel like
at this point no you know my dad after
the comments yesterday it doesn't want
to jumping-off point being go up to
abortion or that's what I did the file
to me that was the final straw at this
point look we are the future okay did
the baby boomer is in order you know in
all the Dixiecrats and Klansmen like
biting soft claims and I'm sorry too
soft plans okay but these guys they got
to be punished now or call to the carpet
for their mistakes at least at least
Bill Clinton hold for his trash I think
he apologized for Biden's crying but I
was able he had a sense you have had if
I grew to you people need to be held
accountable and we need to fight and I
appreciate the call thanks man
appreciate all right take care okay is
this the sound this is apparently Donald
Trump you know to be honest with you I
don't I mean look if this is how we want
to play okay but it is another
reaffirmation that to the extent that
this guy has any conscious process about
anything that the extent it's not all
just you know pure just nonsense and
garbage running out of his stupid mouth
the only pattern to his behavior there's
a pattern of of certainly bigotry goes
back to the Central Park five and then
the other pattern is generating immunity
for himself and I do mean immunity so
you know look there was all this
controversy about the last election and
I'm gonna double down on you know taking
information from from foreign sources
now you know let's just see what he has
to say the sound is off guys do we need
to reset this okay I'm just not sure
what's going on there guys you got it
all right if you have it now we don't
even need to reset it all right you
ready go sundown jr. is up before the
Senate Intelligence Committee today and
again he was not charged with anything
in retrospect there the way not only
wasn't he charged if you read it with
all of the horrible fake news I mean I
was reading that my son was going to go
to jail this is a good young man bet he
was and then the report comes out and
they didn't even say they they won't
even touch it you know going to the FBI
when he got
okay let's put yourself in a position
you're a congressman somebody comes up
and says hey I have information on your
opponent do you call the FBI his son is
not a congressman you do I've seen a lot
of things over my life I don't think in
my whole life I've ever called the FBI
in my whole life
ah you don't call the fo yo see that's
the real like sometimes you got to do
business it's Sammy the bull have you
you build big buildings things don't
happen if there's a rat I think I might
one you do I've seen a lot of things
over my life I don't think in my whole
life I've ever called the FBI in my
whole life I don't you don't call the
FBI you throw somebody out of your
office you do whatever got a stolen
briefing book he called the FBI well
that's different
stolen briefing but this is their bleach
bit email these emails from a foreign
intelligence service that's not like
notes from another campaign thing I love
how he even see basically he says the
thing that's way less important than
what I'm talking about yeah that's the
one before it all he knows is he needs
to make a distinction it doesn't matter
if that distinction actually helps him
when you think about it absolutely
everything but this is understand this
is somebody that said we have
information on your opponent oh let me
call the FBI give me a break life lesson
the FBI director is wrong what campaign
this time around if foreigners if Russia
if China if someone else offers you
information on opponents should they
accept it or should they call the FBI I
think maybe you do both if somebody
called it's a win-win from a country
Norway blahs information Norway ain't
trying to help you get reelected huh
let's be very clear about that
yes president Trump you have Norway we
have information on your way oh I think
I'd want to hear
[Music]
parents they have information I think
I'd take it if I thought there was
something wrong I go maybe to the FBI if
I thought there was something wrong but
when so which I mean if they were
against us right well that I just that's
that's the marker I wanted to lay down
because I get you know less in a tizzy
about these things frankly in a sense
that you know if if if and you know no
other campaign would ever handle things
the way Trump does but my point is is
that if information somehow filtered in
in a non-traditional way that benefited
your preferred candidate I'm you know I
know I'm sorry we live in this world I'm
not sure it's the end well korban was
helping Bernie somehow well actually
that was a major controversy when Bill
Clinton was running for for office the
major government I don't remember
specifically what it was but they I
think they leaped things related to his
draft resistance or draft-dodging which
was supposed to help George HW Bush I
mean you know even pretty relatively
benign things like that are not unheard
of and of course when you know ROH
Khanna he hasn't introduced it again but
I remember I think in 2017 he introduced
a bill saying hey we should just make it
illegal for the CIA to do anything that
Russia is accused of doing he didn't
have many co-sponsors so you know let's
again let's be real and have like an
adult conversation about this stuff but
the important thing here is that he's
laying down another and to me this is
the as far as I'm concerned this is the
real marker of his lawlessness okay yes
broadly and publicly saying I'll take
information from everybody yes that's a
problem but the real problem is is
exactly what Matt just said is that his
metric would be if this Bennet if if the
same arrangement happened with any other
campaign he be caught calling for them
to have their citizenship stripped and
be sent to like the archipelago so
that's the point is is it's another you
know double standard you're up against
the more under ways of you know having
to deal with Trump is really dealing
with somebody who does not even pretend
to have a cursory respect for our
institutions I mean he is just
functionally
their appearance in our elections it's
not an interference they have
information I think I'd take it I
thought there was something wrong I go
maybe to the FBI if I thought there was
something wrong but when somebody comes
up with Apple research right they come
up with up or research oh let's go to
the FBI the FBI doesn't have enough
agents to take care of it but you go and
talk honestly to congressmen they all do
it they always have and that's the way
it is
it's called Oppo research so that's by
the way we'll say that is a pretty the
difference between Oppo research which
is hiring somebody to dig up information
versus direct data slightly different
thing yeah there's this weird thing
where it's sort of like this stuff does
interest me especially like in the pre
Trump era these sorts of stories were
very interested in right like the Knicks
and stuff about the Paris peace talks
like the actual like well not actual
this is actual - which is dumb also but
there's this like is this weird thing
where it's not a surprise that he would
say like you know everyone does it and
it but it's it's almost a relief that
he's saying it out loud like at least we
can like top use this as a way to have
conversation I almost think he brings it
up because he thinks everyone is gonna
be so uncomfortable and will be afraid
to actually talk about it right but
that's not our problem really like this
is this is basically just red meat for
us it's I mean and it's it really opens
up the door for and it requires some
subtlety of thinking right like when he
said the thing about you know Putin and
he was like what you think we're so good
or something you know something that
effective like you're gonna come
Lorelei's me about what Russia does like
are you kidding me like you think we run
like a daycare center and you know what
was so revealing in the response and the
only smart response what you know one
was there's definitely a part a huge
part of his constituency that's
represented in how the right conceives
of itself now
and fits with ice and fits with
lawlessness and fits with racism and all
the rest of it which was to basically
say like yeah exactly and we'll go and
kill and murder whoever we want and in
fact they have been in civilian
casualties of spike they're supporting a
genocide in Yemen Yemen but then this
sort of establishment Aryan conventional
liberal response was to get into West
Wing mode and pull out the sniffing the
smelling salts and just retreat to a
fantasy about what the United States is
in the world staged in a way that not
only is historically illiterate and
politically foolish it's actually quite
offensive to human beings across the
planet and the one you know correct
answer and I freaked I think maybe Alex
Perrine put it which was like you know
yes it is funny that Trump sort of
sounds like Noam Chomsky but no
Chomsky's point is that that's a bad
thing
nots like not a hey get off of my case
we kill innocent people too
whatever so the point is is to you know
take those so yeah look if Trump is a
launching off point for a whole set of
conversations about how we interfere in
other elections about how Russia is
interfering across the globe how China
is interfering across the globe how
political consultants are used the Nexus
I mean you know huee is gonna be another
major thing here and one of the charges
against who way is that they are working
in concert with the People's Liberation
Army to project Chinese foreign and
defense policy if you don't think that
the NSA and other aspects of national
security establishment have some
collaborative relations with Google and
Apple at certain points I would say that
you're being you know off-the-charts
naive so you know it's not to either
indulge and go down to the muck level of
Trump which is what even some people I
think have been irony poisoned to have
done weren't even on the right but then
you can't you know we can't West Wing it
because a lot of these things he says in
his own stupid disgusting way are true
and so we have to have like the hard
work of actually figuring out you know
how to actually deal with these problems
including you know electronic and
campaign interference and so forth
because we do it
everybody does it to the extent they
have the capacity to do it and it's only
gonna get more of a problem you know as
we move I mean my god we're worried
about social media bots in campaigns
wait till we are dealing with 5g in
smart cities and you know I mean the
problems that could arise out of this
you know in terms of misinformation you
get really deep I mean there might need
to be to the extension you know
international law works a Geneva Accords
governing things like surveillance and
drones and stuff like that you know
those are the terms that we need to
start to thinking versus how dare he we
would never do what was that that's
right not America this is not America I
mean you know you could just you know
the next time somebody you know Joe
Biden that's his shtick but like and you
know everything is America yes America
is of course a philip Randolph and
Martin Luther King jr. and the
accomplishments of FDR and the dissent
of Eugene Debs and the an activism of a
more Fred Hampton you know of course
it's an enormous Lee complex country
that has in you know some amazing
traditions and capacities but it's also
like you know I mean just on its face
this is not America about the
Charlottesville rally when the to
material building blocks that allowed
this whole thing to flow out where a
genocide and the slave economy is just
you know again morally wrong
historically illiterate like what the
hell does Joe Biden mean I mean
literally what do you mean you know
because all of these things are
demonstrably America
