[Music]
speaking of people whose contribution to
public law we just talked about
negligible contributions to public life
let's go to want someone whose overall
impact in public life might be
unintentionally positive because by how
absolutely stunningly relentlessly
horrible she is she's both good for us
in terms of the analytics and numbers
and is a literal walking living
breathing case study against all forms
of inherited dynastic power of course
I'm talking about Meghan McCain and
Bernie Sanders as he continues to do
look we know that he's the leader on
inequality on health care on justice
when no one else was talking about these
issues when actually people were
fighting for the other side of these
issues like Joe Biden but now we're
gonna have to acknowledge that he's a
leader on foreign policy the yemen
resolution is actually historically
groundbreaking the Trump administration
continues to support a genocide will
campaign there his leadership spin
massive in that regard and I would
actually say asserting the right of
universal suffrage is a radical
absolutely necessary
politically extremely risky and you know
cynics and cornballs like Cory Booker
will take shots at him for it but it's a
brave brilliant stance that every single
person in this country even if they're
in prison should have a right to vote so
props as always to Bernie Sanders and
Megan McCain is not happy I think you
should be but given the death penalty I
mean that's where I'm at with this so
people can act and I or I American soy
food in your mind domestic terrorist
yeah terrorism is here yes of course
what about those guys who say just
school's up also they should show
molesters I'm trying to tell you what
Bernie Sanders said is going to be
turned into a clip there will be you it
upset me morning how do you like the
fact that people out to vote Abey and I
didn't have brothers that serve multiple
times and I didn't watch my brother
deploy when he was 19 to fight this crap
too
have them come here and give the radio
can we all do an eye-roll contest this
is mine that's just like an assault of
just like there's something about
there's there's very you know weirdly
she reminds me of Thomas Friedman in a
sense that it's both just like this
aggressive stupidity like it's like it's
not just that I'm really really really
stupid it's that I'm like we're like
that's what a Thomas Friedman column is
like it's just like oh my god I have a
bad taking a bad taking a bad ticking
boom-boom-boom like Thomas Friedman goes
to the mall
Thomas fruit and did you see that it's
exactly except he did it's a real one
did too but and did you notice how I
always forget her name the good person
that's nice yes sunny you know so Sony's
trying to point out that like this
actual this happens in Vermont like the
policy dimensions of it and she's just
like my brother he's bulldozing over
like the actual point of the
conversation so I guess you got to give
her some props to mention her brother
instead of her dad yeah it's good to mix
it up a little sometimes yeah mix it up
she should just keep talking always I
think she's socialism's best
advertisement I could not agree more
he definitely makes our jobs easier yeah
she makes our jobs easier and I think at
the end of the day if you want to know
why we need a Sanders presidency and
some fundamental structural change just
watch a couple of clips of Megan McCain
because no decent society would allow
that to exist I mean in a good society
with tax inherited wealth maybe Megan
McCain might have had to like you know I
don't know work some like actual regular
jobs and like learn to be like a decent
human being and the way she says you
know this is gonna get clipped
guess what Megan is somebody who clips
these sorts of things for propaganda
purposes be my guest
go ahead and clip it yeah go ahead clip
away you know what else is gonna get
clipped yo that's what also is getting
clipped on a daily basis while you say
these relentlessly nonsense takes malice
Bernie
