yes folks back from the west coast
Brenda and I were out there at this
weekend for politican which I thought
John Fugelsang there and he had the best
description of it for me he said it's
like comic-con but with a lot less
integrity and he he was right it was a
it was a bit of a freak show I mean it
was nice there were there were plenty of
fans out there of the majority report
and of of TPMS and antiphon
of course literary hangover which was
nice to connect with some of those
people
it was also super creepy to be you know
walking around and seeing Bill Kristol
walk by or Ann Coulter or some guy
wearing a three-cornered hat wearing a
full Patriots outfit and not being for
the Patriots the football team I mean if
you do if you dress up like that as a
mascot that's ID you know okay I mean
theoretically right you're getting paid
for it and it's it's a its tongue
tongue-in-cheek but there was there was
a lot of that name but it was just it's
very creepy to be walking around I find
I don't like you know walking around
folks like Bill Kristol I mean if he
won't you know obviously he needs to
walk and he's allowed to walk but I own
Beulah Tory yeah there's like a there's
an expectation in and I don't you know
you know I don't want to I don't put the
you know the the people who work on the
conference on the spot you know they're
just volunteers but when they're like oh
do you want to say hello and I'm like
absolutely not no
actually people fall in tear to work at
this thing well I don't know if they're
volunteers I don't think they're
volunteers but they they they're just
people who go to work I don't think they
do it for free
no I think they get paid what I need a
but I mean like they're they're people
they're not they don't work for the
venue I think they work different I was
talking to somebody who's like I wasn't
gonna do this one then I decided to do
it and so volunteers the wrong word I
was gonna ask who pays to go to this
thing a lot of people I don't know and
but it was it was strange the whole
thing was strange we did two panels one
was on Mike Pence and it was really not
so much on Mike Pence as much as or
directly on Mike Pence as much as it was
on the question of like would it be
worse to have Mike Pence as VP and
actually our guest from on Monday show
the pre-recorded Anand Anand gear dhatus
was on that panel at least Jordan who
had worked for condi rice and now
actually makes a point of saying that
she don't longer identifies as a
Republican and the author of a of a
biography on Mike Pence and he was
interesting we may have him on Mike
Pence is a sort of a terrifying figure
according to his biographer
he is the most powerful he is the I want
to say he is the the theocratic aend
more power in America than any other
theocratic ountry or he's the most
theocratic person to attain that type of
power
I mean he's full-on theocratic and I
think I knew that but I didn't hear it
quite as explicitly and that was
actually an interesting conversation I
think and and we had another one the
should we be socialist panel that had no
socialists on it and I
when she decide well the interesting
thing is that there was nobody arguing
for you know because there was no
socialists on the panel no one came out
and said we should be socialists I think
this panel is gonna be running on c-span
at one point but the argument sort of
broke down more into sort of like
tactics and I feel like it was an
interesting crew of people Bakari
sellers Markus Meletis Kyle kolinsky
David Pakman and Ana Kasparian
and much of it sort of fell along the
lines of of of tactics and you know
should joe manchin I don't know what
there was should Joe Manchin
everybody agreed that joe Manchin should
be primary but then after that there was
some other sort of like we need to get
rid of Joe Manchin
and then it was unclear to me how that
would happen outside of a primary but
there was a there was a lot of that
which is not to say that people were
defending Joe Manchin but I think the
argument was in terms of well I don't
know I don't know what the argument was
really I mean and I was the moderator so
that was I did my best and but but it
was interesting nevertheless and that
would there was a lot of people there
and Kyle kolinsky had a huge fan
contingency there and then on Sunday I
debated Charlie Kirk from turning-points
USA and you guys played the clip of him
freaking out with uh with jank with Jack
we also played him demand the banking
war
okay so later in the program probably in
the fun half we will I think we're gonna
do the whole debate at an accelerated
speed like literally run the debate at
like one point three times speed but
we'll do some running commentary like a
DVD extra I will say this though just to
give you a sense so I the own
I saw that debate I mean I think we saw
like like five minutes of the debate
with Hassan which is where
actually Charlie lost it with with jank
I guess in the question answer period
but that was the only clip that I had
really seen because it was on Twitter
and so I and we had a fan sent me a link
it's not hard to find a link to the
turning points USA tax filings and it's
a 990 form and you can see it for the
whole years and so I wrote I had some
notes and they were just basically you
know things to remember to bring up and
I and I probably should have organized
them different because there were some
things I forgot but on the outside of
these notes I wrote TP USA 990 form
yes that's in 990 a and I don't have
during the debate you can see I'm like
flashing it like this and before the
debate when I you know when we met
Charlie I I asked him about I said yeah
I heard you got into big squabble
yesterday with um with jank and he said
yeah and I said what was it about your
pay or something like that and he said
yeah yeah we were talking about okay and
then I go because I looked up your tax
filings and it's pretty amazing for
million dollar budget you can only make
$27,000 a year he's like yep
and I was like for 65 hours a week boy
you should see somebody about a raise
and then he was like well actually no
it's more now and I said oh so you gotta
raise this year he goes yeah yeah and he
goes in and in 2017 it was forty nine
thousand dollars no but well that's not
what it says in your 990 he's thanking
me yeah I should talk to my accountant
I'm like yeah you should and then I said
and I also noticed that you're shipping
your postage it's two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars a year that's a lot of
money on postage he's like yeah we send
out a lot of kits to colleges oh my god
and one point 1 million dollars for
travel I do think I mean it probably
would be a bit of a favor for Charlie
on some level because it sounds like his
accountant may have messed up on that
pay thing maybe I looked at it wrong but
I was pretty sure it was - 2017 990 and
you can ask for more audited expenses
I think that's public because it is a
tax-exempt organization because they
don't do any campaigning supposedly and
so that was it was it was fun just
telling him that he should probably get
his accounting done but that was that
was all behind the scenes stuff and you
know I was just joking around with a guy
and he's he's very well behaved offstage
yeah leave it on the field yeah yeah Lea
totally leave it on the field and but so
we will go through the the debate later
oh boy yeah that should be fun I'll give
you a sense of what I was thinking and I
have to say like I don't know if people
have seen it and they may skip our
assessment of it but I would say I give
myself a b-plus I feel like there's a
couple things I could have done better
and then there are things I could have
done you know you know it would have had
to have hit like a Grand Slam so you
know - the Grand Slam and there was a
couple of points I think I could have
done a little better but overall I think
I did fairly well and I think it's uh
this is actually this is someone clipped
this this was a fun part so
there was a segment during the debate
and it was this the bank I don't know
what this isn't bacon yeah yeah what I
mean there were a couple of places
during the debate we'll go through this
in real time but Charlie seemed to be a
little bit confused about how banks make
money and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau the reason why
Republicans ostensibly
want to get rid of it is because it's
too independent because Congress does
not fund it so they can't inhibit its
operations by cutting its funds which is
what the Republicans want to do because
it's funds have were set up in such a
way to insulate it from those kind of
attacks by lawmakers who may want to
help out the big banks the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and I got
this number wrong during by a by a 0 by
a factor of 10 since 2011 really I guess
for the last four five years after that
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
saved consumers almost 13 billion
dollars billions with a B and the
funding to operate the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau comes from
fees paid by banks not unlike the FDIC
which is you know sort of which is
basically depositor insurance federal
government backstop sit but there's some
fees associated with it but and the way
a bank makes money is they loan out
money at an interest rate higher than
the interest rate they give their
depositors there's that arbitrage and
they make that money in between often a
bank will loan out even more money than
they have but there are capital
requirements that the US government
insists upon so that you don't loan out
too too much money that you don't have
nevertheless
those fees are paid by the profits the
banks make the Delta between what they
pay out an interest in what they take in
an interest
Charlie didn't seem to have a really
tight grip on that uh money he doesn't
just sit there in the bank Sam so
somebody took a small clip of that audio
wizard Rumsfeld again lizard roms
festival and he player on Twitter yeah
this is pretty good and as you know or
may not know I play Hugo on the show
Bob's Burgers and here's a scene that
lizard lizard' Rumsfeld took the audio
and put it into a scene with Hugo and
Bob what is the budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank now okay so so
forcibly take money you went on to say
forcibly take money from depositors
which is not actually how that works
that is really good
