folks did you know that your phone can
be a powerful force for change with
credo mobile it can because credo
donates a hundred and fifty thousand
dollars every month to groups like
Friends of the Earth the ACLU and
Planned Parenthood switched to credo
mobile the carrier that stands for
women's rights the environment social
justice and so much more
learn more at credo dot-com slash
majority that's credo dot-com slash
majority
conference rooms of any Elise
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday August 13th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today city
planner Porter - the former city planner
urban study teacher at Hunter College
author Samuel Stein on Capitol City
gentrification and the real estate state
also on the program today the judiciary
committee the house judiciary committee
begins to investigate
Jeffrey Epstein's death and as Trump
launches his war on legal immigration
polls show more and more Americans want
to grant more legal status Trump
administration attacks immigration
judges Union meanwhile and more and more
signs point to a Texas that's in play
new report shows that half of the
distributed 70 billion opioid pills were
handled by only 15% of pharmacies and
congrats America bulletproof backpacks
see a 300 percent spike in sales
meanwhile the Trump of finalizes his
attack on the endangered-species Hong
Kong protests continued unabated an Ohio
man found with 25 guns 10,000 rands
rounds of ammo after making threats
against the feds
lastly the Catholic Church and Boy
Scouts about to be slammed with over 100
sexual abuse suits all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
welcome to the show it is Tuesday
Brendon is back with us
Jamie of course is here matt is of
course here and Michael continues his
vacation unabated we shall see I mean
supposedly supposedly what it will be
back tonight with a brand enjoy grade
right and wow that's so I would put the
chances of him being at home right now
lying in bed pretty high it's gonna
forget yeah he's gonna accident do his
own livestream from his coach yes he's
probably right now like oh wait a second
I can I can help I can be more patreon
content if he comes back chilled out
super fine I've done some research I got
someone to for free look at an analysis
of what my patreon content plays the
vast and it's actually a 12 dune so I've
got to do a livestream anyways
[Music]
competition would start kicking in
[Music]
tomorrow we'll go over that progressive
voices video so I just want to draw your
attention to that last story that I I
mentioned that on Wednesday in New York
State there will be hundreds or at least
a hundred but probably close to 200 at
least
lawsuits filed against institutions and
individuals for sexual abuse that has
occurred in New York State between the
late 1940s and early 2000s at the very
least we know of a hundred cases 75
against the Roman Catholic Diocese
across New York the rest against the Boy
Scouts of America and Rockefeller
University there are there's a law firm
that's contemplating filing another five
hundred additional lawsuits this is
coming out as a function of the passage
of the child victims Act and it
basically gave a one-year window to
suspend the statute of limitations and
allowed people who were children who
were sexually abused to file lawsuits
and at the time in fact I think it was
just literally when we did this
interview on April 11th 2019 we were in
Las Vegas for the for the mass torts
conference where we spoke to a bunch of
trial lawyers and sometimes we speak to
other advocates and what not one of
those advocates we spoke to was Bridey
Farrell and she was a an Olympic figure
skater speed skater excuse me and she
had apparently it was a fairly well
publicized or was assaulted sexually
assaulted by another figure skater
and she became an advocate to push for
this child victims act when we sat down
for the interview and you can find this
on YouTube it's Sam live from Las Vegas
de 1mr live for 1119 I think if you'd
have to search for it
and she explains the whole dynamics here
but that was right I think on the day or
the day before her day after Andrew
Cuomo had signed this bill and so check
that out just to follow up and the
implications of these legislation you
know stuff makes a huge difference makes
a huge difference this type of
legislation type of activism that brings
this stuff about she been working on
this for I don't know maybe a decade the
specific piece of legislation and now
you're gonna have over 500 people maybe
more who are going to in a many
instances it may be about trying to
recover money in other instances it may
just be about trying to get some type of
closure and and hold people who have
raped people who have sexually assaulted
people hold them to account and this
this concept of opening up the courtroom
in this instance it was about statute of
limitations that would been unfairly
limited not only with the statute of
limitations there was a one-year
moratorium but it also expanded from
like if you were assaulted under the age
I think of so New York at one point
prior to this bill had one of the
nation's most restrictive statutes of
limitations survivors in the state had
only till the age of 23 to file civil
lawsuits the average age that victims
disclose their abuse is 52 from when
they happen as children and so now you
have until the age of 55 to file civil
claims I mean a lot of this sounds like
so obvious but it wasn't the case
and part of the reason was frankly the
power I think of the church to limit
this and the law is a very very powerful
tool and one of the interviews that we
have actually over the course of our
vacation is about the law basically
creating the market but you see it in
the case of every aspect of our society
I mean it's a fairly obvious thing to
say but people lose sight of this stuff
I think a lot and how that law gets
implemented and adjudicated obviously a
function of the courts so let's take a
look at let's turn to something else
here for a moment this is one of those
stories that is there this story is
doing so much work for Fox & Friends the
opportunity for them to become pedantic
in a way theoretically I mean towards
black people but also as a way of all of
them sort of saying like see we're not
racist as long as black people behave
the way that we want them to behave
we're good with that and and what we're
people what's that and poor people well
and put and then there then the other
work it's doing for them is it's also
showing that like it is a rare instance
right because you put something on TV it
by definition news where you see poor
people who actually exert who show some
type of actual morality and
righteousness and or a sense of place
right and this is and a sense of place
and this is a perfect example of the
lack of morality that poor people have
because this is the exception the
exception proves the rule
this instance I mean this is doing so
much work yeah these are the special
ones who deserve charity right exactly
this is encore and also if you reach a
certain bar you deserve charity but
that's it right there we can't have any
type of comprehensive addressing of
these problems but let's listen to the
clip first and then we'll talk more
about it it's a picture of three kids
probably my guess would be ranging from
like five to seven to eight maybe who
are in a their own their three kids in
their own prayer circle they're wearing
uniforms school uniforms and here we go
and look at this photo of the siblings
praying before the first day of school
well this is going viral and you can
understand why because it's the story
behind the photo that is truly
incredible the Harris family lost their
apartment just a day before the picture
was taken in Louisiana
both parents also recently lost their
jobs despite that the family stays
faithful and optimistic saying we pray
for everyone a GoFundMe page is helping
them get back on their feet they lost
their apartment they lost their jobs and
their kids another family we need to
have on the show bless their hearts they
lost their jobs and their apartment and
they're still teaching their kids to
pray yeah that's so sweet
puts life in your perspective right I
know
those precious kids are all in their
school uniform you know what despite
life circumstance clearly their parent
and kids with perspective I know that's
the takeaway yeah to acknowledge God in
all things yeah I mean I I am so blown
away by this
it is like bless their hearts first off
I love these sort of the way they just
like it's they just lost it
they lost their apartment they lost
their jobs like they put it down as a
deus ex machina yeah exactly just sort
of like just it just it went away that's
it that's the way it works
with apartments and jobs if you if you
love something let it go if it comes
back it was yours if it doesn't
naturally they don't put together that
like they lost their jobs and both of
them and then had no money and so now
they're homeless which they do not say
those words they're not they're homeless
these kids are now homeless the families
now homeless bless their hearts we've
got to have them on the TV show you know
she wanted to call them something other
than kids - what do you mean I just
heard the the offensive diminutive
circling around in her head oh I think
she's thinks those children are precious
because they're in uniform and they're
praying and they understand that God
God's doing this for a reason for them
now God would never do it for a reason
to me right because look at me I'm on TV
I'm making millions of dollars God
wouldn't do that for me but he's doing
it for them because they need this in
Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness
of being talks a lot about kitsch and
which is the ideal that Shi T just for
YouTube Shi T doesn't it's the deny us a
check is denied and everyone acts as
though it did not exist right and that's
what this is and this is just sort of
like they God has chosen them to to do
and it's gonna make them strong that's
precious and their uniform precious and
they're in uniforms and they're praying
and isn't that sweet they're begging God
so that they can have a home and
probably food because of course they now
now to be fair you know it's amazing
it's they don't even send they don't
even put up the freakin link to the
GoFundMe page yeah but but but that
aside the idea they're so deserving of
charity now let's get back to our
regularly scheduled programming where we
condemn people for going on food stamps
where we the notion that would there
would be any type of government support
for housing is a complete sign of social
socialism and destruction of the
undeserving poor might get housing ah
they they're they're a loss
their jobs well we shouldn't have any
type of support for folks like that no
this is their entire project is to not
provide support for people like this but
now we have an opportunity to do pick
people out of the crowd and say that we
have deemed you morally righteous
because you wear a school uniform and
you pray kids probably maybe you go to a
charter school or a parochial school
that's why they got the uniforms we
picked you out and we're going to we're
going to we're going to deem you worthy
of a go fund me but there's nothing
society could do we we can't even figure
out why this this this machine this this
this new act of nature made you lose
your apartment
god forbid we report on that oh my gosh
you know what I'm praying for
I hope that when these three little kids
grow up they gain class consciousness
overthrow the bourgeoisie and put these
three class enemies in the gulag yeah
well I bet the point that they'll be
quite old and they'll be tough to track
down but I have faith there you go
Fox and Friends doing overtime also
showing that they don't have any racial
animus we can praise will praise any
children who've lost their homes and and
the their parents are lost their jobs as
long as they're praying all right we're
gonna take a quick break just a reminder
this program relies on your support you
can become a member I joined the
majority report calm also don't forget
to check out the a.m. quickie goin on
vacation in two weeks and for those who
still want to get just at least the
daily headlines I am quickly will be
there it's there in your audio feed we
only have it in the audio feed of the
majority reports so subscribe to uh the
majority port on iTunes you don't have
to listen to the show if that's not the
way they usually consume it the the
majority report but listen to the
quicky it's five minutes and you will
get the headlines that you need to know
of the day all right quick break we'll
be right back with Samuel Stein
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program PhD candidate at
the CUNY Graduate Center in geography a
planning activist and author of the book
capital city gentrification and the real
estate state welcome to the program
Samuel Stein thanks so much for having
me on Sam
capital city a little bit of a double
entendre there in some respects right
because we're talking about well I guess
well I guess we're not we're talking
about Albany so it's not really um I got
confused for a second in terms of New
York but let's start with this this
notion we were you explain to people
just what what urban planning is who
urban planners are sure
I mean urban planning has taken all
sorts of different forms in different
places and times it's kind of something
that's always been done as long as there
have been cities but it's been a
profession for the last a little over a
hundred years in US and in European and
other cities and urban planners are kind
of tasked with sorting out urban space
making decisions about where things will
be built in the future about
transportation and infrastructure
systems all the things that make cities
run and sometimes it's described in
these kind of a political technocratic
terms where it's all about finding the
best solution for everybody and making
everything just simply more efficient
but the truth is it's always political
because any decision that urban planners
make is going to benefit one group of
people more than others or sometimes at
the expense of others and so it's I
think an intensely political process
over how our cities are going to unfold
over time who's going to benefit from
that who's going to be able to live in
them and it will be displaced how will
people move around where will they work
all those questions are really central
to urban planning often it's done at the
city level in the US
sometimes at the regional level
sometimes to state and sometimes the
federal but it's really at that
municipal level that a lot of the most
important decisions around zoning and
land use and other things are made and
in your book at least in part is soar I
guess Italy briefly gives a a history of
how of the the nature of the political
forces that were basically tasking and
defining what the results of the urban
planning should bring about right and do
you want to just briefly do that and it
takes us up to essentially to the to
urban planning being a mechanism to
really to commodify I guess and and you
know among over all else real estate but
but why don't you give some examples
just like maybe even the Napoleon
example I think of you know just so that
people get a notion and then we'll take
it through the manufacturing so people
get a notion of the of the where what
were the incentives behind the political
decisions that were basically provided
the instructions to the urban planners
right at the Napoleon example that you
mentioned is a famous one in urban
history Baron Haussmann was given really
free reign to remake the city of Paris
after a series of urban rebellions and
so that remaking took many forms and it
it's very clearly visible in the city
today these wide boulevards that connect
up in radial patterns a kind of flat
street wall where all the all the
buildings match up with each other and
have a not uniform but complementary
design all that stuff was planned it
didn't just happen as a result of the
free market deciding that that's how it
should be but it wasn't just about
making you know beautiful sight lines
and architecture it was also about
defending property rights and defending
the regime after this working-class up
had really threatened the power and so
one of the reasons why those avenues is
so wide is that it's really hard to
build up a barricade that will block it
off and let people take control of it
and is really easy to drive a military
straight through it
so these decisions are not just about
aesthetics they're not just about
efficiency they're really about who
rules and how there's this question that
I think we don't ask enough but is
really valuable which is why exactly do
we need urban planning in capitalist
cities if the if the kind of ideology of
capitalism is that the market sorts
things out most efficiently then why
isn't that the case in terms of urban
development instead we empower elements
of the state to make these decisions to
regulate private activity and so there's
all sorts of reasons why capitalism
demands been planning and that demand
has changed over time so some of it is
about setting up all the infrastructure
that capitalism demands the the roads
and bridges and sewers and water systems
and electrical grids and internet and
all that stuff is generally publicly
provided and then managed sometimes then
sold off to private interest but capital
depends on the state to set it up in the
first place there's also what we call
social reproduction which is all the
stuff that goes into enabling us to live
another day and to have kids who will be
the future of this society capitalism
demands that the state take care of a
lot of those demands like education so
that we have an educated workforce we
have a public school system food stamps
to make sure that people can eat and and
go to work the next day all that stuff
capital demands that the state manages
and then there's these questions of land
so all this stuff happens on top of land
all this capitalist activity and they
look to the state to kind of manage how
it's all going to go and to rationalize
it between competing interests and for a
long time those competing interests
within the capitalist class were
manufacturers on the one side industry
and real estate on the other the owners
of land and buildings and they both
needed infrastructure they both needed
an educated workforce but they had
somewhat separate demands when it came
to the particularity
so in the case of manufacturing the
factory owners and the like they tended
to want land to be cheaper rather than
more expensive because if they're buying
land they're doing so to build something
on top of it they don't want to lose a
whole bunch of money in land and they
like housing to be cheap too because
they want their workers to have this
kind of low-cost housing so that they're
not constantly demanding higher wages on
the other hand they want the state to do
as little as possible in terms of
environmental regulation because they
want to be able to pollute and dump
whatever they want into the water and
air realists they give you the Gowanus
Canal as it were yes right outside your
studio if I'm not mistaken it's it's not
too far step you can smell it it's on a
good day
so real-estate capital in general wants
a lot of the opposite things as
manufacturing capital they they want the
price of land to go up after they've
purchased it anyway
they want to make money off of the
difference between what they bought land
for and what they can sell it for they
want housing to be expensive because
rents are the key to their income and
they might be okay with some forms of
environmental regulation because it
might make that land cleaner and nicer
to live on and therefore of higher value
and worthy of higher rents so there's
this kind of contradiction between what
different elements of capital want and
they look to the state to sort it out
and the planners in the state then have
to balance the interests of those
competing capitalists with that of the
rest of us you know workers residents
who have our own set of interest about
what we want and so then you got these
kind of like participatory processes
that brought in the public but constrain
what our choices were to make sure that
capital got what it demanded that's how
it worked for a very long time in this
country and in many others so we said
just to be clear so we had all these
these these these various
eating interests and because we live in
a capitalist society obviously sort of
the capital in its form of both real
estate and in the form of manufacturing
tended to win out and it was also
probably a function of the locality
right where we're in some instances
manufacturing might be more powerful
than a real estate interests and totally
and vice versa and in New York and I
think you also cite Detroit at one point
to that we saw this change happen in the
70s where the the scales tipped in one
way right and and I should say
beforehand that yes the the role of the
capitalist state is to make sure that
capital gets what it needs to keep
growing and accumulating profit and all
that stuff but that doesn't mean that
workers and residents didn't have
victories through urban planning
you know people organized to demand
things that were completely the opposite
of what either real estate or industrial
capital wanted and they could sometimes
find an ally in one sector or the other
in favor of a change so you know
residents could count on certain
industrial capitalists and lobbying for
rent control because all of them wanted
lower rents and maybe the opposite in
terms of environmental movements
historically so it it shook out in all
different ways but the role of the state
was to ensure the capital was cool no
matter what now so no I I mean I may be
it's hard to sort of assess I mean it's
got to be so much like a situation by
situation analysis but from the
perspective of and I guess maybe the
hard part is sort of defining this but
from the perspective of let's say the
working class from the perspective of
the the so-called middle class what was
better like I mean you know I'm and then
I also want to ask like what would be
better but but what was better I mean
would you you
if you wanted to be if you were
working-class middle-class i I don't
maybe even if you were you know
extremely wealthy you might prefer a
city that has more diversity and etc etc
but what was what was better for those
people in terms of who was dominant and
and and then let's talk just a little
bit before we talk about that change in
the 70s like what would be better like
what you know is there a an objective
standard out there as to you know in the
absence of an over-sized a power of a
specific interest what would a good city
be right well in terms of what's better
you know you don't want a situation
where either industrial capital is
all-powerful and we're all coughing our
way to the smokestacks or where
real-estate capital is all-powerful and
nobody can pay the rent and we're
commuting two hours to get to our jobs
those are about both bad situations and
honestly the the mix of industry and and
real estate wasn't so great for most
people either but it afforded certain
political possibilities in terms of
there being a split within the
capitalist class at the urban scale so
it's not like there was this utopia
before the seventies that we could all
live in but we did have a bit of more of
a handle on our housing crisis at least
for for significant stresses at that
time and in terms of what's a good city
I mean that's subjective that changes by
you know different individuals different
groups preferences I think a lot of
people have pretty strong feelings about
the places that they love you know I'm a
New Yorker I love this city I love the
scale of the city I love the density of
the city I love being able to get around
on transit when the MTA isn't shut down
at random hours I love all that stuff
but I want to be able to enjoy it
without you know losing most of my
paychecks to my rents and without a
whole kind of class of people making a
ton of money
of changes to that built environment so
I think what a lot of us want is access
to the places we love and we want to be
able to change them without worrying
that making them better will somehow
displace us now there's a lot of people
who would love to have better transit
and better parks and bike lanes and all
these other things but they're afraid
quite rightly that if those things are
built out and there's no protections
added for them they're not going to be
able to enjoy them they will have
suffered through the time when they
didn't have those things and then once
they get them the rent goes up and they
can no longer afford to live there and
somebody who makes more money can can
enjoy all the benefits so what we're
looking for really is the ability to
have all the things we want in our
cities without the presence of those
things equaling our displacement so in
some ways the like we want the we want
to be able to invest in the community
without and reap the benefits basically
of that investment rather than provide
it for essentially wealthier people
right I mean that's basically we're
talking about the problem of
gentrification that's right and it's
reaping the benefits that at the social
level not the individual level you know
if you're a homeowner right now you
might like all these things because your
property values will go up and then you
sell your house and and you make off
like a bandit but we're talking about
the right to enjoy them in perpetuity
without anyone getting rich or poor or
off of the change all right so let's I
mean let's tell us I mean just what
maybe it's a good time to sort of define
what gentrification is I mean in some
respects I think we just did
but-but-but-but more pointedly what is
gentrification and is it always bad I
mean I guess if you are one of those
homeowners and you can hang in there and
all of a sudden you know a house you
bought 20 years ago through $25,000 is
now worth I don't know $750,000 you
might be
pretty happy although unless you want to
live there yeah that's the that's the
problem if you want to live there and
your wages aren't going up but your home
value assessment is then the taxes that
you pay on that home are going to go up
tremendously and you might not be able
to afford it and we've seen people fall
into foreclosure
precisely because their their investment
became more valuable and they couldn't
keep up with it so you know
gentrification as a word gets thrown
around a lot it's not always precisely
defined part of that is the fault of
whoever is imprecisely defining it and
part of it is that it's a kind of
evolving and mutating force that has
meant different things at different
times and places the definition that I
give in my book is that gentrification
is the process by which capital is
reinvested in urban neighborhoods and
poorer residents and their cultural
products are displaced and replaced by
richer people and their preferred
aesthetics and amenities so it's a
process of reinvestment in space and I
also say that it's the third step in a
very long process and the first product
the first step is investment in a place
which you know often happens many many
decades before gentrification so a place
is invested in it's built up all the
infrastructure goes in the beautiful
apartments and buildings and homes are
built up some of the others I mean is
private investment and some of its city
and you know it's like social investment
ok right it's public investment in
infrastructure in transit and then
private investment in buildings usually
so that investment happens then there's
a period of disinvestment where capital
kind of flows out of those places and
that can happen for all sorts of reasons
you have you know the rise of the
suburbs in the middle of the 20th
century pulling a lot of capital that
would have been in in cities and sending
it to suburbs you have redlining and
other federal policies which codified
racist real estate practice into US
policy and made it so that a lot of
Central City
neighborhoods that had african-american
and immigrant populations would have a
harder time getting loans in some places
it was impossible to get loans and so
the built environment crumbles and so
those are spaces of disinvestment
gentrification then is the return of
capital to those places so it's the
third step after investment and then
disinvestment you have a reinvestment in
these places but it does so in a
predatory sort of way that doesn't
benefit those who stuck it out during
that period of disinvestment but instead
tends to displace them to other
disinvested areas uh in some ways it's
sort of like a slow-moving disaster
capitalism model right yeah you come in
you see everything is now depleted and
you come in you get everything 25 cents
on the dollar essentially and and and
then it gets built up and then people
get displaced and then rinse repeat
right I mean exactly it's it's a process
that kind of seesaws where capital moves
out of someplace and goes into another
and then poor people move from one place
back to that other place and it's it's
not like you know switching back a B a B
it happens in multiple places all over
the world but it's this mode of uneven
development where nothing is ever stable
and it's very hard to settle and have
roots and know that you'll be able to
stay in this place that you're building
up through your own your work you know
sometimes that's physical labor in
building buildings and infrastructure
and everything else a lot of times it's
kind of social labor building up
neighborhood institutions and PTAs and
all that work that goes into making a
place survive over time you know you're
displaced from that product of your
labor over many years so let's get back
to this story of what happened in the
70s as manufacturing basically leaves
New York and Detroit and I guess I get
Detroit on my mind just because
interviewed and we're gonna play this
interview in a week or two about the the
the car
business essentially the car the u.s.
car industry and how they made some
decisions based upon their relationship
with labour that basically took all
disinvested from Detroit essentially and
in that area but this happened in New
York why did the manufacturing leave New
York well there's a lot of reasons there
is kind of push and pull factors from
different places so a lot of
manufacturers industrial capitalists are
looking for someone somewhere else to
move to that has cheaper labor and
cheaper land so New York has been for a
very long time a Union town and it's
also quite an expensive place to operate
and so first the immediate suburbs then
the us-south then the global South
become places that industrial capital
can move to and take advantage of lacks
labor laws lacks environmental standards
and cheaper land costs but it wasn't
just the industrialists making this
decision on their own there was a lot of
pushing out that was happening as well
rezoning industrial areas to be
mixed-use and when you make that change
sure an industrial operator can still be
there but you can get a lot more money
off of changing that to a residential or
commercial use than you can out of an
industrial use if you're the owner of
that land what drugs are there what
drove that rezoning mm-hmm so some of it
is an ideological commitment to
commercial and residential uses being
better than industrial that industrial
was the past and offices and luxury
housing was the future
some of it was wealthy landowners who
would basically get experts to tell the
city planners that the right thing to do
would be to make that change and then
you have this kind of technical language
about progress masking the interests of
whoever owned the land the Rockefellers
for example we're not--
for this sort of thing so even though it
had such a kind of massive impact on the
city we lost something like half a
million industrial jobs between 1950 and
1990 this was something that city
planners embraced as part of the
progress of the city interesting and and
then of course there it creates this
well it's not even creating a vacuum
right I mean it's immediately filled by
real estate interests and they become
the dominant force and this is really
almost like the the financialization of
real estate right I mean that mirrors
the sort of the financialization that
happens across the country in in all
sectors yeah definitely I mean I do
think it a vacuum is is a good metaphor
for it so industrial capital is pushed
out and then there's this political
vacuum where real-estate capital can now
be the main branch of powerful interests
that are making demands on the city
planners we talked before about the
internal conflict between industrialists
manufacturers and real estate
landlords and developers well now that
contradiction has been resolved in favor
of the landlords and developers who can
make claims on the state you can make
demands on the state to raise land and
property values to raise or to enable
raising rents by getting rid of rent
control coming back on public housing
etc and so real estate fills that
political vacuum as well as the economic
vacuum we see more and more of our
economy organized around finance
insurance and real estate and then
there's a spatial vacuum also where that
industry used to be gets converted into
spaces that are intensive for real
estate purposes like turning old
manufacturing buildings into luxury
housing lofts etc or turning our ports
into high-end commercial office space
and all those kinds of changes that get
sold to us as the public as renovating
those spaces and so so
so then that's basically where we're at
now right I mean the the we're at least
in the context of New York City where
everything has just been so like the
real estate is so financialized now that
it's almost like for a certain part of
its like almost like a like a bank what
do you call it a safe deposit box right
yeah these are just become this is just
literally where people park their money
and almost literally yeah there's where
we are a couple blocks away
from what I understand is going to be
the tallest building in Brooklyn I heard
some rumors about it being a hundred
stories I don't know if it's gay
actually gonna be a hundred stories it's
going to be one apartment this is what I
understand I may be wrong about this one
apartment per floor Wow that is gonna
cost something like I don't know five to
ten million dollars per apartment and
it's on Flatbush Avenue across from the
Health Department and next to Junior's
like rides like whoo like I don't
understand how like well that's like to
live across from juniors that part
sounds pretty I mean living next to
juniors would be pretty good yeah you
get it all the Cheesecake you want but
what like what what's going on there
yeah I mean there's a huge amount of
development that's not really thought of
as somebody's permanent housing but
instead as somebody's investment and so
people some of them are New Yorkers some
of them are from other states in the
country some of them are from other
places in the world it doesn't really
matter they buy these apartments for the
purpose of selling them for more later
on so sometimes they are kind of like
weekend apartments for an occasional
visit to to New York City and maybe a
person who doesn't know New York City
doesn't know the difference between
Flatbush Avenue and Park Avenue and they
buy this place and they'll visit and
then they'll go back home to wherever
that is and then eventually they'll just
sell it for more money I mean but I
don't this is where like this I just I
just don't understand it's like tulips
on something yes right I mean because
if no one's ever going to live there how
can it have this kind of value that's
what I don't understand is that there's
just sort of this presumption that like
oh there's gonna be someone even richer
than me who's gonna come by and buy this
thing and they're gonna even know just
as little about what they're buying is I
do yeah I mean but at one point right
doesn't the merry-go-round just like get
to the end of the line like all of a
sudden wait a second I'm seeing the same
people come back around to guys and I
mean what what what happens then in this
context like what's the next iteration
of this is it just like disinvestment
and then you know in 75 years I go in
and I get that five to ten million
dollar apartment that's on the 85th
floor and I can pick it up for a song
and just did redo it how does this work
that's one possibility but you know
people have been predicting that the New
York City real estate market is going to
tank you know every year for 25 years
and it hasn't really happened we had a
bit of a slump in 2008 but it didn't hit
in New York City and other places like
it quite the way that it did a lot of
much poorer places and even within New
York City it was you know south eastern
Queens that got hit really hard by the
foreclosure crisis and not you know
downtown Brooklyn AIII I'd specifically
remember looking at a heat map of
foreclosures and there was as far as I
could tell not one on the island of
Manhattan and that in part was because
you have these condo and co-op
associations that basically you know
acted as almost as you know as a second
round of bank loan officers saying like
wait a second this doesn't work and but
you saw it all all around everywhere
else I mean in New York real estate in
2008 if I remember correctly I think
there was like a six-month time where
you could go and get 25 bucks off your
rent and that was about it right right
it was not a major crash that you know
we could all live cheap for a while you
know those that hit the worst where
those were foreclosed out of their homes
and then it's not like there was a ton
of cheap housing that they could get
into because the rest of the market was
relatively untouched so it's possible
that this thing will get so overheated
that it'll crumble and we'll have
another round of disinvestment it's
probably not gonna happen on its own so
I mean I think we need to have political
intervention to cool these overly hot
markets because it doesn't trickle down
to the rest of us it doesn't benefit
everybody
if those new luxury construction is only
going to be as this vertical safe
deposit model then that's not going to
have any social benefit for everybody
else and yet as you're suggesting it's
all premise on the social value that the
rest of us create by making these
neighborhoods fun places to visit every
so often on a weekend or places that are
worthy of investment so we keep doing
you know the work to keep up the city
and yet a relatively small number of
people is buying up a lot of the new
construction so it's not a sustainable
model at all okay so how do you make
that how do you create that dynamic
where the people who live in a community
enhance the the school to a certain
extent but also create a small market
you know you know maybe clean up the
park or they they're they're you know
creating a demand for a movie theater or
whatever it is a grocery store how do
you how do you ensure that
gentrification doesn't happen mm-hmm
okay yeah I think you can I think the
the first step is is recognizing that we
have a problem that that the system as
it is set up right now will produce more
gentrification and so simply kind of
feeding the beast to hope that we can
take some benefit from it is not going
to keep working and a lot of our current
policies and plans are fed on the idea
that we're going to make the real estate
market even stronger and then we're
going to concede some benefit back from
that you know we're going to build up
those luxury apartments and poor
neighborhoods but then a certain
percentage of it will be affordable and
that has all sorts of problems the
affordable stuff isn't affordable to the
people who really need housing there's
not enough of it
but even then we're making the real
estate markets stronger which is really
in the end gonna come back and bite us
because we won't be able to afford to
live in our cities anymore
so we can't just keep feeding the beast
and expecting it to turn around and end
us something back so instead I think
much more aggressive politics like we've
been seeing a turn to in New York and in
some other places are the way to go so
rent control is really important we just
strengthened our rent stabilization and
rent control system in New York State
significantly there's more work to do on
that front but the beauty of rent
control is you can do all those things
to make your community stronger you can
clean up the park and you can improve
the schools and you can have that movie
theater and your landlord isn't a Rao
isn't able to just see that change
around you and translate it into a
rising rent they can only raise the rent
based on a change to the property itself
and even that is constrained in terms of
making sure that they don't do it for
pure speculation
so rent control is essential rebuilding
our public housing is crucial we have
public housing in New York City and in
other places it has a pretty awful
history in terms of pulling money out of
it and letting it fall apart in terms of
segregation it doesn't have to be that
way public housing in a lot of places in
the world is model housing and it has
been that in its early history in the US
as well so reinvesting in public housing
in a serious way and in climate-friendly
housing taking more and more housing off
of the private land market and putting
it into non speculative uses so that
could be public housing but it could
also be community land Trust's and other
forms like limited equity coops
places where you you get
housing for what it actually costs and
then you're not allowed to sell it for
anything more than you bought it for now
we should say we have examples of the
welcoming of that as well in the city
right I mean there are there are
I mean I'm aware of at least some coops
where you can go in you can buy but you
cannot sell for like a percentage
greater than X as it were and you need
to in annek you can only sell to people
with a with a with an income limits of Y
right a lot of the time you can only
sell to someone who is in the income
bracket you were in when you bought it
for so it becomes an economic
opportunity for someone like you when
you bought it
even if since then you've gotten a raise
and now you make more money
yeah those those exists around New York
City they exist in a lot of places
there's a really wonderful book called
carving out the Commons about the
creation of those in Washington DC and
tenant movements to convert their rental
properties into these kind of limited
equity coops so those models exist
obviously the real estate industry
doesn't like it because they don't make
any money off of it but we need to turn
housing into something other than this
hyper financialized commodity or else no
one's going to have a place to live in
the in the long run and and the and the
idea is that you get will you will get
more of this social and community
investment if everybody feels like
they're gonna get payback for it yeah
and and maybe payback isn't the right
word like we're gonna be able to benefit
from it enjoy it right we're not gonna
get paid back from it and that can be
hard for people to to wrestle with if
they're used to the reason for making
any improvement being an expectation
that you'll get more when you sell out
but I think there will be a real
investment in place on a personal and
communal level if we can decouple it
from the fear that it will lead to
displacement and that'll be the case in
terms of greening our neighborhoods
right there's a lot of green initiatives
that are excellent in terms of climate
change but could very well raise
property
and then displace residents and so
nobody is going to fight for those
things if they think that it's going to
push them out of their home if however
we can move housing towards a D
commodified form I think a lot of people
would embrace those green initiatives
the the very same ones that they might
fear right now and this is stuff that
has to be done by state and municipal
policy right I mean I as an individual
can't say like I am going to do
everything I can to stop gentrification
by not buying my apartment in that
neighborhood
I mean or is that I mean it doesn't work
that way does it no it's not it's you
know it's not just a collection of
individual choices it really is a
structural situation that said you you
can make better and worse individual
choices and if you are a property owner
you can you know not vote in such a way
that you know leads to your property
values going up and up and up and other
people's opportunities shrinking you
know there are personal decisions to be
made but ultimately we need state action
and we need collective action and I
think the only way to get state action
is is via collective action and most of
the time that's going to look like a
tenant movement a tenant movement which
has been building up in this city and in
this country and really around the world
as housing becomes more and more of the
global financial commodity toujours
I just before we finish I got to just
touch on you one of the chapters in your
book basically gives the
multi-generational story it's almost
like a mafia story in the way it's like
the Godfather trilogy of of the Trump
family the I guess Trump's grandfather
Friedrich was basically made his money
by being a pimp and I don't think you
put it that way well that's my turn and
his dad made it by just overt racism and
he made it by basically getting tax
breaks and subsidies
essentially Donald Trump and we should
say you know and his dad obviously being
a guarantor on some of those early deals
helped but why aside from like the
obvious that Donald Trump what why tell
that story right I mean the obvious is
important enough we have a president
who's a luxury real estate developer and
I'm trying to make the argument that
real estate is this incredibly powerful
force well there's a good piece of
evidence but I also think that the
family saga that Friedrich Fred and
Donald story that you told is kind of
emblematic of how people who make their
money off of land have benefited from
what urban planners and state actors
have been up to for multiple generations
and so yeah Friedrich was a brothel
developer but he also was kind of
capitalizing on the difference between
land he could get before and after
railroads were built and so he was
making a ton of money off of the change
in the value after that investment was
made first in the Pacific Northwest and
then in Queens so as an early form of
real estate speculation then fred is
making now now now when someone's
engaging in that type of real estate
speculation they're bribing people right
right like I think that like this is how
like either you tell me where the real
estate we're where the Train is gonna go
and I buy it beforehand or I buy it and
then I pay you to put the train through
it right I mean that was pretty common
practice in New York especially when our
train lines were private companies right
and all that stuff is is documented in
Robert Caro's really great book the
power broker there were all sorts of
people who worked the system to ensure
that their land made money as those
train routes were going out and
Friedrich is among them he wasn't
exactly the major player that some
others were but he's in there and then
his son makes money off of the federal
government's interest in subsidizing
white middle-class home ownership and
also what they called urban renewal
programs which were tearing
low-income areas and building up new
stuff on top of it he was a really big
player in that system in New York City
and then Donald gets in and and is
really like then the model of a
neoliberal developer he's making money
off of the fact that the city is
interested in creating luxury spaces at
a time when the city is getting poorer
rather than richer and he convinces them
to give him tax breaks and rezoning
public land and all this stuff and when
all he doesn't return is build up luxury
crap so that's the the history of the
Trump family and three generations each
one changing its business model to match
state policy around land planning and
development well it's fascinating stuff
I would love to have you back on if you
know anything about you know how folks
were displaced to cities like beacon and
Kipp C and all the way up to Hudson on
the Hudson River in New York State and
also if you got anything on the the
Situationists itting planning that they
did with I don't know if you know
anything about that but they would let
people roam on des rêves and then right
create emotional sectors in the city of
Paris but maybe that's for a later date
but in the meantime Samuel Stein the
book is Capital City gentrification in
the real estate estate thank you so much
for your time today really appreciate it
yeah Sam thanks for having me on the
show all right folks
interesting stuff I saw Sam at the the
at the close the camp's rally the other
day him activist and scholar I like
that's urban planning stuff that was my
that was where I I was almost gonna go
at one point in my academic career as a
class at the NYU it was about it was
focused on it's sort of related to urban
planning but mainly how you turn slums
in India into you know developed
you know units and the model they had
seemed like it makes sense but you give
the people that are there units in the
new giant building you're making I don't
know how well that's actually carried
out in practice but well just down the
road here I don't know if you ever seen
the battle for Brooklyn the documentary
that talks about how the there was a lot
of low-income housing that was basically
taken for for Barclays and supposedly
there was going to be a low-income
housing that was gonna replace it which
came well over there come I don't know
if it I don't know if it all that was
built some of it was but it came so much
later that there was no way for people
to hang around but it's fascinating
stuff folks you can support interviews
like the one you just heard by becoming
a member of the majority report I'd join
the majority report calm and when you
become a member you not only support
such interesting interviews or tomorrow
when we do deep expose Zinn two videos
by progressive voices you also get extra
content every day and today in the fun
half of the show what did I do with my
assets my sheep or my cell chico I may
need another sound sheet guys we're
gonna be covering all sorts of different
stories that apparently Ken Cuccinelli
has figured out an answer for the
question of hey do we need to take that
plaque off the Statue of Liberty where
we welcome your poor and huddled masses
now that you've basically created rules
that only allow wealthy people
presumably from non so-called third
world countries to come in and qualify
for legal immigration he's got it he's
got an answer for that has anyone
considered whether huddled masses are a
national security threat to the huddling
they're doing something and meanwhile we
also have Ben Shapiro outraged outraged
that simply because conservatives have
been hammering away at a perspective
that one should take on immigrants that
the New York Times noted that and noted
that the guy who shot up immigrants and
killed 20 people explicitly saw them in
that way we will talk about that with
the Ben Shapiro and also sonny perdue
said the quiet part loud in front of a
bunch of farmers he does not have the
ability to shoot someone on Fifth Avenue
and get support apparently that's only
that's only a Donald Trump we've got
that and more so you can become a member
and join us join the majority report com
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off and don't forget to
listen to the a.m. quickie Jamie the
anti Fattah oh yeah this week on the
anti Fattah my brain is so scrambled
right now what did we even do that's
right I have an episode coming out
tomorrow
featuring Simone Norman you may know her
from that hilarious video that was going
around where she was saying different
things that are practice according to
mean girls who become public leftists
and don't know anything that was a super
fun episode to record with her we talked
about the DSA convention some of the
things that got passed open borders and
then in our bonus we talked about the
Praxis video so check it out also last
Friday for patrons we released vampire
castle wherein we talk about vampires
not social justice warriors me and
Leslie
the third from struggle session we
talked about the hilarious TV show what
we do in the shadows so check it out
Matt yeah for patrons of literary
hangover we did his essay a hanging
where we talk about his dad's career as
opium sort of bureaucrat in India under
the Raj and we also talk about it
basically there's a hanging as you can
probably guess and they tell a bunch of
jokes after it and the parallels between
that and the way certain ice officials
in that I'm 10 15 group talked about
floaters in the Rio Grande very similar
sort of mindset going on there and or
will give an insight into that because
he was a well Imperial cop so and
assuming that Michael was able to hop
his private jet tonight yeah and Briana
Joy gray returns and Elaine woo we're
gonna be talking about China there you
go
where is he where does he fly into Teton
Airport in is that what does that air
for it and no the one in the one in New
Jersey Teterboro that's when we're all
the private you oh is that where he was
arrested
Epstein interesting well hmm I don't
think Michaels absence is related to
Epstein's suicide over the weekend I'll
just say that I'll say that on the
record you you don't I do not think the
two are related
okay fair enough interesting denial of a
question that was not asked I mean where
were you over the weekend
DNC operative Sam cedar no I was with my
kids all right
quick break heading to the fun half all
right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
the alpha males just want to degrade the
white man alpha males alpha males
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation these your dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough with a break that's
and the alpha male
[Music]
the back
on the back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black alpha males
it's black
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
happy birthday to me Jew boy
I have a thought experiment for the
alpha males of black black alpha males
come on somebody's to pay the price of
class way around here I am a total
did you know your phone can be a
powerful force for change with credo
mobile it can because credo donates a
hundred and fifty thousand dollars every
month to groups like Friends of the
Earth the ACLU and Planned Parenthood
switched to credo mobile the carrier
that stands for women's rights the
environment social justice and so much
more learn more at credo dot-com slash
majority that's credo CR e do.com
slash majority alright folks welcome to
the fun half of the program uh let's go
right to the phones if you don't mind
calling from let's see who do we got up
here two-one-zero who's this where you
calling from
good afternoon sound off in San Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you sir
I'm good as it I don't
yeah I'm not above promoting
cherry-picked polls for Bernie and this
morning I got a sweet delivery in the
form of a six-point lead for Bernie over
Biden in New Hampshire with Bernie
receiving 21% Biden at only 15% in
Warren at 12:00 so Bernie's whose poison
Boston Globe or something yeah it's a
gravid gravis marketing yeah it's the
biggest lead he said since early April
before Biden officially entered race the
sample size was incredibly small and the
pollster gravis marketing doesn't have
the best reputation but they did have
the best results in the Nevada a
Democratic primary in 2006 are there
only off by 0.7% so it's good to see
promoting progressive candidates on Ring
of Fire the first interview was Shaheed
Betar was excellent and I'm glad to hear
you'll be any interviewed getting more
progressive candidates working to create
change for working-class and
middle-class voters and their families
you also had a superb interview with
David Dane on Ring of Fire where he
talked about
hospitals could obstruct barriers to
Medicare for All system
did you notice Jonathan II that I what I
did there is I learned from David Diane
about that dynamic and then I brought it
into the interview I did yesterday with
Tim Faust exactly I was my Latin man my
next tenant here so when you had that
situation
we're like one of those couples it yeah
he didn't seem as worried about it as
day in and I agree with this assessment
I think the fact is if the hospitals
won't accept payments from Medicare for
all I mean they won't be able to endure
the bad publicity and like like foul
said you know the government always has
the option of you know building their
own hospitals I mean I could see when in
the short term you know it'll it could
create a you know a terrible situation
but I just don't think they'll be able
to you know muster all the bad publicity
so I do have a slight disagreement with
you when you say Medicare for all is
essentially like Medicaid now Medicaid
is a property program which means which
is means-test it's in a minute many
states like Texas if you're a single
person without children you simply
cannot qualify for the program under
Medicare for all every person will be
taxed at four percent of the salaries
which is only an increase of two point
five five of what they're paying right
now in Medicare so and also you know if
you're in a family of four that makes a
twenty less than twenty nine twenty nine
thousand dollars you won't have to pay
even you won't have to pay anything at
all well John I liked it better when we
were finishing each other's sentences
because it is my point was it's it's
more of like a Medicaid for all rather
than a Medicare for all only because
Medicaid is actually provides more
benefits does not require a copay like
Medicare does and the Medicare for all
bill I mean it's it's a rather sort of
pedantic and technical point but you
know I'm allowed to have those times
where I do that
but it Medicaid provides more and has no
cost at the point of service excuse me
whereas medicare has co-pays medicare
has premiums and in the medicare for all
bill you will not have co-pays and you
will not have premiums so you know tell
me a little slice yeah I mean John well
yeah yeah but they're just some
differences and the main thing is it it
it really the main thing is that that
everybody's paying into it I mean in
that the rates I think are pretty
reasonable compared to you know other
countries and people are gonna save on
Emily I mean this is no question it's
just and and and this concept where
there's something unique about paying
money in the form of taxes as opposed to
paying money in the form of insurance
health insurance is just is this silly
concept I mean it's just it's silly it's
basically you know and I there we it is
an ideological construct because at the
end of the day to the extent that people
don't like paying taxes but they like
paying for I don't know for health
insurance I mean I don't know that there
are people who have that distinction but
there's we there's this sort of ongoing
attempt to make it that way it's almost
like the same thing we here in the
there's a parallel when you hear this in
terms of of things like of a minimum
wage I don't like I have no problem
paying the exorbitant rants that keep
going up in my you know city or my
wherever it is but I don't wanna have to
pay labor you know labor costs or I need
you know huge amount of capital to to
launch this business but I can't get
business loans at a decent rate as
opposed to like that bigger company that
can get better
rates and but I don't want to pay my you
know labor I mean it's it's the same
thing so but John you were there first
at least in this little corner of the
universe making the point five or six
years ago I think it was that we need to
talk about the taxes so that people
understand this dynamic right right I
mean the providers will actually be paid
more under Medicare also the Medicare
for all then they're currently being
paid under Medicaid so it's actually
better for the providers yeah also yes
so the bite the Biden plan you know you
got to pay eight point five of your
salary is a voice of four point and
you're still paying the 1.544 Medicare
also and it's very similar to what
Medicare is know you know you still have
to pay a hundred percent for vision for
dental for audiology you know and 20% on
all cost so I mean it's just
Bernie's plan is so superior and it's
it's just I just wish people would
really look into it more and I mean I
know he has the advantage but I just
think he needs to you know keep pushing
that advantage and keep talking about
the plan and how much better it is than
any of these other plans night and day
differences now I agree with you on
thirty third party voting but I don't
understand the vitriol you espouse
towards the potential third party voters
the history that's ingrained in American
voters is a two-party system the
European turist the tradition is people
aren't satisfied with the current
parties they simply form new parties
this gives voters more choices to pick
candidates who meet their political
goals other roles
the results have been more less
government sort of implemented by John
John John John
they have parliamentary systems there
they have a different system okay but I
mean that I mean I know you go look at
the Green Party right which has been the
theoretically the the most prominent
third party in this country and
look at the progress they've made in the
30 some odd years you see some on a
congressional level some by literally a
couple and certainly locally and I have
no you know but the fact of the matter
is if you want to affect change you have
a much better chance of like first of
all I I can't help but look at the Green
Party and say this seems like a party
that frankly is not really interested in
creating a third yeah if they can't do
anything better than like a few
percentage points whatever the the six
or eight or whatever million dollars
that I can't remember her Jill Stein had
raised you could put that money into a
Senate seat and I don't know off the top
of my head you probably have a better
sense of like where the Green Party
could actually make a legitimate run for
a Senate seat and if the Green Party had
two Senate seats maybe or like they take
two particularly going into this cycle
they could have there's so much power
that they could wield but they don't do
it they don't do it right it always is
someone who wants to be self
aggrandizing and get out there and raise
a ton of money and people have dug into
where the money went that they got on
the recount I don't know people can go
investigate that themselves I don't have
time for it because as an institution
the Green Party is is not just a failure
I have no problem with failures but
they're their agenda is suspect
like how is it thirty years later it's
never occurred to them like hey we could
pick off a Senate seat somewhere and if
we got to Senate seats we could control
possibly the balance of the Senate I
mean this is the idea that there that
the party can't get there they're crap
together
to look at that just seems just about
to me oh well to be fair the Green Party
has achieved some electoral success on
the local level I that I said that I
I've looked at specifically yes mayors a
couple of Mayors some state senators yes
even one or two congressmen over the
past thirty years if you divide that by
their how much you've invested
dollar-wise into it's not a good ROI but
the idea that you jump to the presidency
and I mean give me a break
I'm not I'm not saying that I'm just
saying look at Bernie look at Bernie
himself first time he ran in 1972 ran
for the Senate seat January seventh it
was a vacated Senate seat
he ran in the Liberty Party Union ticket
as a Democratic Socialist Party he ran
he lost he ran in 70 72 for the the
Senate that president ran in 74 lost ran
in 76 lost all for governor and Senate
but every time he got more votes the
anyone in 81 when he decided to run for
the mayor of Burlington he won by 10
votes after that he won three subsequent
elections by you know double-digit
margins every time then he started again
in 76 running for governor got 14% the
first time in 88 he ran for the the
house this time he ended up only losing
by three and a half point to the
Republican ran again in 1990 and won and
so this is a matter of you know putting
your ideas out there and building
letting people know why did Bernie run
as a Democrat why didn't he run as an
independent in the race in the
presidential race I mean you're proven
you proven my point we don't have a
parliamentary system in this country oh
well can I say something no parties that
might square the circle between you guys
my critique of the Green Party it's not
their politics right I agree with most
of
politics although they let in way too
many idiots along the way it's that
they're putting the cart before the
horse because if we're going to have a
real working-class political party in
the way that we understand political
parties today it's going to arise from
grassroots working-class movements
building our own institutions you can't
skip steps so that like that's why in
the resolution for class struggle
elections that we passed at the DSA
convention it kind of lays out a
strategy for a dirty break with the
Democratic Party it says we would love
to have our own Workers Party somewhere
down the line and you know people within
the left might disagree on what the
party means to them I know there's some
like Marxist concepts at the party that
are different than how most people
understand them but for now we can run
these class struggle elections using the
Democratic ballot line strategically and
I think that makes a lot more sense yes
yes no I agree with both of you I agree
with both of you but I'm just saying you
know just the vitriol that you saying
about getting so angry about anybody who
runs his third party and that's exactly
second weight yeah I'm gonna have that
John
I usually you're pretty meticulous about
this stuff but I was talking
specifically about the presidential
elections I have been very consistent
throughout saying what I just said to
you about local elections about about
you know even federal elections that are
statewide I've been very consistent over
the years to talk about this so I think
you're extrapolating your straw Manning
me John and I'm a little upset about
that but I appreciate the call now that
I'm a potential libertarian presidential
candidate I can say that all the time
practicing that yeah straw Manning me
you're not using logic moving the
goalposts
moving the goalposts Australia odd-odd
hominem
odd homonym John speaking of which
speaking of odd homonym let's play this
now you got me in a mood so the New York
Times ran a piece I don't know if they
did a a hat tip to Mehdi Hassan but I
think he hasn't had done something very
similar but whatever this one was more
about Fox News or whatever I I'm glad to
see it get far and wide where the New
York Times I guess they did like you
know a nexus search of whatever it is
how many times Fox News they talked
about the words invasion in regards to
the in regards to immigrants and I mean
it was so obvious that we did this
whatever
six months ago twelve months ago I don't
know we could find the tapes where we
talked about like at one point some
marginal element in society is going to
say hey wait a second invasion what do
you do when there's an invasion you you
pick up arms and you fight the invaders
some some dude out there is gonna think
it's you know Wolverines time what was
that that movie they remade it I can't
remember what it's called Red Dawn
they're coming we got a we got a we got
a repel we're gonna be under you know
we'll get we gotta take from the inside
and look if words didn't have any
influence or people didn't think they
had any influence at all even marginal
then why would we be doing this or why
would Ben Shapiro sit there in front of
a microphone and a computer and stare
down at his keys as he talks again I
don't like the language of invasion and
I don't believe I've used it if I had
I'm sorry I did I don't think that it is
corrupted
fairly certain I never did I never
considered it a quote-unquote invasion
when illegal immigrants crossed our
southern border but and and I certainly
don't believe in the idea of quote
unquote racial replacement because I
literally do not care about the races of
people who live in America I care about
their ideas in their ideology posit for
one second he's also got a problem with
Jews who are not real Jews far as I can
tell and he obviously doesn't care too
that that type of ideologies is one that
is actually embraced by by those
replacement folks that that talk about
that I'm glad that he feels bad that if
he used the word invasion he didn't mean
it because because but listen to why he
said that because I don't think it is an
invasion I just point out he did use it
about Palestinians before oh okay well
Palestinians all right because they're
subhuman but the point is why doesn't it
use that word invasion because that's
not what an invasion is what an invasion
is is something where you have hostile
forces coming into your country or to
your place your domicile wherever it is
and you must repel them so he has now
provided us with the predicate but the
New York Times decides that because
there is language that sounds similar to
stuff that Tucker Carlson has said they
are now going to attribute this shooter
to Tucker
quote an extensive New York Times review
of popular right-wing media platforms
found hundreds of examples of language
ideas and ideologies that overlapped at
the mass killers written statement a
shared vocabulary of intolerance that
Stokes fears centered on immigrants of
color again this is a conspiracy theory
posit there's no conspiracy theory
whatsoever that he's just articulated
wait a sec this is the guy who's
supposed to be the intellectual pillar
of the right the cocodes philosopher
first of all they're not attributing it
today he just read the summation of what
that piece was that there's a lot of
language that he has already said he
thinks is inappropriate it's inaccurate
and he must have a reason why he thinks
it's inaccurate because we all know what
invasion means
that overlaps now presumably all of
these opinion people these pontificate
errs like myself we do this for a reason
if we may be deluding ourselves maybe
there's absolutely no impact that these
words that we talked about that we say
have on people that we don't want people
to adopt the same rhetoric and the
concepts that we're trying to
communicate with our words maybe we're
just all here for the cash and the glory
and the fame and the big cars and the
jewelry and whatever it is but there's a
reason why sitting by that microphone
and looking at his computer and talking
into it real or right-wing media
platforms found hundreds of examples of
language ideas and ideologies that
overlapped at the mass killers written
statement a shared vocabulary of
intolerance that Stokes fears centered
on immigrants of color again this is a
conspiracy theory no it is and the
conspiracy theory this one is
deliberately designed in order to link
together basic conservative tropes about
immigration with white supremacism this
is how you end up with the New York with
the Washington Post running a piece
today on their front page about how evil
the Trump administration is for cracking
down on welfare used by legal immigrants
now wait a second he doesn't refute any
of that it is not a conspiracy their New
York Times wasn't saying that everyone
got into a room and decided to use this
language the fact that these are basic
what he calls conservative tropes well
maybe you should start asking yourself
what is the relationship between
conservatism and white supremacy if the
basic conservative tropes are also the
complete ropes used by the white
supremacists who goes and murders people
that seems like the the question you
should be asking he knows you
of this a story on advice why won't
Twitter treat white supremacy like Isis
because they would mean banning some
Republican politicians right of course
of course
and we also have I mean we we'd say we
you know we could predict using that
language of invasion would lead somebody
to enact well the Bissonnette the Quebec
mosque shooter in 2000 and genuine 2017
this is his his you know the pages he
visited ben shapiro right at the top
there i don't know if we want to go over
his video of him talking about his i
mean we can just play the few first few
seconds here one second timing i mean
it's not a conspiracy theory to say that
we have white supremacists in the
highest levels of our government well
that's not that's not even relevant i
mean it's the the idea that they're not
self-identified a white supremacist
isn't is is is it relevant the point is
that their rhetoric is inspirational to
white supremacists that is undeniable
there is no conspiracy by any definition
of the word that is involved there and
therefore there's no theory that there
is a conspiracy it is simply it is
correlation its it's a correlation and
network and new york times is not saying
it's causation and I don't know that I
could say with a hundred percent
assuredness that it's a that is there is
a causation but there has to be some
measure of belief in the people who
stand in front of a microphone and
broadcast on television or on the
internet or wherever it is that their
words are going to mean something to
people now I cannot prove that if an
entire network television network all
the people in primetime
some of the biggest ones who have
audience of millions or people who and
people who have online shows with
audience of hundreds of thousands or
millions and particularly in this key
demographic
who consider themselves to be
influencers and intellectual shapers of
minds if they all were to say the earth
is flat the earth is flat the earth is
flat the earth is flat the earth is flat
because it was one of their tropes and
someone went out and wrote a screed the
earth is flat those people who are
trying to convince us it's round are our
people who are trying to steal from us
and whatnot and shoots them I can't say
that there's a causal connection there
maybe this person just came to these
ideas on their own granted we're talking
about marginal elements of society but
when your rhetoric and your tropes start
bumping up against marginal elements of
society you got to start to ask yourself
a question or two and apparently he is
not going to yeah he's definitely not
going to here's one of his old from 2014
on Muslims so we're talking about 2.2
million radical Muslims in Great Britain
how about here in the United States well
we have a very moderate Muslim
population we do 2.6 million Muslims
live here according to Pew Research 13
percent said violence against civilians
can be justified 19 percent said they
were either favorable toward al-qaeda or
just didn't know you know who knows
really
that's almost 500,000 radical Muslims
here in the United States here is the
total of the countries that we've gone
through just now 680 million thirty
thousand six hundred eighty million
thirty thousand radical Muslims and
that's out of a total population in
those countries of 940 2.4 million
Muslims total and it seems fair to
assume that similar proportions of
people in countries like say like
Algeria seriously posit ok so what are
we supposed to do with this information
are we just supposed to sit here and go
oh my god we've got millions of
of radical Muslims who want to do us
harm we're supposed to say oh that's so
interesting yeah I mean what are we
supposed to do with this information
it's all about ideas I mean if I am
worried about my fellow man what am I
supposed to do well here's what one guy
did in Quebec City I wanted to say
people yes from terrorist attacks he's
going on I mean that's basically he's
just he's trying to defend them which is
exactly the same framework that this guy
who shot up killed 20 people in El Paso
used to right he was doing this because
he is he is a warrior he's in the war he
realizes like I may not make it to the
end but someone's got to fire the shots
someone's got to fire the early shots in
this war and it I think been Shapiro's
lack of reflection about all this stuff
it should continue to be noted and
harped upon if I said it I'm sorry it
was stupid I have a whole blog post of
dumb things I've said before but I
defend some of them unbelievable
meanwhile here's Ken Cuccinelli
who yesterday we played a clip as he was
announcing and make no mistake about it
they are trying to curtail legal
immigration they are trying to prevent
legal immigrants who are here in this
country from using services intimidating
them that our society provides for the
benefit of everyone it is to the benefit
of everyone that we have people around
us who are getting health care
it is to the benefit of everyone around
us that we do not have people regardless
of their immigration status starving in
the streets and they're using this to
specifically curtail immigration from
countries where people do not have as
much money legal immigration this time
legal immigration in the world and so
someone asked him at the press
conference yesterday so when we have
that plaque on the the Statue of Liberty
that says you know we accept the the
poor your what what is it your your poor
your huddled masses yearning to breathe
free something your huddled masses
you're tired are we not we done with
that now and he didn't he didn't really
have a good answer well he's come up
with one folks he's come up with one all
we need to do we don't have to take the
plaque down we just need to amend it a
little bit would you also agree that
Emma Lazarus's words etched on the
Statue of Liberty give me your tired
your poor are also part of the American
ethos they certainly are give me your
tired and your poor who can stand on
their own two feet and who will not
become a public charge that that plaque
was put on the Statue of Liberty at
almost the same time as the first public
charge law was passed very interesting
timing although you mentioned the
American Dream is is built on this idea
that this is a place where you can come
in a building it yeah I love that it was
pretty hard hitting the response that
way second so you're saying that there's
an addendum there's a qualifier to that
you're poor that can stand on their own
two feet what what does that mean what
does that mean
I don't need any assistance whatsoever
as if Ken Cuccinelli is not getting
assistance from the US government
nevermind his his job never mind the
fact that is all his paychecks have
always come from government
but the mortgage interest deduction that
he takes on his taxes these tax breaks
understand when you get a tax break what
you're getting is a service a free
service from the government a reduced
service not reduced in quality reduced
in cost you're getting services in kind
is what we used to call it in the show
and show business when you do in a
production so you could call it a tax
break but you're not having to pay for
the services you get as much as other
people you're not getting it in dollars
per se you get a snap card you're not
getting dollars you're getting the
ability to buy some food I mean and when
you get a tax rate you means you're
getting all sorts of services you don't
have to pay for give it to a Republican
politician here's the thing about this
that I find frightening it's already
very hard to immigrate to this country
if you don't have money if you have
money you go to the front of the line
you just have to pay like a several
thousand dollars or however much it
costs and you can buy a green card the
fact that they're making a big deal out
of this now in their rhetoric is purely
an attempt to whip up anti-immigrant and
anti pour frenzy oh of course without a
doubt without a doubt like the policy is
not going to be a huge difference from
the way it is now oh no the policy it's
this is this is bad this is very bad
they've already they've already started
to see even months ago you can start to
see that legal immigrants are not
signing up for services that they are
eligible for the this is this is bad
make no mistake about it it's a
continuation but it is it is really
really bad
it's it's them cultivating a more
favorable electorate frankly yes
I mean presumably I guess although I'm
not a hundred percent sure about that it
is them cultivating a what they consider
a more favorable citizenry pleasing your
electorate it's just hard to imagine
squeezing people more than they already
have been it's totally just they're just
shutting the door that's basically what
it comes down to they're shutting the
door and we shouldn't add that they're
doing it in such a way I mean aside from
it being inconsistent with the history
of this country it was or I should say
to the extent that it was consistent of
this country it didn't work out so well
that as they get more severe some
Republicans become less favorable
towards immigration but the vast
majority of Americans become more
favorable towards immigration I mean
this polarization you know we talked
about this in the context of identity
crisis this polarization goes both ways
I mean no static most Americans frankly
don't want a white ethno state that's
right no most normal people are chill
with everyone in their community and
everyone they work with and even if they
don't have like a systemic critique of
like borders and how they hurt the
working class by dividing us they don't
want to see their fellow workers locked
in cages and having their kids taken
away and a lot of people still have you
know stories from I mean my dad he wants
to come up to New York to visit Ellis
Island because he heard about that from
his like grandparents and stuff and
frankly a lot of workers do have a
systemic critique of these things like
well I mean it's I I guess from my
perspective I don't care if their
workers are not workers I mean and they
obviously are coming in and they're
going to be and I don't know that they
define themselves that way but they're
just people who want to live a better
life and have opportunity to care for
their kill their kids care
for their family and what we're doing is
inhumane that's just the bottom line
maybe well let's do this from sonny
perdue this is talk about having a bit
of a 10 year farmers have yet to desert
Donald Trump supposedly because of
course they've been paying out huge
amounts of huge sums of money the dole
to subsidize I imagine most of those
subsidies are not necessarily getting to
small farms and here's sonny Perdue
trying to make light he is of course the
head of the he's the AG say the
agricultural secretary trying to make
light of Donald Trump's dumb trade Wars
but completely just flailing around with
the wit of with what appears to be no
logic whatsoever and really at the end
of the day so that they can get better
copyright it seems to me issues that
like I'm not sure really a problem for
farmers but here's sonny Perdue
basically making a joke that while Falls
a little flat in rural Redwood County
all signs pointed to farm fest the
annual Ag fair but this time with some
extra tension in the air we need new
products going forward given the
situation we have on the ground today us
AG secretary sonny Perdue sat down for a
listening session and a big shed
jam-packed with active and retired
farmers what do you call two farmers in
a basement I said I don't know what are
you gonna he said a wine cellar
beyond the laughter many here are dead
serious about their worries over the
trade war with China which has been a
major buyer of Minnesota crops this is
causing a long-term devastating damage
to not only farmers but the rural
communities AG committee chair Colin
Petersen hosted this event and brought
along four other members of the
Minnesota delegation including angie
Craig there you go their wine or your
honors a wine cellar yeah I don't think
that goes over very well yeah I think
every farmers just like oh okay good
joke I'm gonna forget my grievances now
that you called me a whiner but farmers
love to be called things like that yeah
whoever runs against Trump hopefully
Bernie needs to hammer him on trade on
trade but also agricultural I mean you
know the Democrats have always been you
know Obama talked a decent game in in
2008 about some type of agricultural
reform in this country and and never
really delivered for farmers and really
we end up having just huge big giveaways
to major conglomerates but I mean I
don't know if aside from just being
completely illogical
I don't know that Bernie's gonna have a
being able to make a a critique on
Trump's trade that anybody else wouldn't
be able to to be honest with you I mean
I think like theoretically Bernie would
not be too you know if Trump was able to
execute what he sort of thinks he's
doing on some level
Bernie wouldn't wouldn't be too far
apart in terms of objectives I mean I
think Bernie would be far more
interested in sort of labor protections
in other countries and whatnot but in
terms of like you know protecting
American industry and keeping offshoring
I mean you know theoretically they're
the same but the critique of trumps
trade policies just like they don't make
any sense well I don't think it's
necessarily anything specifically Bernie
can do rhetorically but we do know his
donation come from a lot like those
rural communities right like his map
covers all that stuff way better than
any other candidate does yeah and if you
want to talk about trade this isn't the
same thing as the trade war with China
exactly but NAFTA 2.0 the thing that
Trump signed I think Bernie has much
more of a leg to stand on criticizing
NAFTA like trade deals than any of the
other Democrats I mean I think that's
possible um I think that's possible I
think they'll all critique it on some
level here is Mitch McConnell is at
about 36 percent approval rate in in
Kentucky which is low for an incumbent
senator and that's among likely voters
right yes he's got yes indeed and he's
got but understand that because Kentucky
is so pro Trump that a Democrat would
have to sort of like outperform
the top of the ticket by something like
15 points or something with that said I
think there's got to be as much of an
opportunity as ever and protestors in
Kentucky activists have decided that
they're going to pick the one nickname
that seems to get at shouldn't showed a
weakness that's right cocaine Mitch he
seemed to love it Moscow Mitch not so
much
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Oh
[Applause]
is bleeding away
[Applause]
history
[Applause]
Wow Wow
I'll tell you something that looks a lot
a lot more than if 56% or I should say
56% I think disapprove of him maybe it's
64%
it looks closer to like 80 or 85 15% in
that outdoor venue yeah I normally think
like the whole Russia angle is just a
bit like a palliative for people who sit
on their couch and like watch Matt oh
but if it gets people into like a I
don't know whatever that contraption is
that they're in um that is hilarious
it's people yelling at Mitch McConnell
to his face is good I mean it's you know
it could have been anywhere it could
have been Moldavia Mitch but just that
Moscow Mitch works works better the
works been done on that yeah that's
pretty good
and I love how Mitch McConnell is
sitting there going like I'm gonna power
through this but I am never ever ever
going to do another event like this
again why does he need to yes the 33%
yeah I believe in the people of
Appalachia I really do
I get him there you go
what do we have here from Joe Biden
that's uh him talking about meeting the
Parkland kid kids as vice president I
mean look I I in the main people make
mistakes and the problem with Joe
Biden's gaffes is that they are of a
kind that suggests this is not a guy who
is up in what everybody seems to agree
is a all hands on deck ring the fire
alarms type of an election this does not
seem like the guy that you want to go
into this type of battle with it just
seems risky
and here he is speaking to an event of
gun activists in Iowa and does not seem
to realize that the Parkland shooting in
Florida took place like a year and a
half after he left office which is weird
I watch what happened when the kids from
parkland marched up to and I met with
him and then they went off to up on the
hill I was vice president they went off
the hill to go into those neighborhoods
all those congressmen were like no I'm
not here I'm not here don't tell him I'm
around what's weird about this is this
it's like it's not he's not there
there's a whole narrative that he's
constructed here this is not like I met
the Parkland kids when I was vice
president and I'll tell you I was very
impressed by those kids and I thought
they did with great work he has a whole
story that they showed up at the White
House and then went across the hill and
he saw what happen look and I don't know
if this is just a function you know like
I do think there are some issues with
his age or the way that he's aging I
should say like I don't think his I
happen to subscribe to the idea that age
is a number doesn't necessarily peg you
people tend to think that I'm younger
than I am great I hope I can sustain
that when I'm Biden's age
Bernie's age Warren's age whatever but
this is also a guy and granted it was 25
years ago 30 years ago but when he
plagiarized from Neil kenick he was not
taking Neil Kinnock was a labor leader
he was not taking language that was
about that was not that was
depersonalized he was not taking
language about
no the struggle of labor or the struggle
of ordinary guys or here's a story about
Joe Sixpack or or even or even like I
met a guy who came to me with a with a
lunch bag and he said I want this lunch
bag to be my dad gave me this lunch pack
you know he's not even doing that the
part that he took from Neil Kinnick with
Neil Kennex personal story about growing
up the son of a coal miner or something
it's very like he took the personal
stuff and adopted it who hasn't been at
a party telling a story and you realize
halfway through oops that story happened
to someone else yeah well I you know I
think that happens to people when they
get confirmed but it's not like he was
hanging out with Neil kenick and it was
a written script yeah was about how how
how am I the first person to go to
university here it was where my parents
thick like it was it's very weird
sometimes he was his track of the
boundaries between himself and other
people
yeah exactly I have sometimes I find
myself speaking with a British accent
but that's that's the weird part about
about Joe Biden but you know we'll wait
till after Labor Day when you when you
can get a real good look at that he's
going down I I mean I I continue to
believe that but we'll we'll see this
could be the big chapter the the biggest
chapter of my book and blame the voters
that might be the moment you finally get
me to blame the electorate there you go
nicely so this was an interesting
segment on on on MSNBC Amon Mollie Dean
who is a an anchor at MSNBC a morning
anchor I think right oh man maybe they
had him on a show that was a little bit
later and
[Music]
here is a some pushback I guess from the
reporter at the White House saying that
basically a mullah Dean was not being
you know fair to fair to Donald Trump
according to former homeland security
secretary it's done or designed to
promote immigrant self-sufficiency to
ensure that they are not likely to
become burdens on American taxpayers we
know the preference the president has
always had a preference for immigrants
from Nordic countries he's made that
very clear as opposed to some of the
other disadvantaged countries walk us
through the impact on these immigrants
why now well I don't know that the
president has expressed a preference for
Nordic countries that is something where
I'm not sure where you're getting that
from but he has certainly said that he
has an emphasis on merit-based
immigration and he has talked about that
extensively so that matches up to his
rhetoric it now here's the thing he has
explicitly said that he has explicitly
said that let's put that up we'll put
that up but what's disturbing about this
is put out do we have the actual the the
actual quote where he was talking about
reporting that showed that Donald Trump
sorry here we go we'll put this up but
Donald Trump has said back in during in
the his country rant that he
prefers immigrants from places like
Norway now what is Norway's yeah here it
is NBC news source NBC news source same
we're talking about an NBC correspondent
who's not aware of this whose job it is
to cover the president
NBC news source as Durban explained how
to deal with impact from Haiti Trump
said Haiti why do we want people from
Haiti here
then they got Africa why do we want
these people from s whole countries here
we should have more people from places
like Norway Nordic is a decent reduction
of places like Norway oh I would yes or
if you dig in deeper to what is really
like Norway I don't know what Donald
Trump met maybe like people are used to
being around more like you know
evergreen trees or something like that
and oh here we go
so well dean says well people can forget
these comments and she said of course I
know the reference well this is an extra
to mullah Dean this is to somebody else
okay ja her memory yeah yeah of course I
know the reference but there's a
difference between something said in
private meeting in today's actual public
policy proposal I try and speak stick to
what we can report and not a flip
comment well this is reported by NBC
News so is she
see this is what's so problematic about
about these people okay this is why this
is I mean this is so problematic because
hey she doesn't know this in the first
place
and that's a big problem because you
cannot report on what's going on with
immigration today if you don't know the
context in which this is offered you
cannot report on it but it's not only
does she not have the ability to report
she's pushing back on it and clearly did
not know the reference so she lied but
let's just assume I'm gonna give her the
benefit of doubt she didn't lie of
course I know the reference she says but
she is making a distinction between
what's made in private and what the
actual public policy first of all that
is incoherent that that that
sentiment that statement but something
said in a private meeting in today's
actual public policy proposal that
doesn't even make sense to put those
things at all and she's just covering
her ass with jargon total see why it
couldn't have been that private if that
quote got out I try to stick on what we
can report and not a flip comment she
obviously doesn't remember the reference
because she would realize it was an NBC
report
she works for NBC
so is she not aware of the way her
company does reporting like this
arrogance coupled with the ignorance is
so dangerous when we are told time and
time again that journalism is supposedly
the the last protection we have against
fascism or authoritarianism or democracy
dies in the darkness and blah blah blah
I really hope not
this is this is really problematic and
the idea that she doesn't have the
ability to step up and go I stand
corrected as if her Authority emanates
from like III just this is it's bad it's
really bad and and then a Mamola dean
apparently saw that same tweet and it
what's the timing there she says that a
1051 mole and Dean sees it and he
retweets it at at 10:48 so what's that
right after yeah she's thought right
after and maybe she did or did not see
that now molla Dean tries to be gracious
and says there's been so many
disparaging comments made about
immigrants by this president's
understand about why this would have
been forgotten but she she won't have it
cuz he's on ms I was being more
professional than you are a mess
you know I was saying the other day when
criticizing the mainstream media and how
they covered the Trump administration I
don't need them to become like anti
Trump propagandists I just want them to
get a clue and have some sense of
history but this even goes beyond that
like this isn't history this is very
recent hi I yes like they have a
responsibility to know who they're
covering and if you forget it
fine we're not fine that's a problem
like you better go back and start
hitting the books but to come out and
then be arrogant about it and start to
do the same gaslighting that this
administration is doing and essentially
rely on the the authority the imprimatur
you have as a journalist like I'm a real
journalist I don't report on these
things she didn't even click the link to
find out that it was NBC News that's
such a total embarrassment it's
unbelievable
like this is the type of thing where
it's like hey we're gonna put you on the
sidelines for a little bit it's okay to
admit when you've made a mistake
we'd say if you're a journalist it's
almost required as part of the job yeah
yep
pretty stunning stuff pretty stunning
that takes a lot a lot of nerve a lot of
nerve oh hold on for one second come
from eight one seven area code who's
this where you calling from oh it's me I
think it is you calling from an eight
one seven here we go okay I am I am
Arlington Texas my name is Alex thanks
for taking the call so I think I wanted
to just sort of mention Johnson and
Antonio's comment earlier about health
care I think he made a lot of really
good points I wanted to sort of also add
on to that I actually work at a
psychiatric hospital myself and right
now what a lot of people don't realize
is that these hospitals
operated a loss and a lot of that's
because people don't we have a lot of no
cage people who don't have insurance and
so they come in and they can't pay for
their stay and so it's it's just a loss
for the hospital in addition to that
psychiatric drugs are expensive they
keep going up in price you see stuff
like increase like 140 percent for no
apparent reason when a new company
acquires it and so Medicare for all I
think would actually go a long way
towards putting more money into the
doctors into the hospitals because it
would ensure that everyone can actually
pay for your stuff in reducing the
operating costs when it comes to
acquiring equipment in medicine so I
think that whole line about the oh you
know it's going to cause hospitals out
of business I mean it's obviously BS but
like from that point it just doesn't add
up anyway I mean a lot of those again a
lot of loss just comes from people who
can't even pay because they don't have
insurance at all give everyone insurance
then well supposedly that money is made
up on the backs of charging of up
charging other people right I mean
that's the the theory but but yeah
theory right I mean III don't know if we
can know this answer but we know off the
top right that there's gonna be 20%
savings in terms of the cost of of in
you know basically the the cost to
everyone in terms of like what what
paying for this stuff would be the
savings comes from there's no profit in
the in the private insurance business
and then we know that there's going to
be significant savings for all the
administrative work that needs to be
done in the context of just chasing down
billing and changing and even if the
hospital's rehire these people or create
new jobs for these people that involve
navigating the hospital procedures and
making them more flexible for you know
based upon care that's you're gonna see
huge upsides there I mean the problem is
that these hospitals
the care based upon what is most
profitable for them and so that involves
a lot of overcharging and unnecessary
stuff so I mean I know you're absolutely
right
absolutely right well yeah that's a good
really good point about the navigating
the insurance man because you know
there's a whole department at the
hospital I work at at least it's just
dedicated to that and you know that's
that's a lot of if you're concerned
about operating cost it's a lot of money
now paid to people just to navigate the
private insurance industry and if I
could say just one more thing real quick
about the Nordic countries common yeah I
think that's a dog whistle for white
supremacists because online they they
use that terminology a lot Nordic race
refer to
yeah so I mean to me it's like how
blatant can you get well I mean I
suppose you could have said like he
could have said like more like Aryan
Nations but I don't know what else it
would be more explicit I appreciate the
call Alex thanks Sam I appreciate it
calling from a call from a 308
area code who's this we come from barely
sorry about that
yep better who's this alright Kowalski
from Nebraska what's on your mind
kawalsky well I wanted to call in and
give a shout out to a couple YouTube
channels that I think your viewers would
really like the first would be knowing
better he just does a lot of stuff on
like misconceptions about society that
are pretty fascinating but the one that
I think your viewers would really love
that I don't know if anyone's ever
talked about is three arrows he's a
English speaking German youtuber who has
done a lot of good videos on people like
debunking people like Jordan Peter
Ben Ben Shapiro and you recently put out
a video on the the internment camps that
the prime our republic built at the
early 20s and yeah I know three arrows
he's very good I'm sorry say again oh
yeah there we go
yeah called how society our future and
sargon of akkad very very good very I've
actually shut it out on this the show
yeah I feel like we have at least three
hours and the other one was knowing
better yeah knowing better
he's a former Iraqi veteran who has been
coming out as more of a leftist lately
but he's made some pretty awesome videos
on things like moderates guide to
immigration and moderates guys to
firearms and I think there's a lot of
aspects to it that a predominantly a
right audience would probably find like
fascinating because it kind of undercuts
a lot of their talking points like one
of the things he talks about an
immigration that I wasn't really aware
of did you actually get US citizenship
you have to know English proficiently
and you know everybody always talks
about we need to make English the
national language or whatever but it
basically kind of already is we just you
know haven't made it official so pretty
fascinating there all right well
interesting stuff I will check them out
and folks in Japan three hours I'm a
farmer in Nebraska and I would just like
to point out not many of us are a big
fan of honey Perdue and a lot of stuff
that's been going on and I would say the
trade wars have definitely been pretty
temperamental out here but I would say
that I don't know why but why wouldn't
somebody like Sanders or more not come
to a place like Nebraska and express
their views would actually address a lot
of the Greeks was down here like do you
know
I mean up your head life wouldn't be
worth their time I I don't know I think
they're constantly making assessments as
to where they're most needed right at
any given point like I think like my
sense is that campaigns are always
behind there's always a sense that
they're like a day behind everything and
that they have to constantly make
assessments as to what's going to be
most valuable in the moment and and and
maybe they just make that calculation
that the time spent in Iowa the time
spent in New Hampshire you know is more
important maybe the time spent in North
Carolina and South Carolina like they're
looking at the Democratic primaries and
the ones that are gonna define you know
them and they're just looking at media
markets right like maybe you know maybe
Omaha TV and Lincoln TV will cover it
but if it doesn't get to one of them
were to come to like say the middle of
Nebraska to like someplace like O'Neill
just a small town where a county that
used to have 20,000 people now has
10,000 people and you know Sanders can
actually point through his record and
say you know the Republican policies
that have been going on to the last 30
years have done this to you
I've railed against it the entire time
my policies would help you I know that
would make news all across Nebraska and
at least the Dakotas in Wyoming because
we kind of you know figure back off
we've just but my point is how is that
gonna help him in the primary well for
the primary you had went over you know
Upper Great Plains which well but those
three states that you just mentioned
those three states that you just
mentioned like right now if I you know
if he wins Iowa and or New Hampshire
that's gonna have a dramatic effect on
his candidacy if he doesn't win Iowa in
you know
and come in second if he comes in third
in Iowa that's gonna really hurt him and
so where would you put your resources
today where would you spend that day
early Iowa you're still talking about
the same they're not hearing it in Iowa
you're not hearing it in Iowa I mean
there's all I mean that that's I mean
that's my my suspicion it's just that
like I can give that speech in in the
middle of Nebraska but if people in Iowa
don't hear it it doesn't matter in terms
of like this campaign if bernie is the
nominee he's gonna campaign in Nebraska
at least once
yeah he showed up in North Dakota last
yeah yeah I mean I I could see him doing
that as the nominee it makes a lot more
sense to me in him doing it if you used
in the general definitely we're aware of
Nebraska as you found is it it near
where we're about is it the only in the
entire town of about sixty thousand
people so that the third largest
community in the state I'm trying to
think of where that is I've spent some
time outside of uh Lincoln Lincoln about
80 miles oh oh yeah yeah there's one
more thing I would like to mention I
called in a while back and talked about
how I am a Republican contender for the
third District primary and how I support
you know medicare-for-all a talking
point that I have recently been using
that I'm finding a lot of success with
is that Medicare for all as the current
laws banned would be inherently pro-life
because it would drop the cost of
prenatal which is the primary factor for
most abortions in the country so I think
if you ever get one of the big
politicians on your program again
probably mention that because I think it
would be wonder
they interesting owed frame that is
reducing abortions less so than pro-life
know if there's any way to recoup the
term pro-life when it means banning
abortion to so many people but it
doesn't matter to your Democratic voters
it only matters to the point guys that
are on the fence everybody that's on the
left is already an experience with their
pro-choice there's no point to pandering
to that girl make some sense
why did you decide to run as a
Republican Democrats can't win here
I'm pretty much a centrist at heart I'm
conservative in the fact that I like how
of many aspects of my culture was
growing up the only issue is it needs to
be extended to basically everyone I'm
also kind of an oddball in the area when
it comes to things like immigration
because got a lot of France or posting
things about the invasion and I always
reply with yes we're being invaded by
hard-working Christian family-oriented
people who are fiscally conservative why
we are shooting ourselves in the gut
with a shotgun I'm not sure even though
it would make sense for us politically
because they are our natural ally and
because well if they were actually made
in citizens now I'm saying an easier
route to citizenship not like amnesty
but if they were made citizens Nebraska
would have probably 80,000 more people
which would increase our ability to
retain free congressional district seat
because we're going to lose one by 2030
these people want to come they want to
work they're doing the job but quite
frankly we can't hold people here to do
so really what is the harm that I mean
was that the three years I don't care
you're articulating the theory that Karl
Rove and in George Bush had and why they
were trying to make inroads into the
into the latina Latino communities and
immigration communities was because they
had
theory to that these people are going to
be Republican voters but if you slice it
a certain way they should but for some
reason we can't shake these racial
elements which is mind-boggling to me
because it actually is very hypocritical
considering most Republican philosophy
is well we should pull ourselves up by
our own bootstraps and get these racial
groups are currently saying well I'm
just superior because without having to
prove themselves yeah good point
appreciate the call is good I do think
it's dangerous you'd appreciate the call
immigration on the grounds the
immigrants do jobs that native-born
workers don't want to do right because
that is not a quality that is inherent
or essential to immigrants that is the
direct result of immigrants being
marginalized and criminalized
for crossing a border I think also part
of it is that the the skill sets that
people come across you know you're
coming from
you know countries that are more
agrarian in some respects and countries
that are just not as developed well but
why don't America --nz want to do those
jobs is it because they don't like
working in the fields or is it because
they pay crapoly III think is they don't
like working in the fields I mean I
think I think it's true to that they
don't pay well but I suspect even at
fifteen bucks an hour we have a
population that's not terribly
comfortable in agrarian situations I
mean I think a lot of it comes down to
the pay and the conditions that people
are working in well I can tell you
working picking stuff in a field even a
fifteen bucks an hour even if there
everybody's really nice is super hard
and I don't think that if you know if
you don't like sort of come from that
tradition I think it's a hard job to do
I mean I think it's a hard job for them
too I mean yeah I think we
kind of touched on this with Tim falls
to a little bit but I think basically if
that guy wants to try to run on that
make that the rhetoric of middle of the
country Republicans Godspeed let's go we
got time for one more call maybe call
him from a 571 airy cut who's this where
you come from hi this is pepto bin bow
from Richmond Virginia is this me yes it
is pepto Ben bow oh yeah that's correct
I just wanted to call in appreciate
y'all show immensely I am like fast-food
worker and this is how I'm spending like
one of my days off oh I did want because
you just know oh sorry go ahead
thank you uh my main thing is as a
member of our local Richmond the USA
chapter we recently this past noon
endorsed a City Council candidate for
the Richmond City Council race sorry a
little bit nervous this is my first time
calling and doing great listener I just
wanted to know and signal boosters
campaign because he is the former Turner
of the ECU Virginia Commonwealth
University young Democratic socialists
with names nick de silva just wanted to
do a quick plug for that don't know how
much time you want to get to like me
running down like the kind of platform
he's got going forward but just very
solid democratic socialist politics
especially since y'all were talking
about dina support liberal politics
earlier in the show today all right well
look we have we were putting out his uh
we pulled up his twitter he's uh
nicholas da silva he's running for
women's fifth district and we'll put
we'll put that in the podcast
description so folks are from that area
or they want to just check out see if
there's any way for them to help there
it is I'm going to weeks actually Jamie
will be down there in a couple of weeks
send her an email maybe it's to set up a
talk yeah I would love to hear more
about what they say is doing down there
I have some really good friends there so
I go there at least once a year
excellent I appreciate the call I have a
great thank you have a good day off
spend it the best way you can watch in
the jury report live oh we did that we
did that Oh Oh should we do the Oh let's
do this Josh got heimer well you know
what let's save that for tomorrow should
we do the yeah I guess we'll wait for
Michael to do the Cuomo thing course
he's gonna do it tonight on his show
yeah we talked about auntie MBS last
night so we don't need to go over that
we can do it tomorrow although we're
gonna save that yeah we'll do that
tomorrow all right let's take one more
call and that will get out of here all
right we got a lot of people hanging on
the phone we don't have numbers on the
call screen anymore so it's it's tough
to know but I've had a lot of people who
have been hanging on for and basically
an hour and I'll just choose one of them
eight six three who's this where you
come from
yes we're seniors from Lakeland Florida
hello Jill what's on your mind
I live in probably the reddest part of
Central Florida I kind of yeah hey I am
a tiny blue house in a sea of ruby red
on this part of Polk County
I kind of two things I kind of gauge how
like I'm not a looked Orly like sound
and like analysts like yourself but I
watch cars go by on the road you know
the highway on the road going home and
it's just a lot of Trump stickers most
the time a lot of Trump 2016 all of that
but noticing lately just to give you a
little bit of hope I saw these a couple
weeks ago I thought like a Bernie 2016
sticker still hanging on there and I was
kind of happy about that but within the
last week or so and especially since the
Joe Rogan's
podcast last week I've seen about four
or five Bernie 2026 Wow I gotta say I
would love to see like an academic
assessment you know I mean some there's
got to be some PhD student out there
who's like I'm gonna try and track just
like how much to see if I can see what
because now I think that interview is up
to like nine or ten million people and
that is those are good control factors
to the biggest like sort of alternative
media guy and then what a big politician
like that I mean that is an enormous
amount of views for an interview and I
mean personally I have a lot of people
around that that listen to that that
podcast and I do occasionally but I mean
it was astounding how many people
knowing how much oh I'm a huge Bernie
supporter and they've come to me like
why didn't you tell me
Wow and I was like I was like I tried
well cuz they gave him a game above
platform where he's not screaming over
five other people half of whom are
trying to attack him you know it gave
him an hour to just sit and talk about
the real issues that he believes in and
he gets so little time on the mainstream
media to do that and I think it's a very
big turning point for him I mean it's
you know the the fascinating thing to do
about it is that you could probably the
demo right like we can
already start with the notion that it's
probably just people under the age of 40
more or less I mean obviously there's
some stragglers you know myself I
probably drive the average age up a
little bit but but most of the people
who are watching this are gonna be in
their you know their late teens early
20s like how old are you
with all due respect if you don't mind
me asking I'm about to turn 26 in a
couple weeks yeah I mean I think your
your your age cohort is are the people
who watch Rogan I mean that's just my
guess but but it's a fairly there
applies to this video but you're right
about that but look at these guys are
amazing
yeah holy crap I can't believe I'm
saying this but Bernie Sanders just
earned my vote in 2020 it's plain that
he really wants to improve things for
everyone in this nation except maybe the
uber wealthy are so rich that regular
people look to poor people if you ask me
the billionaires will be just fine if we
follow through on I mean it's just every
this is you know media society has
brainwashed me to believe Bernie was
just a radical old nut head but this
hour and seven minutes completely
changed my mind I cannot believe how
much I resonated with what he was saying
yeah I mean he should cut an like that
gave me so much help and the second
thing I wanted to get to leading up to
that is like the Joe Rogan podcast
happened like what Wednesday or Thursday
last week
and then towards the end of that week is
when you I I was watching your program
live when we covered the map of Bernie
Sanders individual supporters right
after that there was like this hit piece
that I've seen a couple of YouTube
videos on that is like by the New York
Times like Bernie Sanders campaign
walker or something like that he went
out and did like but nobody's listening
to Bernie in Iowa he's falling dead in
Iowa and if I'm allowed to cuss I want
to ask you how much you think between
the jurors and podcast and that that
Matt is like how much is it that
oh members of the New York Times
there's no right there you know I don't
I don't think that they register
I mean I've told this story before and
and and remind me tomorrow Michael and I
have to make a concerted effort to find
out who this reporter was but in the
run-up to must have been spring of 2015
there was Mike somehow a reporter
reached out to us I'm not exactly sure
how from Politico and wanted to talk to
me because he was doing a story on
Martin O'Malley and wanted to get a
sense so I got on the phone with a guy
and he's like look I'm done where I'm
doing a story on Martin O'Malley and
martin O'Malley's question that he's
asking is how do I draw people how do I
draw the you know like how do I I can't
remember how he phrased how do I draw
people away from Elizabeth Warren and
I'm like Elizabeth Warren she's not
running he's got to worry about Bernie
Sanders and the guy laughed he laughed
and I'm like I'm serious you don't
understand there's a lot of support for
Bernie Sanders and he's like yeah but
he's a socialist and I'm like I don't
think people care about what he calls
himself if there's a lot of support for
him I think that's if I was martin
O'Malley that's what I'd be talking
about is how do I get people away from
Bernie Sanders he is just a racist old
guy but the my point is is that they
didn't that reporter did not was not
going to listen to be that reporter
probably still believes the exact same
thing he did about Bernie as he did then
they're not going to move and on some
level it's it doesn't really matter
Bernie Sanders is going to win this or
not
regardless of what the mainstream media
does I mean it's it's just that's his
he's set up in such a way that if he
does what he needs to do right I mean
like think about where we are in the
campaign right now and they know what
they're doing this time he's running to
win this time and going on something
like Rogan was super smart idea and I
suspect you know I mean I think like to
a certain extent when we do videos when
Pakman did videos when Kyle kolinsky did
videos saying that Rogen's not having
people on the left enough and he's
feeling somewhat self self conscious of
it he has Pakman on he has kolinsky on
and we continue to press him and just
that whole IDW I think that's part of
the reason why he basically either
accepted an opportunity to have a Cornel
West non or seek him out and I I don't
think it's a coincidence that Bernie
comes on within a couple weeks of Cornel
West I have a feeling that that's the
way that that works I mean that's the
way it just works with our guests and
and and so this is the interesting thing
about the era that we're living in is
that there's an opportunity to influence
not the mainstream media we just saw
that example of Noro of was it O'Donnell
I can't remember who was from MSNBC not
even it sort of admitting that she
didn't know you know that she made a
mistake and having outlets that are not
so defensive and having access to them
in this world where 7 to whatever 10 11
million people are going to be able to
have access to to Bernie you know
because people on Twitter were
you know doing something I mean so they
just sort of it's it's pretty gratifying
but we'll see if if Bernie wins it's
going to be despite the fact that the
the mainstream media has been sort of
well listen I appreciate the call
and hang in there yeah thank you so much
for taking my calls and listen to your
show for like three years and this is
the first time I've actually been able
to call can I get some like the horn
sounds it's my daughter's second day of
kindergarten
oh good for her are you ready which one
do you want this one or do you want so
far or do you want this one appreciate
the car you got yeah all right folks
that's all our time for today I'm sorry
callers run out of time tomorrow we'll
endeavor to take more calls as we're
wide open see you tomorrow in that
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
