let's put this up though right now I
think I said at the beginning of the
program the Democrats have picked up a
net of what do we say 33 and there it is
quite possible they're still counting in
California and in Georgia one or two
other places that at the end of the
final tally there will be 40 plus I
should say for a net gain of 40 House
members in the Democratic caucus
yesterday Josh harder beat Jeff Denham
in the San Joaquin Valley in California
there are two other Republican seats
that the counting seems to be going
against them one is in Orange County
this is California 45 Katey Porter I
want to just speak briefly about Katey
Porter I don't want my comments
yesterday to be misconstrued and David
daen had a very good thread on this and
specifically a piece that he wrote about
Katie Porter's role in making California
responsible for something like 40% of
all recoupments on on bad mortgage
shenanigans mortgages that had no
underlying documentation as to the debt
owed and the securitization the lien
against the house and she was personally
responsible for for helping out
thousands of homeowners as a basically
working for out of Kamala Harris's
office
and you know day in spent a lot of time
obviously probably more than more than
certainly most and wrote a great book on
it
chain of title on that aspect of the
mortgage crisis so despite the fact that
she so ran to the middle you know she
was doing so you know Orange County
which is a I don't know if they've had a
democratic representative there in
decades but nevertheless and so so far
we have images of the members elect now
Republicans I think they flipped to or
two or three seats and then of course
there was also some retirements and
whatnot so there are about let's say one
two three let's say I don't know about
twenty five thirty Republican members
elect there you can see the pictures of
them all there is one woman amongst them
and one guy that guy who was on Saturday
Night Live who has an eye patch that guy
yeah I know I bring that up
not because I'm I'm mocking his eye
patch but I'm looking for I'm looking
for some measure of diversity we have
one women a woman out of those 35 or
some odd people and one guy with an
eyepatch and then you know to be fair
there's at least two guys who seem to be
completely bald and then a lot of guys
with the receding hairlines and then and
also to be fair there's at least two or
three guys who have facial hair some
guys not wearing suits so there are
there are two people three people know
four people not wearing suits so there's
a lot of diversity there you have a live
that's good coming through you have all
these white men some have a summer
balding a couple wearing glass
is someone has an eyepatch and won one
of those white people is a is a woman
let's go down and take a look at the
Democrats I think no I was a pirate the
trip points goodbye that was kind of it
and then you look at the Democratic
members elect and it is just it's like a
completely different place scary we have
multiple African American folks we have
folks who are I see at least four people
that might blow up the new Congress in a
suicide bomb yes there is a Muslim a
woman and the right she's gonna hug you
and detonate a vest is the woman from
Minnesota Ethiopian or ear trian I think
no you neither she's Somali no Somali
and in them we have I mean we have men
and women I think the predominant are
women it is pretty striking that those
two got a single eye patch now you look
at this and I ask you which party which
party is based on identity politics like
what is the identity of the Democratic
members elect I couldn't what is the one
identity that you can you'd stayed about
they all make me wanna cross the street
no all right to be fair I gotta watch my
wallet no eye patches I just said that
no I pageants not a signal
representation so why is this party so
big it's matter to the to the
Republicans I mean this is you know like
whenever you hear someone say that
Democrats are about identity politics
look at this and tell me which party is
about an identity it's just absurd it is
an absurd talking point the in fact the
talking point itself
refutes the talking point there is no
identity that can encompass the the
Democratic at least incoming members of
here's one one might mug you why might
suicide Bob you how about that's two
what do you have video why do you hate
vets that's my question there you go
I think there's some vets in the
Democratic that's who love America don't
hate it back I guess this speaks to the
bad things about the both sides argument
right because they both do identity
politics to some degree but the
Republican version is like everyone
should be white and the Democrat version
is not everyone needs to be what the
reality is everyone does and everywhere
does identity politics in some fashion
or another right and but the reality is
when you look at this there is I mean to
the extent that I even know what
identity politics means right that you
take your cues and you vote based upon
you know I guess what the identity of a
certain person is there's no consistency
amongst the Democratic Party right like
there's it's clear that there is not
that can't be a defining characteristic
of an identity that is that is the the
catalyst for your vote I could give you
defining characteristic none of these
people could get an apartment in any of
my buildings well how about that I could
well it's probably I don't know see who
he says he is with so just want to put
that up whoa here's an eye patch the
others with us that's bad
