[Music]
Nancy Pelosi was reprimanded in the
house yesterday because she went odd
homonym no actually not she the the
house has some old rules that have not
been invoked since the like I think 1800
I think it was 1801 where you're not
supposed to say anything about the king
that's where it came from and I think
Jefferson sort of extended this to the
president about racial issues I don't
know why you would have that in the
eighteen hundreds I don't know I don't
know was it was to preserve a
conversation I don't know what Thomas
Jefferson was trying to suppress what
sort of factual information he might
want to keep well it's don't personally
insult me because I have a slave child
well if I find that personally offensive
we need to be able to have a
conversation about slavery without
getting it all mucked up by race new
papers so-called abolitionists who are
using he did an inflammatory rhetoric
which also said she called the president
racist on the floor of the house and
after an extended period of time and at
one point I can't remember call who it
was that had the gavel they don't put
the gavel down and walk away because
everybody was being a little bit uptight
about it but here's the point that
conservatives when they talk about
snowflakes etc etc really you have to
understand they are projecting now yes
it's true various folks of all stripes
tend to get offended at things it's hard
for me to understand that virtually
impossible for me to get offended by
anything that you could call me but I
understand that people who might be
or in touch with their emotions and
their feelings of self-worth get a
little bit uptight but there's nothing
that's more upsetting to a conservative
than to be called out for being a racist
there's nothing more upsetting to a
conservative than to have their racism
recognized as racism you can call it
anything else he was just being comedic
um PC unpeel Meade on Fox and Friends
exhibiting that that very same now
understand that the federal government
if you want to bring a claim of
discrimination in the workplace they
have a detailed code of words that are
considered racist racially bigoted etc
etc so they can move forward one of
those things in the code is the idea
that you would tell someone to go back
where they came from that's a that's a
pretty unambiguous one and
coincidentally that's exactly what
Donald Trump said to four women
three of whom who have been born and
raised in this country one of whom is
not just a naturalized citizen but a
member of Congress right which to the
extent that you can be I guess like
American II being a member of the of the
the government an elected member of the
government is pretty American II in if
you get elected in America if you get
elected in a different country then it's
that country II here is a Brian Kilmeade
getting really offended that other
people happen to notice that Donald
Trump was a racist often times there's a
voice of reason on the House floor is
just flat-out fed up
but he should not be fed up with
congressman Collins because congressman
Collins is going by the manual of
parliamentary practice that Thomas
Jefferson put into play which is
personally use not supposed to use
language that is personally offensive to
the president I believe calling the
president racist is personally offensive
but that's just my judgment the manual
also said that members cannot accuse the
president of having made bigoted or
racist statements so therefore precedent
said Collins is 100% right first off I
think this is a bad rule to have in
Congress insane that's you actually
authoritarian president authoritarian
bigoted or racist free speech that's
authoritarian and the proper usage of
that word it's really Scots insane and
let's be honest it was put there almost
was it two hundred and twenty years ago
a hundred and hundred two hundred some
odd years ago because last used a
hundred and twenty years ago because
everyone in that chamber including the
president maybe not everyone in that
chamber we're probably not everyone in
the chamber that's probably why it was
so important had slaves and they didn't
want to be considered they just didn't
want to feel icky about to have an open
exchange and so what they needed was
that the rhetoric was getting too heated
and if you couldn't immediately go to
add homonyms it's just so offensive to
look at someone who has slaves and make
it about race in 1836 to 1844 it was
legally not allowed to discuss slavery
in Congress by gay girls passed by
southern congressman Sam Harris at the
time no no III opposed slavery but we
need to have a serious conversation
about the discourse right exactly and
the other and that Turner led a slave
uprising a lot of people were hurt by
this so in other words we need to be
serious about the unintended
consequences here is Eric's law while
well fresh off of his exit from the
presidential campaign trying to explain
to his
colleagues why someone might come to the
conclusion that Donald Trump is racist
we have an opportunity today to condemn
or condone birtherism is racist saying a
Mexican judge can't be fair because of
his heritage is racist saying immigrants
from Mexico are rapists is racist
saying there were good people on both
sides in charlottesville is racist
calling African countries
countries is racist and telling four
members of this body to go home is
racist
Emin was do you think it's not racist it
is point of order do you think it's not
the gentleman was suspended gentleman
was that what you're saying right now
mr. Collins mr. Collins the gentleman
from California is out of order
the gentleman from Georgia gentleman
from California Chelsey's spent
basically swallow was challenging
Collins to get up in front of that
microphone and say these things aren't
racist now here's the bottom line with
this stuff they took a poll after after
the tweets yeah I mean the margin of
error is you know bigger because it's
it's done so quickly but the the fact of
the matter is is that this stuff does
not bother Republicans it simply doesn't
three out of ten independents said they
approved of Trump down from four out of
ten a week ago Democrats obviously it
dropped but a national survey conducted
on Monday and Tuesday after Trump told
lawmakers they should go back and fix
the totally bro
in crime infested places where they came
from showed his net approval among
members of the Republican rose by five
percentage points compared with a
similar poll that ran last week now I
you know look I don't know there's a
Reuters poll it's hard to know how
accurate this is it went down with
independents it went down with Democrats
forty-one percent of the public said
they approved of his performance office
fifty five percent disapproved the fact
of the matter is it makes total sense
for his support to go up in the
Republican Party and the reason why it
makes total sense is the exact same
reason why Donald Trump things that it
would Axios rights it might seem like
improvisational madness when Trump tells
American citizens in Congress to go back
but close to those close to Trump's say
there's a lot of calculation behind his
race baiting Trump knows that in 2016 he
won the white vote by 20-plus points he
hope he can crank out their turnout even
higher especially among older white
evangelicals he knows most of those
voters are unlikely to ditch him no
matter how offensive his comments there
was a focus group in Michigan white
swing voters agreed with Trump on
immigration white Democrats this is an
analysis of the 2018 midterms found that
white Democrats with high levels of
racial resentment were likely to vote
Republican do not forget I mean I don't
know if I've said any single statistic
more in the past year
do not forget 50% of non college
educated white people fought until the
Obama administration
that Republicans were to the left of
Democrats on race I certainly for one
grew up being taught that all that
happened in essentially the 80s
following through the 70s into the 80s
following the Voting Rights Act and the
Civil Rights Act 65 that Johnson thought
that we were gonna lose the Democrats
we're gonna lose the South for a
generation he was wrong it was multiple
generations took awhile for people who
were traditionally Democrats to realize
that wait a second the democratic
party's not the Democratic Party of my
granddaddy I'm gonna become a Republican
now even though migrating my
granddaddy's time great granddaddy's
time they want to free the slaves and it
turns out there was still a big chunk of
folks like that not necessarily in the
south probably in the areas like the
Midwest and the Rust Belt who didn't
realize who just didn't realize and what
Barack Obama became president and Fox
said he's got a slush fund that gives
out cellphones the black people they
were like wait a second and that's
what's going on here
and that's Donald Trump's play Josh
Marshall had a an interesting tweet
thread about this back in 1971 Pat
Buchanan a young aide and speechwriter
to Nixon wrote a memo to the president
his top advisors which he said in this
close / batum we need to cut rick cut
the country in half and i believe we
will have the biggest half donald trump
is following the same strategy i don't
know if he's ever read any of that stuff
but he instinctively knows it less than
half the country is racist i'm
talking like motivated to vote in favor
of racism and at that time
Nixon's half was bigger and this time
it's not which is why you see things
like intense voter suppression it's why
you see things like strategies to mute
the vote to suppress the vote to
diminish the vote he writes the key in
our current political moment especially
in the Senate into a degree in the
electoral college in the house the
smaller half can hold electoral power
the whole logic of trumpism is light the
trumpian base on fire and keep it at a
boiling point by trying as much as
possible to demoralize exhaust and gas
light the opposition psyche everyone out
trigger spoiler third parties and more
there's really no 12 dimensional chest
every day is another trump tally more
racism racism and rage to keep his
diehards Bob boiling it all comes down
to whether the bigger half votes and
votes enough to overcome the structural
advantages the Trump GOP holds in the
Senate electoral college and even the
house the elect all the electoral
college creates affirmative action
preferences for Trump errs so Democrats
have to overcome those tilted odds but
they can because there are more of them
that's the equation frankly that's why I
worry about Joe Biden because it's about
mobilization it's not about persuasion
this election there may not be any more
persuasion elections going forward
unless of course you can't neither party
their candidate is mobilizing right
that's what a bid Clinton Bush would
have been persuasion no mobilization of
either base in in a massive way but we
are in an era where mobilization
he's far more relevant than persuasion
Joe Biden may be able to persuade a
couple of wayward Democrats but the fact
of the matter is he will not be able to
mobilize the base of the party where the
fish are keep using this analogy he
might be out there with a fly rod and
picking a couple off in the corners of
the of the pool but you need to bring in
big halls of fish so you go where the
fish are and you mobilize them and I
just don't think Joe Biden of all the
candidates has that in him
