number calling from a 704 area code
who's this where you come from
hey my what are you what yes you are
live what is your name my right now okay
my name is Michael from North Carolina I
just had a question about this
California law and I guess I'm having
like trouble reconciling like I guess
the whole everybody equally but then
also like mandate the board composition
or corporation right
yeah I'm not I'm not totally familiar
with the law but let's just assume it is
what you say it is what what were you
having trouble with I don't know I guess
you shouldn't be treating people
differently based on the agenda or like
any answer because it's quite a while
you don't name a meeting well you know
that the that corporations are the ones
corporations are completely a function
of a government license right you know
that right corporations get all sorts of
benefits in our society that are a
function of being essentially accredited
by state governments and federal
government you're aware of that right
yeah okay so you're driving a car right
now right do you have an issue with the
government mandating that your car
maintain certain safety safety levels
yeah and I think in many respects it's
the same theory that corporations have
clearly had a problem in terms of
integrating as far as gender and again I
don't know if this law exists I'm not I
don't have a problem with it but but and
I think the argument could be like look
we have too many instances within the
context of corporations where we
see incidents of women being
discriminated against because of their
gender and suffering suffering from you
know hurts disadvantages in terms of
their career trajectory and their
ability to get to senior positions
because of the legacy of the way this
country has been and one way we're going
to correct that is to say there are
undoubtedly enough women who are
qualified to fill these positions and so
you're these boards the corporate boards
right which are just overseers must have
a certain percentage of women basically
to function you know as you know that
there's not such a hermetically sealed
homogeneous ideology in that corporation
that women are consistently
disadvantaged that would be why I would
be in favor of something like that yeah
principle where it's like it's really
better if you have more diverse
viewpoints you know in a corporate board
it just this feels weird a top-down
government saying all right this is what
you have to do I couldn't think she'd go
even further than that and I don't know
just like make a bunch of these little
tiny requirements based on like gender
based on race well I mean I don't I
think I mean look I think that there I
would take each case as it comes but I
don't have a problem with that broadly
speaking
except for maybe from an efficiency
standpoint but this is quite easy this
this isn't like you know the government
the government doesn't have to do too
much it's just like they have corporate
filings I used to be incorporated in
California I used to have a filing that
I would fill out every I think year or
quarterly I can't remember very basic
and if I had you know board of directors
a number of women five number of men
five or whatever it is that's not too
hard would you be kind of like
or something in the opposite direction
like okay you should have you know one
of each gender on board maybe something
weren't interlocal one of each gender on
a board what do you mean like I think
that you have a own wind power like a
female board I could give you a guy I'll
tell you why I wouldn't have a problem
with it I wouldn't have a problem I
wouldn't have a problem with an
all-female board right now because it's
not a real problem that exists in
society like I'm not even concerned
about if you were to tell me like look
of the three all-female corporate boards
in California let's say there was three
of them I have evidence that men do not
get promoted as much in those three
boards I would still say that's not
enough of a societal problem to address
come back to me in 75 years where when
root women rule everything if men are
not getting a fair shake then I would be
open to to dealing with that problem
that has exist but what what what why I
am in favor of that law is because there
is an existing problem in the real world
right that I think needs to be addressed
and it was a function of of really of
centuries of not just culture not just
nature but of law made by man that
inhibited women in these positions and
so we need to make we need to redress
that we need to provide redress we need
to fix those problems look my mom could
not have a credit card in her name when
I was born
do you understand yeah yes because of
her gender like do you realize how far
out we are from this stuff not that far
out so in that in that that law the fact
that that was the legal that Bank
was licensed by the United States of
America right I mean it was licensed by
a state the fact that she couldn't have
a credit card in her name I mean come on
yeah if there's discrimination and
you're actively excluding people based
on your answers we have a societal
problem so instead you know we have a
societal problem and so the answer is
not one to go in and do investigations
in each separate company which then
people would complain is incredibly
invasive and we can't do our business it
is simply to make a law that allows for
the companies to fix it by themselves
over time with the theory that the
leadership constructs the culture in
that company and part of the problem
with the culture and that in that
company is a function of the fact that
there's been one segment of the
population that has controlled that
culture right appreciate the hell mom
what appreciate you sharing your point
thank you Thanks
