so professor we have a situation where
john bolton leaves the administration
just days ago he claims that he resigned
Trump claims that he fired him and then
it's almost as if like instead of a gold
watch there was a big gift that was was
sent to him in some way it looked and
it's still quite possible but it looked
like the Trump administration was at
least proclaiming a Casaus Bal I as it
were but before we get into the
specifics will you just go back and just
give us a brief summary of where we are
with Iran what how far our relationship
has disintegrated since the Obama
Iranian nuclear deal and the the
attempts the most recent attempts to
sort of I guess by France in particular
to create a new deal that looked a lot
like the old deal but presumably would
be referred to as Trump's deal that's
right well you know it's it's amazing to
think about it but in 2016 after the
Iran nuclear deal was signed there was a
prospect that Iran might buy a hundred
passenger jets from Boeing that all the
sanctions were supposed to be off Iran
economically and it was supposed to be
led into the world economy that was the
United Nations Security Council took off
all of its sanctions in each of the
major blocks Europe and the United
States and so forth we're supposed to as
well and so there's this prospect of you
know this virgin economy is it's an
economy as large as Poland with a
population the size of Germany would be
a new player in the world scene and and
there was a lot of money to be made
by Americans and then in May of 2018 and
before we get to there I just want to
explore this just a little bit so that
we can really fully grasp the
implications I mean one of the things
that was left out of the negotiations
for that deal specifically was Iranian
involvement in in in groups that the
United States considers to be terrorist
groups you know arguably insurgencies
and whatnot but the nukes had been
basically taken off the table and you
might have a better sense of this than I
this you know engagement commercial
engagement with with different countries
tends to increase America's I guess
leverage in these manin there's only so
much that we can do with China which has
been horrible in terms of human rights
abuses but but when you're talking about
a dynamic between Iran and America the
idea that they would buy a hundred US
planes from Boeing not only is obviously
a huge boon for Boeing in American
interest but also it it begins to bring
Iran back into the sort of the the the
fold as it were and could have only led
to probably more leverage yes oh I think
absolutely once Iran has a lot of
investment from Europe and the United
States might have trade with those
places when it does something that its
hardliners really want to do that the
rest of the world is just horrified at
then there's going to be you know an
avenue of pressure on Iran ah because
it's no longer isolated and that's why
you know the hardliners in Iran like
Iran's isolation they were against the
the Obama deal and they were very much
afraid that it would open Iran to these
outside influences
and so okay so then that just basically
gives us a vision of what could have
been and of course that was not to be at
least for the time being because you
were about to tell us what the the Trump
administration did to sort of end that
progress
well the Trump administration reached
the treaty ah it was a treaty and it was
signed by President Obama and it was
signed by the other members of the
permanent members of the UN Security
Council along with Germany as a kind of
representative of the European Union and
what it said was was that if Iran closed
off all of its plausible avenues towards
weaponizing its civilian nuclear
enrichment program because the audience
would only ever had a civilian program
which was intended to right to provide
fuel to reactors and make electricity
but there was always this fear that
maybe they might wake up one morning and
decide to weaponize it the the agreement
made that impossible
there's frequent inspections only
certain kinds of equipment could be used
they were limited to the number of
centrifuges they couldn't have a
heavy-water nuclear reactor which
theoretically you know you could build
up some fissile material on the rods
inside and so Iran was just not in a
position really to at least secretly
make a nuclear weapon if it ever wanted
to it would have to throw out the
inspectors and build installations that
were obvious to the world so the Iran
nuclear issue went on a back burner it
was it was really over with for for the
foreseeable future
and then Trump just pulled out of that
treaty
he expected Iran to abide by the terms
of the treaty but then he went around
the world
strong-arming Japan and South Korea
India and other countries Italy and so
forth not to buy your onion petroleum
and using the might of the US Treasury
Department which oversees a twenty two
trillion dollar a year economy in the
United States a fourth of the world's
economy threatened everybody in his
uncle but if they so much as traded with
Iran are invested in Iran that they
would be fined billions of dollars so
for instance the oil company shell a
royal dutch/shell I was planning to
develop your Iranian natural gas fields
which are very extensive and it abruptly
pulled out when Trump did this and so
Iran has been reduced to a shadow of its
former self economically it last May it
got down to selling only 250,000 barrels
a day of petroleum it had been supposed
so like twice that much two and two and
a half million barrels a day and that's
Iran's major source vidcom I mean it has
the carpets and pistachios and so forth
they don't amount to that much so the
Iranian middle class has suffered this
massive downward mobility people are
buying rotten cabbage at the store and
they can't afford no antibiotics and
medicines for their family and the
children the McMahon lenders there
they're really suffering very badly oh
and and in mind you this is there is no
legal framework for doing this to Iran
that is to say the into the
international community the UN Security
Council says Iranian trade is perfectly
illicit and the European Union thinks
it's listed it is trying to you know
find ways to get around Trump and the US
Congress has not voted to do this so
it's it's just this crud Trump and his
cronies have decided to get Iran and to
to starve it out
and have dragoons the world into it with
with basically how you know
organized-crime kinds of threats it's a
nice company you have here too that it
simply happened to it right all right
well let's let's take a break when we
come back let's start with the overtures
from Iran
via France to sort of I guess
restart the the deal in some way and
then let's talk about this latest
incident in which the administration
anyways claims that Iran has struck a
Saudi oil facility we will talk about
what our relationship with Saudi Arabia
is that would compel us to go to war for
it I'm Sam cedar we're talking to
professor Juan Cole be right back ring
of fire radio
