[Music]
let's uh let's actually go on let's go
to this Stephanie ruhle clip you know I
was saying earlier with Ana Kasparian
this is just an objective fact you
cannot trust quote unquote mainstream
media whatever you want to call it a
failing means there's now a mainstream
media I mean look I but I don't even
want to trivialize it because look
Donald Trump first of all the failing
mainstream media was actually enormous
ly generous to Trump
they gave him unending attention they
let him stream his hate lie rallies all
the time CNN is you know CNN executives
have admitted that he was a massive boon
for the news business and I am no doubt
that all of these companies are actually
quite concerned about the notion of
Trump not getting reelected because he's
excellent for ratings in the bottom line
so I put them up against the wall yeah
bro fair enough
precisely but but that's the sort of
global pattern right so that's you know
and the way Trump criticizes the media
we know is as an authoritarian and as a
fascist who wants to undermine the press
we know that at the same time we also
know that yes in fact part of the reason
we're in the predicament we're in is
that mainstream corporate media has done
a horrible job of covering the real
stories that affect people's lives that
it regularly favors and airbrushes
corrupted companies and politicians and
so on and there's a lot of profound lack
of trust in these institutions which
they have earned through their own
failures and it is so distilled in me
just relentless petty dishonesty and
unfairness to Bernie Sanders to the
point where his campaign needs to be a
hell of a lot more aggressive about
going up against this stuff they need to
treat the New York Times and MSNBC and
Politico in the exact same fashion they
treated the Center for American Progress
which is like look obviously you're
biased against us of course you favor
other candidates of course you're gonna
be looking for everything that you can
to lie and distort about us because
ultimately we threaten you
- because of our systems critique of
American politics but if you lie so
blatantly and you go right to the edges
of pure anti-semitism we're gonna hit
you hard on it and it's also incumbent
on the warrant campaign frankly if they
want to maintain their credibility as a
genuine reforming force to say look
we'll accept all of the glowing press
coverage even if we understand that a
lot of it is cynical and from groups
like Third Way purely because they want
to stop Sanders and hate him so much
we'll play that that's politics that's
fine if you want to get the ancillary
benefits of a corrupted media process
and corporate think tanks that's fine
but if you want to maintain your Sheen
then in the same way that Sanders
regularly praises and gives a lot of
respect to Warren which is of course
another thing that's lied about and he's
smeared on in the correct use of the
term smear then the Warren campaign is
gonna need to say you know what we're
making our campaign we'll take the
positive press coverage but don't ever
praise us in the context of articles
like the new yen article in Vanity Fair
that make obscene comments about Bernie
Sanders appearance that played to age
and religion stereotypes we're not
interested in benefiting from the smears
and lies about a great Senator who we've
worked with that would be what the
Warren campaign would do with integrity
this is Stephanie ruhle you know again
this is just relentless and of course is
all in the context of defending Joe
Biden who is a catastrophe for anybody
that progresses even the most
center-left values for God's sake we're
debating segregation in the 1970s in the
Democratic primary because of Joe Biden
but of course Stephanie ruhle who is a
bad woman for Wall Street will use this
as an opportunity to be petty which is
what MSNBC is almost always with Bernie
Sanders in the last 24 hours calling on
Joe Biden to apologize for comments he
made about working with segregationists
and it's the more people hear about it
some are saying well
applauding or celebrating that that
wasn't what Joe Biden was doing Joe
Biden was trying to make the point that
bipartisanship is necessary he's done so
working with the deplorable of the
deplorable --hz that's why he gave the
example of the segregationists working
with them on what Stephanie well I'm
gonna actually get to I think I'm gonna
get back to what they were working on in
a second and you know it's amazing
because we were able to drum this up
with you know a talented you know I
think a good hard-working crew but um
certainly with not the resources that
Stephanie ruhle has has at her disposal
I am sure that her producers could have
picked a printed a wopo piece that came
out today for her he's done so working
with the deplorable of the deplorable
that's why he gave the example of the
segregationists so why is it that you
believe he has to apologize I mean I
think the media makes a bigger deal of
it than it is yeah I do I do because
it's one thing look when you're in
Congress you work with everybody I do I
think every member of the Senate in
everything my marital house works with
people who are very very different
points of view but I don't think you
have to be touting a personal
relationship with people who are very
brutal I'm sorry if you disagree with me
that's fine that's why for a decade
career had to align yourselves with
people who don't share your views on
things that will advance your causes
yeah absolutely just what I said
absolutely I haven't sung as every other
member of the Congress but one doesn't
really count
you know what's personal relationships
or the making virtue out of stability
when it may be a necessity and not a
virtue senator thank you for joining us
he handled that beautifully imperfectly
and and and finally of course some human
justification at this just ridiculous
disingenuous line of questioning and I
know that plenty of idiots with weird
psychological issues with Bernie Sanders
will try to make that into a thing
because Bernie sander
is not the Buddha and doesn't have
perfect
quint you know absolute patience and by
the way the Buddha would I'm sure also
say with clear speech excuse me ma'am
I understand that you're being totally
disingenuous here but I'm gonna finish
my point so and and let's just add this
really briefly just to summarize
Stephanie ruhle who spends most of her
time defending Wall Street executives
when she's not being disingenuous to
Bernie Sanders and of course the whole
you know I can think of I mean the MSNBC
lineup is obviously mostly totally burnt
biased against him here so Bernie
Sanders works with Mike Lee to stop a
genocide in Yemen and then doesn't
fetishize that overruns Joe Biden I'll
go back to this in a letter June 30th
1977 written to Jim Eastland I want you
to know that I very much appreciate your
help during this week's committee
meeting in an attempt to bring my antsy
busting legislation to a vote that's
what they work together Stephanie so
you're missing the obvious point because
of course you're disingenuous and biased
against Sanders that he's saying that
like of course we have a job to do here
but you don't fetishize brudos brutal
segregationist that should be pretty
easy to figure out but I'll give you a
pass on that one of course you're there
to smear Bernie so you won't figure that
out fine but then you gotta at least get
your producer and say well was as it was
um was Biden working on arms control
with Eastland you know as an example
just senator william fulbright from
arkansas was a segregationist he was
also one of the earliest senators to
come out against the war in Vietnam so I
guess if somebody said hey I worked with
Fulbright well you could say I worked
with him to end the genocide in Vietnam
even as his record uh in the South was
inexcusable and a crime against humanity
Joe Biden is fetishizing a guy who was a
brutal apartheid statist
who he partnered with on anti-civil
rights efforts in the 1970s so ma'am I
apologize but I think I disagree with
this this is that meme where the two
arms come together the two jacked guys
with the fists and it's just like
eastland Biden bussing legislate exactly
except it's two white arms yes two
jackets too and the thing about it is
you know we had this debate about
whether Trump is sort of a conscious
liar I think the more debate is
whether Joe Biden is the one he says
things like I'm the most progressive on
this or that and this that the way he's
framing hit his you know bless me Father
for I have sinned for you know saying
something nice about a desegregation is
is he saying like I work with people I
disagree with the problem we are having
with Biden is not that he works with
people he disagrees with it's he agrees
with people that we disagree with
especially as things like school
desegregation we disagree yeah exactly
yeah I mean everybody to the left of
center pretty much hates Joe Biden right
now liberal feminists hate Joe Biden for
being creepy Donaghy Z coats hates Joe
Biden for supporting racism and
segregation and white supremacy we hate
Joe Biden for all of those reasons as
well as his economic austerity plans so
I just want us to remember this feeling
because it might not last forever
