[Music]
let's hear tucker carlson speaking of
which now move into the next phase of
his his growth and evolution into
full-on white supremacist and you know
what's fascinating about this right we
have two different things that are going
on here we have white supremacists and
then we have white supremacist ideology
and there's two different ways you can
look at how we get more people falling
into the category in this country of
people who are willing to get a gun and
go out with political motives to go
shoot someone because they're an
immigrant or they could be an immigrant
or they look like an immigrant or
whatnot and you can either look at like
everyone in the country lined up on one
line right like a gym class across the
board and they could all step to the
right let's just look at it with the
Conservatives they could all take three
steps to the right and the ideology is
static the ideology is the line and how
extreme you get and what extreme actions
you're willing to take stay static and
people move or you could look at it the
opposite way that people are static and
the ideology floats and more people are
embracing an ideology and so watch the
trick that tucker carlson does here cuz
he's going to talk about self-identified
white supremacist and that it's a hoax
cuz there's not many of them but he's
not talking about is that actually
what's moved is the non self-identified
white supremacists are now bathing in
this ideology and as they bathe in it
the self-professed white supremacists
have more license to take action because
more people have embraced the ideology
that inspires them but the whole thing
is a lie if you were to assemble a list
a hierarchy of concerns of problems this
country faces where would white
supremacy be on the list right up there
with Russia
probably it's actually not a real
problem in America the combined
membership of every white supremacist
organization in this country with able
to fit inside a college football stadium
I mean seriously this is a country where
the average person is getting poorer
where the suicide rate is spiking white
supremacy that's the problem this is a
hoax
just like the Russia hoax it's a
conspiracy theory used to divide the
country and keep a hold on power that's
exactly what's going on I wonder if you
were to ask a Latino person a person of
color a black person person from
Pakistan
if white supremacy is a hoax if it's
meaningless if it makes a difference
whether you could get 70,000 people who
call themselves white supremacists into
a football stadium first of all we found
out it only takes one to take out 30
people but that aside the and and not
just to take out 30 people but to cause
literally hundreds of thousands if not
millions of people to be terrified but
the idea is that what's happening is
that we have a structures in this
country that that allow for this and the
idea that it's a hoax of course I mean
now he's just denying I I could I didn't
contribute to anything because it
doesn't exist it's so creepy lately how
he's been adopting some of the language
of the left
to make very reactionary points right
because he is naming real problems that
exist he's naming the opioid crisis
which is largely perceived as a white
problem he's naming people's
immiseration and lack of jobs and then
he's saying the reason is the Liberals
are claiming that racism is a thing and
it's dividing people bla bla bla when in
fact the real thing that's dividing
people is racism itself right like we
talked about that the other day with the
wages of whiteness and whatnot like this
is it is a hoax of sorts right designed
by the ruling class to divide us from
each other and it's been working
Tucker Carlson really making some hay
out of that whole Russia hoax con
construction it's just like that
