speaking of rewriting rewriting speaking
of history and facts and so on here's
Laura Ingraham trying to do a little bob
and weave a little spin about what
remember when Donald Trump said good
people on both sides and bad people on
both sides what neo Nazis were in
charlottesville which is a speech he
regrets making because he feels like he
was unfair to his credit the apology
right oh there's the worst speech he
ever made
so I mean here is Laura Ingraham
millions of women suffering in silence
are you all like not seeing that and by
the way your your your titular head of
the GOP the president United States is
not only the most divisive but his
unhinged statements his statements about
Nazis being decent people him taking an
order and babies they're good people on
both sides now and he think what he was
trying to say he was trying to say this
is I understand what you're trying to do
I'm actually trying to do an
intervention for it for the Democrat and
Scott is one of my door scoffs divisive
yesterday last night something that me
guys to focus on said let's get back to
a time of love respect and understanding
and what's wrong with peace love and
understand maybe it's 68 oh yeah again I
remember in 1968 and I would have been
out beating hippies if I didn't have
such a terrible injury which kept me out
of Vietnam but I was also a great
athlete the way she serves you my own
Vietnam what Trump also said that the
media doesn't want to focus on the the
right is very upset that they can't
control the attention economy anymore
and that's a big long-term problem for
this that's a big long-term problem for
them but also just like you know let's
let's just repeat it once again he said
good people on both sides and violence
on many many sides and then he went into
whining about taking down statues and
asking were dented that's what he said
so I'm going to take dour George
Washington statue yeah yes that and also
besides that
setting aside the symbology whatever the
guy presides over a masked terrorist
operation you know against immigrants of
every category and a pure act of
strategic vicious grotesque white
supremacy and he said it himself he's
told on himself starting from his
campaign announcement talking about
Mexicans being rapists that guy and
 all of these Republicans whining
that as Matt says they can't control the
narrative anymore
