let me just bounce this this theory that
pet theory of mine that I've had for
some time in terms of like explaining
the development of this and I wonder if
any of your research or just your your
thoughts just in general that on the
right there is a aside from the
structure that they have built just
broadly speaking there's a lot more
money available for this type of stuff I
mean you know rush limbaugh and in all
of right-wing talk radio on some level
is subsidized by ideological money I
mean maybe we could you know whether
it's the Heritage Foundation or through
Hillsdale College or etc etc etc and in
broadly speaking I think we see that on
the on the right online as well is there
a difference in the incentive structure
of just the the the audiences and the
producers is it you know on the Left it
seems to me much of the material of the
center center left is you know generated
from academia where the where the
incentive structure where the reward
system is slightly different than on the
right on the right it seems to be how
effective can you be at entering certain
things into the the Society's media
bloodstream on the exceed on the right
and on the left it is how sound is your
reporting or how sound you know does it
withstand scrutiny and that those
fundamental differences in the the way
that one as a producer gets compensated
just by you know peer respect versus
actual dollars in you know adds to this
dynamic that's already existing so I
think it's important to separate two
very distinct phenomena for me based on
our research we
major transition point on the belief
structure on the right had to do with
the fact that rush limbaugh found a new
business model because big money
supported right-wing publications from
right after world war two on essentially
if you look at the national review
nicole hammer has a beautiful book
called messengers of the light that
looks at that first generation of
post-war likely media and what she shows
there is that they essentially never
became a business model they sold some
they had relatively low circulation and
they were a lie partly on reader or
listener contributions and partly on
contributions warm rich benefactors
exactly the model that you're describing
what was new about Rush Limbaugh what
was new about Fox News is that they no
longer dependent on that kind of
politically mobilized money but instead
actually found a business model that
drew audiences that were loyal enough
and large enough to actually make it big
advertising business so they're on the
media side I'm not persuaded by the
story that it's about big money paying
for them to do it rather than the just
that they were able because of all the
reasons I described to turn right-wing
mobilized media from a partisan narrow
and money a big money funded enterprise
into mass media big business and now
online click they and and online
advertising business what is I think
correct about what you say is the flow
all shall we call it higher status or
research not status so much as as as
research type work we're essentially
from right after the war with another
world work - I mean with the heritage
foundation with the foundation with
economic freedom and going through Cato
and and but particularly heritage
American Enterprise Institute
you saw a strategy on the right of
creating the whole set of research
organizations whose role was to produce
right-wing viewpoint confirmation
throughout the story now some of them
are very very politically mobilized and
specific like Judicial Watch or or or
like the Mercer funded ban and
co-founded Government Accountability
initiative and some of them are much
more serious thinking I think thank you
type things with those really do operate
in a way that's very different from
academia and again there's this
imbalance where when you're inside the
framework would depend on politically
aligned donors and you don't have
institutional constraints of academia
you certainly do see much more motivated
research it's not that you don't do see
academically mobilized research in the
academia as well in university as well
but here you get institutional
constraints that at least for the more
serious research impose a much more
serious constraint so on that level of
high high quality data informed
narratives that come into the media I
think your your dynamic of money making
a difference is important on the media
culture itself I really do think it was
a transformation of the business model
to allow for advertising based hate
stoking outrage industry to emerge one
of the things that I feel like that that
that technology has changed in some way
I mean I'm looking back at 2004
was there was a there was a meme in
tooth in 2004 which was Drudge rules
their world and that was that was to
articulate the efficacy of this sort of
the way that these the the right-wing
narratives sort of entered into the
society's bloodstream in some way that
it would it would go from Fox News or
you know some of these you know sort of
like quasi think-tank institutions
through Drudge and then every producer
at you know ABC News NBC News CBS News
at CNN would read Rudge and they in
Drudge would basically provide them the
the the their editorial decisions of the
day and on some to some degree it seems
like that social media in particular but
even starting with the blogs started to
push back on that in some way and the
dynamic changed to where that the it was
almost if there was a realization
amongst the write that like we don't
even need to have the ABCs CBS is and
NBC's buy this story anymore
largely we can just sort of maintain
this narrative in our own bubble we
don't even need it to be validated
anymore by the broader society and yet
we still saw an example of like Steve
Bannon going out and laundering Clinton
cash through the organization that you
just you decided what can you tell me
about that dynamic about about how on
one hand the right seems to be now sort
of self-sufficient in terms of the
narrative and in other instances we
still have these this sort of like
mainstreaming of of what essentially
function as right-wing conspiracies so
this is actually a really important
point but before I even start that you
mentioned Drudge Drudge is still
critically important if you look at
similar web
perfect at one of the web traffic
analysis firms it looks like something
like half of Alex Jones's Infowars
traffic comes from Lincoln grudge much
more important than Facebook or Twitter
or any other source for Informer so
Drudge is still important within that
ecosystem you know in a really quirky
way but you asked I think a more
important question which is the role of
mainstream traditional media in
disseminating the crazy on the right and
I think it's our book we have a chapter
dedicated to failures of mainstream
media we have a chapter specifically
around the ways in which as you describe
Breitbart and Bannon use the New York
Times the thing that's important to
remember is that even though we don't
know exactly how many people live fully
inside the feedback loop that's not the
entire Republican electorate so if you
look for example at surveys and the
question of is the press the enemy of
the people it's shocking that 51 percent
of Republicans in August of 2018 tell
the Quinnipiac poll that they think that
the press is the enemy of the people but
at the same time that's only half it's
shocking that 48% of Trump voters
telling you Gulf Paul in December of
2016 that they think that emails show
that someone was running the pedophilia
now the Clinton campaign but it's 48%
there's that roughly half ish of
Republican voters could be as few it
could be as much as as 25% of that
population of the population generally
could be as little as 15 we're not quite
sure whether a quarter or a third of a
population lives squarely inside the Fox
News Breitbart universe but it's
certainly not all Republican voters and
this is the critical role that
mainstream media played in taking
stories and generalizing for the public
because that's where the people who
spend some of their time on Fox News but
much of their time on ABC CBS NBC those
are the people who really got confounded
by mainstream media so the story that
you know the story of Clinton cash was
just a brilliant piece of information
operation from banner literally two
years before the election it was clear
that you already knew that the product
that the primary contact contenders
would be Clinton and Bush and Jeb Bush
and he had the government accountability
initiative and rolled a couple of books
one was called Clinton cash the other
was called bush bucks and they were both
basically concocted conspiracies about
how horrible terrible no-good each one
of these true families were in terms of
selling the store of American politics
for donors in the case of Clinton is
primarily Clinton Foundation
the trick with Clinton with the Clinton
Foundation was to then come and give the
New York Times and exclusive 18 months
before the election an exclusive so that
times when they read the book they
followed up and they came out with a big
story and the story had a blaring
headline cash flows the Clinton
Foundation amid transfer of uranium to
to Russian firms sounds terrible
somewhere in paragraph 15 or 17 there's
barely there was no evidence wrongdoing
but still abrasive issues that story
became the third most linked to story
the entire campaign story a story from
April of 2015 became the most the third
most linked to story of all the time
stories throughout the entire election
period because it was used by the right
to reinforce and confirm and get a sense
of validation for this story so again we
document over and over again how
right-wing outlets are essentially
teasing and putting things into the
stream of mainstream media the mother
email releases had the same effect and
it's the inability of editors to keep
the headlines consistent with the fact
and the wish to sort of draw people in
that ends up amplifying and validating
this conspiracy stories that come from
the right so what is if you have it what
is the solution to this or what or what
is what is there anything out there that
can mitigate this dynamic I mean how do
you pierce a bubble like that so first
of all we start ruefully the chapter on
solutions with if our diagnosis had been
simpler and more technical we would have
been able to give you better
technocratic solutions these are deep
structural problems of political culture
and media culture there are no easy
solutions I would say that the single
most important thing that can happen and
we don't have this in the book yet
because the data stopped it to begin in
2018 but impressionistic it seems like
this is getting through to editors and
newsrooms the most important thing is
that traditional professional
journalists and editors need to
understand that they're in a deeply
asymmetric propaganda system and that
when they are propagating the stories
from the work they are essentially
complicit so the old model of playing
objectivity in traditional media was to
be neutral this says that side that said
the other thing and I'm just telling you
how about what both sides when you have
such dramatic asymmetry to be objective
by being neutral systematically makes
you someone who validates falsehood from
the light and so you need to change the
culture and you're seeing already
Media willing to call out lies from the
president in particular from from Trump
in a way that would have been
inconceivable five years ago also we
have levels of lying that would have
been inconceivable five years ago so
that's that's obviously pushing it but
so you need a change in professional
media culture that's the most important
thing ultimately it will require
sustained losses by the Republicans so
that they realize that it's a losing
strategy and begin to work things back
on their own but that's obviously out of
the hands of anybody trying to create
solutions there are discrete things we
can do I think there's no doubt that we
need immediate substantial reform to
introduce transparency into political
advertising one thing we don't know is
how effective the Facebook targeted
advertising laws or the Trump campaign
in particular and in particular how much
dark as essentially ads that only very
very narrow sets of people see so there
are proposals like the Honest ads act
that are on the table
those won't solve the whole problem but
they're an important basic
infrastructure for us to know what's
going on we need some accountability for
the platform's greater transparency to
what's going on and there's some
initiatives primarily in Europe now
around creating those I doubt that those
will come out in the US soon so we need
to focus on the platforms because within
five 10 15 years they will be the
dominant source but because so much of
what central now is happening still on
cable TV and on radio it's very hard to
come up with solutions that are
consistent with the First Amendment
other than this main shift in the
practices of journalists and editors you
know what I'll tell you what scares me
is that I think it I think that the
changes that we've seen in those
journalists has been a function of Trump
but when we see like just for this you
know this weekend where we see things
like rick scott saying you know starting
to talk about fraud in Florida
and in fact you know this is getting
repeated and they're allowing Republican
politicians and others to repeat this
even though Rick Scott himself has not
called the police he's the governor he
has the ability to investigate these
things I get a little worried that Trump
allows the media to sort of say like hey
look we're being we're doing that we're
being skeptical but then just sort of
like leave it to just as if it was a
Trump phenomena rather than the the
entire structure of a machine that
brought Trump really to where he was
right like the Machine preceded Trump
right I mean that's you you had to have
a machinery that that would that where
that was telling it's both its producers
in its consumers hey Barack Obama may
not be an American for Trump to sort of
ride that wave into office in some way I
think that's exactly right I think
although Trump is both a symptom of a
much longer outrage industry and the
catalyst
you can't ignore and we show it in the
data particularly in the chapter on
immigration he he has this
call-and-response
relationship with right-wing media
ecosystem as well as with the mainstream
media and he is a real catalyst he's not
the source of a problem he is definitely
a symptom of years of the propaganda
feedback loop on the light operating as
we describe it but he has certainly
learned how to not only be a consequence
but be a real catalyst and he and and he
you can't ignore the fact that he's made
things much worse and he's essentially
made it in the official policy of the
United States to call the media the
enemy of the people but I agree with you
that that he makes it too easy but in
some sense professional journalists have
not quite focused on how pervasive this
phenomenon is in the Republican Party
and look the more Trump succeeds with it
the more politicians on the right will
follow him people follow success
it'll have to show itself as a failure
and even the debate over whether or not
the midterm was a blue wave or not it's
precisely a debate on whether the Trump
strategy was a success or failure and I
think the the sense that somehow the
scent that emerged in the first day and
it slowly we're learning was false that
there was no blue wave has allowed him
to continue to project this persona of a
success and as long as he's success
people on the right will try to follow
and copy just why I appreciate your
hanging with me for some light a couple
more questions and I just found this
really fascinating how do we know you
know like what how do we know the power
of cable news and of these narratives in
terms of like I mean I think it's it's
easier to understand how they impact our
politics in terms of like almost
legislatively because many of the
politicians themselves they're they're
bathed in this but when we talk about
cable news for instance you know we're
talking about I don't know a whole
universe of five or ten million people
maybe who watch all this stuff and you
know it shows like this one I mean
there's not you but how how do we know
that that actually has that it makes a
difference like you know when we rail on
somebody for for trafficking and some
type of conspiracy how do we know from
the data that this makes any type of
difference or how does that manifest
itself so there are two ways one is not
stuff that we do we just survey it from
others and that survey so pew goes out
and ask voters what is your primary
source of news or what news source do
you most trust and there you get very
clearly that when pew right after the
election ask all right your
asked Trump voters what news sources you
what is your most important news source
40% said Fox only about 7% said Facebook
so you know that Fox is much more
important on the left just as we found
with our own data in the same server you
see a much longer and smoother
distribution of attention with with with
other sites similarly in our own data if
you work at attention
so take the sister rich conspiracy
conspiracy that that DNC staffer rather
than the leaked the DNC memos rather
than that the Russians acted like after
set which was murdered in Washington DC
as part of a robbery
there was a bubbling on the net of
various fringe sites maybe Russian
inspired sites that was trying to say no
it was separate it wasn't anybody else
there was a moment where expect a little
bit around WikiLeaks releasing a prize
for whoever killed and therefore
implying that in fact he was the source
when you plot the amount of attention
it's got overall online during that
early period when more online extreme
and WikiLeaks only propagation happened
to a period on the week in which Comey
was fired when Hannity and Fox and
Friends and Fox DC even propagated the
same conspiracy theory that later time
dwarfs several times over the amount of
coverage and attention online there was
to the fringe and we see this again with
the uranium one story that was part of
what we talked about with regard to the
ban on Breitbart that happened the same
thing it was big but it was overwhelmed
in November of 2017 when things were
going badly in the Muller investigation
the front when suddenly Fox News morning
Numan night for a month took on this
uranium one story completely recorded it
as a story about how Muller and watt
Rosenstein and Andrew McCabe had helped
Obama give the Russians 20% of American
nuclear capabilities I kid you not not
that crazy I know I know that story
hello it's sad to say when you look so
when you look at at our measures of
attention online it's very clear that
when it makes it in a big way to Fox it
dominates what happens when it stays
only online yeah that gives us a real
level of confidence when you combine
both the surveys of what people say they
care about and the measures of what they
search Google Trends or whatever it is
that we're using that that cable is
really driving these beliefs I mean I
would imagine me certainly we saw that
with the caravan - and I would imagine
that there is and I'm sure it's been
done in the past and maybe we'll see it
with this there would be data that
associates Fox will explain why there
were sort of disparate types of people
reacting to one message or another in
the context of these midterms alright so
lastly let me just ask you this because
when I when I talk about what can be
done you know much of it relied on the
producers to to responsibly you know
assess you know the what they were going
after and like I say with the caravan we
saw that completely breakdown right like
there nobody's covering the caravan
anymore because there really is not a a
terribly relevant story to the American
public about everyone there never was I
mean to the extent that there was any it
was just like these guys are saying the
caravan is important we're not going to
go down to the caravan because the
caravan itself is not important we're
just covering how these guys are saying
you know a ghost is important and they
didn't even they weren't even able to
act to provide that type of restraint
so aside from relying on those on the
producers what can like the consumer
or let's say citizens can do is there
anything that they can do or is it just
like let's hope for better editors so it
depends on what problem you're trying to
solve in the universe where you think
that everybody is confused and doesn't
know what the truth is you say teach
yourself lead a more diverse diet and
all of that in a universe that's
consistent with our results people don't
not know they know what they're getting
that people who consume conspiracy
theories are not or particularly not so
much conspiracy theories at the extreme
but which is the mainstream FoxNews
driven outrage the people who consume
and enjoy it it's entertainment it makes
you feel good about yourself to come to
somebody and say know the thing you
believe remember in in a Pew report when
you aren't consistently liberal people
want consistently conservative people
what their most trusted news outlets
were they said Fox News Hannity Limbaugh
and Glenn Beck they trust them they pay
attention to them it makes them feel
good about themselves to listen to them
what are you going to tell them you're
wrong you should change you should let
go of everything that gives you meaning
and makes you happy because it's
inconsistent with reality as I
understand it I don't know that there's
a solution based on on users on readers
and viewers I think people are stuck in
the system they're stuck in the
structure that they're stuck and if you
can identify levers where you can change
the structure then people might slowly
start to climb down off the line'
they're on and in that regard the most
important people are the people who are
not yet fully in the grip of the Fox
News Breitbart universe but are only one
foot in those are the people who in some
sense can still be brought back to
something like reality and that means to
be the initial focus in my view the book
is network propaganda
relation disinformation and
radicalization in American politics
authored by Yochai benkler and
co-authors robert ferris hal roberts we
will put a link to that at majority dot
F M professor thank you so much I really
appreciate the time today thank you it
was lovely to spend time
