[Music]
US government yesterday instituted new
sanctions on Venezuela we've already had
fairly crippling sanctions on Venezuela
since really the beginning of 2017
instituted in part by think by the Obama
administration now it really depends on
who you talk to as to whether this was
the this was the catalyst for problems
in Venezuela or more like an accelerant
and my sense is it's an accelerant just
because of the the timing of stuff but
timed with that I think there was also a
within Venezuela private industry who
also wanted to add an accelerant to this
the whole idea being that maybe they can
collapse social civil society in
Venezuela and and weaken Maduro Bernie
Sanders has been criticized and his
foreign policy apparatus within the
context of his campaign have been
criticized for parroting the
administration lines that Maduro is
undemocratic that he's problematic etc
etc forget authoritarian authoritarian
word imperialist love to use to
discredit socialist governments in Latin
America yeah I mean but I think there is
you know undeniably a strong argument
that Maduro has been somewhat
undemocratic there is I think wide
acceptance that there were the election
his election was highly irregular not
his first one so I just s/s reelect the
reelection highly irregular there's a
lot of people who argue
that his move to dissolve the
Constitution also highly problematic he
ran on a platform of creating a new
constitution and one I would just say I
would look can I just say something
really quick on this cuz maybe welcome
tease it out but I would just say like
Ava Gallinger who I do respect and I've
done a lot of stuff with is not only is
she close I mean she literally was a
legal adviser to this government and in
her book you know she concludes and
she's extremely aware of what the United
States is doing and some of the elements
of the Bolivarian movement that Maduro
has clashed with of course now
critically supportive but she basically
says the end of the book like I'm not
gonna go into details but like yeah the
corruption is incredibly deep and it's
really gone off the rails including like
putting contracts on people so there's
actual problems yeah so I mean that's
not the front burner at all of the
conversation right now but it doesn't
you know we don't need to paint a fake
rosy picture it was an invasion exactly
exactly and but there so there's
criticism there that that articulating
those ideas though is you're you're
simply parroting what the CIA is saying
as a way of laying a predicate for going
to war or some type of like various
forms of either military or aggressive
other types of intervention now of
course when we have we have a you know
sanctions regime that we have now
against Venezuela we're already being
you know highly interventionist and so
there's some who say that it's not
enough to be simply against the military
intervention here is Bernie addressing
that question and it still won't be
satisfying to to some on the on the left
because it is acknowledging that there
are problems with Maduro and some people
don't want to do that
we have another question I want to bring
a Chanelle Saldana student at American
University here in Washington she's from
Pittsburgh good evening in light of the
recent events in Venezuela you came out
against US intervention a contentious
stance as many in Venezuela are
currently suffering at the hands of
Maduro through starvation and violence
and it is clear that he will not let
humanitarian aid in under these
circumstances and moving forward do you
have a clear position on US intervention
overseas both economically and
militarily for nations that are under
the regimes of these oppressive
dictators thank you good question there
are a lot of awful things happening in
the world and what's going on in
Venezuela is terrible their economy is a
disaster people are living in hunger and
in feel I strongly believe there has to
be an international humanitarian effort
to improve lives for the people I think
the evidence is pretty clear that the
last election in Venezuela was not a
free and fair election and on the
international supervision I want to see
a free and fair election but to answer
your question let me say this I am old
enough to remember the war in Vietnam
and I was as active as I could trying to
keep the United States from going to war
in Iraq I was in the Congress at that
point and I am very fearful of the
United States continuing to do what it
has done in the past as you know you may
know the United States overthrew a
democratically elected government in
Chile and in Brazil and in Guatemala and
in other countries around the world so
as someone who fervently believes in
human rights and democracy we have got
to do everything that we can but I think
sometimes you have unintended
consequences when a powerful nation goes
in and tells people who their government
will be so my view is that whether it is
Saudi Arabia which is a despotic regime
or whether it is Venezuela I think we've
got to do every
thing that we can to create a democratic
climate but I do not believe in US
military intervention in those countries
why is you senator why have you stopped
short of calling Maduro or Venezuela a
dictator well he I think it's it's fair
to say that the last election was
undemocratic but there are still
democratic operations taking place in
that country the point is what I am
calling for right now is internationally
supervised free elections I mean I you
know I don't know how much better you
could answer that question or I should
say from my perspective anyways I mean
the idea that you can both say that like
the the situation there is bad it is
hard to get it is hard to trust
international efforts now I mean
particularly in you cannot trust that
aid convoy that a convoy is absolutely a
Trojan horse is just the CIA and has
been condemned by the Red Cross yeah
being I mean too politically compromised
but even you know even an international
response now is somewhat suspect because
of what took place in Libya but the
problem is thank you Mark all right yeah
it sounds like one of our own lawmakers
tweeted a direct threat to kill Maduro
right and and and let's be clear the
mandate from the UN well had nothing to
do with regime change and to a certain
extent we may have by blowing through
the UN mandate destroyed the ability for
the UN to sort of respond in a measured
fashion in these instances and my
support at the time for the Libya
bombing anyways was predicated on the
idea that the UN had determined that
there was an immediate
narrow threat - of genocide of mass
killing in Benghazi but when the
essentially the the Western forces the
Allied forces overstep that mandate we
lost China and Russia for future such
you know stop you know attempting to
stop like an imminent threat I don't
think there's anything like that in
Venezuela right certainly there's no
threat to us well I don't think you know
I just I mean I just think it's just I
know you're not saying this but just
because of how the propaganda machine is
it's like the harshest critique of
Maduro that's based in reality is not
even it's in a just totally different
universe than what was being alleged of
happened in Libya I don't see how
anybody could look remotely you know as
well as like as more oppressive than
what's going on in Saudi Arabia every
single oh I need more frankly more
oppressive than what's being wheeled out
frankly by bolson ro right and also
what's gonna be more oppressive than
unfortunately a very right-wing
opposition I mean I think this is
another thing too that people also just
need to get used to situations where
it's not like this isolationist oh it's
over there whatever don't think about it
but there are definitely scenarios where
there is not a there's no morally
satisfactory outcome and in some ways
the American need I think that like oh
well what's our answer to this is
problematic in another sorry answer
always coos and invasions and in Latin
America right-wing dictatorships so why
don't we just ease out of this and if
you want to as a citizen or in the end
or in the actual NGO sector try to have
solidarity and support great I mean
right people are still traveling to
Venezuela right now this is I mean this
was this was the same what we heard in
in Syria like 2011 maybe 2012 for three
or four years and the answer is is that
just because something is broken does
not mean that United States can fix it
in fact and this is this is like the
this is the sort of
our sincere response to it right this is
the less cynical version Dyke there's no
intense for the United States to fix it
the intent is for the United States to
have hegemony over over the situation
but but even if I was to take like the
the most sincere thing which is that you
know we want to help people sometimes
you just can't a finer point I'd like to
see put on it and the CNN Town Hall
probably not the place for it and I do
think Bernie would be the best on this
issue but he talks about military
intervention and what about covert
intervention or the CIA like what about
you as the president are you gonna do to
get the CIA and the well the real
response should be we're not going to
intervene we're not going to intervene
militarily we're not gonna intervene you
know covertly we're not gonna intervene
with the sanctions regime now the
problem with the with the sanctions
regime is is that there may be times
where you would want to use sanctions
right I mean yeah in very targeted ways
I mean the ones on Venezuela have been
unremitting and punishing and they have
tried to and I'm unclear like as to why
say it's a failed state I mean there's
no dyno that what I'm saying like I
don't understand like what is the
argument that we're trying to like what
is ostensibly the justification well yes
that's a justification even under Obama
has been as well as some like you know
yeah and that's insane and it was
obviously under Chavez it was I mean it
again not that he didn't have his
problems but he absolutely not only one
his elections he crushed them when was
the only popular was put in low cost
heating oil into the Northeast as sandy
Morris no interest loans to Haiti and
helping people in the Caribbean and and
that's where people do need to look at
and be like no it obviously that's the
part where and and I and I think
actually and I forget who made this
point it wasn't me but I cannot recall
the name I I think there is something
with the the legitimacy of capitalism or
whatever you you know a certain kind of
faith in our system at home
and the way Trump is going to Miami and
pulling up all of this like Operation
Condor years politics because it's not
just Venice well I mean if they go into
Venezuela they there's talk about
pushing to Cuba I mean there this is
very very aggressive and it has to do
with REIT with that sort of getting back
into that like Trump supposedly always
says like Panama was easy like why can't
then as well it'd be like Panama been
and and as somebody said about the
invasion of Grenada it was great TV and
so great for cursor of Trump by the way
on the last election the UN what would
have been there they would have been
there observing it but the opposition
petitioned them not to go because they
did not want anyone to say that the
election was legitimate and also it's
really hard to find accurate information
about this in the mainstream media this
is one of those situations where you're
not going to find an unbiased source so
at least you should be reading
alternative sources for balance yeah but
I would say and I think but even people
who are like like Greg wilpert who
helped found tell us or and whose wife
is a Venezuelan ambassador I think to
Ecuador you know he'll and is that the
real news now but he'll say like yeah I
mean when Maduro didn't fix the exchange
rate that led to huge problems with
capital flight and capital problems with
this government like you know again we
can of course read alternatives oppose
imperialism and the best critique inside
the government comes from within from
people who are legitimately committed to
that project yeah but they're
marginalized right now that's the other
truth I've been trying to make this case
to some of my leftist friends that
bernie is definitely the best viable
presidential candidate we're gonna get
on this issue by a lot while still
acknowledging that yeah some of his
tweets sucked and he maybe he knows it
maybe he's playing a game maybe he just
needs to learn more about it but you
know when you say oh you should be
letting in humanitarian aid you're
Naurang the precedent that countries
that want to overthrow your government
that aid is not just aid you know that
that was really wrong stance in my view
like substantively but I think went a
hundred percent but I think some people
are getting really off the right like
when that does tweets out the whole
question of why you won't condemn a
dictator is a game that Washington Hawks
play to reaffirm interventionist status
quo and Bernie won't play it that's like
calm down there's a lot of really
important work being done here by the
Democratic frontrunner right that's a
big deal you would not have heard you
have that a democratic frontrunner in
any in any campaign say wait we were
instrumental in overthrowing the
government of half a dozen Latin
American countries I mean also the only
ones who speak on the lula case from
Democratic frontrunner Wow dress Wow
