[Music]
let's go into this sound as you know
there's a big Iowa it was very big in
the Iowa County Fair
was happening I am a big goer of county
fairs I go to the Dutchess County Fair I
go the Columbia County Fair when I can
I've been to others those are the ones
that I regularly go to and tons of fun
funnel cakes a lot fried dough type of
stuff
rides kids like it I like it to see see
a lot of sheep see a lot of cows see a
lot of horses pigs and in Iowa of course
this is where the politicians go
not for nothing on Thursday this is from
Edward Isaac
Devere I think is how you pronounce name
he writes for the Atlantic on Thursday
when he was second candidate to speak at
Iowa Fair this is a tweet Biden said
what do you think anybody draw a bigger
crowd don't be a wise guy and and then
people who have drawn bigger crowds
since then in rough water Warren Sanders
Harris Booker with Klobuchar and
Gillibrand about even so I heard
Kamala's a middle-class tax cuts aren't
the applause line she was hoping them oh
is that right yeah well I mean it's
interesting I don't know what you can
gain from that and garner from that I
mean the reason why there could have
been can't parently cory booker gets
really big crowds but it's not showing
up on the polls my guess is is that the
reason why Joe Biden doesn't get big
crowds is because you either have no
interest in him or you don't want to
know why you're voting for him and you
want to go check out your number two and
three Possible's but but who knows we
will see in time but there has been a
couple of stories like this where
Republicans because it's just because
you have Democratic candidates there
doesn't mean that you obviously there's
Republicans there as well and they'd
still do their straw polls
for what it's worth and I've seen a
couple of stories like this where
Republican family says I will not vote
for Donald Trump and then a lot of it is
as long as the Democrats just need to
give me someone I can vote for it well
here's an idea just don't vote if you
voted for Trump last time I got a
solution for you
you let Democrats do what they want to
do you just don't vote all right because
you people brought this upon us as a
country when you voted for and if you
don't like him now here's my suggestion
to you don't tell Democrats who they
should nominate just don't vote go home
after work yeah go home take the day off
or if you really want to complete your
civic duty go in vote for the most local
race you can find and then just none of
the above for the rest a lot of people
did do that last time around they did
they left yes but there's a significant
number of those I think we're Democrats
too I'm suggesting Republicans only this
time but here is a an interesting
exchange on MSNBC where it's consistent
with our story of which we will maybe
get to some of the quotes of the folks
in the Hamptons who which is a ritzy
area of Long Island and in the summer
who don't have the freedom of speech to
say that they like Donald Trump if they
want to continue to sell their
tchotchkes to people and so here is this
exchange from MSNBC well in which people
get to put in a corn kernel for which
candidate they support I want to let you
hear directly from him what he told me
posit now now this is the way they do
their straw poll is actually a corn
kernel poll promoting corn corn of
course is heavily subsidized by the US
government as a decision where it needs
the help right this was a well in Iowa
they wanted to push it as much as they
can
corn start was subsidized certainly in
1972 when the Commerce Secretary had a
plan to create more disposable income in
the pockets of Americans and so the idea
was subsidized corn and
then we got to put in all our food and
which is why we we are unhealthy but go
ahead you put in your corn kernel yes
who did you put it in for him yes
I'm white old they call me all kinds of
names and so you think I would vote for
come on
you're smart now let's you fill in the
blank yeah no I don't have to fill in
the blank everybody knows what did they
call you
I went to school I shared my darn well
the colored guy I have nothing against
him I grew up in the East we grew up
with people do you think the pressure is
too racist though no I don't I really
don't you wouldn't here send them back
when you hear him talk about communities
of color do you see why people do call
him a racist
yes and no because some of those people
he's talking about has just as bad
things him that you can't say on TV
okay see you've been to many of state
fairs and I know most of the folks there
on your panel have as well in the
conversations this year just frankly are
not the same conversations that I've had
in years past and this goes beyond the
speeches on the soapbox of these
candidates this goes to the heart of
these conversations with voters and I
got to tell you these are tough
conversations to be had because you're
talking to people about Divide and
friendships to Biden family you're
talking about racism and white supremacy
this is no ordinary conversation taking
place
yeah it's great there's a nice
conversation taking place there it's
awesome it doesn't sound like it's a
conversation I mean it sounds like that
guy is outnumbered at Thanksgiving now
yeah it does
and he's a little bit defensive about it
it's his grandkids fault that he's
voting for Trump
that's right unless they're getting to
him I mean the real question at that at
that time it seems to me to be asked
he's like why are you voting for Trump
like what what is it that he feels Trump
is doing for him in terms of I mean we
know farmers are very devastated of
course there's a big slush fund what do
you think about the millions of dollars
who hadn't paid out the farmers because
of Trump's actions you imagine you know
Barack Obama got blamed for George Bush
cellphone program or Solyndra right I
mean it's possible that this guy is
voting his class interests because he is
business owner and he has money I would
imagine that if if Barack Obama came up
and promised the same thing as Donald
Trump in terms of his class interest
still we still would probably be a
little bit Trump voter I mean because I
mean look at the way he said who am i
voting for who am i voting for he didn't
say like look at me I Drive a Cadillac
what do you think who do you think I'm
voting for I mean he just told you why
he's voting for Donald Trump
cuz he's one of the bad guys get whitey
well those things aren't mutually
exclusive but it does seem like the
racial aggrievement is at the forefront
of his mind I mean I don't know I had to
say yeah I I think that'd be a
safe assessment with that guy it's tough
being a white I mean he really seems
like he's suffering under the weight of
his white hood I mean people don't give
that guy credit for having room with a
colored man in college it's true he went
he hid ormd with the colored guy I just
want to tell him like you know who else
is old and white and gets called names
Bernie Sanders there you go maybe go
that way folks
