[Music]
up here because yesterday we played a
clip foxnews in where were they they
were they in in the UK France oh they
were in France okay they are in France
at a bar and they were covering I guess
expats watching the u.s. women's team
win the World Cup
and people started breaking out with
like F Trump F Trump F Trump and then
apparently the clip went on we didn't
see the rest of that clip where they
interviewed one or two of the people
there who just explicitly like Trump
it's horrible well you go vote Democrats
whatever it was and this is we mentioned
this that the the largely speaking the
women's soccer team has been very
outspoken in their disdain for Donald
Trump and they have they said we're not
interested in coming to the White House
and then the White House pretended like
they hadn't invited them and they are
trying to use their platform to push for
pay parity they want to get paid the
same as the men's soccer team and
they're using this obviously as a
metaphor for you know women in society
broadly and Jesse Watters has a
different measure for whether you should
get equal pay it's not just you're doing
the same job or you're putting in as
much time or you're doing it just as
well that's not no dude Jesse Watters
will explain to you no matter what the
sport but the President does have a
point there if you look at the World Cup
men's revenue it's in the billions and
they split up the pot it's a much bigger
pot Women's World Cup revenue much much
smaller and they have a smaller pot to
divide up with but the distinction is is
that the US Soccer Federation the women
do actually make more
no and they get paid less so that's
their lawyers fault they negotiated a
horrible deal and they need to
renegotiate that immediately the point
is though is that the women are not
helping their case by their behavior if
you go out and you disparage the
president you act in unpatriotic ways
and then complain about not getting paid
equally well what do you think's going
to happen people are gonna watch I don't
think you're not talking to as many
people this weekend who said I love
soccer I'm not watching the u.s. women
because I didn't like what they said
that means the ad revenue comes down
that means their overall revenue comes
down and they can't divvy up the same
amount of money many people many many I
wonder I wonder if Jesse Watters knows
that many people who who are inclined to
watch women's soccer and also don't
don't necessarily agree I aren't
right-wingers like do you really think
that Jesse Watters has any friends
though who are not exactly like Jesse
Watters no I was answering the first
question yes I love the idea that you
need to be patriotic to get equal pay my
I ma look I haven't watched any of the
World Cup this season but I I because
you don't like them disparaging Trump
because it's offensive I mean look the
matter who the president is even if I
have strong disagreements you respect
the office get damn it but I think no
but I haven't seen i I think I mean
especially outside of it there is a
Brooklyn bubble so there's always people
here that pretend they care about soccer
it's somewhat annoying but I would say
anecdotally that this year this team is
way more in the American culture than in
previous well I Got News for you I did
not know I think it's a fourth win I had
no idea
neither died no idea no I was aware of
one other win this I think it's the
Brandi Chastain way I remember being a
boy and seeing that and just yeah Sports
Bra that was a big event but I know I
think that they're doing quite well yeah
I would bet that actually they're there
at peak popularity
I would have thought he'd go on Google
Trends and just find that out if people
are more interested in them
because they're speaking out I mean
let's face it there is probably more of
a market for any sports franchise that
is willing to dump on Donald Trump it
certainly hasn't hurt the Golden State
Warriors as an example or most of the
Patriot team or any NBA team really just
do the list it's really untoward to do
it as a woman though I think showing
respect to the president hasn't done
Tiger Woods any favors for instance yeah
exactly
I wish Jesse had thrown to his female
co-host and get their thoughts on pay
equity whatever yeah whatever
I don't know it Jesse doesn't that show
