[Music]
just reviewed her schooling him on the
notion of reparations and about what you
know this this idea that we don't
necessarily give reparations out of
guilt
we give reparations because their
deserve it and we want to be able to as
a society move forward and say we have
made a mistake as a society as all the
institutions that remain we we made a
mistake
we have done the best that we could do
to make up for that mistake and now we
can move forward in many respects
without that guilt which is not to say
we won't have the consciousness of what
we did but it's just that it will not be
something that in inhibits our ability
to move forward she explained that to
him but that's one thing but what about
if we get on more terra firma policies
like policy
yeah nuts and bolts like like foreign
policy I mean nuts and bolts guy yeah
let's let's see this is where Dave Rubin
takes marianne williamson into the deep
end of the pool as it was and watch out
what happens next a one who are the
worst people could possibly get their
hands on one and we would seek to do is
awesome I'm sorry I should just queue
this up they're talking about the about
nuclear nukes and Iran and the dangers
that are involved in this look at the
fact that we have so many we have seven
thousand seven thousand nuclear bombs in
our own arsenal look at the fact that
we're talking about who has nuclear
bombs and we know that there are people
working every single day to to get their
hands on one who are the worst people
could possibly get their hands on one
and we would seek to do his harm and and
and the fact that even recently we
almost had a military strike against
Iran that was stopped only ten ten
minutes before it was planned we've got
some very very serious problems that's
why one a Department of Peace I want us
to wage peace as assiduously and as
effectively as we prepare for war I know
you wouldn't want to give it to him but
this Trump does
some credit for not doing that strike if
you got it you got a call a minute
before and no credit in terms of Iran no
it was the president who got who
recklessly removed us from the Iran
nuclear deal that is what led up to that
the president taking us out of the Iran
nuclear deal out of a situation that was
an international leveraging where by all
indicators Iran was that we know of the
Iran was complying so now they've said
the other day that they're going to go
on and enriched uranium beyond what the
agreement called for because we had
pulled out no I cannot give the
president any credit for what's
happening with Iran the fact that he was
about to do something so unbelievably
reckless because let me tell you
something given the size of the Iranian
army alone
you think Iraq was a catastrophe nothing
compared to what war with Iran would
look like so obviously some hero we
don't know exactly who it was but we
know someone within the higher echelons
of either his administration its
national security apparatus or the
military talked him out of it that we
can be very thankful to this person
whoever they were the one place while
gives them credit to it to the president
somebody had to stand up to China talk
I'll give him that
all right so let's let's I want to be
respectful of your time here so let's
just knock out her other issue very very
I like that she is like she has a super
conventional view of Chinese relations
which is pretty funny well that's the
NBC talk right there
well first off what's also fascinating
to me is that first off Dave clearly
stopped reading about that moment where
he recalled the the flight after like
the first days of reporting because by
the second day reporting everyone is
like he clear there's no way he's
presented with a plan and told 10
minutes before that 120 people are gonna
die that is that that's what he's told
on like the get-go oh hi drama this is
they like that it was like a TV show the
get-go and mr. president wait some guys
running with a note oh my god did he
tell you would hurt add you to 20 people
and rube it's sitting there like well oh
my god
that guy got there in time the other
thing that I enjoyed about that moment
is I would wager everything that I have
set aside for my children
not necessarily I'm using now might for
my children that when she said I am glad
with what he's done with China that Dave
did not know what she was gone
Oh without a doubt oh yeah yeah do the
Chinese stuff is big the yup okay so you
given credit I know you're moving out of
time so I'm going to be a 10 second set
I mean I'd love to get into it I read
about China all the time but you read
this coda to this let me just add that
yeah let's just watch that little second
again that we can be very thankful to
this person whoever they were the one
place will give some credit to it to the
president
somebody had to stand up to China oh no
all right so let's let's I want to be
respectful of your time here all right
look let me just say this let me just
say this because I know there is a
school of thought out there that in
particular that I am a juvenile and
sophomoric
I mean it's it's clear there Michael is
but I went to defend myself from being
juvenile and sophomoric and and in
mockery and the idea of mockery and I'm
lessening the political look I'm sorry
pointing out that this guy wanted to go
on Twitter and brag about having a
democratic matches video of a hyena
going after a caribou okay look listen
so I'm serious about this the there are
members of the IDW who have criticized
me publicly a much bigger platforms in
this mind you of just being engaged in
mockery for mockeries sake for
cheapening the political discourse in my
mind when you go on and tout that you've
got
Democratic presidential candidate on
your show and because ostensibly because
you want to show that you're willing to
discuss issues and whatnot and you don't
do the basic research like the moment
never mind the moment everything I've
done up to this moment on top of the
moment I found out that I'm gonna
interview anybody on anything I go in
and I start to read and I read as much
as I possibly can in the timeframe that
I have to prepare for it I read all the
time slavery it would not and so when
you talk about when you just talk about
like you know cheapening the political
cheapening the the political dialogue
that cheapens it tell your friends
reader and talk about how journalists in
quotes and reporters in quotes time and
time and time and time and time again
and then sit down with whether it's a
presidential candidate or it's some
lunatic from Canada who has you know a
quasi cult and say that we're both
centrists you're not doing your job and
you're poisoning you're poisoning the
politics not the mockery
that's just a form that some people like
or don't like but I'm talking about the
content and that's what's poisoning our
politics that you're going to allow BS
to travel through the system in that way
and you're going to be one who is going
to Midwife it that's that's what's
poisoning the system not the rhetoric
not the you know the the YouTube title
that is like sensational news one will
be pretty sensational can we hear him
say in this can we elevate those truth
be told I did not know a tremendous
amount about you before the debate of a
couple weeks ago so let's just do a
couple minutes there's the milk
we do love that forget goodbye come on
play that at the end all right I just
want to say briefly this is fascinating
to me the Department of Peace idea goes
back to 1793 where Benjamin Rush was a
founding father wrote an essay called a
plan of a peace officer for the United
States and he proposed putting on an
equal footing with the department of war
that's fascinating that idea has such a
deep history you would have I mean it
makes sense it's it's a coat to me the
Department of State is supposedly
supposed to be like halfway there yeah
halfway there
but no I mean why not it could be a
serious investment in all forms of
diplomacy and also broadening out the
other kind of like civil society
[Music]
initiatives that something like Daniel
best nur talks about we moved to a post
Imperial foreign policy it's actually I
mean maybe at some point you use a
different term just to sort of you know
make it sound more official or whatever
but I think the concept is great
