[Music]
this morning apparently according to the
Washington Post at about 10 a.m.
whydo went to the plaza Altamira
surrounded by soldiers
he led supporters in singing the
Venezuelan national anthem by late
morning around 5,000 people had arrived
some chanting yes we can and according
to the Washington Post a dozen soldiers
were present I feel like you're gonna
need more if you're going to if you're
gonna stage a coup were they like the
a-team of Venezuela yeah a dozen
soldiers seems like not enough and then
vice president pence of this country
took to Twitter to support the coup and
ROH Khanna was on was on MSNBC taking
some issue with frankly the idea that
the Vice President of the United States
would be actively cheering on a I guess
presumably a military coup but I mean
with a dozen soldiers I just don't think
you're gonna cut it like they had more
at the Bay of Pigs what the US
government's role should be going
forward now given this well this is why
some of us in Congress have been urging
restraint we condemned maderos regime
they it's been a failed regime but we
have been saying that the vice president
shouldn't be interfering and inciting
violence with wydo
what we should be doing is deferring to
the Pope to have a negotiated settlement
or earth way or Mexico and it looks like
the United States is getting inching
into yet another bloody conflict and
this is not going to be easy then as
well as one of the most
armed nations in the world 1.6 million
militias the military appears divided
between blade oh and Madero and the
question is is this really the United
States role to get involved in yen and
other war overseas I mean it's it's
unclear you know what this is it sounds
if it feels like they're you know
they're trying to jumpstart a process
that didn't seem to be going anywhere
because all the chips seem to have
settled and nothing was happening in
terms of Guido Guido's attempt to take
power in Venezuela so we shall see
hopefully this time tomorrow we won't be
talking about US military intervention
in any fashion I think you know 100 Rus
not it's not round helps that not happen
it's not like inconceivable right I mean
it's just I mean who knows but it would
be obviously highly problematic
I think the coup is gonna fail well it
sort of feels like this is a there's
some desperation like they don't have an
ability to understand that there is both
for I mean real politic reasons which is
that the military's totally embedded in
this government in ways that make it
very resilient and there's also organic
support for this government period it's
and no matter how much they repeat
otherwise it's just bolide by the facts
in some ways it's stunning how resilient
the support is given some of the serious
mistakes that have been made right Randy
you know massive Imperial pressure from
the United States however the only a
mitigating factor apparently is that
Eric Prince I don't know what his
company is now is a J or formally
Blackwater is basically pitching to the
US government mercenaries papers and
mercenaries to go down there we'll we'll
wrap this thing up that should work out
well
we track record there yeah exactly
let's go to the phones go
