[Music]
so yesterday we played a clip of Joe
Biden really being disingenuous by
saying and he he's been spreading this
type of stuff before - about
medicare-for-all saying that if we go
with medicare-for-all we're gonna have
to take like a four five month hiatus
from people being covered with
healthcare or something there's some
bizarre construction just designed I
guess to hit the ears of people who
don't spend too much time thinking about
this stuff I mean it's a really cynical
move and then he got even more cynical
or he said like you know we're gonna
we're gonna get rid of the ACA and
replace it with something we're gonna
get rid of Obamacare because he wants to
make it like Medicare for all is a an
assault on Obama care now of course we
played a clip of Barack Obama six months
ago
eight months ago I guess it was in the
run-up to the 2018 midterm elections
saying Medicare for all is a great idea
it's being pushed by the Democrats it's
a great idea he said we should point out
what kind of event Biden said Medicare
as you know it goes away that was at an
AARP event the 400 medical is right of
course and Joe Biden is to my knowledge
has not been asked like how do you
square this with what Barack Obama said
just eight months ago the guy who's you
know that's where the Obama part of
Obamacare came from was from Obama's
last name President Obama and back in
September October of 2018
he said Medicare for all was a great
idea that's a very weird position to
take if you think it's going to wipe out
Obama care yeah you think he would have
mentioned that IIIi would think he would
have been a little bit but concerned no
nobody's asked Joe Biden that
like how do you reconcile those things
to things but Simone Sanders who is Joe
Biden's campaign advisor senior advisor
and a forum a spokesperson for Bernie
Sanders she was asked to reconcile her
previous positions on Medicare for all
addressing not just Medicare for all but
specifically the idea of it rolling back
Obamacare and she had a tough time doing
it this is with Erin Burnett
on CNN so so let me just ask you though
because Medicare for all on this point
you used to and in your prior role with
working with Bernie Sanders you know you
intellectually came to the conclusion
that you could have Obamacare add to it
and get Medicare for all and obviously
now you're saying that it's different
right because Joe Biden is saying you
can't you can't have Medicare for all in
Obamacare because Medicare would replace
Obama care here you are back in 2016 and
I want to play it somehow because I want
to give you a chance to explain to
everybody how you came to change your
mind here you are thinking big is how we
get change in this country they can
bigot that we got the Affordable Health
Care Act and thinking big is how we're
going to build on that with a Medicare
for All single-payer system when we talk
about a Medicare for All single-payer
system we're talking about universal
health care we're not talking about
doing away with Obama care with the
Affordable Health Care Act we are
talking about building on its enormous
success so now Joe Biden says that it
would Medicare for all would get rid of
Obamacare what is that going just a
second because I unequivocally reject
what is being said up here what I just
saw to be clear let me just let me just
be really clear for a second yes in 2016
I served as a press secretary for
senator Sanders I'm extremely proud of
the work that I did on that campaign and
the work that I have gone on to do since
when I left the campaign in 20 in June
of 2016 but let me tell you something
talking about universal health care has
been a very popular point in the
Democratic Party has been you know
popular in places across the country
frankly it's popular with Republican
voters and independents alike but when
you talk about health care when you talk
about coverage we have to talk about
specific plans and what I've in 20 min
2016 we were having these conversations
what senator Sanders has put on the
table is
not an expansion of Obamacare it is not
it is it does a way with private
insurance and what is currently on the
table and his medicare-for-all plan says
that Obamacare isn't enough that we that
we have to go on and do something else
this is not an expansion
now if the Sanders campaign would like
to say it's an expansion I hope you
would welcome them all to your program
to have that conversation but for anyone
to suggest for anyone to suggest that
because I work for Vice President Biden
now I feel differently I that's just not
true
I welcome a comment they say why I
played that no I sentence hold on hold
on I didn't say it to do a gotcha I said
it because what you look better than
what you're saying now you're a
thoughtful smart person you've changed
your mind and I want to give you a
chance to explain to people why because
Aaron I believe in building on the
enormous success of Obamacare but the
plan that is currently on the table that
is being discussed by a number of folks
when they talk about Medicare for all
particular specifically senator Sanders
plan does not do that and that is the
difference and so if the Sanders
campaign or anyone else would like to
assert otherwise I welcome the
conversation our campaign obviously
welcomes the debate because health care
is so important to millions of people
across America but I think I just want
to be very clear all right well I got I
get some bad news for Symone Sanders
that was not clear it was not clear as
far as I know the plan that Bernie
introduced in 2016 is the same plan as
today I don't think it materially
changed in any way now does it build on
Obamacare well yes I would say it does I
mean Obamacare was an expansion of
Medicaid and was a subsidized subsidies
to the private marketplace to deal with
uninsured people who fell between
employee based coverage and essentially
government-run
insurance programs does it build on that
yes
whereas 20 million new people got health
insurance through the Affordable Care
Act you will see another I think about
20 million people get health insurance
under a medicare-for-all program whereas
Medicaid gave about 10 million people
access free access to doctors to
dentists etc Medicare for all we'll give
that to 300 million people so it's
building on these things in fact one of
the things that I remember the policy
experts talking about with the
Affordable Care Act and I don't think it
fully did this but it came close the
idea was we get everybody in the barrel
we create the notion that health care is
a right for all now had Medicaid been
able to be expanded in all the states
across the country you probably would
have seen another back for five million
people 3 million people may be getting
health insurance and the idea was to
establish the right of American citizens
to have quality health care to have
health insurance that would pay for it
right I mean we all fear at eclis have
access to health insurance to healthcare
even without our insurance I mean yeah
make Hasse 10 or 15 grand to break your
leg but you have access to the care you
just got to make more money but this
Medicare for all does expand upon that
of course it does
and the idea of like I don't know you
know you got a I'm going to very soon
Saul is going to transition from his
three-wheeled scooter
- his two-wheeled scooter and this is
not about abolishing the three-wheeled
schooler it's about some great it's
about of upgrading his scooter Simone
Simone
where was this incredible beautiful
extraordinary hit and incompetence for
Hillary Clinton in 2016
you could have pushed us over the top
and she could have gone we're doing so
much more this time around that you did
in 2016 Simone I also do notice that
when you did hits for me you sounded a
little bit more coherent maybe because
you wanted to offending total nonsense
well you weren't that great to begin
with so why did she do undercover agent
work for Hillary then as well all right
let us go charitable interpretation is
Simone Sanders who deep Sanders cover
man that's very possible he is trying
she is so committed to the Bernie
Sanders agenda that she's willing to
make an absolute ass of herself
promoting Joe Biden look it's a job it's
a hard thing to do and I think the
bottom lines less about her and more
about the unten ability of Joe Biden's
position I mean that's what happens that
I mean that you know that I want to be
clear about this this is not a function
of Symone Sanders she's doing her job
that's her job
but his policy and the way that he's
trying to sell it is untenable it is
nonsensical and so what happens is you
take your people and they try and go out
and defend it and they get ground up
because you have given them nothing it's
not rational there's one reason why you
would promote a program like Joe Biden's
and that is because some of his
supporters a large constituency for him
are he's big money his money that comes
from insurance companies it's money that
comes from perhaps Medical Association's
or whatnot that's why you do it and I
mean the
thing is that they're upset about his
proposal to because they're gonna be
upset about any proposal remember when
the Affordable Care Act is being debated
all we heard from the hospitals was like
we're gonna be closing a ton of
hospitals some did closed the ones that
closed had nothing to do with the
Affordable Care Act they closed because
you've got hedge funders like the one
private equity firms like the one that's
going down and destroying this hospital
in Philadelphia and you've got it
because of concentration you've got
these big companies and hedge funders
are driving this to go in cut costs
they're doing it with like
dermatologists offices it's nuts so I
mean when Joe Biden is not sincere or
does not have integrity in his
explanation for these policies it ends
up doing to Symone Sanders what just
happened yeah that's a great point but
she also really sucks Sam and I think
it's very important that we not lose
sight of that even as we rightly explain
that Joe is an absolutely incoherent
candidate will actually spend more money
than me and leave more people uninsured
all right we got to take oh no no we
don't okay so let's go to let's see
