[Music]
but let's turn to another billionaire
and of course I'm talking about Howard
Schultz he was on America's election HQ
last night was this last night it was
last night right Fox's Town Hall and he
was with Bret Baier and somebody else
from Alex I think it's okay
I think it's and Howard Schultz is there
now Howard Schultz is being advised by
Steve Schmidt and Bill Burton and they
are getting paid Millie a lot of money I
am quite convinced they are making
millions of dollars and if they're if
I'm if I am wrong they can sue me
and we can find out and discovery but I
have I've heard millions of dollars I
believe that he's and they for literally
a hundred thousand dollars I would have
given him this advice let me just say
but here it is here it is don't sell you
know short
well maybe I'm negotiating against
myself but but I wouldn't because I
wouldn't want to have to hang around too
much right there's a like I think they
get paid I think they get paid like five
dollars for the advice yeah and then the
rest of the millions of dollars are just
to hang around make him feel like he's
smart yeah like when you buy drugs in
high school
[Laughter]
gotta get high dealer
so here's Alex here's that here's Howard
Alex furry ears out sorry here's Howard
Schultz describing what he would do
about immigration this is like a well
listen it cannot be solved currently
because of the idea
of both parties but if I was fortunate
enough to become president this is what
I can promise you I'm about
accountability I'm about results
I would bring the people into the room I
would say you cannot come in here with
ideology or ego what I want to do is I
want to put an empty chair in the room
and that chair represents the American
people and we're not going to leave the
room until we solve the problem for the
American people the problem that we have
with both parties the American people
are not in the room good I like have a
bulletin board here where I map this out
the American people are not in the room
so what we're gonna do is we're gonna
put in any way we're gonna solve the
American people not being in the room
the way we do that is to not have them
in the room the problem is this chair
represents the American people if only
we had another system whereby people
representing the American people could
be in Congress if only much better to
have the representatives of the American
people unable to speak because they're
an Indian animate objects the coffee
Willy Wonka has invented chair accuracy
I am I'm starting to do cuz I've always
been all about like you know you don't
you cannot overinflate the intelligence
of people like this and running a coffee
companies and then figuring out how to
put more sugar in coffee is not the same
as running a country but it is reaching
a point of like how - - this guy
managed Starbuck
let me just like where would this idea
where have I heard this idea of an empty
chair being an effective political tool
let's travel back in time ladies and
gentlemen to the 2012 Republican
convention I found out that there's 23
million unemployed people in this
country this administration hasn't done
enough to cure that so I've got I've got
mr. Obama sitting here
I just was gonna ask him a couple
questions so mr. president how do you
how do you handle how do you handle
promises that you've made you don't well
I know even so many people in your party
there is I mean it's the American public
was there to the American people in the
chair the empty chair but let's talk
just a little bit about the idea that
there's too much ideology like how do
you there is there are a million
different solutions to the immigration
problem the problem is is that who what
the immigration problem is yes is a fun
everybody like there's like a lot of
different statements of that problem
right right and I mean it with the you
know I don't know it would be
interesting to hear him state when he
thinks the immigration problem is
because in stating that you were
declaring your ideology like you cannot
you cannot just generalize it to be the
problem if you can't if you can't be
specific about what you mean about that
because as the second you're specific
about it you aren't declaring and I mean
Scheldt is the same thing as has the
same sort of brain disorder as if other
billionaires do where he thinks he has
no ideology and then meanwhile he's just
like completely representative of his
class like in every single way and he's
you know he's got his positions are
basically like Bloomberg positions like
I basically want business to be mostly
left alone and I'm fairly culturally
liberal Bloomberg eventually he realized
like repeated every four years Bloomberg
realizes oh right I'm a Democrat like
there's a party that represents my
interest but Schultz is now he's
committed to this bit now he's too
committed to the bit to be like you got
to say yes yes to the premise it's just
it's just like somebody who travels to a
different part of the country and go
like I don't have an accent
yeah I mean or or you know I don't have
an accent well you're the guy with the
axe I mean whatever I mean I don't mean
to pick on southern people oh sorry
I'm gonna clean it up like I I want to
talk about work there I wanna I want to
get back
