here is some footage from the Queen's
rally that Michael was at Jamie was at
others I was unable to attend but this
is an ad that came out of the Queen's
rally that Bernie is running and is this
the last is this the sort of his last of
these closing remarks yeah okay yeah
this is ink inaudibly power I mean this
is and it's funny I mean I think there's
some folks who maybe don't even know
where this is coming from this has kind
of taken off on social media here is
here's that ad take a look around and
find someone you don't know maybe
somebody doesn't look kind of like you
are you willing to fight for that person
as much as you're willing to fight
yourself
are prepared to do that not only will we
win this election but together we will
transform this country I've been so
critical of their ads so it was so I was
so relieved to finally see I mean it was
an incredibly powerful moment but their
ads I think their ads have actually been
a problem and it's great to see okay you
know this is like we were talking about
a couple of weeks ago like bring back
that coke commercial version of Bernie
where you have a sense of all the
benefits we see I mean you know this and
I and I think Bernie needs to do this
too in the context of and in Warren too
to the extent that that she's
subscribing to Medicare for all in the
next debate they need to start laying
out some of the material benefits in a
sort of a a more poetic but also a more
enumerated way you know it's one thing
just to say no co-pays and no point of
service but I think you got to go in and
you've got to say like no paperwork yeah
guarantee you are guaranteed your health
insurance do you miss we're gonna miss
waiting on the phone you're gonna miss
foot exhaustion yeah
for 25% of the population or I should
say 25% of the population every year
even if you have health insurance you
lose it and have to get another one yeah
I saw this yesterday The Washington Post
guild are losing their great health
insurance for a less substantial Aetna
package so you can keep your health care
unless your boss take as long as your
boss yeah which you know by switching
jobs or other there's 25% people in any
given year will have to switch their
health care it creates a lot of anxiety
obviously and it's usually not an
upgrade yep
waste of time you sell the idea that
like this is guaranteed this is no
there's you don't have to ask any
questions about it is Gerren
teed they get into a fight with a guy
last night
and III maybe I was just tired but I got
into a fight about health care Choi and
he he was not a lawyer he's a like a
sort of a vendor of sorts and take care
of business so he was like it was it was
pretty again it got to the point where I
was like he was arguing that the you
know that we have the best health care
in this country of anywhere I've lived
in five countries that type of thing and
I was like well it depends on how you
define best healthcare and he's like my
grandmother came down here from Canada
to get surgery because it was a seven
month wait and I'm like well is your
grandma how wealthy he's like oh yes no
my family's very very wealthy I was you
must have thought that I was saying it
in such a way like are you wealthy
enough to have this conversation with me
cuz he really he's like yeah we're
really really wealthy and I will have
you know that my opposition everybody
being covered is absolutely synchronised
with my obscene family wealth sir I said
well your definition of the best
healthcare in the world is whether we
offer the the newest most innovative
most most effective procedures for kings
and queens who leave other places and
come here and as a mine is overall
health outcomes as measured by how many
people actually get the health care they
need yep like and spread that out and
he's like oh that's not what good health
care is hey hey let me ask you this that
sounds really nice in theory but what
about the princes who nearly are having
a heart attack after being stuck at the
Four Seasons at the ritz-carlton by MBs
baby I come to the Mayo Clinic and get
these stressed
I said something to him that I don't
remember saying to anybody in a long
long time which is we're just gonna have
to agree to disagree so long and I
walked away like I just didn't I have
the energy it's too many too many too
many blackjack tables out there for
