[Music]
let's just play this Joe Rogan think is
pretty funny and then we will go into
the fun half apparently David Pakman was
on the Joe Rogan show sometime in the
past couple of days and they were
talking about the D monetizing of steven
crowder and you know we'll have more to
talk about this in the fun half because
you know to me just the idea that this
is censorship is just absurd
particularly in the steven Crowder's
case you know i mean i suppose
theoretically if there are people who
have are only relying on to you i I
don't I don't even there's no I just
don't think it's as some when you de
monetize somebody suppose if you D
platform somebody you could say that
they're being censored in some fashion
but to D monetize to me doesn't seem
that way at all but here is Joe Rogan
asking if harassing Carlos masa has an
equivalency on the left and I will say
this that like the harassment of Carlos
Mazda I think has been overstated as a
reason for YouTube's action I think it's
just the general gay bashing which has
been problematic Michael yesterday read
the Terms of Service of of YouTube and
you know there are protected classes of
people in our society their protections
are only not as individuals but as
classes of people so you know
well let's we let's use this as
jumping-off point here is David Pakman
with Joe Rogan is that different in your
opinion than someone singling something
out for what you believe is their mental
incompetency well that mental
incompetence you mean that there
anymore that they're that they're
mentally ill or cognitively limited
cognitively limited knocking their
ability to think walking their
intelligence mocking their decisions
mocking their the way they talk and then
encouraging other people to do the same
thing and then that person gets harassed
based on their intelligence based on
their performance on particular YouTube
videos and conversations and there's
active harasser there's people that do
that is there a difference between say
what Sam cedar does to Dave Rubin what
is Sam do to Dave Rubin he has I don't
know that I seen that video dozens of
videos don't say that video he has
dozens of videos where he's just dunking
on Dave Rubin so I I mean I I have some
as well I believe that they are
substantive that's my view is that my
videos about Dave Rubin are substantive
I really I don't really watch any
left-wing stuff because I want to try to
isolate myself enough to make sure that
what I'm saying are my ID so I don't a
friend zone comic and that's interesting
and comics do though I don't know but if
there's some specific examples we could
comment about them but I think that
there to your first question there is a
difference between going after someone
for sexual orientation then going after
them for the fact that they say things
that are wrong or don't know stuff until
you're making fun of someone who has an
actual handicap of some kind some kind
of you know limited cognitive limitation
that would be a disability of some kind
then you are mocking someone for a
disability but the resulting effect of
the harassment the the see this is what
I was getting at before with Crowder
like what Crowder said was one thing but
one of the things that Carlos Mesa was
just discussing was what the people that
had watched Crowder what they were doing
how they were going after all right well
I mean you know raises some serious
questions about our ethical
responsibilities if Dave Rubin is indeed
a touched individual well yeah and I
don't think that Dave Rubin is you know
has any type of particular limitations
beyond what appears to be a lack of
research or reasoning or thoughtfulness
about what he does now limitation
let me just address a couple of things
one it's true we do have dozens of
videos dunking on dave rubin but it is
not because dave rubin
is anything other than a commentator who
is saying stuff that is nonsensical i
don't criticize dave rubin for anything
other than either misrepresenting the
the truth being completely
unknowledgeable but fairly but but very
confident about putting out opinions
about stuff misrepresenting his
positions and for laundering people who
have really horrible detrimental effects
on society the idea that Dave Rubin is
harassed online I'm not worried about
Kaza being harassed online people get
harassed online all the time I'm not
even like worried about the the daxing
insofar as it relates to steven crowder
because steven crowder to my at least as
far as I know has not called for him to
be doxxed I think that would be
irresponsible the problem would cut what
what Crowder has done is by and I think
you know basically I said this the other
day before Rogen I made this point when
you are attacking someone based on the
fact that they're gay or that they're of
a certain ethnicity or color or religion
whatever whatever it is gender
disability you are poisoning society in
a way that has implications for hundreds
of thousands thousands sometimes
millions of people you are impacting the
structure of society by
I criticizing and dunking on Dave Rubin
because he's because he keeps saying
things that are not bright on YouTube or
are demonstrably wrong or are
demonstrably misinformed or are
demonstrable misrepresentations does not
have the societal implications well I
don't care if people call me call me
names but also to be I just want to
really underline it to that even if if
Crowder did a bunch of videos saying I
think Carlos mess is dumb and I'm gonna
refute his points and make fun of him
and do an offensive impression that is
still first of all would be this that
would not be an issue and it is not what
he was doing that got him on the radar
not ready to Joe Rogan's not we are
being able this towards Dave well that's
the thing I do want to say is I think
Joe is opening up especially for those
of us in the studio who are more worried
about these things a very concerning
point which I have thought of from time
to time myself which is that if Dave has
a real limitation I'd like him to
publicly say that I will certainly
change up at least my programming but
we're not I don't I mean well okay I
mean if you if you're saying that he has
some type of disability but I don't
think that I I mean maybe he does I I
don't know that was never articulated in
that way in terms of Dave before it I I
mean I don't want to that would put
a whole different paint job on it for I
believe the phrase Joe Rogan used was
cognitively limited if Dave Rubin is
cognitively limited then I will do
slightly different impression I don't
maybe maybe we have I mean maybe we have
you know in passing said that he's
cognitively limited you know in
reference to to explain what he said and
and maybe that is going a little too far
we could to simply say that he's just
horribly horribly ignorant to the issues
which i think is actually in many in
many respects and i've made this
I think even more reprehensible because
you have a responsibility in my mind if
you're gonna go on with you know
whatever he has a million followers on
YouTube you've got to you've got to do
your homework and you have a
responsibility but that's the way I feel
about that yeah and to be clear the
issue is is the specific incitement
around the specific category not mocking
somebody not making fun of that I'm not
debunking them not being mean not being
satiric not having people tweet at them
or whatever it's the specific use and
again even according in an incredibly
strict sense and I know we'll talk about
it more later but huge miscalculation by
YouTube they had a case which is all
Carlos Massa asked for on one person who
in fact violated their own written Terms
of Service which you agree to these
stupid things and you set up a channel
that's it there's actually should be
really nothing more to it as of this
case right all right
