[Music]
this was pretty funny Ellen's generous
and I'm sorry I know this is tough from
Matt Matt's a big Ellen fan so uh the
great writing the great writing on Ellen
Show controversial II and he can't
defend himself because he's not a Mike
and I I feel weird cuz I don't know
Dorsey that well but Dorsey said to me
once I didn't know about this recently
until recently but Dorsey said Ellen
really proved that the writing quality
in the writers Union was overhyped when
she fired her writers guild writers and
replaced them with non-union writers as
he said the writing of the show is still
so good she's so funny Doris he said
that to me I was surprised she even
neither writers a genius right no I mean
that's the thing you look at the kind of
talent that Ellen brings to the table I
mean you know what do you need this like
is this Jordan needs somebody else
playing for him you know that thing
where you're like family with their
writing staff and then they go on strike
and you would join them for one day and
then the next day you come back with an
entirely new family yeah like family
exactly like a 1950's sales guy who had
another family another state okay Ellen
DeGeneres we talked about it she had a
selfie with George W Bush I had plenty
of thoughts on it I actually
unfortunately really hated that she did
this whole spiel about how we need to
build bridges with each other because I
actually think there's some real truth
to that just I don't think any actual
bridges need to be built between two
union-busting members to 1% I I think
they're already happily established even
if they have you know different policies
I mean shockingly enough I think it's
pretty clear that Ellen does not care
about you know the millions of deaths
caused by George W Bush as a war
criminal but or she sees it as no worse
than wearing fur or something but I mean
she's even cool with overlooking the
fact that the guy campaigned on writing
her second-class status into the
Constitution
so you know okay I guess more power to
her but this was a brilliant remix of
Ellen's comments by a Raphael shim Univ
on Twitter and he posted this and then I
got DMC aid for copyright violation
which is CBS because this is a textbook
transformative use of work so it's
definitely covered by the First
Amendment although these companies don't
don't really care about that stuff well
of course that but yeah basically we
should just explain for people listening
that it he puts behind ellen images from
the iraq war
this is powerful lemon but a lot of
people were mad and they did what people
do when they're mad they tweet and but
here's one tweet that i loved this
person says Ellen and George Bush
together makes me have faith in America
again
here's the thing I'm friends with George
Bush in fact I'm friends with a lot of
people who don't share the same beliefs
that I have we're all different and I
think that we've forgotten that that's
okay that we're all different for
instance I wish people wouldn't wear fur
I don't like it but but I'm friends with
people who wear fur and I'm friends with
people who are furry is it and I think
we can pause it there I was yeah okay
Abu Ghraib yeah I mean it's it's a shame
because it distracts from again the
power of her writing staff she was
moving into some really primo furry
material tulsi DeGeneres 2020
[Laughter]
