with Sam's Sita where everyday casual
Friday that means Monday is casual
Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday Wednesday
casual hump day Thursday casual Thurs
that's what we call it and Friday casual
Shabbat da majority report with sam
cedar it is Friday February 15 2019 my
name is sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today gonna
break a little bit of the usual casual
Friday format just did an interview with
Eric Alterman
[Applause]
of well many different publications the
Nation magazine on Elliott Abrams we
will talk about that then later in the
program Isabel gillies best-selling
author will be with us to talk about her
latest which is a little bit Marie Kondo
a little bit also on the program today
supposedly the budget deal is about to
be signed by Donald Trump ice will grow
under this deal and the Republicans have
successfully blocked back payments for
almost two million federal contractors
who got screwed in the government
shutdown meanwhile desperate for a win
Donald Trump will call a national state
of emergency
supposedly to build supposedly a
supposed wok there will be some good
that comes out of this if it aside from
just the enormous lengthy legal rate of
scrambling that will go on for years
meanwhile amazon has broken the hearts
of developers looking to drive middle
class and folks in poverty from Queens
so celebrate good times come on I mean
while I apparently big-footed bill weld
from the libertarian primary whoa and
now he's going to challenge Donald Trump
in the Republican primary Welch was
sitting there in a loss in Midtown like
I don't want to deal with the road
hypothetical our seat belts
he'd rather deal with Trump's hilarious
nicknames Senate Republicans confirm
William bar Arkansas makes it five
they've now passed a law joining four
other states
anticipating the reversal of row v Wade
Democrats announced their debate
criteria and Donald Trump has a sweet
ass
golf simulator installed in the White
House executive time executive time all
this and more on today's a program folks
we've got a lot of stuff to get to today
it's going to be a somewhat abbreviated
show because I am going to the wedding
of producer emeritus of the majority
report Josh Horton is getting married so
it's very exciting and I'm heading to
Madison Wisconsin I may in fact do a
tour of the just coffee facilities there
Madison it I think it's supposed to be
maybe almost in double digits the
temperature so that shall be fine that
should be fun so but I've got a kitchen
plane so we've got to a move rather
quickly however we must not ignore this
Alex Jones apparently still doing a
program and I imagine he's doing quite
well he with it however he is losing
legal battle after legal battle with the
some of the parents from Sandy Hook they
already have access to I think some of
his financial records right and they
just won access to one other sort of
like information on the inside to this
is a way to determine you know what some
of the his defamatory practices but
meanwhile apparently he's very mad at
Joe Rogan and we're getting a lot of
wait can I ask cuz we did this the other
day on t MBS and I think we should do
this here too I mean oh maybe we should
play it first but I mean just generally
speak
like whose site like whose side are we
on Here I am on the side of the American
public which I enjoy is quite hurry
Libertarian candidate Tara on the side
of the American public well I mean I
yeah I'm enjoying it so I don't know
that I'm on either of their sides
frankly all right very political answer
I'm backing Alex Jones on this one
because he's fun because he's fun I mean
I like Rogan - of course good I'm glad
there's a fight and people know people
know Jones is bad
yeah they don't right the thing is I
don't think Alex Jones is going to point
out the with the things that are
problematic with Joe Rogan all right
what is that clip I didn't I didn't see
that that clip was just an old clip yeah
that'll Joe Rogan still has hair in it
it's pretty early in his show and what
was that what was he saying
Media Matters Joe Rogan appeared to be
going on some sort of rent riff about
how he went to a movie theater in a
largely black community and he called it
Planet of the Apes
he went to see Planet of the Apes right
and then he said it was like Planet of
the Apes cuz there were no white people
there which is like pretty hard to
misconstrue yeah you know it's one thing
to have a certain sense of humor or not
be dictated by PC culture but we also
need to draw certain lines basic
humanity right exactly speaking about it
out Jones not necessarily the the best
messenger for this but here it is
nevertheless and and and my
understanding is Alex Jones got mad
because the guy from Twitter was on Jack
on Joe Rogan's Jack Dorsey and so and
and Joe Rogan didn't know enough of why
Alex Jones got kicked off Rogan let
Dorsey skate on the idea he asked him
why Alex Jones was kicked off of Twitter
and Jack Dorsey said I'm not really
familiar with the details and that's
what he is a notoriously softball
interviewer let's let's hear yeah so
this is the
here Alex Jones and and it's just not
gonna happen
I'm built for war Joe yeah I don't act
like a tough girl today I'm just I do
the war you understand so the war so the
threats don't matter to me
the though though I'll still be your
friend Joe I'll never talk to you again
I'll never come on your shell again I'm
going to destroy you I understand it now
I'm gonna get you I'm coming for you you
understand that
what do you think I am what do you think
I do you're very foolish deposit for one
second
who does Alex Jones think he is what
does Alex Jones think I am Batman Hulk
Hogan Batman trying to expand body
positivity by introducing the notion
that some of with my physical type okay
pay the clave crusader all right excuse
me I'm having an asthma attack it's just
completely impromptu completely
impromptu the in feta means supplements
I'm taking or actually causing an acute
pain in my abdomen but what thinks he
well I mean I'm curious like if if if
Joe Rogan doesn't know who alex jones is
and what he does I think Jones gets into
his credibility info warrior things out
so you've chosen your bed sleep in it
don't give me any more pleasantries I
want war should be lying it gives me
your attacks
everything should be lying lie in your
bed now you understand the shape of
things that's good now you understand
I'll keep my hands politically around
your neck closet oh yeah I love how
careful he has to be now right like he's
being hurry sound legal advice I am
completely out of control but I will
politically I'm speaking in metaphors
now explicitly because so that for
there's no litigation opportunities here
I'll destroy it literally around your
neck metaphorically I mean us
strangle you from a metaphorical
standpoint not like a political way on
your neck and all your tough-guy craps
gonna in real quick because we've taken
down Hillary and we've taken down the
globalist and we're gonna take down
Soros and we're gonna take you down
Monica's God nevertheless I still can't
quite figure out which camera we're on
yeah okay good
yeah because God wants purity God wants
things hot and cold not lukewarm God
wants me to wage war God told me destroy
Joe Rogan yes sir Jesus I will do it no
more games
whoa political commentary shows just
merge with Pro Wrestling well I think
it's already happening he's ahead of the
curve on that the I love the idea that
God is like mmm Joe Rogan yeah that's
what we got to do yeah I've been looking
at the podcast rankings on iTunes and I
think it's time I want to do - I want
you to destroy the guys getting a little
too comfortable there's another part
which is awesome where he's like oh
you're tough guy and I know you know the
UFC was owned by the Mafia I already
knew that everything you know I already
do that you're not telling me nothing I
don't know God spoke to me you know what
amazing that that Joe Rogan is jumped to
the top of the list above the globe list
well the reason is because it's because
Joe Rogan is - Alex Jones what pod save
America is - this show that's right
that's exactly right and I also I also
love the part where like like Rogen
literally has to say just like it's not
hoping that you're making stuff up dude
I'm not CIA age
let me let me just take this opportunity
to go like positive America coming for
you we have been told to destroy you
politically politically who are going to
crush you
politically and I know how you work for
Obama he's connected with the finance
there's very cool that deep brock obama
ask citigroup if you guys should be put
together for a podcast cuz we will crush
you
politically metaphorically speaking gas
Christian Gillibrand the tough question
as a diversion because you're selling
out Medicare for all we already know the
chorus we know the script it was written
a long time ago when the time comes we
will make no excuses for the terror
politically I'm gonna bear your water
down green new deal six feet under in
the discourse medically yeah the total
lack of God told me to go after you my
absolute not lack of non lack of belief
integrator deity by electing me to a
straw your secular humanist
ideas told me to go after you let's move
on rosalie guys you're not helping us
get there all right let's move on here
I specifically told Michael yesterday I
can't play this clip because I because
Elliott Abrams has been one of those
zombie horrible figures that I have been
disgusted with since probably when
Michael was literally in diapers and in
fact I think actually not even born yet
we're gonna get to to Eric Alterman
interview in just a couple of minutes
where I do think like the first thing I
probably ever read about
Retta Eric alterman's was probably my
senior year in college reading about
Elliott Abrams back when you know back
when he had hair and a similar sort of
like disposition but here is Ilan Omar
then she I mean it people have heard
this but it and and you know some people
are taking a little bit of exception
with some of the her what they perceive
is her not knowing the full story behind
this but the fact that matter is the
reason why we are talking about this
it's because she showed the courage to
to bring it up there are some people who
are out there accusing her of not
knowing the details and frankly don't
know the details themselves the she uses
the language of genocide specifically
the words genocide that is and we'll
talk to Eric Alterman about this but
that understand that is a direct quote
from a UN overseen guatemalan
reconciliation commission that is a
direct quote the word genocide is a
direct quote that she lifted from there
so and and we will get to more the
details with Eric Alterman but let's
listen to her questioning of Elliott
Abrams and we'll go through some of
Elliott Abrams greatest hits
thank you Miss Omar
thank you chairman thank you all for
being here and thank you for your
testimonies mr. Adams in 1991 you
pleaded guilty to two counts of
withholding information from Congress
regarding your involvement in the Iran
Korra affair now posit first I could so
she says Adams instead of Abrams right I
mean she clearly knows who she's talking
to
she she misses the name to get caught up
on something like that is stunning
and it is it is it's incomprehensible to
me that that's where you would focus
your attention on this but
that is you know it's it's got her I
think it's cool man I mean you do that
all the time right well yes a throw
shade on people I don't know that Herman
I don't think she did that to throw
shade I think that you know she's I
don't know if English is her second or
third language she speaks it better than
the president who ostensibly it's the
first but good cora affair for which you
were later burned by President George HW
Bush I fail to understand why members of
this committee or the American people
should find any testimony that you give
today to be truthful if I can respond to
that uh it wasn't a question that was
not that was not a question that was my
I reserve the right to my time it is not
it is not right that was not a question
he can attack on February 8th who is not
permitted to reply that that was not a
question thank you for your
participation on February 8th 1982 you
testified before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee about US policy in
El Salvador in that hearing you
dismissed as communist propaganda report
about the massacre of El mozo TA in
which more than 800 civilians including
children as young as two years old were
brutally murdered by US train troops
doing that massacre some of those troops
bragged about raping a twelve-year-old
girl before they killed them girls
before they killed them you later said
that the u.s. policy in El Salvador was
a fabulous achievement yes or no do you
still think so from the day that
President Duarte was elected in a free
election to this day El Salvador has
been a democracy that's a
fabulous achievement yes sir no do you
think that massacre was a fabulous
achievement that happened under our
watch that is a ridiculous question
about yes or no no I think that yes I am
NOT going to respond to that kind of
personal attack which is not a question
posed yes there has not been a single
personal attack there then other than a
recitation a recitation of
well-established facts well-established
facts continued kind of personal attack
which is not a question yes or no would
you support an armed faction within
Venezuela that engages in war crimes
crimes against humanity or genocide if
you believe they were serving US
interest as you did in Guatemala El
Salvador and Nicaragua I am NOT going to
respond to that question I'm sorry I
don't think this entire line of
questioning is meant to be real
questions and so I will not reply
whether you under your watch a genocide
will take place and you will look the
other way because American interests
were being upheld is a fair question
because the American people want to know
that any time we engage a country that
we think about what our actions could be
and how we believe our values are being
farther
well that is my she is specifically
referring to the fact that he did
exactly what she's asking him if you
would do in Venezuela he did exactly
that in Guatemala and those findings are
not her findings those findings are not
a columnist findings those are the
findings of a UN sanctioned Guatemalan
reconciliation committee which
ultimately imprisoned the dictator the
general that he supported
go third that is my question will you
make sure that human rights are not
violated and that we uphold
international and human rights I suppose
there is a question in there and the
answer is that the entire thrust of
American policy in Venezuela is to
support the Venezuelan people's effort
to restore democracy to their country
that's our policy I don't think anybody
disputes that the question I had for you
is that the interest does the interests
of the United States include protecting
human rights and include protecting
people against genocide that is always
the position of the United States thank
you I yield back my time
yeah I mean it's absurd it's absurd but
and here he is he's back again this is a
guy who obviously has lied to Congress
before so he was unable to be confirmed
during the the Bush years we talked
about this with Eric Alterman should
also say that what we didn't get into
the interview with with ultimate
although briefly was Elliott Abrams was
responsible for two things under the
Bush administration one he was
responsible for selling to Christian
Zionists in this country why the Bush
administration or should essentially
push for the unilateral exit of Israel
from the Gaza Strip and the idea being
was that the the Bush administration
thought that this would empower Fatah
when it didn't when it empowered Hamas
they basically encouraged a civil war
there amongst the the Palestinians Hara
Elliott Abrams was deeply involved in
this and it turned into quite a mess and
you see I mean we're looking at is
now almost of 16 17 years later and it's
become even more of a disaster I think
in terms of their policy but let's take
a quick break when we come back Eric
Alterman
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to this program the
distinguished professor of English and
journalism at Brooklyn College City
University of New York author of 10
books including the New York Times
bestseller what liberal media the truth
about bias and the news Eric Alterman
Eric welcome back to the program thank
you
I think Eric that I probably first read
you it's quite possible it seems to me
that I first read you may be just as I
was leaving college or a senior in
college about Elliott Abrams 25 some odd
years ago well it's an honor to be
considered part of your education Sam
well yeah I wrote about Elliott Abrams I
guess I would say I'm obsessed with
Elliott Abrams but I sort of am I first
I was at one time fair to say back in
1986-87 I wrote a Syrian writing about
him and and then he when he was running
El Salvador and Nicaragua and Guatemala
I guess you could call that Central
America policy on for in the State
Department under Ronald Reagan and then
he became briefly famous or rather
infamous
because of iran-contra and his timing
lied to Congress and on television and
then disappeared for a while
showed up again under the Bush
administration the second Bush
administration where he helped undermine
the Palestinian elections on the
National Security Council he was put on
the Nash City Council because it was
understood that he would never be
confirmed by the Senate having been
convicted of pushing himself before
Congress and then briefly he was
expected to be named the number 2 person
under State Department in the Trump
administration that he was chosen for
that job but and he was lobbied for by
Sheldon Adelson who usually gets what he
wants from
administration and Jared Kushner but he
was vetoed by Steve Bannon for being a
globalist in this case that doesn't mean
jus although it helps but now he's back
for the umpteenth time like an undead
zombie being put in charge of Venezuela
policy by our current Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo now now let's I mean let's I
want to I want to start with his most
egregious things that we know of anyways
and then you know and you've just laid
out sort of like the times he's reared
his head the I think the most egregious
was his work in Guatemala if I'm not
mistaken right in terms of of supporting
what ultimately was deemed by a UN
sanctioned or overseen reconciliation
committee Commission in Guatemala as
being a genocide tell us about that um I
brought up some notes I can just read
you something I've written it hasn't
been published yet it could be published
in Limone diplomatique in a few weeks
where I went through the main points of
what of Elliott's guilt with regard to
Guatemala El Salvador Nicaragua Panama
and then later Palestinian issue do you
mind if I read this or you want me to no
please by all means okay Guatemala in
general frying Rios Montt led a coup in
March 1982 Abraham's then Assistant
Secretary of State's Human Rights soon
credited him with quote considerable
progress on human rights issues and
insisted that quote the amount of
killing innocent civilians is being
reduced step-by-step that's a quote
familiar in fact according to a
Declassified document the State
Department had already received what it
called well-founded allegations of
large-scale Kilian and killing of Indian
men women and children in a remote area
by the Guatemalan army even so Abrams
demanded that Congress provided
with advanced arms because quote
progress needed to be rewarded and
encouraged in 2013 elaborate Samant was
convicted by the Guatemala's guatemalan
un-backed commission for historical
clarification of committing acts of
genocide that's quote but against the
indigenous people of the Ixil region in
the department of TJ i think it's
pronounced hmm Oh while he was defending
these this regime it was committing what
is now legally determined to be genocide
I'm going to go on we're still in
Guatemala promoted to assistant
secretary of state for inter-american
Affairs it was repeatedly denounced
organizations protesting the mass
murders perpetrated by Rios Montt and
his successor Oscar may ha victorious
and in Ken vo Cerezo are availa in April
1985 Maria rho0 Godoy Cuevas a leader of
the Guatemalan mutual support group an
organization of mothers of the
disappeared was found dead and her
brother and three-year-old son with her
brother and three old son in their
wrecked car Abrams not only supported
the government scarcely credible claim
that the deaths had been an accident but
also brought legal action against those
asking for an investigation
a New York Times op that challenged the
official State Department account of the
mass murders it was written by a woman
who had witnessed the death squad style
assassination in broad daylight in
Guatemala City which had not been
mentioned in the press Abrams world a
letter to the editor in a barefaced lie
he cited an imaginary story and in
non-existent newspaper to prove the
assassination had been reported in
Guatemala in and my understanding at one
point - there was a there was a
situation where the the general had
overseen the bringing in of these
indigenous people into a I think it was
a church and literally slaughtered them
and slaughtered all the men by
decapitation and then proceeded to rape
all the women and
the I mean this is something that Abrams
must have been aware of right I mean
there's no way that he wasn't aware of
this well he you know he didn't want to
believe it I'm sure he had reports of it
and he chose to ignore them or
disbelieve them and so as we know that
they are Bert was getting reports on
this yeah right and and so in this there
were similar maybe not as explicitly
established dynamic throughout Central
America El Salvador and we were talking
and then he was out there's the famous
case that was brought up by
representative Omar although I really
appeared to know what she was talking
about but she didn't get the facts wrong
when there was a famous massacre in a
place called el mozote a very early in
Reagan's efforts to try and support the
regime there it was reported in the New
York Times in the Washington Post and
and it was a vicious effort by the
Reagan administration and its supporters
particularly The Wall Street Journal to
try and undermine those reports because
they worried that it would people were
still sensitive about Vietnam and they
were worried that reports of a massacre
as it had done in me lie in Vietnam
would undermine their ability to fight a
proxy war there and again Abrams
insisted that the reports were not
quote-unquote not credible to a Senate
committee and it appears that the
incident is at least being significantly
meat misuse good at best by the
guerrilla so he was saying that the
times and the posts were the puppets of
the communist guerrillas there in fact
this another truth commission this one
in El Salvador found 5,000 civilians
were deliberately and systematically
murdered in that place most were women
and children many were raped you know
you can't imagine a more horrific scene
it's a shame
representative Omar wasn't more familiar
with facts because Elliot got all huffy
and said he was being maligned but it's
a matter of fact and calm
position of them as I just given you
would have mailed his ass but yeah I
guess I mean but at the same time the
reason why we're talking about this and
that is kite know that I've been the
value of it and absolutely I just I just
wish someone else on the committee had
followed up
well it would have been nice but they
probably knew even less frankly I mean
let's let's be honest I mean this is not
the the idea and you know I don't want
to jump ahead of ourselves because I
want to talk about this dynamic where
this guy does not seem like you know
it's one thing to to question why he
hasn't been tried you know like along
with the many other you know sort of
arguable and I think you know Elliott
Abrams is on one end of the spectrum of
the arguable war criminals that we have
had over the years in terms of our in
our farm policy apparatus but the idea
that he's going up there and he's not
going to be challenged on anything I
mean the guys lied to Congress right
like he's approval yeah liar to Congress
and yeah lying to Congress is pretty
minor compared to the engendering of
genocide I would say I agree I would say
that's not been called to account for
any of it
and so he comes back Oh what there's two
there's two there's two really
disturbing things about avers and
presence in our political discourse I
think one is is that he he was chosen by
the Secretary of State tiller soon to be
the number two man in the State
Department and this was treated in the
press as an example of a responsible
Republican yeah he lied to Congress but
but he's not one of these Trump crazies
and second in this case Abrams is being
vigorously defended by people like
William burns who was the number two
person who State Department under Obama
and max booth who is a leader of the
nevertrump errs again a neocon and a
of good standing in the resistance and
these these his role in the genocide is
being ignored now there are other people
you could have you could accuse of
engendering genocide henry kissinger
being the most obvious
I suppose Dick Cheney as well but we
don't have legal grounds for it in any
of those cases we've got legal decisions
here particularly by the Guatemalan to
the Commission Eliot was the responsible
officer in the States but at the time
and he's on record and yet no one cares
and this has been well covered I know
this stuff in part because I read it in
the New York Times when it happened and
so yes you lesson from this is you can
commit genocide or you can help commit
genocide you can engender genocide as a
government official in the United States
and be treated perfectly honorably by
the press by the Council on Foreign
Relations by the Jewish establishment
where this very popular speaker among
synagogues he's quoted almost every day
on a website that sends me a news Bush
every day tuition signer so long as you
have the right patrons so long as you've
made the right friend so long as you you
know go to the right cocktail parties
Elliot is on record saying some of the
worst things I've ever heard an American
officials say and participating in them
and he did it you know he did it as an
apparatchik he wasn't a grand Scribus
the way Kissinger was or vice president
and secretary of defense relay Cheney
was he was just some punk doing this
because it's his career and he didn't
care in the slightest bit about the
moral impact of it which it turns out is
genocide just like genocide was
committed against the truth just like
genocide was committed against
Cambodians just like genocide was
committed in Africa we all talk about
how you know we have museums we have
conferences we have palms we have
prayers and yet here's a guy who's in
part responsible for it and
we have no problem so in exposed to the
hypocrisy of the American foreign policy
establishment and the Jewish
establishment to a degree like nothing
else does I've tried to write that
article about the the moral vacuum at
the center of these institutions and I
haven't been able to do I can do it in
the nation right and I've done it six
times in the nation but I've wanted to
do it in mainstream publications and in
Jewish publications and it turns out to
be impossible what I mean what is you
know like I'm looking at like a series
of tweets you know ranging from like you
said Nicholas Burns to the the Center
for American Progress is not a national
security VP I mean you know write that
one with that was a record
okay well I mean okay so the the public
Proclamation has been removed but the
sentiment I imagine remains very well
fed what what what I mean what accounts
for this durability I mean what did what
what is I mean we saw the club up you
know the only time the Council on
Foreign Relations has rebuked Abrams was
when he called Chuck Secretary of 10
right Chuck yes I can't even remember
his name now but he was Secretary of
Defense under Obama right Alderaan
system Chuck Hagel right a name is
called of an anti-semite
in order to oppose him because he was
considered to be on sympathetic to
Israel and and and then and then the
head of the Council on Foreign Relations
Richard Haass said oh I'm we're not
really comfortable this he's gone too
far
alright well I mean I you know and the
we could go over to the the period where
he was brought in to but if you attack
people who were also in the club that's
not cool you know there's a famous story
of Larry Summers telling a Elizabeth
Warren that
her ideas are fine they can debate them
support them or disagree with them but
when you start attacking people who are
who are with us then we can't deal with
you and so that's what Abel's did and
that's what he was rebuked for it at one
time I guess he didn't understand that
Chuck Hagel was also considered a member
of the club having been a senator but
anything else you do it's not a as long
as you're in the club people are going
to protect you and if you start
attacking people like this then you're
going to be out of the club I mean there
have been people who have been in this
club who have been out of it because
they're their criticism became you know
- pointed yeah I mean I guess I mean
with what so we just left with that I
mean you know I it's it's stunning and
in many ways it seems to me to the
extent that we have a vacuum of a
genuine left foreign policy right one
way or the demo you know whether you
want even center-left really I mean the
Democrats that seemed to me have just
there has been this I guess they call it
the blob and I can't remember who made
that that they created that term but
that's that's Bob Alma was it Barack
Obama who talked about the foreign
policy blob he certainly doesn't seem to
get outside of it ah no but let me let
me pick up on this and I know what
you're saying I agree I began my mic
straight out of college career working
for the Institute for Policy Studies for
a man named Richard Barnett who was the
leader a leader of left-wing foreign
policy thinking that's what I wanted to
be when I grew up I also greatly admired
a Harvard professor named Stanley
Hoffman who was considered for the anti
Kissinger at Harvard and I thought
originally I was thought I was going to
make my career doing the same thing
Barnett was he was it was pretty
mainstream even though he's quite
left-wing he was then the New Yorkers
foreign policy writer and people took it
seriously but you're right that that
that the left wing has attenuated in
this position it's basically
embraced Obama's foreign policy ended up
being sort of old-fashioned conservative
policy now that the right wing has
become so crazy the old-fashioned
conservative or liberal there was a
moment you know I
Bhama he picked his battles and I would
have picked different battles the battle
he didn't pick was taking on the foreign
policy establishment until the very end
of his tenure when he talked about the
blob and he got a little impatient with
Israel but when Obama ran for the
Democratic nomination he ran against
this whole foreign policy establishment
where we have to intervene everywhere
and where military power is is all we
have to sell and he accused Clinton of
of representing it and at the time I
don't know how well this was known
Richard Holbrooke was running Clinton
Hillary Clinton's foreign policy team
and he was telling everyone if you work
for Obama you will not get a job in the
Clinton administration the Hillary
Clinton ministration of 2008 and he
scared away everyone who had these
ambitions with a few exceptions one of
them being Samantha power and another
one being a close friend of mine named
Sarah Sewell who together did most of
Obama's foreign policy running during
the administration and so a bunch of
people including some people associated
with the Center for American Progress
took a risk and stuck with Obama against
Hillary in the hopes of rethinking
foreign policy from a liberal
perspective and Obama sold these people
out when he chose Hillary Clinton to be
Secretary of State he vetoed a few of
her choices he wouldn't let her bring
Sidney Blumenthal into the State
Department but basically he he said the
the the the moment the opening he had
created
he decided was not a battle he wanted to
fight and so The Blob took over again
and towards the end he tried to fight it
a little bit ben rhoades writes about
this very well in his book but that was
a really lost opportunity
an article in the nation Parana issue I
believe about my friend Matt Gus yes who
is Bernie Sanders top foreign policy
advisor and Matt first at the Center for
American Progress where he left I used
to work with him there because he felt
uncomfortable with his Middle East
policy which he was in charge of sort of
then a foundation for Middle East peace
and now and Bernie's office he has been
not only trying to rethink strategic
ways to counter the blow but also to
come up with new concepts and and I'm
critical of Senators in a lot of ways
but this is the best thing he's done I
think is it's not only challenged the
precepts of the foreign policy
establishment but also to try and
rethink what new liberal
internationalism Eric Alterman always a
pleasure thanks so much for coming on
man I really appreciate it we're going
to take a quick break in a minute and
come back to speak to Isabel gillies
before we do reminder there's no quick
fix when it comes to better health it's
all about starting good daily habits and
actually sticking to them enter ritual
the obsessively researched vitamin for
women rituals essentials have the
nutrients most of us don't get enough
from our diets all in their purest
cleanest forms no shady additives or
gradients that actually do more harm to
your body than good too easy to take
capsules provide nine nutrients you need
to build a stronger foundation for
better health all with a fresh minty
flavor
not to mention all rituals ingredients
are vegan friendly sugar-free non-gmo
gluten-free and allergen free a
subscription is easy to start and it's
easy to snooze it's only a dollar a day
to have the essential nutrients your
body needs delivered every month I of
course am NOT a woman did not take these
but sent them to one of our our team of
endorsers no no sugar vegan friendly
gluten free
is not as easy to combo as you think I
like that the vitamins and nutrients are
sourced basically all the vitamins and
nutrients are sourced as to where they
come you can check it out at at ritual
dot-com slash majority and I love that
it's a subscription service as many
times as I've started on vitamins I've
stopped after the first bottle runs out
better health does not happen overnight
folks start your year with essential for
women a small step that helps create a
healthy foundation for 2019 and beyond
visit ritual dot-com slash majority to
start your ritual today
that's ritual dot-com slash majority
let's take a quick in light of the fact
that Donald Trump is going to be
declaring a national emergency and you
should understand too that the term
national emergency is a legal term and
it is not even though I think it's quite
obvious to all of us that it is not time
sensitive the there's a a legal
definition that does not include
necessarily would not be necessarily
contradicted by the fact that Donald
Trump has not has not found this
emergency to exist in a timely fashion
there will be there will be court cases
testing whether he can do this in fact
let's play that clip Donald Trump
previewed it Brenda did you send him
that one yeah in the in his announcement
today now some people have pointed out
that Trump said I didn't have to declare
a national emergency I just wanted to
get it done quickly that is gonna be
that's gonna come up in the court cases
that's gonna come up in the court cases
little bit of a breadcrumb for the other
side's counsel the real issue here at a
fair
is the the reappropriation of money that
Congress has appropriated for other
things that's gonna that's what all of
this is going to turn on Donald Trump
both gives a preview of where this is
gonna go in the courts and an argument
that he probably should be subject to
the 25th amendment in this clip here it
is we will have a national emergency and
we will then be sued and they will sue
us in the Ninth Circuit even though it
shouldn't be there and we will possibly
get a bad ruling and then we'll get
another bed ruling and then we'll end up
in the Supreme Court and hopefully we'll
get a fair shake and we'll win in the
Supreme Court just like the ban they
sued us in the ninth circuit and we lost
and then we lost in the Appellate
Division and then we went to the Supreme
Court and we won that it was very
interesting because yesterday they were
talking about the ban because we have a
band it's very helpful yeah he doesn't
talk about it you notice how he doesn't
say what it is
the ban because he wants to say the
Muslim ban but he knows he's not allowed
to say that anymore I can't remember
what we're calling it now right exactly
and so it will ultimately end up in the
Supreme Court it probably will end up
there either after Donald Trump is gone
or in his second term
the interesting thing will be I mean I
can I can tell you if there's a Democrat
in the presidency when it reaches the
Supreme Court I can tell you how it's
going to go but if not if Donald Trump
if it reaches Supreme Court and it's
conceivable right that they expedite
this in some fashion and it gets to the
Supreme Court and I would be very
surprised if they okayed this but it's
conceivable they would this is really
going to open up the door I mean the the
when you hear democratic politicians
now say stuff like we're gonna use that
we could use this for climate change we
could use this for providing health care
we could use this for
I don't know high-speed rail ports
through the other glands in pipes but
Latin pipes I mean there's no there's a
whole there's a whole myriad of things
that they could use this for when here
Democratic politicians say that now
those are empty threats
in my estimation however if the Supreme
Court actually validates this those
those threats may end up getting to be a
little bit less empty because the base
of the party
never mind the base I mean frankly I
mean huge swaths of the country will
then expect the president at that time
to address these things that are clearly
more of an emergency then what's going
on at the border and so it's gonna be
interesting to see where this goes and
but you know for now it's just something
for Donald Trump to well what did aunt
Coulter say to give to his idiots or
something to that effect serious
question though couldn't the Supreme
Court just decide that they don't
respect that precedent like Cavanaugh
has already shown he has no respect for
precedent so you're saying that they
would okay it in Trump's case in Trump's
case and then two years later not okay
yeah I mean theoretically but no I think
at that point you know some of these
guys John Roberts in particular at least
perceives this the deal with their
legacy but if there's someone who
doesn't care about the legacy of the
Supreme Court like make them do that
right like make that if they like make
them put their money where their mouth
is if you know I'm saying no like who's
they
the Supreme Court like let's say you
wanted to
make the supreme like reform the Supreme
Court having them do something like
allow Trump's national emergency and not
allow in the future Democrats national
emergency would be a really good way of
dealing in amazing it well yeah but
there's nobody who can say do this I
just think they've you know no one's
gonna make the Supreme Court do anything
in that respect I think but my guess
would be no it would be even beyond
their capacity to to rule that way and
then two years later rule a different
way I hope you're right
if Boehner Ginsburg goes we're gonna get
another Cavanaugh if Ruth Bader Ginsburg
goes while Donald Trump is in office
then it may be a very different
calculation because I think you know
John Roberts showed in the gay case
right this one from Louisiana when he
voted with the four liberals as it were
who tional that he yeah that that there
was no way that he could have voted one
way on the trap law in Texas and then
voted the other way on the exact same
law and so but yes if Ruth Bader
Ginsburg is gone there's a hole there
it's a completely different calculation
if it becomes six to three
and John Roberts is the fourth vote out
of five you know I yeah I mean if
anything it would be a very good
justification for packing the courts
well of course of course of course but
these are all that's like those are
we're now we're out like for
hypotheticals I don't know senator do
you like beer
that's Ruth Bader Ginsburg on mash up we
got to take quick break wisely back
Isabel gillies will be joining us
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen we have
occasion on Fridays sometimes far too
rare
to play this magical ditty is casual
let us welcome Isabelle Gillis to the
shoe is going to recommend to watch on
Netflix
it's the pics from Isabel yes ladies
gentlemen the best-selling author of
happens every day who's got a new book
out it is it's out in the world this has
been like a two or three year project
yeah here's to maybe even two or three
two and a half years it was it was
before Trump I started yes needed more
than ever and now it is cozy the art of
arranging yourself in the world and it's
a it's it's sort of like I mean is it
okay for me to say it's a little bit
like Marie Kondo right or it's a little
well it's not really exactly like Marcos
it's my China kind of saying something a
little different I think I mean it's in
the same Vegas in the same it's like a
dialectic almost it's like it's like it
is but it isn't because well what I'm
saying is may we say the same thing but
all right I'm not talking about just
cleaning up your house right no but I
mean it is also about like how do you
make yourself feel better
in wherever you are on some level yeah
totally it's it's about the truth of who
you are and then bringing that to
wherever you are because the fact is is
that we are in crappy circumstances a
lot right like you could be in the
hospital you could be in a you know war
zone you
be I mean there's there's there's you
can be just cold out on the street and
there are ways that you can feel okay
about that if you know like your mojo
what makes you tick where you come from
that kind of stuff and then you can
apply it and kind of arrange yourself
around that and name it you know like I
find pencils cozy right so if I'm in a
situation where there's a whole chapter
on pencils where I'm not happy and that
could be like I was really dislikes it
tests were really a bummer for me but my
pencil
I was really cozy to me so I was like
alright you know what I have my pencils
I have to take a test did the pencil
mean that I didn't have to take a test
no but if I recognize that I liked
pencils and they found make me feel good
well then it's a little better it's a
little bit I mean I want to say
self-hypnosis but it is it's it's it's
it's it's I guess it's just basically
strategies for some measure of self care
in more or less extreme situations yes
or in just everyday situations like well
it all comes out of that my first book
there is this like this I was getting
divorced it was really sad and I had
babies and it was really really sad and
we were in this restaurant they served
weird pancakes a chef was like comment
Rogen was making pancakes that were like
would you know weeks on them and all
these kind of things and I was like I
don't care just well take that and then
everyone was so sad and sick and it was
just a nightmare with misery and I had a
bite of pancakes just because that's
what was in front of me and I was like
oh oh my goodness it was like the best
thing I've ever had in my life
and I was like I almost shrieked I was
like oh and in that second I was like oh
my god I'm I'm alive like I'm I I'm not
dead like this isn't killing me because
I think these crazy pancakes are good
and I was like that's so amazing that I
can feel that did change the fact that
my husband was leaving me know to change
the fact that my kids were going to grow
up without their father in their house
no but it was enough to build on so that
I could step on it it was solid enough
that I could step on it and
like keep going which is the only thing
you can do right so it's like about
knowing those that those moments are
around you and they're right under your
nose it's like low-hanging fruit that
you can just if you know about it you
can just use it all right well what
about for someone like myself who does
not have things like a pancake that I
like
well you but the thing is that first of
all I've been in your studio your studio
is deeply cozy there's like it's there's
like your desk and I bet you have like
there's a hole did you read this the
chapter on Rachel Martin the mpi I
talked to I talked to all kind of people
I talked to doctors and nurses and
doctors without borders doctors and
architects and I talked to Rachel Martin
from NPR and she writes a lot about her
studio and how cozy it isn't like the
font size if she doesn't have it the
right font side she doesn't feel right
and that's cozy it's like you I bet you
have a ton of stuff like that it's
actually true I will say that when we
redid the studio I don't know that it
really made that much of a difference
for people who were watching the show as
much as it did change I think the
feeling that we had when we were sitting
either at this desk or in in just in the
in the producer what do you call those
horseshoes that we got there right did
you have no did you feel that did it
that changed like I mean there was
nothing material like that significantly
changed I feel a lot cozier in these
things definitely but like in your wheel
right that's what you talking yes
definitely exactly and that will affect
actually it will affect the way you talk
about stuff I mean it sounds trite but
it's actually really not it's actually
if you feel good and you feel like the
something it's not just it's not comfort
that's the thing is that it's not
comfort I'm always uncomfortable because
I'm in chronic pain because I have
slipped discs so I'm never comfortable
but I can be cozy
like I I can be I can I can do things
like I always use this example
I love mail boxes right so if I and I
loved I actually look post-op offices so
if I'm in a town that I don't know and I
might feel freaked out by that and I
just see the post office something
inside me is rubbed and I'm like oh hey
post office I know you like you know and
it just makes me feel better and it
works yeah I know totally
Starbucks does that and actually I
started drinking coffee this is cozy
because I was so jealous of people's
holiday cups I was like I just want one
of those I want I just looks like it's
cozy looks like people love having it
you start drinking coffee because you
wanted those paper cups yeah and a lot
of it comes from it's not about money
it's not about like aspirational like
fireplaces and cashmere socks it's
because like think about it people that
live in you know the Philippines they
don't find that cozy because that's not
their climate you know so it's like it's
all about stuff that is that's either
local or that comes from your history
like where you grew up how you grew up
who you grew up with what like what what
is it like I'm Scottish
so I find things that are Scottish kind
of cozy like barley you know so I just
know that about myself and I can use it
it's sort of utilitarian self-help and
when did when did it just came out right
you got one I'm checking this everything
out on Tuesday yes
you got one review already five stars
really yeah yeah you want me to read it
to you
no people think no people seem to be
what I like is the feedback that I'm
getting is that people are like oh I
didn't think about that like I didn't
think and it's all that stuff that like
that's in their life already so it's not
like oh you have to go and buy something
or you have to go and like be something
you're not it's the only thing you have
to be as yourself
which is sort of in fact intimidating to
you and it can be and I address this in
the book like Here I am saying you have
to know yourself and that's how you're
gonna feel good but what if you don't
know yourself what if you don't know
what makes you tick I sort of say you
can make it up you know just just choose
something be like okay well I like red
floors and if you if it's that I like
red bloody swords floors floors like I'm
walking on a red floor right now but
like you could if you if you saw a red
floor like a church or something and
then you're like I like this this kind
of feels good
paint your kitchen floor red you know
then paint your garage for red then just
like tell your kids but it's like then
you can build on it and then you do have
something that you identify with and
then people identify that with you
they're like oh there's Charlie vos has
red floors trying to our road for now
wait a second now how much what is that
all right let me ask you this then what
is the little book of Higgy that they're
saying I'm called Higa yeah that's like
that's not really what I have a chapter
on Denmark because I went to Denmark to
check out that whole thing that's not
really what my book is about because
that really is about like candles in the
window and that comes very much from
that culture this is sort of a little
different than that this comes from like
you as opposed to well I guess that is
too but it's a little more than Hyuga in
that it it is like I signed the number
one subway train the coziest place on
earth and really you know oh yeah a
hundred percent yeah why is that because
you have associations with it that are
good well first of all I love I love a
corner seat
I love so my family were straphangers
they grew up in New York my my family
took the subway to work every day and at
night they would sit around and talk
about that he'd be like oh the B train
was just there right when I got on the
on the platform I was just waiting for
me they're so awesome in the night and
then I got you and then it was a perfect
transfer today and they are whatever and
then I took that with me into the world
and I was in a circumstance once when
the kid was having a hard time and
I had a choice I had to get home and I
was like should I take subway I should
take a taxi I was like you know what I
have to take the subway because it's
kind of like humanity it's like I are
the people on the subway gonna fix my
problem
no but being around the people in the
car just kind of made me feel part of a
community for lack of a better word you
just felt made me feel better and
subways are cozy it's just like it's
like they Rumble they're sort of like in
New York they're kind of falling apart
there's something about it that's like
just like it's this huge huge system and
we get to all ride it school I love it
let's go Z I mean I like the subway I
don't know if I would ever describe it
as cozy I'm not sure I really understand
the term frankly we've talked about it
for three years and I still think I
don't quite figured it out I mean I get
this concept that you're talking about
of course them to read the book it's not
cozy it's not like you're you're too
cozy that you grew up with it's not like
the cozy like falling snow and hot
chocolate it's like a little bit of a
deeper beat it's not about physical
things it's about it's about hitting
some chord in you that is helpful yeah
and then arranging yourself in your
circumstance in your community in your
house and your and I and I talk to
designers and I talked to all these I
talk to nurses you know I talk to this
wonder know just gonna happen about the
model stays tough because ya won't like
my friend who had an aneurysm
she she was looking at copies book and
she was like oh my god so glad you said
ICU rooms or car cozy and I was like oh
my goodness because she was in an ICU
and then the nurse I talked to had been
at bedside for 40 years she was a badass
nurse and she's like oh they're totally
cozy and then I get into and why I said
why why why it's because it seems like
that would be not a cozy place and she's
like no they are and then she calmly and
like stoic Lee told me what she thought
and it just really connected I was like
yep that's from
talking about and it's it's um and it's
really helpful to know because you know
there but with a by the grace of God go
I work could be in a ICU any freaking
day we could be in an ICU we don't know
and if you even knowing that you can be
okay by just a little of stuff like when
I was in a hospital once and I had this
um cup and they had these these ice
cubes that were like kind of shaped like
long pencil erasers and they are kind of
squishy and what I just they were like
these weird ice cubes and I just loved
him and it was in Boston and I and I I
would go and like shuffle to the ice
machine and get myself the ice and then
I'd pour a little bit of Pepsi in it and
it just felt like the coziest thing in
the world and I'd like check out the
clock and like see the board where
people post messages and I might say hi
to the orderly and I it was just like it
made the whole thing kind of cozy
did it make does make your hospital stay
like not have to happen no it just makes
it better and survivable I guess I've
never heard of a squeezy ice it sounds
to me like there's a social element to
coziness here right like you know you're
being taken care of
you're not alienating from other people
I read a little bit about this concept
someone wrote about it in Jacobin
actually article by Meghan Day called
you don't want Higgy you want social
democracy and it kind of talks about how
that feeling in Denmark is enabled by
the fact that you know it's not a
socialist country but it is a social
democracy and people are less alienated
less competitive with one another
they're more taking care of kind of like
that yeah that's true and and it's there
well there's a whole section on Denmark
and a lot of it is like about like noise
and and in there and like it's it's a it
it doesn't it's an interesting I mean I
went to Denmark because I like Hamlet so
I was like I'm not going to check
candles I'm going because I want to go
to Elsinore because but but I don't know
how many of the things that you're
talking about by William Shakespeare
wait what you what did you want to miss
big hit wait see this many people are
dancing a bearing to Denmark Chadwick
okay so so yeah but in Denmark
well there are very isolated place too
and so that's that I think they find
there's like it's isolated and they
don't have like their immigrations not
like great so that they have a lot of
the same stuff it feels very uniform
there to me I felt it was and that's
like that's their version of it I come
from a place that has like a ton of
immigration and so like different things
feel cozy to me than that but it's like
kind of don't you anybody else is young
like there they have their thing you
have your thing that you could cross
over or it could you know it's a big big
market for a mortgage boy well Brendan
just sent me a sonic ice that an
explanation of the chewy ice apparently
oh really yeah why no that couldn't be
what it is it was like an ice machine
yeah apparently it is it's the the
Manitowoc qf 400 that makes ice
apparently this is Yukon hey guess Matt
Matt what is Matthew McConaughey got one
of those ice makers in his house cuz he
liked it so much what yeah
see I didn't even I wrote a whole thing
about that ice I didn't even know it was
a real thing and that's the other thing
I like I always loved x-ray blankets and
found them very cozy well and so I wrote
about that guess what gets invented a
weighted blanket yeah in fact we I think
I read it I read for that for next week
we we have one of those that what is a
comfort blanket dot
come calming comfort dot-com / majority
I think oh my god well it's it's science
it's because wait something's heavy on
you like fires off dopamine in your head
there you go which brings feelings of
like happiness and calm so what is it
are you can have I mean I assume you can
have a book party well I was at the Y I
was I had a book talk with Marishka
Hargitay at the Y I said my sister was
going to go to that I sent it to you I
did not to me I did so I did I had money
wait was on I was on like I posted about
it and stuff you had a book party you
didn't invite me didn't you no it wasn't
a party wasn't a party you had to buy
ticket I'm not talking about that I feel
like you had a book party
I'm not tono I didn't I swear to God I
swear oh my god and I'm standing in a
church so well so this is pretty
exciting now what do you do now you go
around on it are you doing a book tour
I'm going to Los Angeles next week and
then I'm going to DC on the 28th and if
anybody's in DC I'm gonna be talking at
it's a bookstore Cramer bookstore but it
they are under construction so it's like
this place next door on the 28th and
then I don't know I'm just gonna let it
roll see how it goes you know I mean I
just put it into the world and hope it
helps people and that's it and now we're
we're in LA I don't know quite yet okay
people go to Isabel gillies calm to find
out more information on your possible is
about yes go to Isabel gillies calm and
I'll be I'll post everything and I
appreciate the time to talk about it Sam
is about I'm very excited about it I'm
gonna dig into the book I'm travelling
today I've got it in my bag and there's
a whole section on travel really I
probably should have read it before
actually traveling is about I'm very
excited that your book is out and now
you get started again I know what well
what about Sam oh it's a different era
or everybody send me a topic and I'll
and I'll choose alright people get on
the topic head over we'll put a link to
cozy on the website Isabel gillies thank
you thank you always a pleasure
it's the pleasure's mine bye okay taxi
okay right there you go folks
cozy cozy alright let's get into it
we're gonna do a freebie Friday
we've got about about 40 minutes left
for the program before maybe maybe a
little bit less than that cuz I gotta
get to the airport we will call into the
the phones are six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number I
am dialing that number as we speak I
think we can all agree that Trump has
made the Oval Office a bit more cozy yes
Donald Trump has made the Oval Office a
little bit more cozy now of course
Barack Obama had a some type of like
golf simulator but that's my
understanding but President Trump has
Trump a size did now what's amazing
about the fact that this exists in my
mind is Donald Trump is consistently
playing golf constantly and so the idea
that he would need a simulator suggests
to me that he may not be doing anything
else but playing golf and what we
literally see him physically do like so
when we see him speak in public
obviously he's not playing golf at that
time that times allotted for there is a
website Trump golf count dot-com
is that is that right cuz the 87
million dollars so far his golf he has
played a hundred and fifty six times
these are daytime visits to golf clubs
since inauguration with evidence of
playing golf in at least 72 visits out
of what are we talking about now I guess
it's been well it's been 365 times to
essentially write about 700 days 700
days so a 756 days
so at least like what is that 20% of the
time at this point he is playing golf
and then he's in his residence and all
that executive time people think it's
just about TV he's probably watching TV
Fox News but here is a sense rate of
doing that of what the the golf
simulator is all about let's look at
this is the is this is this the one that
they're doing this is the full swing
simulator is this the one that he has
well we don't know but this will give
you a general sense of what's going on
hey guys Taylor here golf life checking
out full swing simulators jordan Spieth
has one of these Jason Day has one of
these even Tiger Woods has one of these
and now you can have one too I'm coming
to be in play we're gonna hit some balls
play some of the gaming arcade aspects
and check it out your Tigers gonna be
one of the coolest things about full
swing simulator and you can dial in your
irons your yardages it gives you all the
stats we okay so buying it I want three
of them can we trade a congressional
medal hey you got a free simulator wait
so we've got one in the White House but
can we get one in the executive office
building as well there you go
it actually does look pretty cool want
your president to be like not not
basically spending his days like Matt
would if he wasn't working here yeah
that looks too active for me yeah the
same office emulator
I interrupted on the way let's go to the
ball and accidentally hit my bong with
the golf club
let's see even if it's just the
simulation bad it's the really traumatic
let's go to the phones here let's see
why are we having trouble they're having
trouble get from this thing here I'm
having trouble getting on to the to the
phone system it seems like it's weird
bear with me folks I understand what's
going on here try and call back in turn
on the m's in the meantime thank you
the majority report Sam we'll be with
you shortly
yeah robots again feeling a little under
the weather today all right there we go
call from a 407 area code who's this
where you calling from hey Sam it's
Christians from West Michigan hello
Christian what's on your mind
got to be quick today want to try and
get a lot of oh yeah yeah I just wanted
to talk a little bit about your fellow
Jews in Israel and u.s. foreign policy
okay
well I mean that it's not meant to be an
semantics but no all right that's it
it's good it's great way to start yeah
cause I'm off to a great start here
anyways I just Michael was talking a
little bit oh I think Tuesday about the
relationship between the Emirati States
and Saudi Arabia and Israel and it just
seems to me like that's kind of a like a
match made in hell like I don't really
understand how that would even be
possible considering there's a lot of
Saudi citizens who join al Qaeda and
other terrorist groups specifically to
fight Alice like I'm reading um forever
we're right now all right well they're
breaking up a little bit but I think if
the question is is how does the Israeli
government make common cause with the
leadership of countries that have you
know radical and extremist elements in
their country and probably at least on
the periphery of their their leadership
I'm thinking you know there's a lot of
Saudi the Saudi families is huge I it's
it's fairly obvious one is a lot of
these countries I mean we talk about
Saudi Arabia they they repress a lot of
their people they also use those
extremist groups in the same way I guess
I'm trying to think of an analogy but
part of it is we pay them off so they
don't come after us and sometimes that
means they go after well they go after
our enemies on some level and in some
instances they end up they end up
blowing back I mean so the idea that
Israel would be would be in talks with
with the leadership of some other Arab
countries is not I don't know that
should be sharing a session with Iran
and that is the whole point and focus
for both of them it's obsessive and
Israel even in Syria if you look at how
the proxy wars break down Israel's not
particularly concerned about groups like
Al Qaeda and Isis and bizarrely al Qaeda
and Isis say sure they hate Israel they
say horrible things but it's never been
a central part of their strategy they
focused on the United States and local
governments and there's a long history
going back to the 80s where obviously
the u.s. collaborated with the
Pakistanis and the you know Saudis with
some most far-right elements the
Mujahideen and they
are more scared of the Iranians you got
to look it through everything through
the filter of Iran 90 so I mean it's
essentially just a security pact of
sorts surprise it you know they have a
Iran and they want a quote-unquote
stable Middle East they don't want
anything to change they want the same us
Saudi Israel axis that's dominated u.s.
foreign policy for decades appreciate
the call Christian and it was weird all
right appreciate the call got a we got
to move along with us beginning like
hood guitars riff for that answer call
them from a 509 area code who's this
where he come from not bad oh sorry oh
the gotta jump it was some kind of joke
play the video your little show
everybody have a good laugh remember
them stolen my parents basement freezer
okay got it all coated all coded
appreciate the phone call I can only
imagine who that was Colin from a six-30
area code who's this where he come from
hi this is Ryan from Chicago hello Ryan
from Chicago what's on your mind I got
two quick points the first about the
national emergency I don't think the
Dems will be able to spread anything
with the course up hold it I don't see
why the Republicans just wouldn't change
the law and not allow them to do this in
the future like if he declares this is a
national emergency to be the last time
this national emergency bill is used
away
what makes you think that the
Republicans are in a position to
unilaterally change the law now because
Democrats are decorum elementals the
this could be abused again yeah you're
breaking up we got a problem with the
what's that yeah I think so
well I mean look III guess it's
conceivable
it just seems highly unlikely to me that
a Congress that was controlled by
Democrats would in the wake of a Supreme
Court ruling in favor of the president
doing this would then turn around and
pass a law because that's what you'd
have to do in Congress you would have to
pass the law that there would be enough
Democrats who would pass this I guess in
conjunction with Republicans to shut the
door on this well it could be like a
bipartisan two wrongs don't make a right
commitment to norms kind of thing like
we need to make sure this doesn't happen
again that's conceivable but I imagine
they would if they did that in the wake
of the Supreme Court finding that then
it would prevent Donald Trump from doing
it too right I mean that would be they
could make it retroactive if the
argument is that the Supreme Court could
find that there is you know room it's
possible that they could address it in
such a way I mean the reality is is that
I don't know that Donald Trump is gonna
get the funds even under the auspices of
what he's doing to to build anymore of
the wall to the extent that he was
trying to get five billion dollars he
was gonna get twenty five billion
dollars a year ago and nobody was
worried about it in terms of actually
being completed
so because once you get past his ability
to say I'm going to re-appropriate money
that's been appropriated other places
then you move into the stage of everyone
whose land is being taken for eminent
domain is also going to go through a
series of laws so the first question is
will he be authorized to even attempt to
pretend to build the wall
then as he pretends to build the wall
will he actually be able to build the
wall because of all the other legal
challenges to it that will exist outside
of whether he was authorized to
reappropriation the first place so I
mean it's conceivable to me that that
Congress could right now pass a law that
would prohibit the president from using
a declaring a national emergency in this
way I think you I I wouldn't be
surprised if we see that in Congress now
in the house anyways because I think
that is I mean I that would not surprise
me it'd be mighty bold of them well I
mean the question is that the the
Supreme Court would would address is
whether there there was constitutional
authority and I don't know that Congress
can necessarily limit the president's
constitutional authority I mean it may
be worth having a legal expert on to
talk about what issues would come up in
this in this context a lot of legal
experts are really tope Ian so they're
gonna compromise and have some kind of
border security package where there's
well they did dirty
I mean they've expanded look they I mean
to the extent that they've expanded
funding for ice they expanded and
included a soft cap on the actual beds
that that the the the custom borders can
patrol can have I mean I don't I don't
think there's anything in particular
that from a material standpoint is
particularly good about this deal
frankly I mean I think from a political
standpoint there's a sense that Donald
Trump lost it may have it may have made
the Republicans more allergic to
shutting down the government in the
future maybe but no I don't I mean I
don't think this deal is any great
shakes in that respect but speaking of
the
emerged the the powers of the President
to declare a national emergency Mike
Pence came out against that ability
right on c-span wander uh for his sake
that Donald Trump doesn't see this I
think it would be a profound mistake for
the President of the United States to
overturn American immigration law with
the stroke of a pen issues of this
magnitude should always be resolved with
the consent of the governed signing an
executive order giving a speech
barnstorming around the country
defending that executive order is not
leadership and I would implore the
President to reconsider this path in in
to and to demonstrate the kind of
leadership that the American people long
to see and that is that this
administration would sit down with this
newly minted Republican Congress and and
find genuine common ground border
security there's a series of piece by
piece reforms that I believe could be
advanced in this Congress that would be
in the long-term interests of the
American people on this issue now of
course he said the newly minted
Republican Congress and that's because
this was from half a dozen years ago
when Barack Obama had basically by
executive order just just essentially
changed the prosecutorial discretion of
ice at that time and said we're not
going to pursue daca or Thapa folks and
we see this prosecutorial discretion all
the time Ronald Reagan called in the
other day immigration lawyer who said
that ices ice will detain people based
upon the space that they have that there
is no set threshold in which they will
detain somebody it's just a function how
much space they have so in other words
it is their prosecutorial capacity that
dictates who they will round up so
that's ultimately what daca and DAPA was
all about
now I don't know Donald Trump sees that
it's gonna care about it that much
oh you thought because I was in the golf
simulator you could get oh that was
Obama time okay so much as we show it to
him at Jacobs yesterday and get Mike
Pence fired I think that would act
I think that's honestly the blue reason
why people dug it up and put it on but
it's not gonna be on Fox Oh cuz I'm in
the simulator you think you can go twist
your mouth to talk some trash here is
Nancy Pelosi explaining the Democratic
strategy to provide legal challenges
against this declaration of the national
emergency what's happening at the border
it's manatorian
challenge to us the president that has
tried to sell a bill of goods to america
but putting that aside just in terms of
the president making an end run around
Congress here he said let's respect what
the committee will do and then walks
away from it but in event president is
doing and running about Congress about
the power of the purse you've heard me
say over and over again article one the
legislative branch the power of the
purse the power to declare war many
other powers are listed in the
Constitution and of course the
responsibility to have oversight so the
president is joined and Ronde around
that she's right the the changing you
know an executive order in terms of DAPA
and daca does not involve any
reappropriation of funds this is it's
highly problematic just in terms of
setting precedent it is you know
fundamentally anti-democratic and it is
for clearly something that is not an
emergency you know the crazy part is he
doesn't even need to do that like like
you just said they have a compromise
they're getting tons of money for this
border security thing there they're
still gonna clock some kids in cages
just not all the kids it's like
certainly most of the kids and and it's
also like they tried they rolled out the
whole thing where they say we're
building you know that we're finishing
the wall right they changed already from
build the wall to finish the wall why
can't they just said
mission accomplished it's pure dick
swinging at this point - well yes that's
a little inappropriate
not cozy not because he folks all right
let's talk a little bit about what
happened with the Amazon and by well
amazon has has said that they're not
going to build their headquarter but
they're still gonna expand they're still
gonna add jobs in in new york they're
not building another headquarter which
leads me to believe that maybe they
didn't need these things like maybe
these jobs it's weird that you're
planning to add 25,000 jobs that seems
like a lot of jobs for amazon like i
don't know how many people amazon
employees can we look that up someone
looked that up how many people does
amazon employ 25,000 jobs I would bet is
a non contractors not contractors
directly employee I would imagine 25,000
is a significant number of people for
them certainly more significant than
jobs in New York City and it's weird
that they're not going to have a
headquarters where they're gonna fill
those 25,000 jobs right but nevertheless
the bottom line is they were hostile to
unions they were hostile in terms of
providing monies for infrastructure that
they were going to change they were
hostile to a whole set of things and and
this is the thing even if you were to
believe that there was a net benefit to
the Amazon headquarters and I think that
is a belief that is not necessarily
founded in at least the experiences in
the past I mean you can see it in terms
of Foxconn you can see it all these
deals
rarely end up materializing in the way
that they are assumed to materialize and
but even if you were to believe that it
was going to be a net positive the
precedent that would have been set for
New York State to provide this many
subsidies to such a large and already
successful company when they would give
no decent terms in so far as like even
being neutral in terms of unions New
York City is a Union City and if you set
the precedent of a company that doesn't
need the subsidies is going to get the
subsidies then you have basically
forfeited the city's ability in the
future to rest any of these negotiating
terms in any deal they get into the
future so you can't just assess the net
results of the Amazon deal in isolation
and that is I think the fundamental
people of mistake that people are making
even those people who assume it would
have been a net positive which i think
is a big assumption to make
but even if I grant you that it would
have been a net positive you got to
start to roll in the implications of
that deal for subsequent deals down the
road in terms of it being a positive and
I think it's undoubtedly negative well
now we know that New York City has three
billion dollars lying around that they
could spend on things we need well I
mean this would have been overtime I
mean this theoretically would have been
deductions on what these corporations
would have had to pay but yes there's
obviously flexibility for it we don't
necessarily need the next three billion
dollars coming in in terms of corporate
receipts but here is a celebration that
broke out I think this is fairly
spontaneous right many celebrations and
this is these are folks in Long Island
City
odd that they would be celebrating if it
was gonna hurt them lot of develop
energy between Amazon being next to a
large housing projects I love it so much
like I'll admit I was a little skeptical
when so my DSA comrades were saying we
gotta kill this deal we're gonna do
community activism with all these
community groups and like we we think
that we could make a difference I was
like oh well you know it's a noble goal
but good luck with that guy's and you
know this just goes to show you that
these tech overlords are not yet
all-powerful and at least in a place
like New York we really can make a
difference just by doing good
old-fashioned organizing go vote for an
organized for Anamika Const I think that
definitely her platform and position
running a real campaign for Public
Advocate played a small role in this but
not an insignificant one and we need
people now in leadership who are just
gonna oppose these things I think it
also exposes the intentions of Amazon at
coming here because if they were if the
the intentions were strictly material in
terms of what they needed to do for
their business in terms of specifically
their operations they wouldn't be that
concerned that there was like public
sentiment was was I guess jaded towards
them this is a company that
fundamentally does not want to be a
citizen of the community therein that's
why they didn't even bother to look at
places that really needed help right
that's why they didn't even look at
these places where they could go in and
make a difference a positive difference
on day one where perhaps getting
subsidies would actually be a a
worthwhile thing to do in cities that
were hurting at least at the very least
in terms of some type of tax reduction
you know if you're
place like Detroit let's say it's
conceivable that it's a the need in the
for a city like that maybe that much
more acute than in New York that the
stakes for giving a subsidy to Amazon
are less than they would be in this city
and so but but Amazon fundamentally does
not want to do that and so they
apparently what they wanted to do was I
think is to be close enough to New York
to have influence on the media of course
they picked New York and the DC metro
area I mean it's quite like this whole
ridiculous feudal style Hunger Games
national competition I mean III think
that it does underscore how grotesque it
all is I mean it was so obvious where
they wanted to go and then they would
have a bunch of pad and pageantry and I
think even just the process of all of
these cities and states prostrating
themselves and begging this company
which is structurally dangerous to our
economy and delivering them all the
details about their current
infrastructure info it's it's it's it
was like a large-scale version of the
scam of like do a work assignment for us
as part of an interview process pay me
right god yeah I read actually one
factor that concerned Amazon executives
was how I'm quoting now from Twitter com
how activists in New York brought in
their attacks from the specifics of the
deal
to the company's practices far beyond
the five boroughs on unions and working
with ice according to to people familiar
with Amazon's decision and Amazon the
the reason why Amazon didn't say you
know what we'll stay neutral when it
comes to unions is for the is the exact
same reason why or I should say the the
inverse of the reason why New York had
to say no to them because Amazon doesn't
want to create a precedent in New York
that they're gonna be neutral in terms
of unions they don't want to set a
precedent that they're offering card
check
to those employees in in New York who
might want to unionize because they
don't want to do that in Seattle and
they don't want to do that in DC and
they don't want to do that anywhere else
that they have a you know an outfit and
so for that same reason that Amazon
understands they understood the
importance of precedents in this
equation that's why New York had to
reject it let's listen to Fox News on
how New York is just ruined this is
gonna be good so you might have heard
about this big contest to get a hub in
your city 200 cities competed for it
because of that New York City sweeten
the pot they gave tax breaks once this
was built they said you're gonna love it
here and they made sure that it was
something that Amazon wanted to go
because when you have a first round
draft pick or the fastest-growing
country company in the country you want
to do whatever it takes to get here now
exaggerated Cascio Cortez is among the
high-profile politicians who staked
their reputation on stopping Amazon
because in her mind she said we should
use that 3 billion dollars for other
things 3 billion dollars in tax breaks
doesn't mean you hold three billion
dollars so she won she actually believes
that New York benefits by not bringing
the fastest most effective the biggest
country company in the country to New
York City listen to her
pause it for one second incidentally
Amazon's already here they're in New
York I don't know how many employees
they have in New York but it's I think
it's thousands and they're expanding and
guess who else is expanding here in New
York without any of these big subsidies
Google I think it's incredible I mean it
shows that everyday Americans
still have the power to organize and
fight for their communities and they can
have more say in this country than the
richest man in the world
we were subsidizing those jobs so for
the city was paying for those jobs so
frankly if we were willing to give
Amazon 3 with we're willing to give away
3 billion dollars for this deal we could
invest those 3 billion dollars in our
district ourselves if we wanted to we
could hire out more teachers we can fix
our subways we can put a lot of people
to work for that money if we wanted to
this expression you got to spend money
to make money we were gonna make it was
25 to 30 billion dollars over the next
20 years so what's 3 billion dollars in
tax payer you know what that company
would have done is it spread out and
also eaten
oh my also just I mean again this makes
zero difference but I I do recall having
arguments with your ilk about you spend
money to make money
that's interesting when it only applies
to giving a break to a giant predatory
corporation right general principle yeah
word right word up also with you made a
mention but when you got a great draft
pick like you don't get to bid on draft
picks the team with the worst records
gets to select those so maybe we should
have let like I don't know Detroit yeah
Detroit its pure and simple they just
keep trying to sell it in a new package
and it's ridiculous and sad super sad
but they're really they're really love I
love the sour grapes from everyone it's
it's hilarious Newark New Jersey says
please bring it here we need it I
understand it they listen you have to
understand some Amazon to first run a
draft pick you pay a lot for first-round
draft picks and high profile free agents
there's no difference you have to give
you have to make this good for Amazon
all right
he's so bummed you know what that sounds
like to me that sounds like kilmeade
bought some property in Long Island City
thanks Adela you know I had pulled this
the other day when they were threatening
it I just looked a local real estate
folks were saying that
Amazon does after they were threatening
if Amazon does pull out this will be
good for the the folks who live in the
neighborhood if they pull out and some
of the big losers of course are those
real estate speculators yeah I mean I
think they're probably gonna win anyways
I mean that's the thing is that I can I
can guarantee you those Amazon
executives who bought the property when
they knew that Amazon was going to do
this and it wasn't public they're gonna
hold onto that property and instead of
maybe making you know seventy five
percent returns in a two or three year
period they're just gonna make like the
normal 15 to 20 percent return
year-over-year that you make on New York
real estate and there's no doubt in that
area there's gonna be there's gonna be
other companies that come into those
areas they're not gonna have the same
monopolistic power as Amazon they if
they want those subsidies and they want
it aggregated in that way they're gonna
have to give something to the city and
that's gonna ultimately be better but
here is uh is here's some is this please
tell me this is some real estate jack
yes well this is a local business oh
thank god this guy looks like such a
schmuck oh here we go going anywhere I
was inviting more people to come down
here and tell you what's up this street
is garbage and it's probably partly your
fault
oh okay Ryder trucks parking lot is that
what we're that's the best we're gonna
do around here is a Ryder truck parking
lot where god damnit bear spent two New
York City now cuz of you guys happy Wow
well actually I am I mean I think you
should treat Ryder company with a little
bit more respect they actually provide a
lot of jobs I mean the the the the
bottom line is going to be we're gonna
see if how New Yorkers react to this and
this is going to be a much more
democratic process than it was set up by
de Blasio and Cuomo in the first place I
mean that was what was problematic is
this was just fundamentally not a
democratic process they did this behind
closed doors they sprang it on people
they did not realize what the community
expected in terms of returns for giving
the one of the wealthiest individuals in
the world this kind of tax break I also
think and this is just politics
um when Bloomberg came out and you know
not for any deep justice reasons
obviously because Bloomberg is almost
like an avatar of the problem in New
York City but when he basically was like
I don't think they need those tax
subsidies I think that like the way
people are gonna react to it has been
pretty strongly set like the people who
opposed the deal were all over it
really quickly and you could tell like
of course de Blasio and Cuomo were wrong
on the merits but particularly like and
Cuomo doesn't care I mean Cuomo is
actively hostile to this position but de
Blasio obviously fancies himself as part
of the progressive movement and he is in
some ways but I mean he was just could
have not have been more flat-footed it's
like dude you're a couple years
out-of-date and it's moving real fast
oh yeah Cuomo is promising reprisals
which I've no doubt that he will deliver
cuz he's a vindictive de Blasio
is trying to pretend like he's on the
community side now so they're both being
very care
drastically themselves I also like how
quick they are to blame it on local
socialists as if you know you can still
do the Red Scare on people and well sure
you could still do the Red Scare but
let's just say like yes I will take
credit we killed it thank you we have a
lot of power it's good PR alright I get
time for one more call three four seven
I think this is in the hood confident
three four so who's this yep this is a
leaf on the story oh that's what I
thought okay what's going on ally I just
want to throw a shout out to all the
organizations and people that
successfully stopped this from happening
I only spend a couple hours canvassing
myself but there have been people at
this and November last year four months
have justice for all
make the road and also I'd like to talk
about the people in neighborhood who to
an individual expressed confusion anger
Amazon just barreling the way in there
well I appreciate the call Ali thank you
yeah right oh one other thing
if anybody feels sad about politics by
Trump or whatever go out there do some
good you feel so much better
yes you know we may or may not be able
to avoid hell world but at least we can
say we tried all right folks I'm sorry
that's all the time we have for phone
calls I'm going to read a bunch of items
and then get out of here I got to take a
flight how funny it'll be to see the
mental gymnastics says Jeffery that
constitutional conservatives will need
to perform to say Trump has the power
really forces their hand New York has
always given tax benefits to companies
locating the state people only cared
about this because it was Amazon that's
correct
but I would say two things about that
one a lot of people have said is
problematic to the extent that Andrew
Cuomo shifted the burden of taxes away
from corporations that was actually one
of the reasons why people were running
against him so hard over the past two
cycles and to that it was Amazon has a
material difference to the president
that's being set when you have the
Lich's company in the world or the
richest man in the world getting tax
subsidies who then do you have leverage
over in the future to provide those tax
subsidies I'm not opposed to tax
subsidies for black midsize companies
like it's good to oppose it on the basis
that it's Amazon because Jeff Bezos
wants to be your neo feudalist Lord and
he's not gonna stop until he gets what
he wants
hey Sam Gabe formerly from Chicago as an
ISO member I just wanted to thank
comrade Jamie for a shout-out to we are
many dot-org the other day make sure she
knows that the registration for the
socialism 2019 conference is now open I
said a wonderful time last year
Wisconsinite national emergency
declarations are totally cozy Gigi got a
nice cozy reefer kake song for you to
play out the show dedicated to Brooke
see a square Sam thanks for covering
this today and with Alterman very
courageous indeed for Oman to question a
war criminal much respect to her she was
perfect fo for Abrams for many reasons
these women are now in Congress fearless
majority enjoy the week off thank you a
square Barak Banga snuff films make Sam
cozy Kentucky Fried comrades question
for Jamie is the russian netflix leather
daddy Trotsky miniseries worth watching
absolutely there you go amazing
congressional baseball fan much love to
the whole Mr Crew I've been going
through a lot
starting a new job and having to
tolerate a lot of sense of conservative
and capitalist ideas you all helped me
say stain everyday and lastly my
baseball economic update unemployment
claims are up retail sales and the
producer price index are down the feds
insistence on raising rates to protect
against the supposedly overheating
economy is not the story told by the
numbers there was a report the other day
that more people were in arrears on
their car payments then than we've seen
in and maybe it's a record and that is a
bad sign
in Baltimore the chewy ice at the NICU
was literally the best part of my
daughter's stay interesting glass
steagle Morning Joe went maniacally
after ASC this morning the the Cruz was
she didn't know what she's talking about
to learn basic economics maybe you can
find a clip and respond have to wait
until next week west coast
comrade Gilly is just Judy gold in an
alternate universe where Trump is in
prison and Bernie is pressed defrag
global any thoughts on David Pakman as
of late I like him but he's made some
bad videos about Alana Omar is
anti-semitic in Maduro is so bad we
should support the opposition well I
haven't seen them but I disagree with
both those well I I mean I think Maduro
is not so great but we shouldn't support
a coup
I've folks and fellow I hope you
have a nice holiday thought I was
listening w NYC's Radiolab for a minute
anyway can you explain why the terms
anti Zionist and pro Semitic aren't
thrown around as cyanus and anti-semitic
I can't follow that contagious
chameleons o Semitic this reminds me
that the makers of cards against
humanity' bought land on the border over
a year ago to interfere with the wall oh
good for them Wolverine screw golf let's
tear all courses down and build housing
for the homeless indeed gulag Greg let's
gamble the thought of a nun adventure to
outcome in terms of climate change I
think I recommended Bill Nye on climate
change few years ago but it's fantastic
book pretty good for the average reader
to grasp and there's a few more in-depth
chapters on thermodynamics you can skip
if it's too much
jay-j cool thanks a lot Amaro is blocked
by struck a guy after one tweet offering
advice to watch out for apathetic
steamrollers JJ the sea plane hey guys
and Matt remember me good times also
three hours just posted self-hate video
on the marketplace of ideas hopefully
after your first of many breaks this
kind of video make another done and
welcome
do you see Sammy the way you spoke about
Amazon it seems like you were the
opinion it could do good somewhere with
the exact same practices that got them
out of New York wouldn't those practices
and doing the exact same thing they're
doing in we see create negative income
outcomes when they come I'm saying the
dynamic between New York City and the
precedents it would set we're
problematic I don't know if it would
necessarily help a Detroit more than New
York but almost definitionally it would
as separate from the bigger problem of
what it is as a company yes how many
portable thoughts in your head at one
exactly Christo does Brandon Straka live
within borders of New York 14 to
challenge AOC it's my dish
come Jackson Heights I'm presuming he'd
be relocated I have no idea loco Pez
historian happy lula teens de thang khuu
next Hugo ball - I imagine efforts to
save Greenwich Village from freeways
were dismissed by Robert Moses and his
supplicants as well Sam's tinder profile
hey girl
just swipe right get it Nick from
Manitoba hey Sam
let's hear your best Jimmy Stewart
impression
Lulu I used to be able to do one that
was that was supposed to be Sean Connery
but it ended up sounding sorry can I
just let really just shoehorn in we're
doing TPMS tonight 7:00 we're live TPMS
tonight the seven all right Matt the BK
final I am of the day wanted to add this
about film guys comments I can't help
but recall convincing my grandmother to
take the jerk when I was 13 my first
ever our film I loved it I think my
grandma was a bit shocked fun to hear
Fox idiots bemoaning something that
would have benefited Bezos at new jawed
sadly more Trump fans than I am used to
okay folks see you in a week don't
forget there'll be new T MBS new the
intifada
and new literary hangovers for you to
enjoy we've got some great interviews
pre-recorded for next week so check them
out I promise you you will not be
disappointed see you in a week live
unless maybe I'll hop on YouTube if
something big happens in between now and
hi YouTube oh and check out our
Instagram page I I think I'm gonna be in
just coffee co-op tomorrow and I will
try and do a live stream if I can figure
out how to do it bye bye
to get to where I want
no sir
[Music]
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option menu
[Music]
laughs we try
