so Stephanie I of course am at least
somewhat familiar with the broad strokes
of this story working with Mike
Papantonio but the devil we know what
let's let's just start with the the the
the story that it tells because this is
one that I think impacts a lot of
Americans and they probably don't
realize it and and to what extent they
it impacts them you know I don't know if
we we know but certainly for a smaller
subset of Americans it was incredibly
difficult but but tell us the broad
strokes of what the what the story is in
this documentary sure so the devil we
know is the story of a farmer and a gym
teacher who took on one of the world's
largest chemical corporations when they
found out that the company was knowingly
polluting the air and water with a
chemical called c8 and you know while it
took place in this small town
Parkersburg West Virginia this chemical
is now found in the bloodstream of 99.7%
of Americans so you know what we see is
that Parkersburg and c8 really end up in
the film being a microcosm for this much
larger issue of how business is done in
america the fact that you know the
chemical companies tend to operate with
impunity and can put things out on the
marketplace with no oversight or anyone
checking to make sure that it's not
going to kill us
alright so let's let's talk specifically
and this is an amazing story that really
spans in a close to 25 years in terms of
like you know the this aspect of the
story when we talk about c8 c8 is not a
chemical that is ostensibly in Teflon it
is a chemical that's used in the process
of making Teflon so tell us tell us how
the
we as a as a society first got wind that
there was a problem with this chemical
my understanding is c8 was made by 3m
and provided to DuPont to make their
teflon stuff and at one point 3m said
we're gonna get out of this business
because this stuff is bad right right
yeah I mean you know the 3m and you
can't new you know very early on that
there were problems with this chemical
finally it reached a point where 3m said
we're going to stop making it as you
said and rather than saying okay then
you know we're going to switch to DuPont
who was you know buying the c8 from 3m
rather than stopping and switching gears
to find something safer they just began
manufacturing the chemical themselves so
you know 3m you know sensibly did the
right thing and switching gears some
might argue that they should have done
so earlier but they did they stopped
using it it's not making it and DuPont
didn't they just added it to their
portfolio of things that they were
making in it you know became another
moneymaker for them now minus 3m at the
time had basically said to DuPont
listen when you're working with this
chemical the only way to get rid of it
is to you know the only way to get rid
of it is to burn it because it doesn't
have a half-life it just it doesn't go
away it doesn't diminish you got to burn
it and DuPont went ahead and said that
maybe a little bit too pricey let's just
dump it exactly yeah so I mean the
documents clearly state you know
whatever you do do not flush this into
the water do not put it in the water and
and DuPont was just dumping it into the
water and eventually ended up you know
contaminating much of the Ohio River
Valley and so alright so how did we
first get wind I mean this starts this
is one of those stories that is is
pretty amazing it starts with just one
farmer who
notices that his cows are dying in a
very strange way tell us about that
yeah so Earl Tennant had a farm in
Parkersburg West Virginia and he issued
a permit to DuPont that they could run
their wastewater by their stream but
they had you know in their description
of what they would be running it never
included anything that would be toxic
what he started noticing was that his
water was being filled with this foaming
it looks like looks like soap says
essentially this foamy substance and
suddenly acount started dying off one at
a time and there were deer on the
property and fish were dead and you know
he he made several calls and you tried
to get help and nobody would listen to
him you know in his own words she says
they sort of wrote him off as an old
dumb farmer and he was anything but an
old dumb farmer he was really persistent
and he started documenting these and I
mean insofar as that he would autopsy
the cows himself and he filmed at all
it's all on film um and you know DuPont
got wind of it and we know this because
of the depositions of the DuPont lawyers
who were you know none too pleased that
he was making a stink about this and
they you know sort of hopes that they
could discredit him as you know a
disgruntled or or you know just kind of
a crazy old man but they knew something
was going to happen and and you know
they from their own words that one of
the lawyers Bernard Reilly says you know
the shits about to hit up and because
the farmer is on to us and indeed he was
so eventually he settled with DuPont
and we don't really know the terms of
that settlement but what we do know is
that normally the case would end there
and things would sort of go quietly into
the night but what happened was the
DuPont had to send out a letter to their
residents saying hey just so you know
there there's a little bit of this water
that was chemical in your drinking water
and don't worry we've measured it it's
totally safe we're you know we're
basically required to let you know this
and that was send out to Waddle
Parkersburg but one of the people that
got it was a gym teacher by the name of
Joe Geiger
and this just didn't sit right for him
you know initially he sort of put it
aside and he's like uh you know it's
like those letters you get in the mail
about your iPhone that you never read
right um but he read it and it kept sort
of sticking in his mind when he started
seeing that people in the neighborhood
were disproportionately sick with you
know testicular cancer and rotten teeth
and he started digging around and he did
what I think very few people would do is
he was relentless about making phone
calls and he was calling the EPA and
just I mean really you know really going
above and beyond the call of duty to try
and figure out what this was and you
know after some digging he eventually
was sent the case of or some of the the
description of what happened to Earl
tenant and in that those dealings he
found the name of the lawyer that
handled the case which was robbed a lot
and so he called Rob a lot told him
about this letter and Rob a lot agreed
to take his case so in summary I think
you know Earl tenant was first on to the
fact that it was the surface water that
was being contaminated by the runoff in
the company and that's the case that Rob
a lot settled for him but then what Rob
a lot was keyed into was that this is
also in the drinking water so that
became another case as well too so and
and at this point temporally speaking
we're like in the early aughts right I
mean this is almost 15 some odd years
ago yeah Rob a lot gets on the case and
then what happens next is something that
in the the course of of tort law we
rarely see as far as I know and when we
were going to take a break when we come
back I want to hear about the the
independent the the the the case that
that followed when Rob a lot picked it
up and the methodology that the court
determines that decided upon which is a
pretty rare instance of a court just
simply turning this over to scientists
and saying you know how dangerous is
this thing and it's also sort of amazing
we've got this chemical that's out there
that's being dumped into the water and
we don't know how dangerous it is until
after the fact we got to take a quick
break when we come back we will talk
more about the devil we know
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
