but you know we're gonna do for
Sebastian let's trash justin trudeau a
little bit it's a couple of things about
this clip that come to mind first Justin
Trudeau's really a very I he's a super
awkward public speaker III don't I mean
I get that he's you know I get that he's
attractive and he's I guess likable I I
don't I mean I don't find him
particularly likeable but what has
shocked me is that this the people
compared this guy to Obama like people
really wanted to sort of attach like
serious rock star cred to him and I've
never seen him give a solid speech now
granted I don't watch much Justin
Trudeau so maybe there's you know
actually well don't point me if I'll
take your word for it
he's given great speeches I believe you
but don't tweet them to me the other
thing that's very interesting is and
look I don't discount I think it's great
when the Australian government
apologizes to Aboriginal people I think
it's important when the United States
government apologizes to the victims of
the tuskegee experiment
I think historical accounts are
important and healthy for any society
that being said Justin Trudeau's sort of
preferred mode of apologizing for things
in the past while he could condones
atrocities in the present is a troubling
pattern and I'll be really specific
about that this guy continues to align
with the oil and energy industry against
indigenous activists in Canada that is a
specific wrong today I don't care how
woke you are that's wrong they did have
that conflict with Saudi Arabia because
to their credit Canada's foreign
minister I believe the crista Freeland I
believe her name is spoke out against
some of the Saudi jailing of women's
rights activists and the Saudis
responded by saying but well by
threatening another 9/11 which was a bit
of an escalation
but also by talking about canceling arms
agreements which should remind everybody
that Canada is selling Saudi Arabia
weapons
so this woke administration is still a
arms exporting Petro State that has not
kept its commitments or its word to the
coalition that elected it and continues
to treat indigenous people in an abysmal
way so this is Justin Trudeau
apologizing for a great historical wrong
the candidate committed against the
Jewish people those fleeing the
Holocaust and then he's gonna pivot to a
disingenuous ridiculous historically
illiterate attack on the movement to
bring democracy to Israel Palestine is
still far too present Jewish
institutions and neighborhoods are still
students still feel unwelcomed and
uncomfortable on some of our college and
university campuses because of BDS
related intimidation and out of our
entire community of nations it is Israel
whose right to exist is most widely and
wrongly questioned discrimination and
violence against Jewish people in Canada
and around the world continues at an
alarming rate
so he's conflating several things there
that are disturbing and actually
undermine the necessary urgent and of
course historically ongoing fight
against the poison of anti-semitism
which is that yes there is a resurgence
of anti-semitism also his anti-semitism
never went away
and there are far-right terrorist
actions like swat stickers like
murdering people in synagogues that are
a dangerous clear and present a threat
to Jewish people in the United States
and in Europe and of course elsewhere
then he conflated BDS now BDS boycott
divestment sanctions against Israel
as in often cases on college campuses at
least has Jewish leadership inside it
there are a lot of younger Jewish
leaders that do not want to support an
apartheid state in their name in Israel
some of those people support BDS because
they don't believe in ethno States of
any kind and they want a full binational
democracy with equal citizenship for all
people in Israel Palestine Jewish
Palestinian Christian Arab Bedouin and
so on they believe in full multiracial
multicultural democracy which is in fact
the values of modern liberal society
that's why somebody like Tony jutt who
was a great social democratic and
liberal theorist and Jewish intellectual
came out in the New York Review of Books
in 2005 and supported a bi-national
democracy because he recognized that his
lifelong intellectual project to
undermine nationalism and promote
openness and democracy for all was
contradicted by living in an ethnos
state it's also why a former Israeli
senior top level politicians have also
supported by national policies as well
there's others who actually do support
Israel existing as a democracy a Jewish
democracy within 67 borders but
recognize that ruthless siege on Gaza
and an occupation on the West Bank
make Israel an objective apartheid state
by international standards so and in
most of these groups any actual talk of
anti-semitism or conspiracy theories
about Jews controlling the world or
essentializing of Jewish identity is
aggressively disputed and opposed so if
some people on college campuses feel
uncomfortable because Israel is being
criticized from a political perspective
well that is analogous to somebody from
Turkey saying I'm uncomfortable because
you're criticizing what you do to the
Kurds or what air Dewan is doing to the
Free Press or somebody from Pakistan
being uncomfortable because you might
criticize Islamic policy
in Pakistan it's ridiculous you need to
grow up
you need to deal with reality and third
by conflating and then of course turning
to uncritical support of israel he's
conflating a political question a moral
question and one of dealing with actual
and serious and the urgent threats of
anti-semitism all in one thing at the
very same time that this current Israeli
government has made more reach out to
the global far-right and historically
anti-semitic forces than any previous
Israeli government ever it's disgusting
and delusional and Justin Trudeau should
be ashamed of himself
