call from a 6-5 one area code who's this
where he come from
Esme yep
who's this where he car Hey oh yeah my
name's my name is John I I live in
Minnesota of Stillwater Minnesota and I
I alright so this morning I had
breakfast with a near and dear friend of
mine I say that Kevin quotes we went to
high school together we're about neo
mid-20s now and I used to be a
libertarian now I'm a socialist you know
yeah fellow comrade and thank you mom
yeah and my friend uh he's very much on
the opposite side of the political
spectrum of me and today during
breakfast he was talking about how he
finally found a psychologist that he
likes to listen to hey said and guess
what he's not from here and he's from
Canada and I asked him in the Jordan
Pearson he goes oh you've heard of him
 me
should I just cut my friendship loose
with this guy yes
no no I would I would I would try and
save him before he goes too deep into
that stuff look you're a perfect example
of somebody who will come out of it give
him some apple cider
what was it let's put it this way John
what was it that made you realize that
your libertarianism was was folly well I
went through a lot of mental health
problems and I saw that the happiest
countries were socialist countries about
a being ba boom right there that's
interesting
what is your nose the bases are
beautiful
yeah what know what the base is what is
the basis of your friends ideology
I don't know that's the thing I've you
know I've been trying to figure it out
I've been trying to dig I've been
digging at it for a few years now trying
to figure out why he thinks this way
I mean he's even advocate for eugenics
in the past you know he's like oh you
know there's people who are waste on
society as I was saying cut him out I
mean at that point like if if you if if
that's the case I mean the only thing I
guess I would say is like how do you
know that you're not one of those people
that's a damn good question I mean what
makes him so sure what makes him so sure
that if somebody unravels the eugenics
program that he's not on the list to go
the thing is he would be too because he
was born with heart murmurs gotta go
find out we'd already we don't need the
heart murmur I've seen heart murmuring
Jordan Peterson fans goodbye yeah yeah
no it's but like you know pushing people
away just digs them in board for there's
no I agree with you listen Michael
Michael saying that he's being a little
bit glib I think look in this into I
knew Michael gonna do that I knew you
[Laughter]
Michael suppose predictability is one of
his best traits but I would suggest
saying that predict that you you say to
him like well what if society decided
that you know heart murmur guys who have
you know maybe some emotional issues too
much of a drain I mean I I would take it
that way it may be sort of like see if
there's a hug with there's this thing is
it's not always the it's not always the
conversation about eugenics it's usually
a topic about you know the welfare state
or something like that well the point is
like that he was born in upper middle
class
right my point is you need to try and
get him to empathize in some way but
there's a way even if it's a
hypothetical but yeah there's this
there's this iron Rand example I want to
use because I think it works for this
because somebody was asking how can she
have such a mass following when by
definition not everybody who buys her
books are gonna be financially
successful or CEOs which is basically
the only people in her writing she said
her worth basically even living and
respecting right and there was a letter
that some guy wrote her and some guy you
know he was not happy in his career he
wasn't particularly successful he didn't
have any prestige er money and he said
you know basically like I feel like I
get your writing and I'm part of this
like elite group but at the same time
like you know I'm not a master of the
world so like what does that mean about
me and she said she was like well you
know what
if you can read my books and you
understand them then by definition
you're part of this elite like even if
even if it doesn't look like it outside
right now she went like super woowoo on
him and I think actually uh Jordan
Peterson does that quite a bit
at least you know he does a lot of
signaling where it's like all of these
people are trashed but if you have a
very specific set of difficulties and
grievances they you actually either a
ironically you actually are being
oppressed and be you are still part of
some like cognitive elite so I think
it's a hard lane to try to get somebody
to have empathy through I don't know a
heart murmur her brain impulse to want
to personalize it yeah I think I mean I
would try that and then if that doesn't
work then cut him loose get some new
friends appreciate the call it's your
family as Chris Rock would say what's
that last word what about what was
noticed about you know people on the
left and people on the right is that
people on the left we will respond to
these you know personal stories you know
cuz we have empathy but people on the
right tend to be more appeal to
Authority like you know he's he said
like oh you know I like Trump code is
better than Obama and I asked how like
why what do you like about me is like
well I don't know he's just better like
it's appeal to Authority they like
people who yell the loudest and there's
what you do with that well like I say
you try and you try and personalize it
go into what they're maybe they're flaw
or their weaknesses and say how would
you you know why wouldn't why is it not
justified that others exploit that and
if that doesn't slowly begin to create
some empathy annum then I would say cut
him loose and tell them that the voting
day actually is not Wednesday not on
Tuesday
I appreciate the college of doubt heart
murmurs yes out we don't need people
running around with week most important
organs in the body
my mother Terry
