[Music]
as I remind you that this program relies
on your support you can become a member
of the majority report today by going to
join the majority report com want to
read a little bit of email that we got
well we got this on my birthday which I
thought was was apropos as you know last
year on my birthday the mic Serna vich
started his campaign to get me fired
from MSNBC this year on my birthday and
I don't know if it was a coincidence or
or what but we got an email and the
email is it's quite interesting we have
decided to to do it as a little playlet
we thought it would be more apropos the
email is from a doctor now we do not
have a doctor in the building
so instead playing the role of this
conservative doctor will be the
character right-wing Nelson Mandela and
I will yes thank you for joining us I
will be playing the role of myself who
goes through the emails and particularly
when I see a hate email I respond very
quickly so you know they think not
relieves y'all sciatica that's right
it's true there you go what a
coincidence playing a doctor already
providing okay so if we could now we
take you to our email inbox at majority
reporters at gmail.com where this email
came in so Sita says that Trump
supporters should kill themselves
really CEDA you should kill yourself you
fascist Pig you are disgustingly stupid
dr. Charlotte that's right and we have
we've gotten rid of this second name
obviously to protect the
non-innocent I responded link please not
sure what you're referring to
and dr. Charlotte came back with this
quote MSNBC host says Republicans need
to kill themselves etc and she and I was
like what what's going on here
I don't recall I said that but it seems
very similar to what happened a year
earlier when Mike Serna vich but in fact
so she said she wrote that and I with a
link to the American Journal review
which also got this from the Washington
free beacon you know go to the American
Journal review which is the link I sent
you and it it indeed says MSNBC host
says Republicans need to kill themselves
okay we'll just drag that in and if you
can scroll down scroll down you got to
keep going exactly as it took place and
then he scroll down and then there it is
MSNBC host says Republicans need to kill
themselves in all caps quote suicide may
be the only option for these people he
wasn't kidding
it says and so let's and there's a face
I look maniacal in that picture and so
let's go die let's go to the video if we
could and here it is this is at
Washington free beacon you have the
video set up right acute up okay
calculation is correct right they will
abandon him if and when it's political
peril the question is at what point that
would be the case yeah I mean okay
they're underwater right but you know
when you look at the map right you know
look at where Trump went into those red
states
and he helped right the problem is that
the polarization is such that suicide
may be the only option okay well now the
problem is with this clip is that just
before that Chris Hayes had said they
can't stick with Donald Trump speaking
of the Senate and House Republicans
because that would be suicide and so I
responded suicide may be the only option
and I wrote back to the doctor listen to
the video your news sources are lying to
you the question was posed is supporting
Trump suicidal for elected Republicans
and I sent that off and she said thank
you for the clarification so there it is
ladies and gentlemen another one of my
birthday's go by and I remain unscathed
that is so awesome to come out swinging
like that though and they'll just get it
corrected you just fast on the turn
Russell oh my dad hey that's how the
marketplace of ideas should work that's
right you fascist Pig oh thank you for
the clarification
