[Music]
yeah you guys tend to have discussions
with folks that footage generally why
politically - you're right I was
wondering if you'd be interested in
having with discussion with somebody who
lies politically to your left
um sure I mean I think I do that but go
ahead oh yeah no no I'm not saying you
don't do it I'm you know but basically
what I wanted to Coen about is something
that's been bugging me
basically I don't think it's reasonable
to say that there is a feasible path to
justice through the mechanism of our
liberal democracy and that's basically
my thesis and then I have several like
you know points that I can use to back
that up okay let's hear so basically
yeah yeah so you were just talking about
how the judicial wing of our government
is not going to be within the reach of
liberal much less leftist goals or aims
for the next 20 years probably I mean I
think that's and Amy well I I mean I
think that's I think there's a I think
there's a very strong case that you're
correct in that yes yeah metafiles you
know they might just get caught and have
to say right right well you know God
willing right but so that brings us to
so you know that's that's one sort of
the government that we can't use right
in order to achieve our goals I'll you
know we probably agree on those things
so the legislative branch is I mean it's
reasonable that will hold a house it's
possible the Democrats can take the
Senate correct but even even Bernie
Sanders
as of yet does not oppose the filibuster
directly right right so so it's it's
less likely that those levers of power
will be open to progressive goals and
and and I would make the the contention
that if Bernie Sanders is elected
president which I believe is very
possible and it's something we should
aspire toward but it doesn't make sense
that or rather I would I would postulate
that the filibuster will remain in place
if and only if Bernie Sanders is elected
because the people that he is going to
be opposed to politically are more
likely going to be Democrats than
Republicans in terms of the actual
passing of legislation you know I know
it's a yes yes okay so let me stipulate
this so that we can we can move this
long I think yes for the sake of this
argument the this the the court system
definitely going to be an adversary to
progressive change at the very least for
20 years if Bernie Sanders becomes
president the absence or the inclusion
it's more likely that the the filibuster
will be there because it's a perfect
cover for Democrats who want to for it
his his agenda and and so okay with all
that stipulated go make your case yeah
so um in order for there to be any
meaningful change for I would say
probably most groups in America you know
if you're looking at gender equality
wage equality racial equality any class
consciousness in order for any of those
to be meaningfully progress or achieved
it is going to require a fundamentally
different governmental system that the
one that we have can neither be come nor
can it allowed to be
adjust system for that system
frankly the world what would that system
be well I mean if you're asking me Sam
I'm a I'm a Marxist Leninist but you
know so III think that you know we're
going to disagree what that terminus
looks like but I think our goals are the
same right well here's but here's the
thing is that here's where I think where
I would disagree and I don't know if
this is well I guess it is an argument
from the left but the likelihood of
whatever that new system of government
that you're talking about coming into
existence seems to me you'd be smaller
then the likelihood that we can reform
the judiciary or that Bernie Sanders
changes his mind on the filibuster or
that he has the ability to go to you
know to West Virginia and convince Joe
Manchin to give in on one or two things
I mean I don't know what meaningful
means to you but like I can think of
even if I put myself in the mindset of
they're going to stop Bernie on
everything they can and I'm talking
about Democrats okay yeah even if I put
myself in that mindset things like daca
things like dhaba you're things like an
expansion of where we are in health care
things like $15 minimum wage things like
expansion of Social Security these are
all things that I think are are gonna
happen even if they fight Bernie on the
biggest of things that he wants to fight
on and so and I think those are
meaningful I I mean I I don't think that
they're fundamental in the way I may be
that you're talking about but I do think
they're meaningful yes I so I'm of the
belief that the Democratic Party
fundamentally is the problem and I think
a lot of folks don't really I spent a
lot of time in the process of the
Democratic Party for a reason because
people don't understand
works and the rules aren't out there but
the reason I say that is you know in the
early 80s late 70s when the Koch
brothers started investing in state
legislators in the Republican Party
taking over judiciary taking over
you know legislators and you know taking
away our rights which we see today still
that was also same time when the
Democratic Party decided oh guess what
we're gonna become a centralized party
and we're not going to invest in States
and then it got worse and worse and
worse and so we've been losing these
battles as they've been making ground
it's why I believe like we really have
to understand how the DNC is structured
and functions because they're setting
the tone for the d-triple-c and for you
know our investment in and the message
and what kind of candidates and polls
are done it really does have this this
effect and I look at the membership of
the DNC and I'm like there are 30 bad
actors holding us all up so if you want
to have a real revolution yeah good luck
fighting the military-industrial complex
with you're like with your you know
small little army how about you take on
the 30 people through ideology and
calling them out that are holding up
everything in the DNC because they're
lobbyists for the weapons Arnie factors
and for the oil companies and they're
the ones setting the tone on everything
an insurance company hold that thought
because I want to return to that in
terms of like just sort of you from a
process standpoint but okay so but I
just respond to that idea that the any
of the the fundamental change that
you're talking about is more apt to
happen than the reasons that you and and
I've stipulated prevent that change
within the context of the system we have
well I will I will try to respond to it
as directly as I can but the reason that
I feel so strongly about this what is
essentially a political shot at the moon
is that we have like 20 years maybe left
of society if we don't do something
about climate change you know like we
have 20 years left to do something like
there are people dying already every day
in the beleaguered and exploited global
south
because we
refuse to take action and we're
concerned with things like the the petty
actions of a party and the more we fight
about that the more that we don't fix
this like okay but this is all preamble
I mean get to get to what so you believe
that you know we should swing for the
fences but I want to know like what that
what the odds are for I want to know
what that constitutes and then what the
what you think the odds are right right
um III honestly I honestly don't know
what the odds are okay that that's
that's what's terrifying about alright
well what it what glass titute what is
it you're talking about sorry you broke
up briefly would you mind repeating that
question what are you talking about so
you're saying that the current our
current system is not going to work what
what get into the alternative so that we
can assess whether it's actually like I
mean you know I could give you an
alternative to I have magical powers I
can control everything through my mind
and I change everything I just pick a
day and boom then everybody shows up
it's like Friday and everything changes
what what is your son yeah what mine is
slightly less fantastic I I just believe
that it would require an organic move
