[Music]
jay-j cool hey Sam what do you think of
the moneyed interests of the Democratic
Party have a strategy to upset the the
Bernie campaign by targeting very
specific areas of his platform on a
macro level Bernie's platform would
bring structural change that is
unmatched by any challenger instead you
have different candidates your
commentators drilled down into things
like reparations gun control costs etc
basically death by a thousand cuts if
you will
I mean it's fascinating to me to see the
fervor in which people are want to know
Bernie's reparations plan and I mean I
think he's probably got to come up with
a more sufficient answer but just
because that seems to be attacked but I
don't think it's hugely relevant I mean
this happened yesterday and you know
look III think there may be a little bit
too much made of the nefarious nature of
this but the problem is is that and it
is the case MSNBC I don't know that
there's a contributor on staff who is
more Bernie friendly than I maybe there
is but I'm not aware of them and for the
most part there are people who come off
of campaigns I've never done that so I
don't have any sort of like you know pre
stated bias
you know I should say you know
professional bias let's put it that way
and Zerlina is a perfectly nice person
and but I think I think like MSNBC owes
it to its viewers to offer full
disclosure as to where people are if
they are predisposed and and also if you
make a mistake that's particularly
that's this blatant you should fix it
and and here is zolina Maxwell on on
MSNBC saying that that Bernie speech
about at his opening rally lacked any
reference to race or gender
except for 23 minutes in and here it is
but we do broadcast I know but but look
um there were a couple times that you
had a couple I rules and just explain
explain your thoughts as you were
listening to Bernie Sanders look I
worked for Hillary Clinton so I have a
lot of you go me and that was it right
there
buzzer sure I mean at least okay so at
least there's that full disclosure
upfront right I worked for Hillary
Clinton good right there Bernie Sanders
but you know to be very serious about it
I cocked it he did not mention race or
gender until 23 minutes into the speech
and just for point of comparison I went
back and looked at Elizabeth Warren's
opening speech for example she mentions
race and discrimination in the first
paragraph so that's a big difference
and as somebody who is a black woman
knowing that black women are going to be
a core constituency for any Democrat who
hopes to win the nomination I was
looking to hear messaging specifically
from my community and I did not at least
until 23 minutes into the speech a lot
of what Bernie Sanders is said today
we've heard before right his economic
messaging we I could probably quote it
to you Alex but I think that what was
missing was sort of a building upon that
economic message where he's fully
understanding that those economic that
those economic messages intersect with
other policy problems that people of
color and women have to deal with and so
until he comes up with specifics in
terms of policy to address those issues
I think that he's still going to have a
problem in this crowded field and a
Democratic primary that's going to rely
on that those constituencies I do think
that the message obviously resonates
with a large swath of the Democratic
primary electorate and I think that
there it's not taking anything away from
Bernie Sanders there are a lot of people
that support Bernie Sanders the problem
for him is that that message was not
enough in terms of the math to win the
last time and he has not tweaked it to
win over voters that he needed and that
he will need in 2020 right now
I think Zerlina has a very good point
and even a better one if it was true now
I want you to think about issues of of
race and and look it's his first speech
he didn't lay out any specific proposals
on anything really right I mean people
rarely do in in in that opening speech
it's just not where you start to go
through a litany of specific detailed
proposals but what would be the issue
sets that are involved in particular in
terms of race things like maybe criminal
justice reform things like voting rights
incidentally Bernie went to Selma the
next day I think there may have been one
or two other candidates there preceding
Bernie was representative Terry
Alexander was Jean King and Nina Turner
three speakers african-americans all and
there was also a guy from one of the the
Pennsylvania strikers a union guy within
the first three minutes he talked about
criminal justice reform in six minutes
he talked about fighting Trump sexism
and racism in 13 minutes he talked about
mass incarceration and that first
sentence really I mean you know you got
a couple of minutes up front of like
thank you for being here I'm happy to be
here I greet you know I went to college
here he literally went to college there
that type of stuff but as soon as he
starts talking about any substance the
first thing I have is mouth is about
sexism and racism and he says you know
we have this inequality and it's not
just income it's not just in terms of
economics it's in terms of and now you
could say it wasn't sufficient but to
add that level of specificity and to
have clearly not listed to begin it's
what happened you got to come out and
apologize
and I think she did on Twitter but it
was still it was still sort of like well
but the I don't really consider criminal
justice reform to be a racial issue very
narrow definition of racial issues and
all he said was sexism and racism like I
don't you know this was sprinkled
throughout his speech and I think in a
very conscious way because he did this
was a deficit for him in 2016
he started his campaign not thinking he
was running for president but thinking
he was only going to message on the
issues of wealth inequality and the
plutocracy and how it impacts our
elections and then it was very hard for
him to pivot as his election went on and
so I think her critique I mean in terms
of like what he needs to do in this
campaign is correct but I don't know
that for sure Lena in particular that
he's ever going to be able to achieve
that bar because they may not be
listening closely enough to him and she
wrote back ivory watch since yesterday
and while I can acknowledge that I
missed some missed the passing line at
six minutes I mean I don't know what the
difference is between the first sort of
substance of remarks that you have
outside of and it being a passing line
it was a passing line because she passed
it I stand by my point since talking
about criminal justice is not the same
thing as talking about race and gender
and if you don't get why Bernie won't
win again I mean it's just not the the
case
he said sexism and racism so I think
there are legitimate critiques that
Bernie needs to continue to work on this
but frankly when you when you make those
kind of critiques and they're not
legitimate you hurt your own cause and I
think
you know in this instance certainly in
his cause is doesn't want Ernie to win
the primary and you know I understand
that there are people I don't know who
Serleena supports but there are people
that I would prefer not win the the
primary - you just gotta be careful
about what you attribute to them
