the big story at the at least the this
week is what took place in Pittsburgh
but this followed on the heels of the
identification and the arrest of the
alleged Mogga bomber says our psychic he
is a Florida man he is obviously accused
of of sending pipe bombs and I believe
now we are up to close to 14 separate
bombs that were sent to media outlets to
Democratic leaders and some members of
Democratic the past administration and
apparently according to you know the the
the feds
he was intended to maximize harm to mail
targets by adding shards of glass in
several of these IEDs these pipe bombs
he also did internet searches for the
wife and kids of several of his targets
including Eric Holder's wife and kids
John Brennan's wife and kids Director of
National Intelligence James clapper and
it turns out this guy basically had a
bomb-making factory in his Mogga
stickered covered van that was found
somehow I don't know Donald Trump tried
to pretend this guy was not inspired by
him he was at every one of his rallies
and to some extent this shooting this
horrible shooting where eleven people
were killed in a temple in Pittsburgh
where a virulent anti-semite went in and
shot them with an ar-15 and a two or
three handguns in some ways you know in
Donald Trump's mind he was I think
probably happy that the Mogga bomber was
off the front pages although and we'll
get to all this that's a lot to absorb
at once but the while this this white
nationalist
who shot up this temple felt the dawn
chop was not sufficiently white
nationalist enough he was acting on a
narrative that was developed by the
Nexus of the Trump administration Fox
News Network this is pretty scary stuff
and and you know we're still a couple of
days away from the mentor it really was
and it is exactly as you point out it's
a it's of a piece I mean this is these
are these things are not unconnected and
as much as Donald Trump would like to
say that they are have no connection to
him I mean he even was very you know he
said well I understand that I'm talking
about the mega bomber you know I
understand that he preferred me over
some others but yeah he went on no he
didn't just prefer Donald Trump he
worshiped Donald Trump this guy was a
super fan he was I mean and and there's
been a lot of reporting it's very
interesting to see because I think he
may be you know maybe an extreme version
or maybe there are a lot more like him I
don't know of the radicalization of
people under the thrall of Donald Trump
there's something about this guy on the
cult leader cult of personality level
that inspires people like this I mean
that you know that remember the old line
that Selina Zito that you know terrible
you know phony writer on the right who
said that you know that what was at the
left takes him literally but not
seriously and the right takes him
seriously but not literally these people
like that guy are both they taken
seriously and literally and this guy
says oh the mega bummer
he basically was completely enthralled
to Donald Trump and as a result you know
luckily he was he seems to have been
fairly incompetent in his bomb building
but nonetheless we don't know what could
have happened and one thing I haven't
heard anybody you know think about or
suggest is whether or not this the
anti-semite who went in several days I
think it was the next day after this guy
was was arrested that mega bomber was
arrested
he went in and shot up the synagogue in
Pittsburgh I mean what what's the
connection there I don't know if there's
any but that all of this stuff was in
the press it was churning around I mean
maybe he was inspired by that guy too
who knows you know that it was time to
take action that you know people are
moving let's let's get this thing let's
get this thing going and all of that is
coming from the rhetoric of Donald Trump
and the two things you know the things
that they have in common are listening
to his words and and taking them
seriously and what he said that inspired
that that shooter in Pittsburgh this guy
who obviously was sort of an old-school
anti-semite I mean his stuff goes it's
storm front level you know multi level
Jewish hatred but nonetheless what what
inspired him at that moment was the idea
that this caravan of Central American
you know people coming to claim refugee
status and it allegedly in the United
States and some in Mexico did those
people fleeing their country that that
all of that was being was being
sponsored and paid for and arranged by
this Jewish cabal which is you know has
become part of that whole story and even
Trump was kind of indicating yeah he
mentioned Soros on the trail you know
George Soros the the the you know
liberal funder and and you know this is
all part of the same thing and Donald
Trump doesn't want to admit that but
everybody can see it
I should say everybody his people can't
see it but I mean this is very scary
it's an escalation into a level of
violence that can be traced directly to
the man with the biggest megaphone in
the world and you know he is a demagogue
we know that and I don't think you know
I think there's a sense sometimes with
people that oh that's you know that
Trump there he goes again you know that
kind of thing this is serious the words
he speaks are serious people are
listening to him and they're acting on
those words and you know I think that I
don't know if this last week was it was
a wake-up call or whether or not it's
just another infinite so hard for me to
tell because they're so it's so
overwhelming and it's just a cascade of
horror ever since he's been elected but
it really seems to me
I mean what happened in that synagogue
the horror of that and the kind of
recognition and this idea that someone
with a political agenda would go into a
place of worship and just mow down
people because of their religion I mean
we've seen it in mosques we're seeing it
you know we've seen it in churches
although that's not necessarily the
church well it is I mean in chosen right
I mean Roman and it's there so I mean
this is becoming a you know this is
becoming something that is happening in
this country on a sort of systemic basis
and we have a man in the White House who
is encouraging it basically so I don't
know if it's a sea change or some kind
of a you know people say inflection
point or whatever but it sure feels like
something something shifted a little bit
I'm not convinced it's an inflection
point but I will say this all you need
to do is search what nikki Haley said in
the wake of that of that shot I mean
well maybe we'll do a thing one thing to
type a thing here what she said in the
wake of what happened in Charleston was
that Donald Trump's rhetoric she blamed
his rhetoric in some regards to what
happened in Charleston now she's changed
her tune now that she realizes that
she's on board the Trump train but at
the time she even in Charleston she
thought it was a function of what he was
saying all right look we got to take a
break when we come back let's talk about
this because I think there's a lot more
to discuss
I'm Sam cedar this is wearing a fire
radio we're talking to the great have
their pardon you may know her as Digby
