Jacob Soboroff did this report on the
basically just the on for morning Joe
just fully against spelling out the
trumpet ministrations family separation
policy and I'm not going to introduce it
too much this is just something
obviously that's it's it's ongoing and
we need to keep abreast of but this
Department of Homeland Security Office
of Inspector General report the first
one basically says the administration
was not prepared for this family
separation policy and sort of the
practices that they put into place
made this policy far worse we heard a
lot about kids not being in cages well
the report says not only were kids in
cages but they were in these cages for
longer than the 72 hour period that
anybody is supposed to be kept in these
Border Patrol holding cells we were told
in this report that the computer
database that the administration said
was supposed to be there in order to
reunite these children and keep tracking
them never actually existed in the first
place and we were told as well that the
idea that people were being turned away
from ports of entry and then going and
crossing illegally because of
administration policy wasn't true well
it turns out that also was true so with
all these lines that we got fed from the
administration over the summer this
report basically tears apart and then
just quickly I want to talk about this
other report that also came out on the
same day about the nation's largest
private immigration detention facility
is called Adelanto and it's here in
Southern California just really
sickening stuff I've also been inside
that facility probably the worst detail
of that one is nooses were found inside
detainees cells and we know that
separated fathers many separated fathers
were actually held inside this facility
inadequate medical care
inadequate detention facilities and
increasing segregation isolation for
these people were looking some of those
News's there so again I mean you know we
already know what this policy is we knew
it and more
more horrifying reports are going to
continue to come out and spell not only
ways obviously that all the
administration administration lies about
this vicious and grotesque attack on
human beings as part of a larger
strategy to ethnically cleanse America
and engineer Republican electorate but
we've also known again this is another
area where the idea of pretending that
they can ever have the benefit of the
doubt or that this is anything like a
legitimate policy disagreement is out
the window this is a vicious attack on
people which they continue in many
different ways and they will continue to
lie about and you know and this is one
of those things we're look obviously you
absolutely need to vote for Democrats in
November period at every single level
and the infrastructure and this is the
key distinction the dumb what about ISM
and that is it that is Jimmy Dore
 well Obama and Gant this Obama
bah bah bah and all of a sudden we're
not talking about the Trump Republican
war on human beings now that's what
about ISM in a distraction from now
conversely yes if you just limit it to
the latest most extreme manifestation
and it's and it's different under Trump
because it is a elect it is it is
literally demographic engineering and
ethnic cleansing which is different than
violating human rights in a foolish
attempts to triangulate to get a deal on
immigration which is what Obama was
doing those are fundamentally different
things to both wrong things but they're
fundamentally different categories but
the third point being absolutely the
apparatus of things like ice which can
and should be abolished and I see this
is somebody I don't just you know throw
a Bala around for everything I think
sometimes institutions have resiliency
for reasons sometimes you need to think
in terms of intelligently and
structurally democratizing and reforming
them
that's not something you just throw out
for everything Isis a modern creation
that has been used by both Republicans
and Democrats to engineer bureaucracy
and also all the other interconnected
systems of private surveillance
businesses bounty hunters detention
centers
this whole profitable cabal of human
abuse that goes back to the 90s this is
this needs to be fundamentally
dismantled and that absolutely is
something that people on the actual left
and with a serious commitment or of
course gonna be confronting all sorts of
Democrats about because the emergency is
trump the emergency is this Republican
ethnic cleansing this Republican torture
of children and the broader structure is
it is a system that was bipartisan and
designed to benefit campaign
contributors and set up a bureaucracy
that allows for where we're at now I'm
still stuck on the nooses yeah what is
going on with that that's very
disturbing I don't know I don't know I
mean I all I can say is like we know
that there's gonna be more and more
horrifying disclosures we know that and
we've already seen it child abuse
physical assaults and they're gonna lie
about every single thing so you know
that's just the state of play it's
fascism it's fashion that is absolutely
fascist we have it here folks
it's barbarism it's fascism there's no
humanity there's nothing that can be
reconciled or negotiated with it's a
pure assault on anything that any
anybody with any decency whatsoever
would hold as valuable
and there's no third way on it
