six-five Oh area code who's this where
he column from hello hello hello is the
me yeah it is can can you hear me okay
Jack from Palo Alto Jack from Palo Alto
what's going on sorry guys I first time
college I listen to you guys every day I
used to watch fox news for our and MSNBC
for our and that was just torture on me
and Jack why'd you do that to yourself
because I try to you know get both sides
of it okay you and inform myself and
then I found you guys and I just want to
clone say Happy New Year and thanks so
much for implement me and being funny as
well and yeah I really am
have question for you guys what do you
think of pay go
well I think pay goes bad and I think
you know the there's a statutory
requirement from pay go which I think it
would take it would take the Senate in
the house to overturn but there's also
just sort of a secondary sort of like
house rule which I think there was some
there's some belief out there that if
you were to get rid of the house rule
okay so there's two different things one
is there's a law that was passed by
Congress and by the Senate and then
there is sort of a a directive if you
will that the house can't that that the
house rules I mean it's not as it
doesn't have the same force of law it's
just by what Congress needs to operate
under at the you know as decided at the
beginning of the year just by Congress
right cuz something to become a law yeah
need
to be passed by the house in the Senate
and then signed by the president and I
think it would have been a good sign in
a in a 2 for the house to have gotten
rid of that so that they at the very
least are publicly declaring that it is
unnecessary to to have stuff be
deficit-neutral when you pass this
agenda now there was an argument that
you can waive this or third there's
going to be an attempt to to get rid of
it after the fact that's all well and
good but so I was a little disappointed
by that but I guess you know from what
I've seen in terms of the reporting the
Progressive Caucus decided that there
were they were bigger fish to fry but in
general it's a bad idea I mean look
there's two different ways you can look
at this you can look at this a that
deficit spending is is specifically
required in times of slow economic
activity and you can also look at it as
deficit spending is completely
irrelevant because of the nature of our
monetary system and under either one of
those perspectives Pago is silly and
it's also silly from a political
standpoint so macaws I don't think
there's that much of a constituency out
there that are looking for their
legislation to be valued you know a
revenue excuse me deficit neutral I just
think don't go ahead and I just also
another question how many times did the
Republicans have to be is what in the
face with Donald Trump's ineptitude
before they actually realize that
supporting him will damage their party
and I hate Republicans I have
Republicans in my family reason why I
had to watch foxes because I had to get
their talking points and know how to
debate them at the family table because
with a disability you know my housing
situation is a little bit iffy and I
will acquire you know managing stuff
with my family and not getting into
complete another argument so you have
like you have my sympathies that year
that I have in the face I can tell you
what that number is
it's called infinity we will never get
there there will never be a moment where
they go hey wait a second this guy seems
to be a bit of a jerk and and and
clueless that's not going to happen so
all I can tell you is hang in there and
have fun at those family meals remember
you know there's a lot of other things
to recommend your family aside from
politics oh absolutely um to watch you
guys and you know check you guys out all
the time and I feel like they you know
some of them have started to because
they go wow yes oh you're so you seem to
know everything you seem to be so a
header on these issues I know yeah you
should check out the majority you will
put so you guys have a great day
think how everyone in the studio I say
what's up anyways thanks man see ya
I appreciate it jack from Palo Alto
