[Music]
meanwhile Fox and Friends are trying to
break the news to their their audience
and they're just what you can see and
now that they've released the transcript
and we we have the transcript we're
gonna read you parts of it because the
transcripts pretty bad and we should say
that we don't even know if it's actually
the transcript Richard Nixon when they
released transcripts of those recordings
I hate to break it to you they weren't
accurate they left out a couple of
things at the bottom of this transcript
it says just so you know not necessarily
verbatim even with that it looks pretty
bad
and so the whistleblower complaint is
gonna give us a lot more but I I mean
this is pretty obvious what he's doing
in this transcript and we will talk more
about it but here is Fox and Friends
trying this is gonna be the strategy
strategy is gonna be we can't do
anything but release all this stuff so
what we're going to do is say it's not a
crime it's not a crime it's consistent
with everything else that we're you know
I've been doing there's nothing there's
no why wouldn't I want to know about
this this is gonna be the argument now
it will work for the people watching Fox
of course it will but I don't think it's
gonna work beyond that and I think that
is the miscalculation that they are
making although to be fair they have
done everything they can to prevent
impeachment from happening but here is a
Fox and Friends giving you a little
taste of what it's this is how it's
gonna they're gonna try and shove this
down the throats of their viewers
watching a post broke a story yesterday
afternoon that the president ordered
Mick Mulvaney his acting chief of staff
to freeze 391 million dollars in
military aid to Ukraine before he talked
to the president
and that doesn't look like good timing
to a lot of people but Fox News has
confirmed that apparently the president
wanted to make sure that the new
president of Ukraine understood that if
you're going to get this money we really
want you to end corruption before we
give you that dough but now you know
what's interesting about this this is
like they are trying to train their
audience to believe that the presidency
in terms of money functions more or less
like my giving my daughter allowance
functions like I'm not giving you
allowance this week until you commit to
me that you're going to clear the table
put the dishes from the sink into the
dishwasher not just leave them at the
sink too little thing called good govern
right the problem is is that this is not
Donald Trump's money this is money that
Congress earmarked for foreign aid with
not the conditions that Donald Trump
decides you can't do that again
unilaterally decide like I've got some
other things I just want to put is there
one a button and a little dot the eye on
this one this is we promise them a
certain amount of aid because they gave
up their nuclear weapons back in the day
promised them other things too maybe not
so it probably shouldn't have but we did
so these when Congress appropriates
money it is a it's they do it by statute
there's no like little asterisk that
says oh and if you have some personal
stuff you want from the guy you can also
ask for that too but they're not going
to raise that give you that dough and
then there's some other stories out
there about whether or not other allies
and other countries were actually
kicking in as much money as they should
on the world stage does that sound like
the president every day really since
since he was unfilled on you in the
1980s where our allies why are we paying
the full way he says it from Natan and
meetings to the United Nations meetings
he says it in private meetings he says
in interviews I have no problem at the
timing to me the timing makes total
sense before I meet with the new
president who has been a comedian me and
he comes out of nowhere I'd like to know
that before you get your hundred million
dollars you're gonna do a few things and
I want to pressure our allies in the
interim a mr. OMB director and chief of
staff to to pony up some money after all
rush is more of a threat to Western
Europe right in the or to the United
Stated no wait a second there's no
consistency between like I'm holding the
money off until I check out if you ask
him to do some things done but yuk-yuk
Club down with this many mica media Fred
in the meantime I'm also gonna go to the
other people say you gotta kick get some
cash too but a contingent upon him doing
some things for me to for good
government get a problem at now of
course to be fair to to Kilmeade we do
all know that donald trump ran on a
drain the swamp and ukraine platform he
was so upset about the potential for
corruption in Ukraine this is what he's
always been focused on here is here is
do see a little bit more like okay we
get one little it's it's just tricky
because sometimes comedians get elected
and they're nice guys but they spend all
the money on comedy sometimes you gotta
be really careful like what's the what
about what's the drink minimum thing I
need to know all about that
and here's Dulce going like now there is
this one thing that if it you know it
could be bad but but this is one I think
that Dulce would like to take back
probably the president said you know
I'll give you the money but you got to
investigate Joe Biden that is really off
the rails wrong right but if it's
something else you know it would be nice
to know what it is Mark Levin so Joe you
messed up Steve is Steve wait a second
hold on if I Brian
what would the exact words EIA was
supposed to said because I didn't say
exactly that I said something there's a
little bit different calm
/ majority all of them but no joke folks
speaking of bling cast I don't know if
you're like me I don't know if you spent
all of your waking hours following on
Twitter different stories that are
happening in the news but there are
times where you also need to basically
say kids enough leave me alone
and I'm going to deep unplug from the
news I want to read some some nonfiction
that actually will help me get through
my day in some fashion that will up my
assets as they were well blinka is an
app that compiles the key takeaways from
thousands of non-fiction books so
everything you need to know is condensed
down to 15 minutes either in reading
form or in listening form Linkous is
super unique because it works not only
can you read it on your tablet you read
it on your computer read it on your
phone you can listen to it in all those
places well you'll find everything from
hell from health to self-help to titles
to history and business books including
in your blinkin library for me I checked
out the here's the ears what he said
we're gonna read more of this but but
just well turn to the actual specific
moment where they mentioned Biden he's
talking about having the Attorney
General and Rudy Giuliani call you know
because Rudy Giuliani is the US
government's nothing
he's Donald Trump's personal attorney
he's special rapat or for corruption he
is the special an tonight comedian
corruption comedian judgment of the head
model so I will ask him to call you
along with the Attorney General of
course because my personal attorney and
the attorney general do a lot of things
together when it deals with foreign
corruption of course like every other
administration if you could speak to him
that would be great the former best from
the United States that woman was bad
news and people
she was dealing with in Ukraine with bad
news so I just want to let you know that
the other thing there's a lot of talk
about Biden's son that Biden stopped the
prosecution a lot of people want to find
out about that so not me but a lot of
people and so whatever you can do with
attorney general that would be great
Biden went around bragging that he
stopped the prosecution so if you could
look into that it sounds horrible to me
later in the next time that he speaks
then the president goes like oh yes no
of course right absolutely
you're the best I agree corruption bad
yes you president good he just basically
went on he was it's the played Trump
quite brilliantly I think although it's
quite clear that he I don't know if he
fully gathered but we you an election
summit and then he goes well about the
the ambassador again well she's gonna go
through some things I will have mr.
Giuliani give you a call and I'm also
gonna have the Attorney General bar call
and we will get to the bottom of it okay
so in other words like every time Trump
speaks in this he says he repeats I'm
gonna have bar and Giuliani call you
okay here it is I'm sure you will figure
it out I heard the prosecutor was
treated very badly and he was a very
fair prosecutor so good luck with
everything your economy is going to get
better and better I predict you have a
lot of assets it's a great country
I have many Ukrainian friends they're
incredible people and oh this is all
over maybe we'll get a Netflix package
for you door see those sneakers at your
friend's house look into those I like
those they're good sneakers if you know
what I mean and I predict Dorsey that
something may your bank account may grow
how do you like that Bank a crowd might
grow so
it's good because you've got great
assets and I like those sneakers so
there it is that's basically it and the
Dorsey's the ukrainian president he goes
this is how impeachment will affect
Biden
exactly you want to scare me
I love
