[Music]
we've seen this before folks advertisers
fleeing FoxNews shows we saw it with
Glenn Beck in fact it in many ways
really hurt Glenn Beck's career at least
insofar as he was going to be on
national television there were other
factors I think that that made him too
costly for Fox but it but it hurts when
the when when advertisers do this I mean
when advertisers abandon a show now
there was a tweet by Jack Sheaffer and
we can sort of set that aside he's from
his slightly different era but Nate
Silver backed it up and maybe we can put
that up where he claimed in what was a
bizarre tweet that there's some type of
slippery slope here and if advertisers
if people convince advertisers to
abandon a Tucker Carlson show based on
the premise that he's some he's
promoting white nationalism then well he
writes Jack is right speaking of Jack
Sheaffer who didn't like the organized
advertiser boycotts against Bill
O'Reilly and doesn't like the ones
against Tucker Carlson didn't read why
but I imagine Nate Silver covers it the
logical endpoint of deeming advertisers
to have endorsed the political messages
of the show's they run ads on is that
only milquetoast both side ISM with a
crow corporate vent will be advertising
supported if any that should be good
news really is ad supported at all now
first off this is not the logical end
point because he's starting with certain
premises it is not that advertisers are
endorsing the political messages it is
that they are enabling the political
messages and if the political messages
are extremely toxic let's say like white
nationalism or just for the sake of
logic since this is a logic game we're
doing let's say advertisers who are
paying for a full out now Nazi
are on TV I'm not saying that that that
the Tucker is I'm just using the extreme
because this is logic it has no we don't
have to we can use an extreme in the
sense because it's simply a logical
endpoint the idea that that that people
saying I'm not going to support or
enable that not that I'm endorsing it
but that I'm not going to be part of
enabling it that I'm not going to take
my hammer and bang in a nail into a
platform that makes that rise up is not
this it does not inevitably lead to
advertisers saying like I don't
advertise advertising like I advertise
on mainstream ideas that are not
repugnant that maybe in that advertiser
can say I don't think cutting taxes for
wealthy people is a is outside the
mainstream or that it's repugnant and
advertisers and people can can can make
that determination but the idea that
society has no ability to differentiate
between white nationalism and simply
somewhat mainstream political ideas is
absurd a B we know that on the left it
is a much more narrow band that
advertisers will support anyways because
a huge portion of what is frankly
mainstream or at least closer to the
mainstream of political thought is
anti-capitalist in one shape or another
and is necessarily anti corporate so I
mean that's absurd
that is absurd that advertisers cannot
make that determination that it will
inevitably lead to and here's the proof
there was a boycott of Bill O'Reilly
there was a boycott of Rush Limbaugh
when he said that stuff about
Sandra Fluke there was a boycott of of
of Glenn back and yet and yet even white
nationalism could get onto television
even the you know the left I mean there
has been
none we don't even need to do a thought
experiment here because we have seen it
actually happened there is plenty of
room for all this garbage to experiment
and talk about what actually happened
would be unfair
both the thought experiment and the
reality Bulai that point well there's a
different thought it's part of what we
were arguing about yesterday and I agree
with you Sam there's no rule that the
right and the left have to be treated
the same
so the slippery slope arguments if
you're gonna say oh you're you're
boycotting the left of the right you're
censoring the right therefore that can
be done back to the left it just doesn't
hold anyone no it can be done to the
left yeah but it will be done
independently of whether or not it's
happening to the right I also think that
I mean at least in this context I don't
know what the argument was yes sir this
was at the arc between it's the way I
don't want to get into the argument from
yesterday I'm sorry with all due respect
I want to get to this Tucker Carlson
thing because Carlson's an ass and I
want to encourage people to speak to his
advertisers and have him dumped now I
will say this I'm also aware someone
sent me it happens of the promotion of
Tucker Tucker got one right he had Mark
Blythe on and it was from someone who
had also had Mark Blythe on and it was
really about that person masturbating to
himself and telling himself I'm great
cuz Mark Blythe is on Tucker Carlson but
let me just tell you this when you
expose your audience to a guest that you
like being on Tucker Carlson show that
does not help the guest that you like
that helps Tucker Carlson period end of
story that's the reality and even if
Tucker Carlson comes to the realization
and you want to take him seriously that
he's actually doing that somehow our
economic system is unfair he is doing it
in service of something that is very
very bad and so even if Tucker Carlson
comes up with the idea like hey
everybody takes their pants off the same
way or everybody looks funny when
they're taking a poop that does not mean
that my point being that Justin Tucker
Carlson validates something that you
agree with understand when you
communicate that to your audience all
you're doing is promoting Tucker Carlson
you're not promoting the idea cuz if you
be because if you think that Tucker
Carlson is a bad person the fact that he
that even he validates ideas you have
does not get your idea anywhere okay
just just so you understand because that
for some dim people out there who are so
overtaken by their own ego that they get
excited that one of their guests are on
there or that they're trying to curry
favor with someone who has a bigger
Twitter following than them that just
needed to put in that size but here is
yeah that was a sub tweet here is Tucker
Carlson promoting more white nationalism
after including Honora Lopez and an
awful lot of people just like him
meanwhile the people profiting from the
policy don't want the rest of us to
think about it too much they want us
just to mouth the empty platitudes and
move on nothing to see here shut up and
go away those who won't shut up get
silenced you've seen it a million times
it happens all the time
now so Tucker here is crying because
he's the subject of this ad boycott and
for him it's a free speech issue because
you know everyone is guaranteed a spot
on television everyone is guaranteed
their spot there and all of us can
pursue it because we know we have a huge
fortune to fall back on
cuz it happens all the time the enforcer
screaming what he says on Twitter until
everybody gets intimidated and changed
the subject to the Russia investigation
or some other distraction it's a tactic
a well-worn one nobody thinks it's real
and it won't work with this show we're
not intimidated we plan to try to say
what's true until the last day and the
truth is unregulated mass immigration
has badly hurt this country's natural
landscape positive there is no such
thing as unregulated mass immigration in
this country not not since anybody alive
watching this not since TV
he's lying and then the question is why
would someone lie about that
why would someone lie that we are
subject to unregulated mass immigration
they had mark Blythe on though
why would someone lie about that natural
landscape take a trip to our
southwestern deserts if you don't
believe it thanks to a legal immigration
huge swath of the region are covered
with garbage and waste that degrade the
soil and kill wildlife the Arizona
Department of Environment quality
estimates that each illegal border
crossers Eve's six to eight pounds of
trash during the journey into our
country if you're interested in more
detail look at the website they've
created it's called Arizona border trash
is dedicated to highlighting and
cleaning up the thousands of tons of
garbage strewn across Arizona by illegal
immigrants every year
illegal immigration comes at a hostage
cost how many how many minutes do you
think Tucker Carlson has designated in
his many many years on television he was
on MSNBC he was on CNN he had his own
show on MSNBC he had his own show on a
CNN set show on Fox he had a whole
website the Daily Caller is his website
how many column inches how many minutes
how many mentions throughout the those
that multiple decades of time I have
justice suggested do you think he has
talked about litter and the idea that
our biggest litter problem in the
country the biggest pollution problem we
have in the country is at the border is
absurd it's absurd the guy is a racist
he is a racist and I know he hates that
word and he's not gonna be intimidated
by it of course he's not gonna be
intimidated by it why would he he gets
on television every night to pull those
buttons and then if somebody says stupid
enough to do so he can bring on a couple
of economic populist and make it about
like I'm just here for them I'm just
here for the people the light people
yeah I mean he doesn't think that is
very disingenuous where he pretends that
you know the illegal status the
quote-unquote illegal status of migrants
is just some endemic quality to them and
not the result of a very deliberate set
of policies in our recent history well
forget about even the policies I mean we
don't call seniors who buy drugs from
Canada illegal seniors because they've
broken a law which incidentally I will
tell you is a more serious infraction
than crossing the border without the
proper papers but we don't call them
illegal seniors can I also just really
quick I did watch some of the blithe
peter karlsson thing because i like to
check out Peter Carlos excuse me Tucker
Carlson and Mark Bligh Sigmund
because I like to check those things out
and um look watching Tucker Carlson
actually do a job where he is and he
does it pretty well but he's doing if
you're properly watching it he's doing a
double game where he's having to sort of
pretend that he acknowledges the real
symptoms that Blythe is identifying
about the economy while also not totally
getting away from the Fox News
propaganda that this is the best economy
in the history of humanity because Trump
is president so even on those narrow
terms of why he's bringing this person
on he's still essentially subtly just
doing Fox prime I think there's a debate
as to whether if I'm mark Blythe I go on
Tucker Carlson I can understand it from
his perspective he thinks he can carry
his message to people who wouldn't
otherwise hear it that makes some sense
to me all right I think that's I think
there's a debate I could see arguing
either side of that but to then do a
segment promoting Mark Blythe's
appearance there is it's again just so
uh it's just about ego it's not always
it's just about ego on what I'm trying
to say is that's not even what happened
in the second yes I know it is the most
generous like oh this is the SEC all
you're getting all you do yes is
promoting Tucker car making low
information people go well Tucker seems
kind of like a bad guy but I don't know
he's maybe he's is so straight and even
if it is not what happened even if you
say he's a chucklehead like I'm a
chucklehead okay no he's a racist and
you are providing your audience a reason
to like him
you could provide your audience a reason
to like Mark Blythe without having
Tucker Carlson in the in the equation
and the end the idea that somehow Tucker
Carlson validates your arguments about
economic inequality in this country is
also effed up because there's a million
people who will validate that indeed we
just played uh we look low last week I
mean that gives away to game folks
it sure does these both interviewed mark
place and but also like first came on
this show in twenty twenty twelve
yeah thirty two weeks ago week or two
ago uh when I was you know there we
played a great clip of Mark life
explaining about the Brazilian model for
development and we used it to illustrate
a larger point like there's but it with
Mike life that has to do with the idea
that just because you're because someone
of this ilk in some way validates claims
you're making understand all you're
doing is helping them right
