[Music]
but you make the point that you you came
to Marxism from I mean obviously ethical
conviction but a very like clinical
analysis of how capitalism actually
works because Marx really demystified
capitalism why is it yeah yeah go ahead
why is it relevant for this time so
specifically and how did you come to it
well yeah I mean I think for me being a
Marxist is a very useful framework for
understanding the world and and you
can't understand everything about the
world just by being a Marxist you know a
Marxism can't explain the like one of my
friends like saying that Marxism can't
explain the sex appeal of blue jeans you
know it can't explain agriculture and
genetics and a hold of some other stuff
that in the past the Soviet Union tried
to make you know Marxism explain what it
can do tell us a bunch of pertinent
things about the world about well you
know the spoil of resources how things
are divided up in a given society about
the pace and nature of technological
change about why there's so much
needless suffering amid amid abundance
and why a system can be populated by
good people you know not all capitalist
associates house but still produce
really bad outcomes so it's a very
useful framework for understanding the
world but the reason why I first got
attracted to these ideas were was the
moral and ethical kind of I'm a
socialist because I believe that there's
too much exploitation in the world I
believe there's too much needless
suffering I believe that there's too
much unquestioned hierarchy in the world
and I believe that one day we'll look
back upon all the divisions and all the
exploitation and all the suffering the
world today and that plenty and we'll be
like this is irrational the same way
today anyone would look back at
feudalism and the divine right of kings
and queens and say wow it was kind of
irrational you just let this like crazy
person with syphilis run a country has
an autocratic kid a monarch for 50 years
and killed hundreds of people and
thousands of people so III think that's
the separation like Marxism of the
intellectual framework did you get some
things from being
socialists or something beeping your
your heart and what I want to do with
this book is take people with the right
moral impulses or take people at the
very least who who look around in
society and say things maybe could be
different and give them some of the
history and the past of the various
attempts to to make the world a better
place and show here's where they
succeeded here's where they failed
here's why I think these ideas are still
relevant by going forward to the future
so can you take us back to maybe again
I'll give you two parts what first of
all what is Marx's idea of modes of
production producing different types of
societal relationships and political
arrangements you mentioned you know
feudalism to capitalism then the idea i
guess would be you know capitalism to
socialism let's just start with that
what what is that sort of trajectory
he's mapping and maybe can you explain
how it's not linear or teleological it's
you know it's relational and dynamic but
it still does reflect some type of
evolution or development or progression
and we're in maybe the middle of some
very interesting times and you know in
terms of that model how does that work
where and where does that come from
where does that thinking come from so
capitalism is a unique system compared
to these other systems we've had before
so we voice our class societies at least
in since the Neolithic Revolution until
we created these you know permanent
farmer societies and and we resettle
roots we had kind of the division
between classes so in other words there
was a majority class we did most of the
work and there was a minority that
appropriated their their surplus and and
directed it as I saw sit back during
feudalism it was pretty easy to see how
the system worked because you'd be the
only person touring your land let's say
as a peasant and at the end of the
harvest season the board would come and
say give me 30% of your crop or you're
gonna die you know it's pretty obvious
the naked exploitation of you know
you're you're you know giving them
something but at the same time you had
the means of your own self-sufficiency
you know you had a way
you work in you had kind of your own
land to so you had a way to survive kind
of by yourself what capitalism is is a
condition in which we all become market
dependent so by that I mean there were
markets before capitalism they'll be
markets after capitalism but under
capitalism the majority class is
deprived of any means to sustain
themselves other than by selling their
labor power their ability to work for
others to a a capitalist and by
capitalist all we mean is that the
people who control the firm's that
create the goods and services the
society produces so we labor for these
for these capitalists but they're not
making money literally off of our sweat
they're producing these commodities and
they're selling these commodities in the
market and even if they want to be nice
and give us higher wages they would just
probably just undercut by competitors or
even more more ruthless and we're able
to reinvest more of their profits into
into the expansion of production so
whereas the market existed before it has
now become the all-consuming task of
humanity the constantly expand and keep
producing more and more at higher levels
of efficiency and so on and this is
where the tremendous wealth and
abundance
no one wants us to deny that that in
many ways this is the pinnacle of human
civilization like look what we managed
to kind of transform the world for for
both good and bad but mostly for good in
the past 100 plus 200 years under
capitalism our argument is that so much
abundance has been created that socially
so the labor of thousands of people
being brought together millions of
people being brought together there must
be some better way to distribute wealth
and power there must be a way to take
this social production and not have be
running a social way through the
dictatorship of a small group of bosses
and CEOs and instead run the economy in
a democratic way so that's the premise
of socialism it's building off the
development of capitalism the high point
of capitalism it's not saying that we
started your zero and we're back in the
field
you know sowing crops and things like
that so in this another thing that you
do really effectively in this book and I
think it is worth I think highlighting
two things in that statement right so
one it's in it and it truly is like a
global system so like even like the
paradox of and you know like places that
are like on the extreme end of like
saying the media sense they're covered
as a place of civil war and instability
there I'm thinking of the Congo right
it's dealt with um you know in the
United States and stahl to first the CIA
the Belgians assassinated a great
independence leader Patrice Lumumba then
they backed this you know vicious
dictator from the 60s literally through
the mid 90s Mobutu Sese Seko and then
it's been in varying states of civil war
there's all of these different
dimensions of the crisis of Congo and
then conversely the Democratic Republic
of Congo the you know the rare minerals
that are mined from Congo are in all of
our phones and central to the most
complex parts of a global supply chain
so there's really like almost no corner
of Earth that is not part of this system
and similarly with Marx I mean Marxism
went absolutely everywhere there isn't a
country on earth where these ideas
didn't find some relevance which is
pretty extraordinary and I I think you
know I wanted to set that because you do
an also a really good job of this book
of like disaggregating the different
streams of Marxism and I'm wondering if
you can go back even just into the
history of Marx and angles and how did
what did Marxism and socialism first
start looking like as a political
project in those times in terms of
whether its electoral or labor or
revolutionary what are the different
streams that we start to yeah yes so the
the logic was pretty was pretty common
sense it seems to be the distortions of
the 19th century
they thought that their primary struggle
or one of the big struggles was fighting
for trade unions and basic and
organizations of class consciousness and
fighting for for suffrage fighting for
more democracy so this was the Chartist
movement in the UK was all about with
all these other movements the early
struggles of the German Social
Democratic Party they were struggles to
expand the franchise to working people
because in most of these countries the
extent there was any political democracy
it was limited to those who owned
property there was the old landed gentry
and it was a new industrialist that were
they were fighting and giving up power
and the idea was this new emergent
working class this group of millions of
people that were ripped from the
countryside and now hoarded into these
cities and working at these giant
factors and complexes these people would
get to vote and through the exercise of
their franchise they would naturally
start voting for policies that were in
their class interest so in other words
it was seen as like a natural dynamic
workers get the right to vote workers
organize workers form workers parties
these worker parties start legislating
social and economic reforms and continue
on the struggle for socialism a system
in which this voting majority this this
majority class takes over production and
govern society generally in their their
interests now obviously didn't work
quite this way but it seemed that it was
in the late 19th century so there were
these mass parties the most important of
them as a German social democratic party
but we saw what happens over time which
is a law in fact these workers in these
big parties become all kind of dependent
on their bosses they're under a lot of
pressures to to compromise with the
nation-state that they're a part of they
realize that they win reforms or in
games often not just from confrontation
but from making compromises with their
employers they maybe decide okay
wouldn't be better off we just came the
system a little bit and keep it humming
and redistribute some of the wealth that
it's created it sort of fortunate new
entire
system entirely so this is where modern
social democracy comes from it was the
attempt to just add doses of socialism
within capitalism then there's a
left-wing of this Greek workers movement
and it happens mostly in countries were
the democratic road to social democracy
if a socialism is blocked so the
socialists have to pursue more
insurrection more revolutionary roads so
this is kind of Russia and the Soviet
Union and all these cases this is kind
of the left-wing
initiatives of the this broad workers
movement but they had this common
ancestor and what I want to do in the
book was to avoid the no true Scotsman
thing where you just say oh that's not
the real socialism socialism is only the
thing I liked and it was not democratic
it's not socialism you know obviously I
have my vision of socialism which is a
democratic anti-authoritarian anti
hierarchical vision of socialism but a
lot of these experiences positively and
negatively have important lessons for us
to draw from and all these movements are
drawn from this early workers movement
and obviously even these revolutionary
movements in the third world to fought
for national liberation against
imperialism and fought for development
a lot of them were inspired by the
Soviet example because the Soviet Union
started off as an extremely backward
war-ravaged countries in which the task
became not how do you take the spoils of
a rich society and make sure workers
that their fair share and make sure
there's working-class democracy but
rather how do you generate wealth to
begin with and I think that was a root
of some of its authoritarianism Oh
somebody's these dilemmas but it was
quite inspiring for for people living in
in the third world inspiring for the
Chinese revolutionaries and other people
to say look what the Soviet Union did in
just five years they caught up with the
with the West so I cover all this
history and I try to do it in a way that
doesn't claim to be a book of history
but you know as an illustrative history
where we should take some of these case
studies take some of these lessons draw
figure out what's relevant
what should we keep
you know what we should discard and I
think you know it's important part of it
because otherwise it would just be kind
of the purely moral argument but
socialism has actually been tried and
it's added successes but at at its
massive failure it doesn't do us any
good if we're on the left to pretend
like it hasn't so that's it I think
that's a really important distinction
I'm like because because I think it's
both were actually not shying away from
even as an example the fact that the
Soviet Union you know was on the right
side of as an you know the United States
was supported apartheid the Soviet Union
backed the African National Congress
right I mean so you know very strong
point for the Soviet Union before Soviet
imperialism in Afghanistan on the 80s
which is absolutely what I would call an
intervention and the atrocities that
they committed but on the other hand you
know the sour revolution and the you
know some of the communist ideology of
Afghanistan was incredibly progressive
and interesting and innovative and also
helps us kind of his store away from the
typical anti-mullerian in that case if
you think about who made the sour
revolution it was a group of military it
was Afghan but it was a group of
military officers and intellectuals and
people who who were basically the I hate
to put it this way but the modern
classes in a society is so largely
pre-modern what happened when they start
trying to impose socialism and modernity
from above it led to a reaction and less
civil war and a led to a lot of the
disasters that we've seen that countries
lost twenty thirty years even the best
intentions or the best of our intentions
have have ended up sometimes what about
that place and and I wanted to look at
some of that history and figure out why
while the same time saying listen we're
in the West
we're in countries have really long
established history of democracy we're
in countries were most of our fights
today are for these broad programs and
Medicare for all we are in a very
different context than trying to create
a revolution in Afghanistan and we have
tons of we were very privileged in our
in our position
today but but obviously if we don't know
this history if we don't have kind of
strong replies then we're gonna end up
you know just looking like idiots when
people try to read at us with uh with
something stuff and then we could yeah
and I think we can disentangle like and
you know we'll get to Sanders in a
couple of minutes but I think you know
they're very clear essentially anti you
know anti regime change jet you know a
foreign policy that isn't dictated by a
narrow set of interests here is the
corollary and then a nice in in the
situations you know inside the United
States is an example this is where you
also start to foreground you know ideas
and histories which maybe they don't you
know they might be less alluring in a
freshman dorm room but they might in
some ways be more relevant to a you know
hyperdeveloped 2019 context so talk
about Olaf Palme II and what happened in
Sweden in the 1970s and what you're
drawing from that yeah yeah I think well
one thing I should say before people
just think it's a book of history I try
to open with a case for socialism and
kind of a thought experiment of what a
day in the life of a social citizen
should look like I really did intend a
book for to be kind of the first book
about socialism that a lot of people are
gonna are gonna read and it's meant to
not scare off my my Bernie crash friends
and you know I've been doing some stuff
lately with the with with you know
friends of the Sanders you know campaign
and I've been kind of I'm back to
gearing up to do some canvassing for
Sanders so you know that would be
intended audience I should say but sir
so social democracy is super interesting
for me because I started off as a far
less radical so that no interest in
social moccasin it's like oh that's just
a kinder gentler capitalism then over
time the more study the more research I
did of social democracy particularly the
Nordic model particularly in Sweden you
find out that you know these models were
actually imposed not by the generosity
of capitalist oh the Nordic capitalist
you know they're they're cozier
friendlier you know people but but in
fact it was impose
by force by militant working-class
movement so over time over the course of
governance for 5060 years in Sweden the
Social Democrats were able to beat
commodified which means they're taking
out of the market home stairs of life
like some great housing they built 1
million new homes for public housing
1 million units for population there's 8
million health care child care
eventually all these things were taken
out of the market and in Georgia social
rights it was a very good society in
that sense I think it's probably the
peak of what we achieved as a species
you know if you're a born in a poor
rural part of Sweden you had a very
similar life outcome if you're born in a
nice district in Stockholm and that's
something you can't say about someone
boring Fairfield Connecticut versus
water berry or something like that you
know it's something that bridge we
shouldn't play for gratis yeah yeah
Bridgeport which is I spent plenty of
time in my life actions very depressing
studies yes um so enough of that for
explored Connecticut that's where we
lose hey I hey it's a great ferry I'm
just saying there's a lot of that's
capitalism is a problem yep yep no
definitely I mean this is the kind of
the the uneven you know development but
it's kind of the stuff that we take for
granted the fact that for that kids from
that city that kids from that so no one
screwed we as Americans even those of us
on the Left we kind of just take for
granted this is like a normal a normal
thing right but it wasn't just they
achieved this base level of equality and
dignity and justice for their citizens
and it wasn't just that all the Pama and
these other leaders fought to defend the
ANC and to struggle against apartheid
and to defend the Vietnamese and the
struggle against US imperialism Vietnam
so they all had a good track record of
foreign policy but these demands and
these welfare state securities didn't
like many Leninist thought it would
it didn't make them complacent it
actually caused workers to start
more and more radical things to start to
make inroads on the profits of
capitalist but also their right to
manage the right of managers to manage
so in 1967 1968 you seem a strike wave
in Sweden that's primarily about
industrial democracy not just wages and
working conditions so they start to put
more radical questions on the table they
start to say well why don't we have any
say in our day to day lives were
spending 40 hours a week in this
workplace why don't we have any Sencha
lee they say why don't we actually own
some of this workplace there's a plan in
the 70-foot for it the migrant plan
that's improved massively approved by
the main trade union federation in
sweden it would have slowly over time
socialized production in sweden so what
social amaq really did was it increased
the bargaining position of workers
dramatically but it left the levers of
control in the hands of capital so the
capital's seeing all the stuff that says
you know hold on we're getting screwed
by this intensifying
internationalization of the economy in a
70 the OPEC shock is hurting us
these wage demands are cutting into our
profits there's all these things going
on we're going to either leave capital
flight or we're going to risk old
investment we're just not going to
invest in new firms and expand our
production until conditions change now
this is a blackmail the capitalist has
in any capitalist democracy even a
social democracy so what the left-wing a
social democracy in Sweden proposed
where these wage earner funds
essentially trying to socialize more
production taking away their power to
withhold investment and this blackmail
they have the right wing of social
democracy people like in the UK Gordon
Brown and Germany's Schroder these
people had a solution to the crisis
involved retreating alright let's take a
few steps back let's deregulate a little
bit let's make capitalist happy then
we'll try to redistribute some of the
wealth that's being created to sustain
you know 80% of our existing welfare
state
this was a gamble of the third way of
social democracy but I believe that
there was a route to socialism through
the left wing of social democracy and
the way that I came to see it through
reading and research and and really
engaging seriously with history social
Moxley was it's not a separate playing
field social democracy was getting the
ball into the red zone I've been getting
pushback just out of field goal position
but but what we want is you know it's a
touch you know we want to figure out a
way to to win the game and that involves
I think taking power away from capital
and extending the democratic logic of
social democracy of it as by virtue of
being humans we have certain rights we
should if democracy is a good thing in
the ballot box also have democracy in
our workplaces by standing this logic
deeper we actually have a chance to get
to social democracy so when I see
Sanders or Corbin all these people's
doing is bringing back some language of
class level the language of social
democracy and I altered if enough but if
you can't put the question of
medicare-for-all on the table in the
u.s. today but each modified healthcare
how are you gonna put the question of
worker ownership it means production the
people on the west that are excited
about one but not excited about the
common sense thing 70% of Americans
support you know do baffle me I well
they absolutely baffle me too and then
of course you know I think people I mean
maybe they baffle me less but some
people on you know who don't see you
know particularly if they're saying that
they have a more kind of structurally
left politics even of a Social
Democratic variety and they don't see
the structural case and what Sanders is
doing that is a completely unique value
proposition in modern politics you know
even relative to other candidates that
you know we like and respect that also
frustrates me
