[Music]
let's check in on the job that
Republicans are doing trying to clean up
the mess Donald Trump made and you know
the thing is is that you can only go so
racist in the Republican Party and
here's why because they still need a
sufficient number of white Republican
women living in the suburbs and for the
most part apparently as long as they
hear someone say that's not racist
they're generally okay with it but
sometimes it gets just so obvious and
and by so obvious I mean super obvious
because even Donald Trump's like you
know when Donald Trump does it they can
all write it off as it's Trump being
Trump he's being comedic or wacky or
really raucous but when it starts coming
out of the mouths like literally when
you have a whole arena chanting
something that is racist it becomes a
little bit more concerning they start to
get a little worried and they send out
the whole team we saw Fox and Friends do
this on multiple occasions where they
said he's being comedic or there's
things a raucous or nobody can be held
responsible for their racism but now
they got to send out to even more people
and particularly in Wisconsin because
remember there are three states that
Donald Trump won that allowed him to win
the electoral college and become
president so one of those people they've
sent out this week to sort of really
shave off the edges of send send them
back is Ron Johnson and Ron's senator
from Wisconsin
not very bright have to start by asking
you about president Trump's tweet just
this morning continuing his attacks on
those progressive congresswoman here's
what he tweeted in part I don't believe
the for Congress women are capable of
loving our country do you agree with the
president that they are not capable of
loving the United States posit can we
just stop here and just think about the
absurdity of this question capable like
are they capable of loving like oh I
don't even know what that means is
anybody capable of loving a country like
worse than a thought crime it's like a
feelings crime it's weird it's really
weird but continue good morning Donna
you know I would say in general the
whole America love it or leave it is not
not a new sentiment you know back in the
60s that wasn't considered racist I just
find it very unfortunate that so many
parts of our public debate right now are
getting neatly stuck inside a racial
framework when what I would like to see
is us moving toward that colorblind
society I was hoping when President
Obama was elected you'd really go a long
way toward healing that the racial
divide so we can concentrate on these
enormous challenges facing this nation
where we really could embrace dr. King's
a sentiment that let's judge people on
the basis of the content of their
character and the color of their skin so
I would like to see everybody I'd like
to see everybody reduce the rhetoric and
let's start dealing with these enormous
challenges facing this nation in
good-faith effort you know dantana I
truly believe that Americans by and
large all have I bloody one second while
we get into the pablum because I don't
want to first of all the America love it
or leave it
he's skipping a step he's skipping her
step or two here in this one like the
idea that they hate this country
these specific for women hate this
country and that they should all go back
from where they came from but three of
them were born in this country a but
then he's skipping to this whole thing
of like love it and leave it and we
heard it back then when people were
protesting against the
now I remind you these are for
congresswoman two of whom three of whom
have spent previous time in government
these are not people who are going out
and I'm not saying there's any problem
with it but I'm just saying in terms of
like drawing the analogy of love it and
leave it was used against people who
were burning American flags in in the
streets because of our involvement in
Vietnam they were not Congress people
going and proposing bills to make the
country more efficient more more humane
whatever it is these are people by by no
stretch of the imagination even on their
terms could you draw that parallel and
then I should also add if you'll recall
that this love it or leave it came in
the wake of the civil rights movement
the Voting Rights Act Civil Rights Act
and had a history love it or leave it
may have been mainstreamed but maybe the
time to question what was actually the
subtext was maybe back then here is a
poster I'm not sure when this is from
probably back in the what the 20s I
would imagine right
oh yeah somewhere during Jim Crow and
this was actually very close to where
Trump had his rally in North Carolina
what a coincidence
this is Klan country love it or leave it
back in the day folks and look at the
little intersectional message underneath
it helped fight communism and
integration yeah yep it's like the
opposite of what I want there you want
to promote communism and integration so
it meant something totally different
back then
child a focus on a character first
message for we got it all this other
mess but there Bruce like to play
identity of politics I have a question
for you yeah I don't know do we need to
hear anymore I'm wrong for you Sam yes
are you allergic to lavender yeah we are
to know that but do you
black people sure I mean in general then
why do you want to take freedom away
from them by by taking their freedom
away by Sam where does freedom come from
a tree I don't know and they grow
unbelievable you betta bail oh you're
doing that that dude what's that wire
Luther King jr. but who's the other
Jessica Pearson Jesse Lee Jude you
let's uh off-ramp from that one I guess
those flower for the maid show we should
probably say that one easy bride become
a bed right here more delightful
impressions like that alright one more
clip of another this time they brought
out a family to basically say to the
rest of the Republican Party you're not
really racist oh oh this yeah okay this
is just this is uh now what is what does
Mercedes slap what does she do
she's in the press shop for the
president and her husband match lap is
the head of CPAC it's an American
Conservative Union of the American
Conservative Union but they run CPAC and
he is the one who said to his formerly
good friend Michael Steele that he was a
made GOP chair because he was black and
and then of course Michael Steele being
extremely sensitive got upset about that
that the only reason why he was picked
was because he was black and now they're
not friends anymore he said still needed
to show some grace because he's been
critical of some of trumps more
conservative policies right right right
of course and so here's Mercedes slap
explaining how the president is not
happy at all with the chance that he
that he inspired sat and paraded around
as they were they were saying and then
tweet it out and reversed himself I
think somebody tweeted at me that I'm
Friday I may have said he'll disavow it
I mean if I said it was completely it
was completely knee-jerk on my part of
course he's going to disavow it like
this you're talking about the disavow or
the disavowed this he was gonna disavow
the disavow okay retweets are not of
olives okay and apparently he did that
already here is George Stephanopoulos
talking about Donald Trump's classic
three-step disavowal of the disavowal
different way but you keep talking about
the president disavowed the chant just
yesterday and I want to show it up on
the screen right now he sent around a
tweet from a woman named Katie Hopkins
which says the new campaign slogan for
2020 is don't love it leave it send her
back is the new locker up well done team
Trump the president retweeted that tweet
yesterday that doesn't sound like he's
disavowing the chant look he made it
very clear that he disagreed with a
chant and I will tell you he stands with
those people in North Carolina across
the country who support him and why
because they love America they know that
the president is fighting for them every
day and it's African Americans its
Hispanics it's women it's men I've been
to those rallies I've been to those
events where they say I love this
country I love the American flag what
are you seeing on the other side you're
seeing the squad dictating the rules of
the Democratic Party which is very clear
that they're pushing forward you know
very disturbing statement so in other
words let me explain what she just said
yeah the president heard from Tucker
Carlson and Mark Levin that you should
not back off this and so he's back on it
and we're on it and when you ask me
about it I'm not only going to in a very
sort of like a throwaway way suggest
that he did something even though the
later thing that he did undid the thing
that he did I'm going to now reiterate
the whole point of the first thing he
did and just do it in the way that I
she had done it in the first place so we
didn't even have to go through the last
two steps it's amazing this just the
first part of her answer where she
pivots from yes he does this vote but
also he supports those people who he
supports those people and then she goes
on to say and she also supports his
original message that they're horrible
and I don't know if what happened after
that if George Stephanopoulos said later
you just basically said the thing that
you just said that you were disavowing
right uh the chant
look he made it very clear that he
disagreed with the chant and I will tell
you he stands with those people in North
Carolina across the country who support
him and why right I mean it's it's
absurd he stands with them and he
disagrees with the chant but that could
be like he wanted the chance to last
another 10 seconds and it wasn't enough
spirit but I actually think that it's
really important when they ask people
like this questions on on like
mainstream cable shows that they'd be
really clear that as problematic as this
country is that that type of racism that
type of demagoguery is very specific to
the Republican Party and it is not
mainstream and it's not normal and it's
not what most people are looking for
like and the polls validate that like
there's only one segment that responds
well to that and it's definitely not
Democrats and it's not self-identified
independents and even some Republicans
claim not to liking the polls so I don't
want for a second them to be able to say
like this is about the real America or
any of that type of garbage it's it's
absolutely not true and there's plenty
of people who aren't on the Left you
don't this is all about and that's
actually quite important it's all about
motivating the base to get 100% I'm
saying from a mainstream right your
perspective in terms of how you say like
hey well you know you have to understand
the predicament they're in because they
don't want to be bigoted towards these
folks they don't want to be bigoted
towards these folks in the loudest voice
in the Showtime show about Roger Ailes
there's a scene in the first
episode where he talks about how we
don't want to go for every an audience
of everybody we want to go after a niche
which is conservative and nice which is
conservatives exactly and so fine that's
your that's your propaganda cable
network but if this does not represent
there's tons of people who might not be
particularly left or woke or whatever
they don't like that kind of talk and
they understand that it should be very
clear that this doesn't represent some
type of norm
