[Music]
so let's talk I know that Michael did
some clips from the town hall yesterday
but still have a couple more by all
accounts this was a really good seven
hours eight hours of policy discussion
and we'll talk more with Dave Roberts
about it who's been crying for something
like this for a long time and there was
a lot of things that came out of it not
the least of which is that I mean it
would be impossible to imagine that you
could find two or three Republicans to
have a policy discussion on just about
anything that lasts this long never mind
you know eight or ten solid
contributions however what has come out
of this whether you read The Washington
Post or the New York Times or Huffington
Post or whatever it is is that Joe Biden
really was the only one who seemed to
show up without any depth
apparently Kamala Harris and I didn't
see hers but from what I've read wasn't
a particularly impressive on this or
depth full but Cory Booker apparently
was quite good Buddha judge was quite
good
and of course Sanders in Warren also got
I think the the biggest plaudits as it
were and jay Inslee who wasn't even
there
got a big you know a lot of people
tipped his hat but like i say joe biden
seemed to have basically approached this
like he's approached everything in terms
of issues which is i don't really need
to talk about the issues I can talk
around them and of them and about how
important they are but I don't really
need to address anything and sometimes
when you do that it sounds like jibber
jabber first of all we have to do is go
back and turn back all the changes that
in fact the president has made
from cafe standards to moving in a
direction that we in fact deal with
providing people who get displaced
opportunities to have jobs
potty sending them so first of all the
cafe standards that he's tried to roll
back that Trump has from the Obama era
it looks like that may be a non-starter
because California is basically creating
its own cafe standards and the car
makers themselves don't want to roll it
back but yes of course first thing you
should do is try and undo the damage but
he can't even go through any of the
proposals that Donald Trump has
implemented whether it's like pulling
off the the restrictions and regulations
on how much methane can leak through
fracking how much coal-fired power
plants can can put co2 I mean things off
the top my head that I can list and I'm
not running for president
but here we go have jobs by sending them
back to school by doing continuing
education whole range of things I would
see to it the firm immediately moving
toward you know we we are in fact in a
position now that if in fact we dealt
with mitigation across the board just
what we did in the last in of the last
administration and before leading to a
standard that we provide efficiency for
appliances so apparently infused by the
apparently well no I actually understood
everything he was saying
but it was nothing I mean all
environmental problems have been
generated post 2016 quota saying no he's
simply saying we can go with general he
is saying the biggest mount of pablum
MIT we should we got to get involved in
mitigation well he knows that we got to
mitigate something he's just not sure
exactly what it is specifically we're
supposed to mitigate so of course the
thing to do is efficient appliances
which has been something that you have
said for anyone would have said for the
past 30 years the idea of Energy Star
appliances came out decades ago this is
a guy who said I've got this climate
forum the adviser said hey Joe we got to
go over this
I got it I got it I don't need to know
the details good right now these people
right here look it's a little bit like a
whole lot of things that people didn't
know before this guy became president
until he started to take it away and
they started to take it away and he said
whoa wait a minute man look what that's
done he's changed the cafe standards
that we're not gonna meet those damn
well that means boom he's done this it
means bang everybody knows now knows
what he has done and it's raised the
ante so this is where he's saying that
like oh the stakes are higher now
because we see that Donald Trump hasn't
done you know has reversed and again the
cafe standards have not been changed
that when he's proposed it and hopefully
it won't go through but there's this
sense in Joe Biden's mind that climate
change was not a problem three years ago
and that people are aware of it now
because of Donald Trump has reversed
this stuff because Joe Biden didn't pay
attention to this three years ago and he
didn't pay attention to it five years
ago and he said it doesn't appear that
he paid attention to it in the hours
leading up to this forum it's stunning
it's stunning it's it's I mean it and
it's scary as it really cringey is like
almost feel bad for him but I think I'm
gonna save that for when he's not doing
so well in the polls yeah I would say
definitely save that oh my god Joe's
bleeding on stage right he's bleeding
his eyes are bleeding it's disgusting
it's not disgusting so so gross so
disrespectful elzar irrelevant
should worry about your own emissions
yeah I mean this should be a real I I
just don't understand how anybody who is
serious about politics looks at this guy
and says a that he is up to a campaign I
mean it's scary from the perspective of
you want your candidates to realize
what's the most urgent issue that exists
or even the top three if you're if
you're somehow
like well we'll figure it out and even
if you're someone who believes that like
okay he'll find people who will deal
with it he'll appoint a VP
you know jay Inslee will be his VP yes
people the problem is is that he doesn't
feel like he has to prepare for stuff he
doesn't know what he doesn't know and
this is an important election and you
know but the details are irrelevant
I mean hey this is an important election
and you don't want somebody whose
estimation of themselves is so out of
line with what their ability to deliver
is dark thought though it works for
Trump it certainly did work for Trump I
don't think he has Donald Trump's the
same base of support yet really has my
swag please yes people please
I'd like ahead I actually think it was
the opposite with Trump - I think Trump
thought I'm not gonna win I'm in this
for something else but fine guys you
don't know that by trying to create an
alternative MSNBC you didn't hear about
that the whole plan by - yes NBC Biden -
yeah brother yes the latest as late as
Biden family folks
