[Music]
so yesterday we talked about GM cutting
15,000 jobs in the wake of a seven-year
stock buyback frenzy this job cutting is
supposedly going to save them 6 billion
dollars a year
supposedly they over the past 7 years
have bought back of 14 billion dollars
worth of stock they have just been on
the receiving end of hundreds of
millions of dollars of tax breaks
annually and they of course also
continue to have incredibly massive CEO
salaries all this just seven eight years
shortly after the US government bailed
them out saved all of the executive jobs
as well as other jobs and Fox News is
starting to get a little bit worried
here's Brian Kilmeade with Peter Morey
ichi am i saying his name right and he
is he is starting to worry for
capitalism because it's it's showing a
little too much flesh i think it's
probably the way to put this got a huge
corporate tax cut didn't they and wasn't
the thought was that the american
industry would start bringing industry
home because our corporate tax rate was
now competitive absolutely there's no
reason why we shouldn't be selling cars
in China that are made here now the
president has to open up the Chinese
market and you know I guess that's the
next stage but abandoning the American
worker
she says that Americans aren't buying
sedans do you see Toyota getting out of
the sedan business they make money on
sedans they know how to make sedans well
the problem of MS Berra is she has a
company that doesn't make competitive
sedan wait where's the part doesn't he
go on to say
um oh here it is okay sorry I got
confused and so there is Fox News saying
you know maligning the company but
here's the real issue this is on Charles
Payne and shannon bream here he is
Fox News is getting a little bit
concerned here let's we have this is
clip number four he's broke when you
were sitting here yesterday and all we
really had was the headline I think as
the day went on the news sunk in and
this news is it's not good for these
it's not good last quarter the company
did thirty five billion dollars in three
months 77% came from North American
customers eighty seven percent of
operating income came from North
American business so yeah you can build
out factories all over the world but the
Americans are keeping you in business
and you kick them to the curb at the
first sign it's really the president's
not happy he's shooting back at Mary but
but the president told us that the tax
cuts were gonna make this all magically
be no problem the GM wasn't going to
outsource their thing because of the the
the taxes are coming home it's gonna be
magically no problem I guess it's just
going we could do in the opposite I
meant the opposite
Mary Barra who by the way happened to be
at the White House is straight for a
pre-scheduled meeting with Larry Kudlow
we don't really know it was discussed
there but the president's fired back
saying that they should make a better
car that that he was very tough on GM's
borrow over these plant closure
happening no he shouldn't be happy of
course I don't think any American
president would be happy about this and
again it's not like they're in dire
straits now they're trying to get ahead
of things they want a big fat cash flow
but this is why I think capitalism in of
itself is in a lot of trouble in this
country because you know these companies
keep posting record earnings and to keep
firing people they keep posting record
earnings and they keep buying back
billions of dollars of their own stock
the American public is going to get hip
to this and my fear is that they're
going to end up electing not a
democratic socialist just a straight-up
socialist because of the
kind of shenanigans that's coming a long
time number two from your mouth to God's
ears money you know how would have
talked about waterways right exactly
right on her segments chuckles did wrong
walk away I would love to see Dave Rubin
Dave Rubin a react to this clip oh well
I mean well I enjoy competitions a big
deal sometimes the government there's
competition and competition would start
kicking in competition I think what he's
really saying is that when government
interferes that paves road to socialism
no I think like when when Dave Rubin is
like struck with something like that
first of all he would be lately over not
do that analysis no but he would say
like look everybody has they can do what
they want this is what a free country is
about and then he would just ask the
moving onto topic to I will say this I
think you know based upon the other day
I was listening last night I think it
was maybe I don't know I was listening
to Mark Levin who is now taken to
calling Bernie Sanders a communist
because and I think that that's true
that that notion there like we're not
gonna vote for a Democratic Socialist
we're gonna vote for a socialist
socialist I think and and good for that
dude for just having the wherewithal to
realize like hey there's a problem here
and I think like you'd have to be really
really oblivious not to notice it that
they're gonna have to start they're
gonna have to come up with another word
to demonize the and I don't think
communist is gonna work either frankly
because they've been trying like sjw's
but they need something specifically
economic but that that doesn't hide that
by the way like communist what are you
talking about fashion it's retro retro
school it's it's all like it's it's it's
the equivalent of like saying that
Chicago politics but also a pretty big
stigma around the word communist but
less and less I would say
definitely a stigma around the word
communist but the the vast majority of
people who react to it as if it's like
saying a boogeyman are already going to
vote for the the right-wing in Canada
dis is with two quick point I mean this
was exactly what happened with de Blasio
who by the way is an insult to the
Sandinistas but they remember when he
was first running for mayor they were
like bill de blasio hung out with the
Sandinistas for a week in the 80s and it
was like over 90% of New Yorkers were
like the Sun the one you mean like he
was in on a clash recording that's cool
not even that like right a handful of
people who read the New York Post like
he's a communist because they're already
like brain-dead Upper East Side lunatics
and we're gonna vote for me and then
people like me were like it's nothing
that's what Obama did for me when
Reverend Wright came out I was like hey
it's like the sector of conservative
publishing that's trying to really
really hard to make the anti-semite
Ilhan Omar stick right based on just BDS
support and that's very dynamic
and I also think like I would love to
see an actual president would
immediately nationalize the GM plants
and let's get it into the court system
and see how that works out because
that's how you would save those jobs you
don't want to do this government's
taking it over these are public
cooperatives now jobs stay we make
energy efficient cars we support the
economy screw GM and not either fake
totalitarian hectoring like Trump or
like training people for the jobs of the
future whatever the Third Way scam no it
seemed that the right is a whole lot
more optimistic about the chances of
communism in our lifetime than the left
so maybe we should cheer up a little bit
well the very least you know that would
be a good clip to show you know people
in Schumer and Pelosi is calm staff like
you're so neurotic about a systemic
critique of capitalism when you get
asked the question from a young person
on CNN meanwhile Charles Payne is saying
this on Fox
