two clips I want to play first about
with Bernie this was the only exchange
with Biden that Bernie had that was you
know basically I wouldn't say an attack
on Biden but to some extent an attack
and Bernie and Warren still studiously
it appears are attempting to not attack
Joe Biden and which leads me to believe
that they both believe that Biden will
fade and they don't want to alienate his
voters presumably older African
Americans who are a big part of Joe
Biden's base of support and there may be
a sense that older voters and just older
voters in general right I mean Bernie's
not doing great with older voters as
well
Warren is looking for those from Biden
and I suspect they feel that older
voters get a little bit put off by
attacks that's why you've seen what
happened to Kamala Harris and what
happened to Castro but this is the one
instance where I think I think Bernie
could not help himself
Warren has stuff in the chamber for
Biden when the time comes I think but I
don't know if we'll ever unleash it but
here is burning or a total of four
months four months where do you get the
rest where does it come from okay
Sanders responding to ways Joe you're
talking about working with Republicans
and getting things done but you know
were you also got done tonight saying
this is a good friend you got the
disastrous war in Iraq done you got a
bankruptcy bill which is hurting
middle-class families all over this
country
you've got trade agreements like NAFTA
PNTR with China done which of course was
four million jobs and let's get to
Medicare for all
let's be honest we spend twice as much
per person as do the people of any other
major country on earth and the answer is
if we have the guts that I would like to
see the Democratic Party have that guts
to stand up to the drug companies and
the insurance companies and tell them
that the function of healthcare is to
guarantee care to all people not to make
a hundred billion dollars in profit we
stood together we could create but great
alright in that last part
we're in Bernie pivots to it quite
quickly after basically saying Joe Biden
you you've gotten some stuff down with
the Republican stuff that you shouldn't
be very proud of he pivots to the appeal
that he made multiple times throughout
the night and we will we'll play a clip
of that in a moment he appeals to
Democrats to sort of take a position on
this let's be the party that is for
guaranteeing everyone health care
guaranteeing a means not only can you
not lose it it's there regardless of if
you have 20 bucks in your pocket or not
and that was the theme that Bernie hit
multiple times here is one of those
moments where Bernie Sanders in the
night basically again calls on the
Democrats there to stop messing around
and just go for the gold
like why there's there is no reason to
believe there's a single plan being
offered by anybody on that stage who has
you know the chances of getting any of
it passed through a
republican-controlled Senate and so if
the bottom line is we're gonna have a
Democratic House and a Democratic Senate
and a Democratic president too
this whatever plan it is then the
question becomes which Democrats are
going to stand in the way and why there
is no great constituencies out there for
people who don't want free at at point
of service health care there's no
constituency out there that is like I
want the ability to fill out forms and
send it in now if you're you're very
wealthy you probably don't do that you
probably hire somebody to do it or your
assistant does it I don't know who does
it
here's Sanders basically calling on the
entire stage of folks to embrace this
just on a moral level
senator Sanders do you want to respond a
little bit tired I must say a people
defending a system which is
dysfunctional which is cruel 87 million
uninsured 30,000 people dying every
single year 500,000 people going
bankrupt for what reason
they came down with cancer I will tell
you what the issue is here the issue is
whether the Democratic Party has the
guts to stand up to the health care
industry which made a hundred billion
dollars in profit whether we have the
guts to stand up to the corrupt
price-fixing pharmaceutical industry
which is charging us the highest prices
in the world for prescription drugs head
if we don't have the guts to do that if
all we can do is take their money we
should be ashamed about saying he's so
good um so much clearly the the only
thing missing from that and it is a
little bit NIC picky is you know the
hospitals and which is a which is a
which remains to a big problem a little
bit picky I mean from a policy
standpoint I mean it's it's hugely
important but from a rhetorical
standpoint I mean I think like we all
get the picture right the there are
people who are profiteering off of the
misery of other human beings they're
just do
in the guise of being a hospital and
there they're doing it in the guise of
investor-owned hospitals more often than
not and they're doing it for the
purposes of maximizing shareholder value
and so they are omitting people they are
putting them in bankruptcy they are
keeping them insecure we also know I
should know our employee based health
insurance is a way of controlling their
employees because you know the the big
riddle is like for years you know back
in two thousand eight two thousand four
five six seven eight
you'd hear all the time whenever health
care came up you would hear some figure
like twenty three hundred bucks of every
car that comes off at GM's a lot it's
paying for the health care retirees or
something whatever it was some health
care plan and so you would think that
business private business would be the
first in line to say yeah like even if
I'm paying as a business even if I'm
paying the same amount in taxes maybe if
I'm even paying a little bit more in
taxes than I would in that health care
the administrative cost of all that
would be much easier for me to deal with
I would save money because the realities
they probably would save money these
businesses but that's not the only value
proposition for them in this it is also
that they basically have leverage over
their workers and we see it we see it in
the GM strike and you see it all the
time like you want to leave this job you
don't want to get paid good luck hope
your kid stays healthy be a real shame
if something happened to sick kid and so
that is a
a big part of this but there's no reason
why the the people on that stage
couldn't be supporting this stuff they
want to differentiate themselves and
it's it's a little bit appalling but I
guess it's just a part of what you have
to do and I love the fact that Joe Biden
in that first like as soon as Bernie
said like we're defending these people
and he sort of smiles yeah man that's
very and then he realizes like oh I he's
talking about people dying I died not
being covered I'm not at a Comcast watch
it again senator a little bit tired I
must say a people defending a system
which is dysfunctional which is cruel 87
million uninsured 30 that job I should
say yeah coffee shop Talk hey look at
the hippie over here he wants to defend
people ha oh oh I guess I'm not a
horizon fund raiser concerts in the
factors in the back leg ad I gave up an
awesome Chinese people to do this man
don't blow it
it's a lot of buddy bro goodbye don't
laugh at the people died I know he's
stupid old hippy but you're out stage
dad oh it's my brother's playful I mean
the and Joe Biden did come out yesterday
and say that his family has agreed not
to take any jobs on foreign boards if he
becomes president and he better get me
simply back of Amtrak what are they
they're not gonna have to travel to
Ukraine at that point beer Jared he dad
dad would have a Budweiser dad in Wow
can you coke in the White House though
meanwhile a lot of money on the table
Pro Hunter is I think my age
