[Music]
this is a great this is a great video
I'm enjoying this quite a bit I've
watched this now in multiple times and I
would imagine Ronald Reagan could inform
us about this but this video shows what
happens and this happened I just upstate
here in New York I think guys driving
and he has I think it appears to
individuals in the back of his vehicle
they just left the Hudson City Court I'm
there myself I've actually served on a
jury there does that the ice agents just
squatting to see people leave the court
yes it's possible I haven't seen them up
there but and he is apparently quite
aware as to what the ice officers are
allowed to do and is a little bit more
adept I think than they're used to
dealing with in terms of what they have
legal rights to do in terms of search
here is this exchange no it's nice the
Department of Homeland Security order
wore it okay no it's not a warning it's
not a warrant under the Constitution of
the United States one of the rest yeah
one of the rest of Aryan alien not
signed by a judge it's not a judicial
warrant
I have no obligation to oblige by that
winner so this is this guy is Brian
McCormack he is a head of the Columbia
County
this is incidentally the district the
19th district up in in in in New York
that Antonio Delgado one
good warrant signed by judging the
Immigration and Nationality Act and an
official designated with that authority
are you hearing this mark our attorneys
on his way okay what's that gonna that's
not a warrant no it's not it's the
Department of Homeland Security order to
war it okay no it's not a warrant it's
not a warrant under the Constitution of
the United States it's a warrant under
the Immigration and Nationality Act of
the United that's fine but it's not
under the Constitution you have no
jurisdiction over me as a citizen on the
driver of this vehicle so the the ice
warrant and this is coming from the
immigrant legal Resource Center an ice
warrant directs federal immigration
enforcement agents to arrest the person
named in the warrant and because it is
let it go because it's not issued by a
judge and ice warrant does not give the
immigration enforcement officer the
authority to demand entry into
presumably a house or a car any type of
private space in order to make an arrest
and so a car is that so
here is mccormick saying that but the
ice people apparently tried to
intimidate him into complying
he did not title 8 section 13 24 of u.s.
code some on some what I'm studying to
be a department justice accredited
representatives I've been through
trainings and I have copies of the
actually in this box right here I have a
copy of a real warrant and a copy of
that just so people know not to listen
to that you're aware the statutes
governing transporting and harboring
illegal aliens to the United States I am
okay
[Music]
and of course I don't think they were in
a position to prove anything so it's a
good little example of what your your
rights are and how folks can protect
immigrants who are living amongst us
let's go to the phones call
