[Music]
watch let's talk about this Think
Progress thing for a while cuz this is
really upsetting to me actually on some
level look the Center for American
Progress back in 2004 when this thing
was long I don't know when they were
launched was it 2003 2002 2001 somewhere
around there you have to understand that
there was very little infrastructure
left of center at all left the center at
all back at that time and but even at
that time people would talk about it
some people there too was like the
Clinton administration in exile and at
one point Center for American Progress
realize like oh you know so much of this
is happening online we're gonna create
Think Progress very helpful tool for
someone in my business there just wasn't
the resources that we have today and you
had staff who were going out there and
they were digging up stories finding
stories reporting on stories that you
just wouldn't see in the mainstream
press and some very good people came out
of there Amanda Terkel started her
career there I believe
who else there was come what's it
Milhiser David Sirota was a cap I think
you wrote for Think Progress a little
bit too actually and you know it has
become a little bit less relevant as
years have gone by because there's a lot
more competition and to a certain extent
ideologically they ended up not moving
as much with the rest of the I think the
the times on some level in some areas
some areas not but still did some good
reporting they unionized and back when
they unionized in 2018 I think it was
let's look at this even
your attendance Oh Oh different unions
well they unionize at one point I can't
remember what it was but here's near
Tandon back in the day talking about
unions because of course look
EJ Dion's talking about some race and
near tenon makes the point maybe people
are waking up the fact the best way to
raise wages is stronger unions which is
I think a fairly standard conventional
wisdom within the Democratic Party
largely whether they will actually carry
through at times is another question but
that understanding I think is uh is
certainly not controversial in the
Democratic Party
the reality is also equally
uncontroversial there's just very hard
data that shows the existence of union
raises wages across the the whole
industry Dave waggle I had a tweet about
something about support for the Nissan
Union Drive in in Mississippi was this
in I didn't I don't think I don't know
if they unionized at that point but near
tenant says this Union Drive is
important for people care about wage
growth this is critical so the other day
it was reported that I think progress
was closing their funding had basically
dried up again they were not you know
there was a certain amount of redundancy
now because you have a lot of other
outlets that that follow this news
social media whatnot and then it became
clear within a couple of days they were
gonna relaunch Think Progress and not
only that they were gonna get rid of the
archive of all the work that the people
who had done there did which was
evergreen work about various issues
climate change in the law
you know regulatory schemes I mean all
sorts of different stuff that was very
good
sort of like down the middle as it were
reporting on this stuff that is the
nuclear option and on top of that yes I
mean it happens all the time with the
supposedly less reputable outfits on top
of that they were they had in like a
five-page memo announced two people who
were subscribing to Think Progress that
if you email us we will we will stop
taking your payments in other words
you've got to opt-out now I will tell
you this cuz I'm smart I will tell you
this for a long time I wouldn't even
take year-long memberships to this show
because I was like I don't know if I am
gonna continue to do this you know early
on I wasn't sure if it was gonna make it
for like a first year or two I wasn't
sure like I could close up shop in a
month and if people are just doing
monthly I can end it and just shut it
down and I was like but I wouldn't know
how to refund the year-long memberships
the idea that you would do this is it's
despicable it's despicable
and so the Think Progress Union put out
a statement yesterday on Friday this was
on last Friday the Think Progress Center
for American Progress laid off the
entire Think Progress newsroom
I think progress Union is devastated but
incredibly grateful for the Solidarity
from our industry colleagues in Think
Progress alums thank you because of the
strength of Union we would ask yer 12
weeks of severance pay health insurance
through the end of the year 11 unit
members who lost their jobs addition
we're able to secure half the year and
revenue bonus promised in our contract
and we remain in talks to secure the
full amount however we're blindsided by
the revelation the cap continues to
operating Think Progress sight with its
own labor scabs and use the Think
Progress social media accounts to
promote that work our editorially
independent unionized labor power to
impactful journalism and Think Progress
to take away our independent voice and
use the wide audience built by Think
Progress Union staff for other purposes
is in the front we ask that the cap
management keep think progress alive as
an archive site but not co-op the site
for non editorially independent analysis
and articles
we are gravely concerned about cats
announcement on Monday they will not be
halting recurring donations from Think
Progress members instead they're
requiring those to proactively opt out
CAF has repeatedly said the decision to
shut down Think Progress was a financial
one made in light of larger industry
struggles but Think Progress was not
founded to be profitable we know that
this was never about money this was
always about power and control we're
exploring our legal options it's been
reported that they are going to close
down the the donations and that they are
going to archive the site I also think
frankly that even if they continue on
with the Think Progress as an entity
with non-unionized people that they're
gonna run into a National Labor
Relations Board problem that this could
be a violation of National Labor
Relations Act and but more than this
more than everything I've just said and
even more than what it says about the
the values that they operate under
because they clearly do not walk the
walk on the values that they espouse I
mean it's just stunning but how stupid
are these people how stupid are these
people I mean well are you serious are
you serious that you thought you could
get away with this like in white
universe like with all due respect to
Mira Tandon are you serious
what for one second did anybody think
like Oh nobody's gonna notice that we're
basically using scab labor and we've
just basically violated the National
Labor relation none of the people who
follow what the Center for American
Progress would ever notice this I mean
how the level of incompetence here I'll
tell you something if I was a funder for
the Center for American Progress right
now you know what I would be doing
I will be shopping around for a cent
there for another American Progress
because this one may be part of the
reason why we're not having experiencing
progress and I would say if you are if
you raise a monthly donor you would be
doing that if you were like as an
example the government of the United
Arab Emirates or Pfizer or Exxon or any
number of financial services firms you
might be really digging it B Gulf yeah
yeah I was actually really cool it is
still there Democrats and they just
violated the entire relations board
that's pretty cool by the way Tom
Daschle is on the board of you know I
don't even remember waiting there's
people be resigning from this board now
I mean I would be surprised if anyone is
still giving them money because they
think they believe in progressive values
I mean it's it you may be right about
that as well I mean but this is I mean
they're done I mean honestly you stick a
fork in this because no this is just how
bad it how bad at this do you need to be
well what else are they showing for a
return on investment on how like what do
they get 40 million a year I have no
idea but I mean like just come up with a
different name for the organization to
talk it in the corner we're calling it
you know what wait wait a year where
we're reintroducing Think Progress we
had one reporter with Union salary and
the rest are gonna be whatever it is
like even the most cynical person would
be like oh yeah no we're not gonna get
away with this
I would be more surprised at this point
if near attendant didn't pull some crazy
crap like this but also I'm sure she's
gonna find a way to twist this around
and say that anyone who's mad about the
Union thing in this gabs
is just attacking a woman of color out
of bad faith that's right
it's Bernie's fault let's face it all
you bros yeah getting everybody all
riled up by all of these toxic Bernie
supporters online and they're harming an
agust liberal institution unbelievable
really shocking
I did all right is why I don't care that
any there's just bad none of the party
sitting there like there is one
candidate who might be a little bit more
sympathetic to your plight to say one
you were bitching about owning houses
you idiots I think near is just mad none
of the writers came to her defense
whenever she gets a ratioed on Twitter
like what what good are you people very
possible
