Oh
[Music]
let's check in though it's one thing for
Dan Crenshaw to be lying about AOC and
not realizing what was going down with
the Department of Homeland Security
which of course are these you know basis
obviously they're doing it for their
election electoral chances in 2020
apartment Homeland Security as you all
know running for Congress running for
president running for Senate running for
dogcatcher Comptroller of County and
upstate New York all these different
positions that's why they're Inspector
General said that these immigrants are
living in squalor well let's check in on
Glenn Beck you remember grunt Glenn Beck
he's the one who had the complete
revelation just a moral we have a moral
awakening where he realized like he had
done wrong and he wanted to apologize to
America and he knew that he was in part
responsible for doing Trump and it's all
about loving and about deep deep belief
in Jesus and what God would want us to
do and oh wait a second Oh oh I'm
sorry I just got a report from my
accountant yeah no scratch all that but
thank you for all the profiles in the
New York Times and The New Yorker I'm
excuse me the New York thank you for the
Sam B collaboration yes he was nicer to
Glenn Beck during 2016 than she was to
Bernie Sanders that was a fun time but
let's check in what Glenn Beck is doing
now it's funny because they made they
were very upset that they were asked to
check their phones going into the
facility so they did but with heroic
Joaquin Castro smuggled in a device to
get some footage and what a brave man he
is positive what he's talking about is
that representatives of the American
public who elected these officials and
remember these are sometimes faux
libertarians these two we're not allowed
to document the conditions in this this
pleasure you know a holiday in
essentially that all these immigrants
are in Treme and this is also when the
the people running this facility had
literally ten with ten days at least to
clean up what was going on in there
and the idea like oh he's so brave he
brought in his video camera well may not
be very brave but don't you have a
problem with government bureaucrats with
government with the people have the
monopoly of force telling not just
citizens but the representative of
hundreds of thousands of Senators
citizens that they can't document what's
going on in there these are the guys who
are like so constitutional right
they were these are the guys who made
millions of dollars because they were
worried about people who were called
czars it's funny because they made they
were very upset that they were asked to
check their phones going into the
facility so they did but heroic Joaquin
Castro smuggled in a device to get some
footage and what a brave man he is and
it's certainly nothing to his brothers
ran for president that's not at all
important sir to pull a stunt like this
and but you know what all these terrible
things happened the only thing he was
able to get though was a bunch of women
sitting comfortably in sleeping bags but
they were on the floor oh my god and
unlike my daughter asleep from the floor
in her sleeping bag next to her bed
inexplicably every do you want to pause
to point this out so yeah the same
earplugs as I said I think you know I
don't think he knows how to put them in
though now that is the most horrific
thing that's ever well I think that you
can make a case that there used to
sleeping on the dirt outside for this
you know this long journey you know
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
miles of journey there usually you know
copping a squat by a cactus and now
we're forcing them to you know put a
sleeping bag down on a clean floor if
there is only some recourse for these
people if there's only some way for them
to avoid these facilities like
I don't know like turning around and
going the opposite direction oh that's
back to the pole and you want to go back
to the past I say we keep them marching
forward yeah we open our borders and we
March them all the way to the Canadian
border and help them across the Canadian
border and I'm sure we'd have great
response from the Canadian they've
almost stumbled on something they almost
stumbled on something when they said
like you know oh whoa there's a there is
a thing that they could do to avoid this
these concentration camps and that is go
back go back
so why don't they what would happened if
is that Stu or the other day that's Stu
do and Glenn stupid what would happen if
Stu and Glenn Beck actually just took
the next step and said wait wait why
don't they go back why don't they go
back wonder what's going on there
because God knows that they know that we
know that what happens when the
immigrants come in they live the life
they just sit by the pool just hang out
chill all they gotta do is vote
government oh my god those trucks full
of cheese and live in the life why don't
they go back and then of course you know
what would happen if Glenn Beck brought
out his chalkboard and actually started
to try and do that equation what a
disingenuous I'm still waiting for the
correction written by all the the hey
geography about about Glenn Beck god
what a con man well done Sam B well done
NPR well done NPR he does a comedy show
well well well the NPR ozuna list
hardcore goes to analysts there
literally one if you if you want to skip
to it always honorable mention to Bob
Garfield who not only held glenn beck
accountable glenn beck had a tantrum a
couple of minutes in the interview and
left and that was after laudatory
coverage by the new york times sam be
NPR he had to push back questions on his
absolute lack of ethics and his role in
creating trumpism and he tans firmed off
