let's talk a little bit about this sense
census fight because the Supreme Court
ruled that in what I think is a fairly
narrow decision that the Commerce
Department could not add a citizenship
question to the census largely because
they could not come up with an honest
reason why to add it when everybody
knows that it's a way of
disenfranchising non-white Hispanic
people I'm saying that because that was
a specific term used in a research paper
by a Republican operative as to what the
outcomes would be and to empower
Republicans and to strip you know
empower them both from a gerrymander
standpoint but also in terms of like
electoral votes things like resources
and whatnot so that was we thought was
decided by the Supreme Court but Donald
Trump and Bill Barr seemed to think that
Donald Trump has the ability to to do
whatever he wants and it has been sort
of a bizarre scenario where you have
Justice Department litigators basically
saying I'm not going I'm not staying on
this case anymore well yeah I mean this
is quite a quite a story and I don't
think we know at the time you and I are
talking here what what exactly you know
has gone on in the Department of Justice
but something very unusual has happened
in that you know that there's a Supreme
Court ruling that was you know was based
on exactly what you just said and one of
the primary aspects of that they pushed
that ruling at warp speed through the
courts and all the way to the Supreme
Court saying we have this drop-dead
deadline of June 30th 2019 if we don't
have an answer on this by then we can't
do it and so the court agreed and the
Supreme Court took the case you know
they
didn't say hey wait another 10 years
it's okay you know come on in we'll hear
it and they ruled and it was the the
decision was written by Chief Justice
John Roberts saying that the reasoning
was was contrived and he put it in other
words it was you know it was beat you're
lying they were lying they were lying
and and you know it was obvious that it
wasn't true and and of course in the
interim and I have no reason to believe
that this opinion was written at the
last minute but even beyond that we had
now found exactly what you said which is
that this you know a research paper by a
top Republican operative who you know
made it very clear that the reason they
wanted to add the census question was
for partisan political purposes for the
Republican Party I mean that was that's
made clear now it's obvious this was
found after he died these papers were
revealed everybody knows that so you
know everything around this case you
know just says to to the Trump
administration to the Republicans
certainly to to build bar would have
said look we lost this round you were
going to have to come back in 2020 and
20 25 or 26 or whatever and start trying
to do this again because we're not going
to make it on this census question it's
too late we can't do it and everybody
knows that we were just doing it for
partisan purposes so you know okay
everybody lay off they did the opposite
and they did it almost solely apparently
on the basis of Donald Trump's Twitter
feed in which you know that the the
lawyers went to court and told the judge
you know there was a case that was
pending on all this he said judge hey
look you know that Supreme Court laid
down the ruling we're backing off the
next thing you know Trump tweets no
we're not backing off we're going to
find a way to get this done and the
lawyers were forced to go into court
they were called in by the judge and
they said look we didn't know anything
about this subsequent to that bill Barr
Trump's you know faithful henchmen there
as the Attorney General says well I
disagree with I agree with the president
that it was a bad decision and we're
going to find a way to do it and in
doing so what he's done is put every one
of those lawyers in it that argued the
case on the basis of the you know the
bogus can drive
question and also on the deadline and
there were a bunch of them in the
division that does that they all said we
can't go back in and make that argument
anymore at least we're assuming that's
how this came down I don't know but I
assume that they went in and said hey I
have ethical responsibilities as a
lawyer I can't go in there I'm going to
be sanctioned if I go in there and try
to make another argument so now they've
plucked some other lawyers from obscure
areas of the Department of Justice to
make this argument I mean it's
unbelievable I mean if I'm telling you
man you know William bar is something
else I mean guy has turned out to be you
know I don't know he's Trump's Royko and
I mean he really is yeah I think you're
absolutely right about this and it
remains to be seen if Trump just tries
to get this question on the census I
mean I you know I just spoke to Jeff
Houser in the last hour about what seems
to be a complete Democratic boycott of
holding the Trump administration to
account in any shape or form I mean that
census thing would be you know enough of
a predicate under any other presidency
for impeachment and it remains to be
seen what's gonna happen if he does
follow through with that the the other
sort of I guess the the the this other
fascinating question is you know Bill
Barr as every day passes it becomes
clearer and clearer that to the extent
that there were assessments that he was
conservative but you know a
institutionalist I mean he seems like a
one-man wrecking crew he you know just
to go back to a story that we touched on
earlier but Jeffrey Epstein he worked
for a law firm that represented Epstein
and while he has recused himself from
the look back on Acosta and Acosta's
plea deal he has said that he will not
he will not step back and recuse himself
from the current ongoing indictment of
Jeffrey Epstein and you know to the
it's not that there are people who are
suspicious about Donald Trump's possible
involvement the fact that bill Barr
wants to stay involved in this makes you
makes you really makes you wonder
I don't even wonder I'm pretty sure I
know well you gotta take a quick break
when we come back we'll talk a little
bit more about about all of this I also
want to just touch on what I think is
the most flagrant waste of a million
dollars that you could imagine
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back ring
of fire radio
