[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Friday December 28th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA yes ladies and gentlemen
it's the best of 2018 as we begin to
wind down the year what do we have for
you today actually we have one of the
this interview in the moment mesmerized
do it mesmerized me buddy buddy go ahead
to everybody in the office talking today
right yeah well I think you were
especially well maybe not she's mad I
just say this was this was obviously
Sam's when it sounds favorite interviews
man all right
you seem pretty excited about it at the
time I guess maybe not so much anymore
I know I was excited well you've really
gotten an attitude since vacation
started Jesus well maybe Matt was a
little tepid on this one where are you
this is interesting
no yeah I totally I'm all about the 19th
century stuff oh my god and how it
pertains dr. Don Peters backhanded yeah
well it's also pretty relevant in terms
of Donald Trump and it's pretty relevant
in terms of the American public
Matt that's all I get doesn't have fat
she's a minute I can't like it that's
not that's not accurate you've been too
sensitive this is a great interview I
think fascinating a little bit different
for for us but very telling in terms of
the the moment we're living in it is
Professor Emily Ogden writing the book
credulity a cultural history of us
mesmerism turns out Mesmer mesmerism is
was named after the guy Mesmer who was a
snake oil salesman essentially and the
dynamic between the snake oil salesman
and the public that's what we're looking
at here it's fascinating story people
are gonna really enjoy it and then of
course we got Matt's pics afterwards
which we'll probably all be about
fascism and nothing else
funny fascist stuff so stick around for
that it is we're doing a freebie Friday
today because it's a vacation of course
you want to become a member please do so
go to join the majority report com
support this show get the the shows ad
free and get some bonuses every now and
then plus every day you get an extra
hour plus of content today we're giving
it to you for free give you a little
taste because it's the end of 2018 it's
a way for us to say thank you for your
listenership first I got to tell you
that 2018 has been a difficult year for
human rights have you ever wondered how
rights abuses are documented around the
world you probably have with the sheer
volume of global crisis we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing in meinem are to the
caging of children on US borders it's
critical that we expose the truth in
order to defend the rights of all and
bring those responsible to justice Human
Rights Watch says does does just that
they're an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often in partnership
with local activists
human rights groups they accept no money
from any government but rely on the
support of informed dedicated people
just like you so if human rights are
important to you visit HRW org slash
majority make a donation and support
it's vital work around the world when
you do not only is your gift tax
deductible it will be matched dollar for
dollar until 2019 that means your
donation will go twice as far to advance
justice and defend the basic dignity of
people who need it most
again that's HR w org slash majority and
one of today's sponsors is Skillshare
right now as I'm on vacation I am I will
I guarantee you I have now probably
watched three to four like different you
know essentially classes I don't I can't
vouch for what I've watched but I'm
pretty sure I've done the accounting at
this point I have not done the
meditation refused and I bet I've
noodled around a little bit it's gonna
do that Google Analytics but more
accounting I think and Photoshop was the
other one I want to do hopefully I've
done that by now and the first 500
people who go to SK l dot s H slash
majority are gonna get two whole months
of totally free access to skill shares
entire library of super quality online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online learning community that
offers courses on everything we're
designed to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
and everything in between they're
Skillshare courses for everyone you'll
have no problem finding courses that's
gonna be useful to you both in your
personal and your professional life you
want to sharpen your skills or something
you already love doing you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare it's got you covered their
courses for entrepreneurs courses on
computer coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages that's
what I want to do Spanish I keep saying
that but now is the time I think
Photoshop you name it you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single
course offered by Skillshare by just
going to sk l dot s h / majority that's
two free months think of all the things
you can do and learn in two months
again that's sk l dot s h / majority i
put a link underneath this video if
you're watching on youtube if you're
listening put it into the podcast
description alright we're gonna take a
quick break
when we come back credulity a cultural
history of us mesmerism with Emily Ogden
on the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
Emily Ogden she is a an associate
professor of English at the University
of Virginia and author of credulity a
cultural history of us mesmerism Emily
welcome to the program thank you so much
Sam it's great to be here I have to tell
you I've gone through five decades now
believing that the word mesmera
mesmerism meant something I I didn't
realize it came from a person yeah yeah
it comes from a friend Anton Mesmer who
invented a science that he called animal
magnetism and he thought that he could
direct an invisible fluid into people's
bodies and heal them but people who
didn't think he could do that started to
make fun of him and call it mesmerism
and said after his name and that's the
name that stuck that is that's that's so
what is so what is mesmerism I mean as
as defined as a sort of I guess a meta
description of what franz mesmer was
doing so the the fastest way for us to
get at it today is to say that it was
hypnotism except that it started before
hypnotism and it's the ancestor of
hypnotism but when we go to see a stage
hypnotist today or if we even go to see
a therapeutic hypnosis today like
somebody who would help us stop smoking
they're practicing something very
similar to what mesmerist practiced in
the 18th and 19th century so what they
would do is they they would make various
gestures sometimes stare straight into
people's eyes in a in a way that we
might call mesmerizing in our
sense of the word and then people would
go into these trance-like states where
the effects really varied maybe they
would do foolish things like people do
when they're hypnotized on stage now
maybe they would find that they're
they're sort of mysterious illnesses
started to feel better some of them even
said that they could become clairvoyant
and so is it was a range of different
activities but all of them had to do
with the idea that this bond with the
mesmerist may be mediated by a strange
fluid gave you unusual abilities and
sometimes gave the mesmerist control
over you I had thought I mean I guess if
I if you had asked me a couple of weeks
ago I would have assumed that this was
part of a tradition that that went that
that was thousands of years old in some
fashion like that it that it had
something to do with you know witch
doctors or shamans or something to that
effect
is it the that there was a certain
amount of show involved in this that
made it different or was it that that
that dynamic of just like one person
being able to sort of impact another
person as opposed to one person just
doing it because they've taken I don't
know some type of hallucinogen or so
yeah well it's a really good question
because it it actually is a question
people have been asking since the very
beginning when Franz Anton Mesmer showed
up and started shooting animal magnetism
into people's bodies the people who
wanted to debunk him said this is just
shamanism and it's what's been done by
quote/unquote primitive people for since
time immemorial according to these these
debunkers and then mesmerist themselves
would say well we actually were not just
recycling the practices of shamans and
and as you said witch doctors we are
subjecting those to a new rational
approach so we're doing what those
priests thought they were doing through
magic we're actually doing through
science so so it is according to both
sides both the debunkers and the
petitioners
like magical practices but in one case
you know the debunkers think it's like
them in that it's a fraudulent version
of them and then the practitioners say
it's like them in that it's a scientific
version of them sort of like we would
say chemistry is a scientific version of
alchemy
that's that dynamic I think is the one
that I find just really fascinating the
the relationship between the
practitioners and the debunkers and it
almost is like it gets to the point
where the it's like a snake eating its
own tail at one point it sort of feels
like and and we'll get there I want to
because this has you wrote an opinion
piece about Donald Trump in the New York
Times that I'd like to sort of land on
in a minute because that is there's a
lot of incredible insight I think to
understand this dynamic and how from a
political sense we can capitalize on it
which is in some ways also reminiscent
of the book in the story so yeah I mean
so tell us a dynamic of that like
there's Dodds and Grimes I think and
there's also um stone and bracket like
just you can choose whichever dynamic
you know whichever I guess a couple you
want but yeah give us an example of that
dynamic as you know we go past the the
Benjamin Franklin debunking Mesmer yeah
it's it's exactly as you say the really
interesting thing about mesmerism is
that you sometimes find that the
practitioner and the debunker are saying
almost exactly the same thing that
mesmerism n' is an art of deception but
for one that makes it a fraud and for
the other that makes it a legitimate
science so so let me talk about the the
people that i talked about in my New
York Times piece which is titled Donald
Trump mesmerist and those are as you
said J Stanley Grimes and Jon bovi Dodds
and from a certain perspective these
guys both end up being mesmerized
but Grimes starts out as a debunker so
what Grimes did was that he watched this
other mesmerist a third guy whose name
was jr. Buchanan mesmerizing people and
Grimes said to himself the physical
series underlying this practice are
complete bunk what Buchanan claimed he
was doing was that he was touching
different parts of the skull of the
subject and as a result he would elicit
these different performances of
personality so he would get a big tough
guy to pretend to nurse and fondle a
child by touching a certain part of his
brain and he would get a woman who was
known to be timid to be quite strident
by touching another part of her brain
and of course they're sort of gender
stereotypes that he was playing with
here and what Grimes said was there's
nothing to do with touching parts of the
brain he's indicating to the subjects
what he wants from them and he's getting
it and that's what we would call
hypnotic suggestions so this is a real
phenomenon that you can you can get
people to kind of fall into line with
what you're saying by telling them a
certain story about it but Grimes didn't
stop at debunking he started actually
doing these things on stage too but he
was sort of trying to show that Buchanan
had the theory right wrong but then he
started to develop his own theory right
yeah just add this is yeah this is we're
talking about the 1850s here no yes yeah
yeah it's important to say this is not
going on now although it almost seems
like it could be but yes I want to just
make explicit the difference here while
Buchanan is basically saying there is a
completely physical a biological
explanation for what's happening with
the behavior of these people I'm
pressing a certain part of the brain and
I'm triggering it it's a physiological
response on some level whereas whereas
Grimes is debunking it by saying no this
is just simply such a psychological
almost trick if you will well it would
be nice if it were that simple but it
wasn't quite because Grimes actually
thought there was a physiological
response
- but he thought it was much simpler and
didn't have to do with certain areas of
the brain he thought it had to do with
just one area of the brain and so the
whole scientific cachet of Buchanan's
idea would have just dissolved at a
touch if Grimes was right because I'm
the whole point for Buchanan was that he
could localize parts of the brain almost
like we would do with an fMRI now
through mesmerism Grimes was saying no
you can't do that but then the third
person came along Dodds
Jon bovi Dodd just sort of dropped the
whole question of whether this was true
or whether this was false the fact that
grinds with a debunker and he took
grinds his new version of the practice
put a new physical fluid back in and
just ran with it as a new form of
mesmerism and grinds spent a good part
of the rest of his life trying to get
people to quit listening to Dodds and
realize that Dodds had plagiarized and
at the same time reversed him and taken
his debunking out and no one really
seemed to care so on these different
sides the positions that they were
actually articulating or saying out loud
were so similar that a mesmerist could
pledge or plagiarize a deep bunker and
yet on some level they were meant to be
opposites you know one was a skeptic and
and the other wasn't and so that's the
dynamics that most interest me in the
book how do we get this practice that
looks exactly the same whether you're
debunking it or you're doing it and I
mean let's talk about it from the the
per sec the % the perspective of the the
audience okay and and and and maybe
before we get that we should maybe also
talk about Charles poen who you who I
guess found a different application
for this stuff right like I mean the
weird is there a different like when we
see this let's talk about the
applications in the relationship with
the audience I guess because in some
ways it seems to be like I'm putting on
a show or or you know we're an exhibit I
guess of you know a biological discovery
and then in other areas it's used in
sort of like very practical application
supposedly that's right yeah good point
so the first application was medical
cure sort of like people thought that
they could cure diseases at this time
possibly by applying electricity to
people's bodies they thought they could
use mesmerism to cure people and plan
who's the founder of mesmerism and was
active founder of mesmerism in the u.s I
should say and was active about 15 to 20
years before grinds and Dodds and
Buchanan he did cures he did do some
lecturing to large audiences but nothing
like the big theatrical displays that
that you would see later and the other
thing that it was used for - and this
was really important use in the 19th
century much as we might want to dismiss
it now was in order to produce
clairvoyance so there were very famous
usually women who when they were
mesmerised they would become able to see
things that they couldn't see at other
times and people would go and ask them
questioned and and and ask them to
diagnose their illnesses ask them in one
case at least this was imagined what the
price of cotton was in the south before
the news could actually get there by
newspaper from the south to the north so
so the uses were really really varied
and some of them are still continent
with what we think of as being the
mainstream use of hypnosis today that
it's expected that the stage spectacle
or a cure and some of them are less so
like clairvoyance I was I was interested
too in poisons using it or attempted to
use it for basically his I want to say
workers but it's really the slaves I
mean - yeah I mean yeah just let me just
mention that you know just tell us about
that just briefly because he was a
patient owner himself plan was French
and he was born in the French colony of
Guadeloupe and he learned about
mesmerism in medical school in France
and then he returned to Guadeloupe where
he saw his fellow planters mesmerising
their enslaved laborers and so he seems
to have seen it as a kind of a labor
management technique when he brought it
to the US he brought it to factory
cities almost as though
thought it could be used as a way to
pacify or control workers in the US
although it never was applied on an
institutional scale supposedly I'm sorry
maybe it was never written down we
certainly have no evidence that it was
applied on an institutional scale and so
all right so let's move forward so after
i meanwe hi does this just keep like the
cycle keeps chasing itself or how does
the the field if it was were developed
from there well it does sort of keep
cycling for many decades and then what
seems to happen is less that mesmerism
is finally established or debunked which
was what people were waiting for that at
one point or another one side would win
out instead it gets absorbed into Sam
spiritualism which was a practice of
going into a trance and contacting the
dead and sometimes speaking as the dead
or writing as the dead so when we think
of spirit mediums that's basically what
we're thinking of so mesmerizing was
absorbed into that practice it was
absorbed into into other 19th century
and early 20th century occult practices
and in that sense it's you know
distantly come down to us today and in
the ways that those those various occult
practices are still alive it just sort
of lost its grip on people on both sides
as a as a question that had to be
debated as spiritualism became the the
more pressing concern could people
contact the dead or couldn't die so all
right so I want to just take a slight
detour it's a little bit different for
this show we generally just talk about
politics but I think that there is a
relationship here and particularly based
upon sort of a a an online version of
politics that that are occurring I you
know the relationship between
secularization and modernity and the
sort of the the tension that was there
with people wanted to become
and secularized on some time
particularly in this era and wasn't just
happening in the United States I mean we
see it like you know with the
emancipation of the Jews in in Germany I
mean across the world the 19th century
in many respects became and you know in
in and obviously the there was an
antecedent in the in the day and the the
centuries before but this notion of how
do you take the what was a religious
impetus and secularize it and and and
much of it is that and and because I
want to get to a quote from the the coda
I guess because it is eerily reminiscent
of like what I've experienced in sort of
talking about New Atheists online and
sort of where they do but but but just
discuss that a little bit for us because
it's that that tension and how sort of
secularism in some ways took the husk if
you will of religion in some ways and
just refilled it with something else
yeah that's a really interesting
metaphor you know the way that I think
of it is that secularism is this thing
that's never fully achieved except at
the moment when it's debunking religion
I guess that's that's one way that you
might put it and so and they should
maybe even say less religion than bad
religion because there are some kinds of
religion that in a secularist framework
can look perfectly fine and perfectly
rational but other kinds that that don't
so mainline Protestantism in the u.s. is
usually relatively compatible maybe up
until the point of the New Atheists with
them with a secularist consensus or
things like mesmerism aren't the way I
think of it is that if you want to be
secular you need to find a credulous
dupe who you can exercise your
secularism on so that you can say that
guy is still pre-modern but I'm not I'm
over here I'm the modern one and that's
what mesmerist in effect offered as a
package deal in their practice they said
you know we're going to take these
subjects that we mesmerize and we're
going to work on them in exactly the
same way that bad religion has always
worked on people but we're going to let
that position that we're occupying of
working on those people be a scientific
one we're going to have a science of
duping people a science of using
credulous people and so it really
captures for me what is often present in
a secularist moment which is that
religion is still there it's just been
placed in scare quotes or it's been
contained and deployed and pointed out
in these particular ways yeah I mean let
me read that quote and which I think
eases that out a little bit too there is
no special reason why you'd be freer
from your Idol when your Idol is your
freedom of choice than when it is your
little wood and God the problem with
that the empowerment argument is it
assumes that freedom is a better master
mm-hmm like the idea of your you're
throwing the yoke off but whatever it is
you're using to throw your yoke off it
becomes your new master that's right
yeah and usually when we think of
ourselves as free agents or as having
self control you know we're identifying
ourselves with that controlling part of
ourselves but there's another part of
ourselves evidently that's under control
and so the two are always going to be
present you don't have control without a
controlled thing and as you were reading
in that quote I don't know if we want to
assume that the various different types
of control whether they are spiritual or
religious or occult or whether they are
secular and rational and having to do
with agency I don't know if we want to
assume that their structure is totally
different or that they don't have
anything to do with each other I mean my
just from my experience and seeing these
arguments as they play out that
rationality is sort of wielded as almost
this sort of magical device that as soon
as you you say that your argument is
rational it immediately is you know the
functional equivalent of like Oh
reason why I'm King is because God said
so yeah yeah there can be two and this
is something I talk about in the book
there can be a real pleasure in being
the debunker so the some of the earliest
debunking is about mesmerism like
science had to do with debunking
Perkin ism which was a way of curing
people by holding metal wands to their
body and one guy tried to show that this
was false by painting some wood and you
know rods to look like metal and then
holding them to people's bodies and
showing people would respond in exactly
the same way that they did to the metal
and he he remembered applying these
wands with what he called neck romantic
gestures while trying not to laugh and
so you can see the enjoyment of the
debunker and that quote you know that
it's really fun to be the one who knows
and the one who's rational and the
easiest way to enjoy that pleasure is to
find somebody else who can be the one
who doesn't know and the one who isn't
rational and then just pointed that
person I mean and to be fair I think to
a certain extent we do this on this show
or I do this on this show about you know
a significant portion of the population
who I think does not you know that can
be categorized in a bunch of different
ways that I just think that you know we
who listen to the show are smarter than
them and they're doing it wrong and yeah
yeah we don't do it I mean you know we
all do it to some extent and I think I
think I do it too and I I think that we
do it on the left and we do it on the
right but it's worth thinking about what
the benefits are of just occupying that
stylistic position and we do see it you
know at first in our sort of recent
political moment it seemed like it was
going to be the left move to say there's
those people who don't have possession
of the truth and and we're the ones who
do but but now it's being practiced on
both sides and it's um it's it's the
surprisingly portable little move to
make as mesmerist saw as soon as
somebody made it against them they made
it against somebody else in
they made it back against that person
and and it it's um it's a kind of a
style as well as a set of facts and and
the style can sometimes be pretty
disconnected from the facts I want to
talk about Trump because you have some
fascinating insights in your in your
editorial about Trump along these lines
about the the idea of exposing Trump's
lies in some ways whether you know he's
conscious of it or not
plays into his hands or its ease because
the the the the followers of Trump or
the supporters I guess you could call
them like him because he's on their side
like he is yeah he's on that sort of
like circle of debunking and we saw this
during the campaign right he's like I
know these guys because I've dealt with
the politicians I know how corrupt they
are I know how duplicitous they are
because I'm actually part of how you
know I was part of that process but now
I'm letting you into that process I'm
not ending it it's just like now I'm
doing it on your behalf yeah that's
right I should be clear I think it's
really vital work because it journalists
do when they got check you know what I'm
as a scholar I'm deeply committed to
fact-checking whenever I make a claim in
my own writing I do the best that I can
to make sure that it's true but I do
think that it's worth explaining why it
doesn't matter there can be this yeah
why can't why why doesn't it right why
isn't there a huge why doesn't the
ground just start to shake when some of
these lies are exposed because sometimes
it seems like it really should and and I
think mesmerism does provide a way to
think about that that if you just
believe that you're living in a world of
lies and Liars then the only person who
could possibly be telling some part of
the truth is the person who at least
admits to having lied before and the
only person who could possibly help you
or be a reasonable guide and protector
for you is someone who understands how
to lie it's sort of like on it
effective show that you know your cop
can't be a Pollyanna he or she has to be
someone who understands the underside of
life and I think I think Trump is as you
say consciously or unconsciously I have
no idea I don't know what his his
conscious strategy may or may not be but
I think he is benefiting from some kind
of dynamic like that and and and I like
in that piece where he wrote instead of
being one of the dupes you could be one
of the mesmerist it's as if Trump is
saying all you had to do was sign up for
a private class and then that's
basically Trump University right like
that was literally I don't yeah that
would have been a good thing to put in
that would have been great I mean that's
basically what I have lived this life of
you know semi corrupt real estate
practices and for an extraordinary
amount of money I can teach you how to
be just as corrupt yeah yeah I mean I
think there might be a worldview out
there where there are only scenes of
deception and that's that's what you're
living all the time yet people are
trying to take advantage of you if not
actually outright lie to you and and the
only way to be on top is to be the
deceiver instead of the deceived and
this is something that I try to explain
in my book through the work of a lot of
other scholars of specularity who have
actually seen that as a kind of key part
of the secular that they you're always
the dupe or the or the or the conman in
effect the the manipulator the puller of
the strings and and you want to make
sure that you're the puller of the
strings even if that means that you have
to practice a little deception of your
own well just I mean lastly like what
what of the dupes though I mean what
like yeah because yeah I mean there's
there's a lot of a decent amount of of
clinical research about that that says
25 percent of North America is consists
of right-wing authoritarians a smaller
amount are left-wing authoritarians but
they they are the sort of the classic
dupes for this type of situation right
the whole story
is not just the the the guy or gal on
stage it's those people in the audience
who you know for whom this fulfills
something what what what what do you
have to say about those people well in
the book it gets a little complicated
and here the parallel is not so helpful
I think in understanding the present
moment or maybe it is but in a way that
I don't yet know how to tease out in a
lot of cases when it when you actually
look at someone who is the quote/unquote
dupe of a mesmerist that person is
actually controlling things in his or
her own way and has his or her own
agenda and it's getting his or her own
needs met in various ways by the
situation so for example there's a
clairvoyant who I talked about Lorena
Brackett who was a middle to lower-class
blind woman in Providence Rhode Island
who ended up having these incredible
gifts as a as a clairvoyant traveler she
would travel in spirit to other cities
and some people at the time would have
called her a fraud and some people would
have called her the dupe of her
mesmerist but you could also say that
given the range of very limited options
available to her as a blind woman in
1830s New England
mesmerism was actually not the worst she
did these kind of improvisational
performances she had the opportunity to
talk to some interesting people she
lived in some interesting places as a
result and so sometimes when we really
look at the at the thing from the dupes
perspective it it fractures into a range
of individual motivations that are not
so easily described as just some idiot
conned by a mastermind there's some
element maybe of of hope as sort of
maybe perverse as it is if you have a
champion right there's theoretically
some hope that they're going to that
you're going to win the that the dupe
when you mean yeah but I'm not sure yeah
I mean you sign up for a movement there
has to be you know even if it's around
this guy it is I guess it gives you some
sense of empowerment yeah that's right
and and sometimes at least with the
mesmerist I think this is this is
different when the person we're talking
about is the President of the United
States so again I don't think the
parallel holds up so well here but
what's the message you know these were
these were not people who had an
enormous amount of social or political
power they were generally a bit more
powerful than the subjects that they
worked on but not even always that and
so there was there was room for some
give-and-take and some improvisation in
the actual application of these these
practices and in a lot of cases and so
so there's there's some hope there for
at least the the dupes so to speak of
mesmerist if it if it doesn't I don't
see my way fully to up to getting hope
about the present out of out of that
situation no but definitely for the
mesmerist subjects there was there was
the possibility that it would turn out
better for them than then debunkers
thoughts are the dupes just the people
who are directly impacted by the
Mesmer's or the dupes the people who are
watching the person who's being you know
a subject of a mesmerist you know I
think that this idea of a dupe it only
came up in debunkers accounts of course
you know mesmerist didn't see it this
way in quite incredibly and and they
could really vary so there were some
debunking --zz where people said that
the mesmerist was the dupe and the
clairvoyant was the mastermind and then
as you say sometimes it was that
audiences had been conned by the
mesmerist and the clairvoyant together
or by just one of them so so that too
was a moving target it really depended
on who the particular debunker was who
was applying that kind of language to
the situation and maybe it's just a
function of history I mean we could all
end up being the dupes yeah if things
yeah
we yeah where we look back at practice
like mesmerism now it there's there are
a lot of elements of it that just don't
that seem really unpersuasive on their
faith because of our current
understanding of the brain or of
magnetism and electricity and a lot of
those things at the time even to people
who didn't believe in mesmerism to to a
lot of them those things seemed at least
superficially plausible in a way that
that this has to do with with historical
change for sure
Emily Ogden the book is credulity a
cultural history of us mesmerism thank
you so much for your time today we'll
put a link to your book at a majority
dot F M and once again I appreciate it
thank you so much Tim it's been a
pleasure it is my pleasure to welcome
the program we still have Alex Perrine
of splinter news editor of politics the
splinter news here with us of course
Michael and Brendon and Matt are here
but I'd like to welcome to the program
Jake Flores he is a comedian also a
co-host of maybe my favorite named
podcast good one ha damn America hi Jake
welcome to the program and I should say
that I first heard about your story from
splinter news which I had I had had
forgotten of course but so so okay
before we get into you telling us about
yourself well actually why don't you
tell us about yourself
you're a comedian you host pod AM
America what would what happens on pod
dam America um I started pod dam America
about a year ago after Charlotte's book
kind of went down and I found myself you
know doing what I do as a comedian I've
been a fan of her you know a little over
a decade now and it's kind of been
acting for a long time also you know
Maithili involved in a sort of
burgeoning leftist movement it's
happening in America right now and I'm
invested in it and I found myself sort
of fighting a lot sort of you know using
platforms like these
and Twitter to kind of put information
out that I thought was important but the
night I sort of realized what some
publishing stuff
I mean algorithm just you know fades
whatever you're writing away so I
started as a project to just sort of you
know be a part of sort of the new left
because in my opinion like it's a new
idea and I kind of apes like what
chopper chop house is doing and those
types of people are you know huge and
successful I just kind of thought that
uh you know if we're gonna have an
actual movement in this country there
should be like as many leftist comedy
outlets as there are straight-up liberal
comedy outlets you know shouldn't be
like a singular idea so I kind of
thought of it as just you know doing my
part in from in my my little area of
expertise into via the ring you know I
started off by doing some episodes about
on Tifa because I just noticed that it
suddenly this thing that I kind of know
about was in the news nobody else knew
about it so you know we started from
there and we we figured out a way to
make it funny if they get kind of
interesting and you know just doing what
I can I suppose sounds good and so you
you tweeted something out night I know
that there's a sort of a danger of
people who are comedians tweeting things
can sometimes get you in trouble but
with that said I think what went down
with you is a lot scarier than when it
went down with me frankly let me read
this tweet of yours from May 5th 2018
and you write okay here's how Cinco de
Mayo works in 2018 why people are
allowed to culturally appropriate on the
condition that you helped destroy ice
you kill one ice agent and you get to
wear a sombrero two kills and you get to
wear a poncho we did appreciate that
you're angry at the policy blade
Congress so now Jake was it some type of
joke we put the scroll underneath here
everything is satirical that one time we
just wrap that all right underneath all
right so so you tweet this out on Cinco
de Mayo I know did you have other Cinco
de Mayo tweets or other tweets talking
about ice um probably it was kind of on
an ice chick that day you know that was
probably a big one
I a lot have a bit I came up with was uh
drink these big cans and but ice and
yelling uh polish ice well I drink them
that was pretty fun like that that
sounds like something that like they
would maybe even contemplate using as an
online campaign I feel like that's like
that's like the that's like the teens
version of was I where's my beer I
abolished all the ice you can have all
this stuff do incidentally so all right
so you tweet it out and how does it do
does it get to get a lot of retweets on
this do you get like what was your ratio
it was interesting because you know I
just I I'm an extrude the online
millennial you know so I just tweet
every other thought that goes into my
brain I use the Internet of a stress
scratchpad like I was using this as a
way to remember it so I could work it
out as a bit later on
the whole thing that happened I got a
great 12 minutes out of it so it
can occur sorry yeah you can so uh okay
cool so what's interesting though is
that it was pretty well received but I
didn't have anyone correctly respond to
me and say anything negative like it I
got retweets I got shares on Facebook
everyone kind of laughed a couple oh you
know like playing the fire there but
nobody really came at me and the post
didn't get taken down which leads me to
believe that it probably didn't get
reported by another user because when
you get reported by another user the
platform flags the post because now it's
a liability right you seem to have had
some experience with this personally
pissed someone off and so you know
nothing happened until 9:00 a.m. the
next day with a Fed kick on my daughter
and ease into this so you're seven with
Bailey so alright you're now I assume if
you're a comedian it's 9:00 a.m. you're
sleep right so you're asleep and I
assume also you don't have a kid or
anything like that so you're totally
asleep and what and and how does just
like do you get a doorbell knock is your
buzzer somebody slide a note under your
door what happens okay so this is kind
of pertinent to the story I don't live
in a regular apartment I live in a loft
which is like a bunk house situation
it's a of a factory and a part of
employment is not really residential and
nothing to label it's really hard to get
into building when I order food I'm
seamless that you know they don't know
where it is we had to come downstairs
because even if they get inside which
they can't there's no numbers in the
pores or anytime it's graffiti
everywhere
and so it's very odd that they found me
within a day and I will know oh is this
like are you are you is it like a
squatter situation I mean or do you not
want to let's skip that it's it's not
it's a cup waffle aw it's just you're
allowed to live in rstudio basically in
New York until they destroy this wall
and a beer too right exactly but it so
with the fennel you do you get your mail
there yeah
I usually get stuff set to wherever I'm
working though because very reliable
because there's all sorts of crazy
people running in and out all the time
and mails technically works I'm just
curious as to how did they track down
how did they track you down uh I don't
know this doesn't raise a lot of
questions about like this real estate
and like cell phones and things like
that because like not only do they you
know where I lived I would be there
which I'm not always there I'm traveling
around I often don't sleep home you know
my guess would be my phone but anyone
say I suppose now so they also sort of
just talk to I don't know like the the
people that owned the building or
something I mean there is record of
meeting there it's not a complete spot
or anything but it's odd that they were
able to pull it off that quickly so
they're knocking on there they've got
into the building somehow and they're
knocking on your apartment door or loft
door and do they just knock I mean what
are you like what do people knock on
your door at 9:00 a.m. often is that the
first time that's ever happened people
knock on my door is the thing like this
is not an apartment where people are
Walker and you know ask each other for
cups of sugar and stuff like that I I
woke up and so you know there's loud
banging on the door and so I would not
have answered it honestly if I didn't
think it was a repair guy I just waited
for this guy to show up and fix this
week I had in my ceiling I mean there's
pipes leaking all the place frats
everywhere
window fell out of the week before this
so I kind of just assumed in my groggy
hungover state that uh repaired and I
open the door lo and behold for DHS
agents they say Department of Homeland
Security I think when I'm holds up a
badge and from there a little karate on
like what happened because like what are
they wearing
don't tell me what they're wearing I'm
curious with it were they wearing those
like Parker's that have like DHS on the
back or what did they have any what
they're just wearing suits um not suits
just like kind of quirky button-downs
and stuff like that Mandy Patinkin on
homeland casual friday stuff was it a
Sunday it was yeah Sunday morning
tomorrow is Saturday Sunday morning was
the next day
well Gary ice agents had the weekend off
that's right tax dollars at least you
should have known it's not the repair
guy because he never comes on time I was
weekend that's how they break it that's
how they break out the assignment like
like all right the actual guys you've
got some families to destroy upstairs
right the ones you you don't look
intimidating at all you should go
terrorize this comedian kid off a
Twitter so okay so the four guys come in
and they just look dorky they're dressed
like the dad on some type of sitcom or
like you know right as I said Carrie and
Manny that works well so so what happens
they cup do you invite them in do what
what do you sit down at your table you
have a table in your apartment yeah okay
so here's how this goes down right they
they sort of you know they throw me off
open the door
is in their homeland security and I
can't remember whether they just came in
or I went like all right whatever just
let's just do this and a lot of people
will come
he's sort of libertarian like you know
you should have said am I being detained
[Laughter]
they don't are that stuff in the moment
like you kind of just have to do what
they're gonna do and I think you're that
stuff out in court later you know did
you why they were there I'm sorry did
you know why they were there like they
did you go like oh it's that tweet that
I had about about ice I figured that
pretty quick because they mentioned
something about ice they like asked me
about ice and then also another part of
this that kind of I think well I think
they kind of maybe were trying to
intimidate me on some level like wake
you up right the thing is I was out till
6:00 in the morning I was still drunk
like I was like to a pal of mine like
years ago Nick fallin got the F I called
on him and Nick Bolen you don't know is
your and your friend Mike Serna but you
think Nick Moore the head of DSA I do
like like guys who are like who have
never done with anything in their lives
and they would say like what do with
federal agents show up at your place at
nine o'clock the wording as you say
corey you are too confusing they can't
enter your dude quartering soldiers I
don't recognize the federal government I
am a citizen of the state of New York so
yeah so they start talking about ice but
it's not until they mention ice that you
think this is about the tweet so you
don't know immediately you're just like
must have been something I did what like
with are there other things that you
felt like you did that might have like
had DHS at your door
honestly I figured out
pretty quick I mean I don't really know
else I could have done I'm kind of a
scumbag but I'm not really like up to
anything this is anything else that was
across my mind like oh my god what did I
you know did I get away with this thing
in my past I mean on some level I think
their you know their job is to
intimidate you a little bit there and
there's an arm of the authoritarian
apparatus you know but I found myself in
a unique situation because the
government comes to knock your door you
know if you have kids or something it's
terrifying because you know what's gonna
happen right they tear you away from
your kids right but I'm a shitty
competing like I don't have anything so
I'm just I was like oh I got nothing to
lose so hung over I don't care if I die
right now you know me I've been actively
trying to get famous for 10 years for 12
jokes or you just deep burn a favorite
guys so all right so they start talking
to him what what do they say well you
know they start talking about the ice
thing and hey I do is we standing around
and I go one of them's like sit down and
I go yeah sure we'll sit down at my
table I have this table in my like blah
space living room where I record my
podcast right and tables got all these -
he looks the main guy looks at the
microphone but he goes are these things
recordings no well first of all I think
we've all learned a great lesson today
if you have a table full of microphones
and there's a knock at your door
turn on the recording device you know
don't like those old infomercials with
the clap you just like like one second
[Laughter]
[Music]
so okay so he says okay doesn't say they
sit down at that point I'm sorry do they
sit down after you've assured them that
the microphones are off yeah so we sit
down me and the main guy right so
there's this main guy and then there's
three other guys and the three other
guys aren't cameras and what they're
doing is they're going around that
apartment taking photos and I guess
building a case file on me which is
that's kind of interesting there's just
a fire no kidding for file lots of
people it's interesting to know you know
I know people who are in like Jay xx
stuff that know they have a file and etc
but like what is going on in this file
with me because you know for one thing
they're taking pictures of all the art
on the walls and it's not my stuff I
have this roommate was like bosses and
just like you know made the place look
like a core video and they smooth out
all that stuff is still there don't read
into the wall part of my whole you know
I'm not like weird the crow terrorist he
asks me eventually about you know about
about ice and about the tweet or
whatever and I tell them like I know you
know em you looked me up clearly you
know I'm a comedian
you know I'm joking so what we're we're
talking about here is you know what how
do we how do we deal with jokes because
if I had written a novel you know some
sort of dystopian future saying it could
be a question and if I had written a TV
show about this it might have been
successful this sort of stuff is popular
right now you know because it's a joke
we have this whole thing where we take
them literally and we don't you know
with the subtext context that everyone
now everyone who's gonna actually
understand when you're clearly joking
about something you know not to mention
the fact that you don't have
really the official capacity to allow
for the cultural appropriation nor the
mechanism to measure it right like you
haven't you haven't see you you're not
no he was he was actually la raza
co-sign do I have the Rossum and
where are the spread should I swear
you're keeping track of what's been shot
and who gets the culturally appropriate
be Pancho yeah that's what they're
taking the pictures looking they're
looking for the abacus where you do all
the numbers on it yeah yeah the
algorithm so I start talking about that
and he goes what yeah you know it's a
good point I'm like that's a good point
are you doing my part to go on the
concept it was insightfulness no no well
you know we know you're joking but
what's the wrong person heard this and
took seriously which by the way
hilarious like I know it's messed up
idea but if someone did their time to
wear a poncho then actually right this
guy on Twitter said I can wear a poncho
if I mean it seems like a high price to
pay but I'm willing to do it if that's
the standard when you you know ben
shapiro right now would be in some
serious hot water because he apparently
you know was the number one twitter read
by the guy who killed folks up in up in
canada at the mosque right and you know
ben shapiro is not funny he's not even
trying to make jokes when he says when
he's done all his video saying like this
is just a matter of time
1/2 of all muslims and radicalize
they're gonna kill your family
and this guy nor the corn work until the
corn are that tire the satire crawl he
doesn't have any other ignore the gothic
art on the wall guys so I am well we'll
get to how much these free speech guys
came to your rescue in a minute but so
okay so you
this with the guy in the guy says yeah I
mean it's good point but it's it's
possibly insightful you may convince
somebody out there who is humor
challenged to actually do this because
they think that they're gonna get to
wear a sombrero on Cinco de Mayo and and
then what so when he brings a
faithfulness thing I asked like well
then why aren't you kicking in Alex
Jones's door like Roseanne Barr because
I work at a pizza restaurant in New York
and yet daily pizza gave death threats
like a daily you understand it that's
how much power she actually has she's
not choking like people actually take
that seriously you know and so like they
kind of just but after a while and like
a fair point and I'm like you know well
then why are we having this whole
conversation but it does you know beg a
lot of questions about reseach how it's
like is it really free if it's only
selectively enforced no and I think I'm
being visited by these people because I
you know I've made fun of the government
and these free speech guys that imagine
that they're all going to get is it by
the government never will because they
believe all the same stuff as the
government you know it's really funny
how jealous allows free speech door
comedians probably are over their
fantasy you know you want to be Lenny
Bruce or whatever but anyway we move on
and we start talking about ice and I you
know I I it's um a question after a
while because at the end of as we start
digging near the end of this whole
conversation he asked me if I have any
questions for him like we're in a job
interview or something you know okay
well in closing um you know like what
how do you what are you here to defend
like what is the thing that ice does
that you sort of believe in because it
started going to this this logic after a
while this argument like well you know
how many interactions do you think I
have a daily basis but don't get to put
on the Internet gotta yeah and I've
talked to a million cops about this it's
the same argument they all use right
which is that there's some sort of
inherent Java that the Polly
that is good and for the community and
everything and these videos that we see
or design make you outraged and they're
you know they're only what happens 1% of
the time and I don't believe that
argument when it comes to tops but
that's at least a valid argument because
at some level the police you know it
says to protect and service out of the
cars you know but with their stated
mission is what people were against oh
hey right shouldn't exist only 10 years
old like this is an age old institution
or anything so asking that and he goes
oh I saw human trafficking and I'm a bit
of a little bit of a boned up on this
issue called cess of foster you're not
familiar yeah Jessa FASTA is a bill that
passed recently that was sold as
fighting human trafficking reality it's
extremely anti-woman extremely pro
patriarchy extremely anti sex worker
right well it's also it's also I mean
it's also a net negative in terms of
fighting trafficking because it drives
it further underground and basically
prevents a a mechanism that was out
there to sort of track where traffickers
were exactly and that's because it you
know it's not actually about sex
trafficking it's about like people with
the organizations that pushed it to
begin with are like right-wing Christian
organization that to also don't want
Cosmo to be sold like on shelves at
supermarkets right so this isn't about
this is about old gender patriarchy
stuff so they use this this scapegoat of
human trafficking to sell bills like
Cessna pasta if you look at everyone got
arrested after cess and foster everyone
got arrested was a sex worker who got
arrested for sex work for trafficking
right so it's pretty obvious how they
use these like switch screws right
immediately went when we told me that it
was like I know exactly what you're
doing I know exactly the argument that's
the same they used to fast Sesa
fox all right and he came to me and he
goes what's really all right everyone
sit down you know the bosses the
Department of Homeland Security the
human trafficking police
you know which is supposedly this is
their job and after a while they just
kind of like looked at each other
wrapped up and you know told me okay
well you know we'll be watching you and
make back another visit and a good look
at your tour hahaha you know pop humor
or whatever and then uh I work on with
my day and I told the story to Katherine
cooter over at splinter you know I did
chop know about it and stuff like that
that's unbelievable it's a way it's
amazing to have those guys since those
guys have since quit and they are now
they are now actively a triode dam
America do you have any have you talked
to a lawyer yeah I've talked to a couple
people some people with the ACLU etc
probably not as much as I should have
I've got some numbers and of my back
pocket over you know that whether this
could go extremely south it's just that
I you know I had to leave for a tour
immediately after this happened like I
already had a to look so I did go jump
in a pen and write across the country so
like I didn't really have a lot of
options for a you know for making a huge
long-term plan while I was about to be
working all day every day I I don't
really know exactly what I usually
should be preparing for because I'm
pretty sure I'm not gonna get revisited
by these guys you know it still is
always there in my mind
I don't know what what the legal I mean
I'd just be curious to hear what a
lawyer says about this I mean I guess
when they came to your door you did
invite the man by umpire law applies but
but but I think the real question is is
whether or not you have a First
Amendment case because this is actually
and I'm sure I'm sure you know you've
heard I'm sure Dave Rubin has reached
out to you and I'm sure you already
picked on the dog Rubin Show and I'm
sure all of these free speech warriors
user rights and the Alliance and ice has
a right to respond because circle the
way here's the here's the fundamental
difference between your situation and
every other situation that Dave Rubin
talks about it is a free speech question
when the government is involved period
end of story if somebody if a
corporation doesn't want you to speak
and say something when they hire you
they can fire you right away unless
there's any specific legislation against
that but it's only free speech obviously
when the government is chilling your
speech and I don't know how this could
be interpreted in any other way with
government agents literally agents of
the government coming to your apartment
after a tweet and saying should really
think twice about those type of tweets
if they've got a case that you're
inciting they should take you to jail
they should have him go in front of a
court and say this guy's inciting you
know the the death of federal agents I
think any judge would laugh it out of a
courtroom but yeah I think there's a
First Amendment a case here because I
mean it's well it's chilling its
chilling literally it's literally the
definition I guess Rubin would be
interested if your pizza place fired you
that's right but yeah I mean I think you
should I mean I I would I would follow
it up with the ACLU and and maybe
somebody hears this and you know reaches
out to you because it really does seem
like a perfect example of the chilling
of free speech I just wonder how many
other people this has happened to have
you have you heard from from anybody
else that has been through this
experience well yeah I mean there's
obviously a much more chilling story
about an activist that was jailed for
insane amount of time who's a story in
The Guardian about this guy and I can't
the name off the top my head but it was
Jail to take it off his family over
posts that were he's not a comedian but
they were last lives matter what a
colorful let use of language you know so
there's there's real you know there this
is really happening so when I was
talking to the DHS agent I asked him I
don't like why he was here and he said
well you know there are we have had
similar cases in the past that have been
more insidious and I asked him if
someone was doing material out there
because that's not okay with me
you know we're gonna Lenny Bruce okay
but the thing about this is that you're
right I mean this is actually if your
speech issue in that government is
involved when people talk about you know
the war on Rosa Han or whatever is in
your free speech issue that's not free
speech no the government isn't involved
you're exactly right that's just some
not wanting to you know pay you anymore
which they have told right to do I am on
the fence about what I wanted to further
because Mike it's with the police in you
know the past is if I can make this not
thing that's better for my general
safety but on the other hand I mean if
this is a you know this is something we
could have some sort of positive effect
well then yeah sure all going to make a
you know a kinks out of it
and make a story out of it because you
know it's absolutely true I just don't
know how you know if I'm I'm super into
the idea of risking just being jailed
over it I understand that you don't want
the you don't want the the late career
Jake Flores to be up doing a four hour
diatribe reading from a court records
can I just I just want to know the story
of this black lives matter activist he
was literally imprisoned over a Facebook
post he lost his house is separated from
his children and ironically you talked
earlier about like who's really inciting
things the information where the
apparently they said they learned about
the protests and what he was doing came
from Infowars content that they watched
that's right I remember that detail yeah
yeah so think about that sir and that's
and it's just like that's just like
Project Veritas videos being used in the
process j-20 yeah yeah
great that's also another reason why I
may not be keen on taking this case into
the heart of the system because I don't
a lot of faith in the system at this
point if you know the gang getting their
information from the wars and stuff like
that a dangerous thing to do
you know yeah I mean I think like you
know I just don't know I respect that
and appreciate that and understand that
but for folks at home the like even that
sentiment is a indicative of chilling
free speech I mean this is not it's it's
a crazy story and Jake I really
appreciate your you're sharing it with
us it's going to get a lot more exposure
when Ruben has you on a show I just say
that please note I do believe that some
level the the job of this branch of the
government was to come to me and to
intimidate me and they always do this
comedians because they scoop it like the
joke is gonna be me come back and going
well guys don't mess big bad government
they know exactly what they're doing I
definitely don't want that to be a
message of this even if I do what I'm
going to do one way the other at the end
of the story I mean the message of this
should be that this is a monstrous thing
you know I don't want the I mean the
whole reason I did what I did was well
as I said I thought to myself well I'm
in a position to be able to stand up to
this where people probably couldn't so
you know on to that degree I mean you're
right maybe I think to do would be to go
forward with this I just don't know
where it's going to go but uh yeah
definitely I definitely don't want
down out here I mean Jake it's a
great story I really appreciate it
it's your twitter handles at ferrule
jokes as which would also could have
been a tip-off to the to the ice agents
by trying you mean like people should go
rabid and and your website is feral
jokes calm people can go check out your
your your schedule as you as you go
around thanks so much for the time today
Jake I really appreciate it
yeah so dave rubin proves to joe rogan
that all of his economic theories and
his small lean government philosophies
are just literally mumbo-jumbo not even
not even jingoistic because he hasn't
even taken the time to learn the jingoes
now he's going to move into the cultural
realm where he's far more comfortable
he's a comedian he he's a social critic
and and you know he's a social critic
cuz he's wearing a black t-shirt now
yeah and and so here he is going to
explain to joe rogan the dynamic of
racism in this country and and here's
the thing is he when you talk about what
I guess you know identity politics is
about and and yes different people use
different definitions the one thing that
I've never heard anybody say is that
identity politics on the left or the
right is about knowing what the other
person is thinking right like like it's
not like I can divine what someone else
is thinking you never read Kwame Torres
book knowing what someone else is
thinking the roots of radical identity
politics in a racist America it's not
about knowing it's it's about
there are structural issues that exist
in society that based upon certain
elements of your identity will increase
the likelihood that your experience will
differ from others in this way right as
you pass through society your lived
experience broadly speaking not every
single same thing happens to every
single person but broadly speaking you
will experience things that are
different and and not necessarily even
totally unique but more common amongst a
group that you share certain
characteristics with he doesn't even
understand that part of what he's
bullshitting about which is like like I
say I mean the greatest argument as to
why people without government regulation
will do a subpar job at even their job
but here he is explaining to Joe Rogan
about racism a little bit like a little
lie I think nobody would even pick up on
it we don't think that's what they think
they're just misrepresenting I don't
think they're saying the apps the
opposite of the truth they just they
just look they're finding these little
categories like homophobia transphobia
homophobe a positive one second he's
talking Dave Rubens talking about his
tour with Jordan Peterson and he's now
going to make the argument go backwards
just a little bit that Jordan Peterson
can't be in any way homophobic because
he works in close proximity on this tour
with a gay guy being Dave Rubin I don't
know if I should say this before or
after Dave Rubin says this but he is
making the argument that could apply to
like you could hear from someone maybe I
don't know a couple hundred years ago
like I have Negroes in my home I have
Negroes in my home taking care of my
children you tell me I have a problem I
give them free boarding free food in
return for a little bit of work
I think I thought the FBI was homophobic
until I heard some rumors about Jade but
but here's Dave Rubin making that
argument not that his ideas are
promoting homophobia not that his the
the perspective he has on a transgender
of folk are a transgender phobic but
that like his close proximity to me is
proof look if you give me an opportunity
yeah yeah what's some bubble-headed gay
guy makes stupid money hand-over-fist
I'll do it I'm a pragmatist they're
finding these little categories right
homophobia transphobia homophobe he's on
tour with the gay guy trans folk there
are trans people that show up there and
I and I discussed it with him every
freaking night I asked you to be doing
so I basically do like 15 minutes stand
up up top he does an hour and a half and
then we do a QA together and we bring
out all of these things and every night
to clear it up and sometimes I'll have
people bust out their phones and I'll be
like why don't you guys record this
tonight let's get it out on Twitter
where he takes down the all right
because he hates the identity politics
of the right as much as the identity
politics of the left I mean I don't know
I think the reason we all focus on the
thing of the left is because it has
encompassed culture and media and
politics and what you're allowed to say
and and universities and all that so it
makes more sense to focus on that the
little sliver of it that's on the right
pause like track where he is in this
conversation the little sliver of
identity politics on the right is
governing the country now it is well
it's not just governing in the country
now it has been the governing principle
of this country since its founding since
before it was a country right I mean I
assume he's talking about white people
right I mean cuz it's like I don't we're
you know we're I think he's talking
about white people here and to say that
identity politics for white people has
not been the governing principle of this
country is just absurd we
we have example after example after
example after example I mean ad nauseum
on both societal and governmental and
institutional I think there's a lot
white identity politics a lot of people
could actually make the other argument
alright but let's I just wanted to just
like put a marker to get a sense of
where we are because he's talked a bunch
of mumbo-jumbo but the real problem is
the all the identity politics on the
Left which is apparently just you can
see it because what it involves is
critiques of Dave Rubin on his Twitter
feed but it's and all that so it makes
more sense to focus on that but little
sliver of it that's on the right
yeah it's shitty it's horrible you
should not look at your skin color as
some great thing that makes you better
or but it's not a right thing is racism
always a right thing like oh that
racists right no I think the left is far
more racist than the right at the moment
yeah why do you think that because
identity politics is based in racism you
happen to be white I know nothing about
you by the color of your skin I know
about Joe Rogan because I watched the
show it was it I could tell you a couple
of things about that guy who happens to
be white I can tell you that he doesn't
randomly get stopped in his car with any
type of regularity as he drives through
LA I I know that I'd I mean I've never
asked Joe Rogan that question I haven't
talked to Joe Rogan but I know that and
I know there's a huge amount of black
people who whether in a similar economic
class to Joe Rogan who in fact get
stopped in fact they're being part of
that class and driving a certain car is
the reason why they get stopped I know
that Joe Rogan has never never once in
his life stopped to think like hey did I
not get that job or did that guy react
to me that way because I'm white Joe
Rogan never had to say like hey is my
race and
some way inhibiting my opportunity when
he says small slice of the right I think
he's only acknowledging the Richard
Spencer's of the world who actively want
to make laws to oppress people of color
and he's not thinking about the fact
that the status quo is white supremacy
and if you don't do anything if you're
like a hands-off libertarian that is
supporting white supremacy because that
is the status quo right now I mean it's
it's it's always been and there have
been I mean even we have had systemic
and statutory repression of black people
for the vast majority of our our history
Dave Rubin should do a deep dive into
reconstruction yes - into the New Deal
or let's say into miscegenation many
people were to like the Nitty Gritty of
like race stuff but I guess I'm just
focusing more like the ideas level wait
continues anymore that's white
I know nothing about you by the color of
your skin I know about Joe Rogan because
I watch the show I listen to the show
we've done this several times and we can
print hours that we're gonna sit here
now we can dive as deep into any issue
and that's the only way that I can
sensibly judge you you say but the idea
that you will look at people that you
would look at a black person a black
person would be sitting there or a
Muslim person would be sitting there or
transfers and sitting there and you'd go
i have even the inkling of what you
think because of that immutable
characteristic that is actual racism
posit first off he thinks i'll did he's
like really first off there's nobody on
the left and I don't know maybe on the
right but I don't there's nobody on the
left who's going like I know what you
think I can name one on the right Jordan
Peterson when he says he talks about
pronouns he's saying it's like a
cultural Marxist plot and now when
they're oh they're attempting that's why
they're doing right these the word is
imparting its
there's a theory based on his ESP right
can we get that video but on the left
when I think I see a white person a
transgender person a Muslim person and a
black person I think is what Dave said
up there I do know I don't know the
specifics of these individuals but I do
know the likelihood broadly speaking of
what their experience is in our world
today I mean broadly speaking we were to
have 10 black people 10 Muslims 10 trans
people and and 10 white people and what
else did he say I can't remember
I could broadly tell you what a
significant portion of each one of those
has gone through I could list five
things that they probably experience in
the world like the trans person probably
has dealt with a job discrimination has
dealt with housing discrimination the
Muslim has probably gone around and
dealing with with cultural
discrimination and probably concerned
for his children or her children the
trans person is probably worried about
their their physical well-being
depending on where they they live of
course if they all live where Dave Rubin
lives there'd be much better shape he
lives in the bastion of liberalism that
he hates I would like to do this project
in fact I would pay for it here's my
challenge to Dave Rubin I want you to
move to rural Georgia or rural Alabama
now through the show from there do the
show from there take your message to the
people who will really appreciate it you
can show them look we able that don't
judge you by your reactions no way to
predict how they're gonna react right we
know they're not going to judge
you walk through town holding hands as
you should be able to do and of course
you there's no way to predict how the
people there I would never gain to to
generalize or in any way use my ESP to
predict how they're gonna react and this
would be a great way for us to all learn
there should be a great way for you to
face like to completely pawn those of us
who are skeptical about your politics
because you have made it really clear
that one of the staples of your of why
it is wrong for your ideological
perspective to be considered anything
other than a classical liberal you would
have for whatever reason rely on
identity politics your personal
relationship with your spouse to prove
that you are not a right-wing purveyor
of right-wing thought I would say let's
put that to the test you're right
there's no way for us to possibly know
how these folks in rural Alabama rural
Georgia are going to react to the new
couple that is moved to town and hold
hands and are publicly affectionate like
any other couple might be heterosexual
couple may I just say I want I mentioned
this yesterday but I just want to say
again in the conversation on the Baker
case which we didn't even get to one of
the lions and I am paraphrasing but not
terribly not not by much he said his
Dave Rubin said something to the effect
of it I know people like to get into the
legal details of it snakes he's talking
about the court case to be fair that's
what law Fair's motto is
he's really running fat coke honey right
now it's unbelievable it really is just
unbelievable of to mash up that Dave
Rubin video with the Stephen Colbert
clip where he's like I don't see race
I'm told that I'm white and I guess I
got to take people's word for it
although I have you challenged Ruben to
it debates them I will reiterate that I
will debate Dave Rubin in any context on
any show in any medium and or any place
at any time in in I feel bad any rules I
feel bad for Dave so let me help them
out here Dave you're an idiot
so Sean just tweeted a Anti Fattah
wonders why trubin report who's willing
to go so hard debating the demerits of
the postal system with Joe Rogan is
unwilling to engage in a debate with Sam
cedar let's see who gets owned in a
tete-a-tete between coke money and
Casper mattress money there you go
bingo do you want it do you guys
remember why Reuben got mad at us the
video that we loves to wear my joke was
coming from yeah those two groups I
still think is mostly Jesus's fault even
though Jesus probably would have been a
lot of Muslims
[Laughter]
like I say do five minutes worth of
reading you know God
that's why do we be illiterate like this
could be like maybe but not enough time
to understand that Jesus would have
known them literally just
chronologically and I won't get a guy
like that I'm just like I'm jealous of
the fact that he doesn't have kids you
know he works with his spouse like he's
got you know he's got plenty of time to
dedicate to his business and to just
like to set aside take five minutes off
of the time in the gym and just like I'm
gonna read five minutes worth of stuff
about what I'm gonna talk and try
audible Dave yeah maybe in real cultural
leaps right now about people who could
read or not read and also possibly
ablest okay
