I mean to be honest I'm surprised he's
saying anything else but talking about
Ilan Omar to be honest with you right
because she's got she she is like the
trifecta for him a woman a Muslim and a
person of color nailed it
and she's like would definitely kneel if
there was a if she was a football player
there's no doubt about it here he is on
it's also sort of strange that he's on
local news he's out in full campaign
mode here he is trying to turn in
Minnesota red come on Minnesota channel
5 in in Minnesota KSTP
TV interview here it is come on Omar
sent out a release last night saying
that your tweet from a couple of days
ago has led to direct threats on her
life any second thoughts about that
tweet and the way it was produced and
put together no not at all look he's
been very disrespectful to this country
she's been very disrespectful frankly to
Israel she is somebody that doesn't
really understand I think life real life
what it's all about
it's unfortunate she's got a way about
her that's very very bad I think for our
country I think she's extremely
unpatriotic and extremely disrespectful
to our country one final question
Thursday it sounds like the redacted
multi positive for one second understand
he is responding to her claim that she
is getting death threats
she is a congresswoman the United States
in the wake of his tweet she is getting
death threats and his response is to
blow all the way past that something
weird about her he season this is
excitement sort of wobbling downs
besides incitement sorta justified
I'd have to say I could justified this
is the I mean I'm certainly the word I'm
gonna use I don't understand any other
word you can use other than incitement
that is so disgusting on multiple levels
down by the way to somebody who has
worked their way from being a refugee to
a Congress person doesn't whole life by
a trust fund baby real estate scam
artist that she doesn't understand life
I mean I I think I I think that the the
there's got to be a more aggressive
stance by folks like Pelosi and Schumer
for this type of stuff I mean it's just
I just don't understand you really
holding a door for that by going to a
packet absence that they haven't
properly guarded her Steny Hoyer was on
the continuum Franklin Trump said Pelosi
there wasn't show playing the middle and
so was Schumer absolutely it's
disgusting yep they I mean they really
they really have to get out in front of
this and it's too late because they were
well I should say they did get out in
front of it and they opened the door to
a lot of this and made it very very easy
and you know that's the other part of
the conversation we were having with day
and today is this there are sort of like
some more generic but now old-school
Democratic issues that are inhibiting
their success but then there's this
whole other sort of subset of like of of
where support for Israel comes in and
the just Islamophobia and exploiting
that it's it's very problematic however
remember the pipe bomb guy from just a
couple of months ago as well right
