you characterized the race to me before
we went on air about what's happening in
terms of like the the give me your
perspective on the race because this guy
plays I think he sees something and I'm
talking about Peabody judge and I think
it's what you were articulating today so
Pete I've covered the DNC chairs race
and to me the DNC chairs race was I
don't think people remember he ran he
did it yeah exactly so he ran and
everyone was like who was this guy and
what folks may not understand about the
DNC chairs race is very very similar to
this race it was a multi-way race 12
people and I don't even know what it was
at the beginning and it really whittled
down to power brokering and I think you
know this race is a little bit different
but when you go into Iowa for instance
and you're not in the top two you
remember what happened last time around
you know suddenly those votes become a
bargaining chip a tool but here we are
you know two months before the Iowa
caucus three months before the Iowa
caucuses and New Hampshire and
historically and other presidential
races the race has shifted drastically
in November like who's a front-runner in
October is not a front-runner or even on
the map in November this has happened
several times in history so right now
you have Joe Biden who's a suppose at
frontrunner he even calls himself that
he has nine million dollars cash on hand
that is extremely low it will not last
him to new New Hampshire's if he loses
in Iowa if he loses in New Hampshire and
his firewall is in South Carolina which
is where Joe Joe Biden is doing very
well right now that's an African
American base you know he may not make
it to South Carolina and if he loses the
narrative shifts and suddenly the power
dynamics shift who is going to probably
take off you know at least that's where
he sees his lane as people judge he's
he's raising money he's got a lot of
cash on hand his values align his staff
is former a lot of former Obama people
you see the overlap there I actually
don't see and I think this is what
Warren is trying to do by not answering
how much medicare-for-all is going to
cost because she doesn't want to be
labeled a socialist I think what she's
trying to do is really pull and she has
been
from the Biden support now let's look
back at the polls Biden those who vote
for Biden majority of people who choose
Biden first the majority choose Bernie
second so there's a real opportunity for
Bernie to swoop in but he has to be
aggressive in a smart way
not the way people who just was and in
taking swipes at everybody on stage but
really differentiating himself and and
calling out their strategy you don't
have to tack them but call out their
strategy Pete is um there's donar
overlap I think that a lot of Biden's
donors have gone to his side I think
Pete is looking to build his centrist
path as being the the new Obama keep in
mind even if he isn't the front-runner
he's probably can audition for for vice
president right from Indiana up on stage
is a gay man from Indiana debating you
know a very very Christian conservative
former you know governor of Indiana
exactly so there's a real narrative
there like this is the future and that
is the past I've always thought that
that was his strategy from the get-go
how he got there would be complicated
but now given that Biden's imploding
there's a real opening so it could be a
three-way race in January between Warren
Bernie and Buddha judge unless ironing I
think that that is because I think that
they there is a feeling because I don't
look I think the big money doesn't want
Warren I mean I don't even think they
take Bernie seriously I think they think
that Warren is the biggest threat that
they may may not be right I am you know
we will have a better sense of that I
think after Iowa frankly but but they
think regardless of who they think that
that left threat is I think they're
starting to realize Joe Biden is just
not gonna cut it
he's just not gonna make it and they're
looking they're searching around and
Budaj is the most obvious choice to
because he's he's the only one who's
raising money and Buddha judge must
realize this too because yesterday or
two days ago
we paid we played the a clip of Buddha
judge when he was on c-span saying that
Medicare for all was the compromise
position you had
on one hand a completely free market
situation on the other hand the NHS in
Britain and medicare-for-all was the the
compromise plan and of course now he he
doesn't feel that it is here is another
example now to be fair that was when was
that clip that that clip that was from
February it was a different time
yeah well this is February was a
different time right it's cold
it's like a winter but April it's also
another different time and April is
actually closer to where we are now
just to show you like how quickly this
guy can turn on a dime you know he's
like it looks like a compact car you can
really is a very high turning radius
it's not as straight tomorrow yeah here
is Buddha judge complaining about
right-wing frames being used against the
ACA and Medicare for all you know the
right did a pretty good job of shifting
the the basic terms of the debate
rightward over the last 30 or 40 years
in fact the ACA itself is a good example
right so you know in the seventies you
got people like Richard Nixon talking
about basically universal basic income
by a different name
by the Obama years we're doing a
basically conservative tweak to our
health care system that is characterized
by the right as sort of dangerously
leftist well looks a lot like Nixon's
plan actually yeah and and you know
cooked up in the Heritage Foundation and
and piloted by a Republican governor and
what's funny is you know single-payer
which is very much a compromise position
between nationalized medicine and fully
private payer and provider right a
system where you have a public payer but
a private provider that's the middle
ground and only now are we even
beginning to talk about it as something
Democrats can embrace let alone
something that we would consider
centrist while the majority the American
people actually think it's a good idea
wow you really seem to get it that's
gonna be a campaign ad I mean I hope so
if if if I was Bernie or Warren in the
next debate I would take that quote and
I would go who said
this and it was it me or was it
Elizabeth
or you know and that's what I would say
if I was Bernie Sanders and then
actually Pete it was you what is fair it
was when his uh his father the Marxists
professor was writing his talking points
but yet back in April well but I mean
that that to me
how does people to judge respond to that
I got smarter I don't know what a
nesting doll of total emptiness I'm
willing to kill people for money if it's
gonna get me elected well he he will
pivot I mean this is this is McKenzie
right consultant you know the guy who
talks about wholesome America and like
what inner DC Beltway he is a product of
the Beltway he's a product of Ivy Lee's
this is how he was trained he was
trained in the neoliberal art of you
know shifting on everything constantly I
mean he covered I remember asked him
about charter schools and he came up
with the best spin on charter schools
that looped back to why the DNC was not
there budget needed to be transparent
he's a good pivoter very good well we'll
see I I would be shocked if that doesn't
come up in the next debate because look
the way you know even the way to pull
Biden supporters is to go after bootie
ditch right I think you you're showing a
small set and you're just like you're
you're you're showing your skillset in
terms of being a fighter but you're not
going after the person who you know who
has the support that you want I mean I
that to me seems well that's what Colby
char is doing that's what that because
what Pete's doing yeah he doesn't want
Bernie's support you know he's trying to
show that he's a centrist you know sell
out and match ours just doing whatever
she's being told that she's the delaney
of the debates lately yeah but that's
the only way she gets any time it'll be
interesting to see if she gets even a
slightest bump do we have we seen any
polls after that did she get anything
out of that Washington Post says she was
one of the winner
besides some solid laugh lines you mean
well no she supposedly was the winner
according to everybody she's like one of
the winner list but I just what she's
going to win I think is probably
somewhere around nothing corporate media
is such trash she's gonna win the
corporate media pretend award
talking point aware of the year goes to
now
