[Music]
all right let's have a little bit more
fun a lot of people and my god is this
getting to Sam's head so there's a
little bit of a you know it's not all
roses for us but this is hilarious you
know there's a lot of people in the
conservative movement and it appears
that they're not happy about Steven
Crowder's just gutless Ness about his
shall we say beta miss Stephen this is
Jesse I hear from Sam that you want to
bake him that you have cold feet and
that you are beta where beta is this
shoe beautiful and by the way Sam said
he is an alpha male alpha male not a
beta male and that you are afraid to
debate him Steven uh-uh-uh-uh-uh
and that your father should have stopped
allowing you to be beta
you may say I'm Steven don't be afraid
don't be a beta male let me know how it
goes that's what I like about Reverend
Peterson is he still he's got a mentor
about him so you know he properly called
Steven cuz look we all heard the tape
Stephens of mega beta it's it's
embarrassing to even mention his name
wasn't us who came up with cold feet no
certainly not us third party party who I
think if I in I mean I don't know
anything about that third party but I
think they might be the type of person
that looks for the positive in people
yeah not not like us looking to make
like snarky little comics right not us
being like yeah I saagara would like to
had debate China but I need to call my
mom yeah bye dad jokes we mean literal
jokes about his dad right but his
relationship with his father his father
Matt
his father being like all I don't think
you want to do that son but I like how
Reverend Peterson says tell me how it
goes like after you've stopped being an
embarrassing beta check in what well cuz
people still have the expectation that
Crowder's not an incredible coward and
what might actually stand up in debate
and their message is the one that will
Kim what they don't know is Carter's not
going to because he's afraid and his dad
won't let him not good fits not got
another one tomorrow folks he's giving
him the benefit of the doubt the Anthony
scare Moochie one is still just oh god
love oh yeah they seem like they're
really enjoying doing these scare butyou
be we just watch the scaramouche again
I'm just just just indulge me for a
minute here has everybody already seen
the Scarab what you want good morning
and happy Sunday this is a message for
cold feet
Crowder and I got booked by Cinco
Sanders okay so listen up Steven quit
being a and debate Sam you got to
ask daddy for permission it is what it
is I know Sam if you got ask daddy for
permission it is what it is a Muslim
that whoever look if that's an ad-lib
SCARA Moochie is a genius if that was
written that is just such perfect
writing man
kudos to someone I got to say though I
mean you know what you know what made
scar emoji so brilliant is when you
listen to the tape where he said the
thing about Bannon what was great was he
wasn't rant he was just like look I'm
not Bannon I'm not trying to suck my own
 like he didn't he wasn't like
ranting and raving he just said it's
super matter of factly so he's guys got
good delivery daddy for permission it is
what it is if you got to ask daddy for
permission it is what it is I know Sam
ain't no teenager but you got a man
up and do the right thing don't be a
hack and a coward Crowder debates and
the alpha males the alpha males are back
okay you hear my way my wife just said
men are ridiculous a man oh wow I
thought they were splitting up no
they're back I guess he's just your
resistor let me put up the tweet from
the person who got that so we can give
him credit it's a really good
advertisement for the mooches cameo
abilities I must say Oh thank him for
all of your celebrities saying stuff
needs it was Michael hybl who was
responsible for the Jesse Lee Peterson
man thank you for that Michael
great job it's amazing how easily
purchasable conservative voices that is
done is extremely interesting I used to
have very high dollar amounts in my head
when I thought about that stuff I had no
idea
all right brother from Brooklyn
