I go on i-24 from time to time it's a at
times can be an awkward experience
because of not all of them I mean David
Shuster isn't there anymore but a lot of
the anchors there have a what they have
such an extreme far-right israel bias
that I mean I remember one time an
opening package for a segment before I
came on in my head I had to say to the
host like you're gonna need to do less
bias opening packages before I come on
like that that's ridiculous
and so kudos to Emily Maher of if not
now which is a is if I understand is
that I think this believe is a Jewish
pressure group that fights against the
Israeli occupation and here she was
talking about young Jewish voters are
tired of the position that says you
support Israel as a sovereign nation
state literally doing whatever it wants
anytime anywhere any place in a country
that administers so many human rights
abuses
I represent a base of American Jews and
the base of the Democratic Party who are
calling on Democratic leaders to reject
AIPAC and actually take meaningful
action towards ending Israel's military
occupation that deprives Palestinians of
civil political and human rights you
know I think it's clear that this
generation of young American Jews knows
that violating the rights of humans and
children is wrong whether it's at the
border or whether it's taking kids out
of bed in the middle of the night and
the West Bank and we're calling on our
political leaders to actually represent
that view were tired of the blank cheque
that the Democratic Party has given to
the Israeli government to continue the
status quo in Israel to continue
dispossessing Palestinians of their land
and of their lives and I think you know
we're ready as American Jews to stop
feeding that the territory in the arena
of the political moment to our
establishment that doesn't represent us
or our views and so we're asking
politicians to actually take take
responsibility for this
issue and put forward bold new solutions
to end what is this injustice that's
very well put of course this is an issue
with the presidential candidates were
obviously and he certainly doesn't have
a perfect record on this none of them do
although Bernie Sanders did as part of
his in the 1980s and and supporting
Jesse Jackson acknowledged Palestinian
human rights at a time when there was
not even that that saying that the
Palestinians and these that the Israelis
should negotiate with the PLO was
actually a controversial position even
though it become mainstream in the 90s
and ultimately lead to the failed and
discredited peace process Bernie's
infinitely far ahead in terms of just
saying that in fact the United States
should follow through on its actual
policy of opposing the occupation at
least until Trump and in terms of
centering he spoken clearly on the
humanity of Palestinians he's objected
to the atrocities example of the Israeli
murder of the Palestinian protesters at
the Gaza protest as an example Kamala
Harris Christian Gillibrand and Cory
Booker are very much on the opposite
extreme they are absolutely situated
within the discredited and really
horrifying Democratic mainstream that
she's talking about there Joe Biden is a
leader of that Joe Biden of course as
you'd expect as a has a terrible record
with supporting these things
Peabody jej defended if I along with
Elizabeth Warren quite aggressively
various Israeli actions Elizabeth Warren
again I'll keep saying it her reaction
to if you go back to 2014
Israel's shelling and pounding of Gaza
which killed hundreds of civilians in
days it shelled UN schools there was a
horrifying photos of Palestinian
children murdered on the beach in Gaza
she came out and did the same robotic
AIPAC talking points that everybody does
and I will definitely say that Sanders
response while not nearly as callous as
hers at that time was not great either
and the ground is shifting because of
work of people like
like mayor like Emily mayor but this is
an area where we're still well behind
the curve and there still is just a
clear and distinct difference in
political candidates if you have even
the inkling of a caring about basically
recognising Palestinians as human beings
most of the candidates on the stage are
still not doing that functionally and
you know the and it's and it's an
incredible double-edged sword because
how you can on one hand be a party that
is supposed to represent the broadening
recognition of a truly full democracy
for all and then conversely support an
apartheid state and the only way to do
it is actually through the the appeals
of the most crass reductive identity
politics which has always been a major
problem in discourse around Israel and
all too many most frankly you know
almost all Democrats have embraced even
at times when you know the most horrific
atrocities are being committed by Israel
and there's also a model I'd look up
Jeffrey Halper Jeff Halper who runs a
group as part of a group called Israelis
against home demolitions and another way
of understanding Israel and
understanding the occupation is that
Israel is the sort of frontline of a
broad sort of north-south divide that
whether you're talking about policing in
in Ferguson whether you're talking about
counterinsurgency in Afghanistan that a
lot of Israeli models of repression and
counterinsurgency and there's a big
reason why Israel is huge in exporting
weapons and exporting security training
if you go back to even back to the 80s
Israel was part of at least Israeli
contractors are part of the Reagan era
policies of training death squads and
Latin America there's a way in which
according to helpers argument the the
Israeli model is the stand in for the
broader securitization of east-west
policy generally and the occupation is
the kind of center and staging ground of
how that policy unfolds and I think that
that's largely true in a very important
way of understanding that dynamic
on another note related to this AOC
accurately called the obscene conditions
at the border concentration camps I did
a whole segment a couple weeks ago where
in response to Chuck Todd having a tizzy
fit about it we went and we read
hopefully if chuck was watching the
Miriam addiction to dijkstra dictionary
definition of concentration camp which
absolutely describes the detaining of
refugees at the border even even before
we get to the atrocities that are being
committed by ice and immigration
enforcement officers that I Anna Presley
and Rashida to live in AOC and really
only a couple of others are bravely
fighting against but it certainly led
people including Chuck Todd and well
actually Megan McCain didn't go in this
direction because Megan McCain obviously
made it about her dad but it was a
really reported miser
to take the you know don't don't ever
use any terminology that might ever
cheapen the memory of the Holocaust one
of the most horrifying genocide and
events in human history well you know
while I will defend the proper use of
the word concentration camps to describe
the Trump administration concentration
camps I will say that I do think we
should honor the legacy and not forget
that history and not cheapen it in any
way shape and form which is why I have a
little bit of a bone to pick with
Israel's new incoming education minister
Rafi Perez who said in a July first
meeting of the Israeli cabinet and I'm
quoting now from Axios that the rate of
intermarriage among u.s. Jews is
unquote like a second Holocaust like a
sonic boom quite similar to there was a
time we knew the six million people who
were literally gassed to death by the
German government and so that was one
thing
and now another is a shill Abramowitz my
my missus she's an Italian guy so this
is Somalia which is like good the
Holocaust this is another example of the
very rational insane thinking and modern
Israeli politics I'm so glad that Haim
Saban essentially directs Israeli policy
for Brookings Institution in the
Democratic Party I want to know I want
to know I mean that that is gonna be a
worthwhile question to ask the the woke
Democratic Party
why does Haim Saban support you and not
Bernie Sanders yes why does he why does
he explicitly say hi I'm Sobhan
billionaire from Mighty Morphin Power
Rangers funder of AIPAC in the
Democratic Party and a guy who is a
again quite similar to Sheldon Adelson
in terms of it's not just it's not a
question of defending Jewish humanity
and dignity it's a question of a
defending Israeli Apartheid and killing
and discrimination he said I love all 22
candidates well except one and then what
do you say said something I really don't
like Bernie Sanders yeah I don't like
Bernie and you can read it to him these
people are doing something really
helpful which is that they're telling
you who to vote for you know the new
Pete there was a peace and fortune that
came out the other day that said like
Wall Street's starting to feel okay with
Elizabeth warrant
the pieces used to say nobody except
Sanders and Warren now they're saying
not Sanders so all of the worst people
are telling you this is the one person I
want you to vote for so I think it's a
pretty good indication a Democratic mega
donor homme Sobhan we love all 23
candidates Homme said then pauses no -
one i profoundly dislike bernie sanders
you can write it and why wouldn't he
he's a billionaire influence-peddling
plutocrat who's prime foreign policy
goals are the dehumanization and
nationalism I mean I I would I would
hate Bernie Sanders - Bernie Sanders is
a voice for justice equity and against
bigotry of all kinds I mean yeah I'm
principally against the carceral state
but if you had to gulag any sort of
subset of individuals the ones termed
mega donors only could be a good place
to start
oh yeah and we can even have different
conditions I would like I put Tom Styer
in a more Swedish type of legislation
yeah yeah Tom I can play for tonight
calm less nice conditions maybe he go to
some like IDF thing a little bit of a
broader sense of reality
