[Music]
[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous hate for me and I
hatred we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Thursday October 4th in 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live not steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal nor
are we in the heartland of America
although arguably but instead I am live
at the mass torts conference 2018 in Las
Vegas Nevada sort of also the heartland
of America let's face it the Heartland
is where you find it ladies and
gentlemen on the program today I'm going
to be interviewing a series of attorneys
who are working on issues ranging from
wages to sex workers to Monsanto suits
opioid stutes and more also on the
program of course the White House has
found no corroboration of sexual
misconduct allegations against Brett
Kavanaugh because you cannot find what
you do not seek the FBI has delivered
its so-called report to the Senate the
question is will they be satisfied with
a report that ignored literally dozens
of people who wanted to testify and felt
they had information that was pertinent
to the investigation we shall see if the
Senate goes ahead with Brett Cavanaugh
in the meantime Republicans are
convinced that this Brett Cavanaugh
fight is helping them by triggering the
mail aggrievement synapse and the brains
of all Republicans we'll talk more about
that good news a federal judge
quashed for the time being anyways the
Trump administration's attempt to end
the temporary refuge system TPS for
300,000 immigrants in this country we
will talk more about that and all this
and of course more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen I am here in Las
Vegas for my biannual so the way you put
it
biennial twice a year you guys are back
in the studio correct yeah we are I said
biennial but you couldn't hear it
okay biennial a trip to Las Vegas I had
a pretty good day at the tables
yesterday I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
brag but let's just say six figures if
you include the decimal points so six
figure win if you include like more
decimal actually yeah maybe closer five
figure let's put it that way if you
include the decimal points so it depends
a lot of to do fractions of since things
look very very good for me we're here
and for those people who are new to the
show the reason why I do this show why I
come here in part it was started when in
doing ring of fire radio with Mike
Papantonio and Bobby Kennedy years ago
Papantonio is a big tort lawyer and
particularly in an era where you have an
assault on our regulatory state tort
lawyers are essentially the last
firewall they function sometimes as like
the posse we saw this in the context of
the mortgage to the extent that the
government handed out any mortgage
penalties it was all built upon work
that had been done
by private attorneys ensuing specific
investment banks on behalf of let's say
pensions or municipalities or whatnot
and then the AG's took that information
I'm gonna be talking to someone in a
moment about the opioid crisis and what
attorneys are doing for that and
contrasting it to the tobacco settlement
the tobacco settlement was actually Mike
Papantonio 's partner fashion the
biggest tobacco settlement in the
country in Florida and very often these
are the guys who are who are filling the
gaps in the regulatory state and and in
holding them to account when it seems
like no one else is so let's get that
started right now Jeff come come have a
seat
joining me now is Jeff Gaddy you're with
the firm Levin Papantonio as well okay
let me just pop up your mic here so Jeff
just try and speak into as much as you
can
Jeff Gaddy you're with firm eleven
Papantonio and I need you to to get a
little bit closer this is sort of like a
deposition that's it okay
so tell me the the litigation you're
working on now so I'm spending about 90%
of my time working on the the national
opiate litigation based in Cleveland
Ohio in front of Judge pollster there
are a bunch of different plaintiffs in
the case but the vast majority of the
cases involve local government cities
and counties who have brought lawsuits
against the manufacturers and
distributors of opioids alleging that
those bad actors are primarily
responsible for the harms of the opioid
epidemic and so is it specifically
I mean I've spoken to some folks from 11
Papantonio and some other firms who are
working with you on this is it
specifically the manufacturers
specifically the distributors it's both
and and there's there's different
theories against each other perspective
group
start with the theories against the the
manufacturers because I know a little
bit about the distributor one but the
manufacturer sure so the manufacturer
theory is essentially a false marketing
misbranding false representations type
case going opioids is essentially
morphine morphine has been around for
centuries it had always been known that
morphine and the morphine equivalent
this is what you find in oxy cotton
vicodin all these other drugs was highly
addictive and what happened is back in
the 90s early 90s the the pharmaceutical
manufacturers figured out that if they
could convince the medical community
that these drugs were not addictive that
instead of the drugs being properly used
for two three day post-surgery type pain
cancer pain if they could convince the
medical community these drugs were not
addictive they could get doctors to
write scripts for 30 60 90 days and you
can you can quickly imagine what that
does to their bottom line and so what
did they do to the products when they
manufacture I mean they just put like
some type of coating on it that
supposedly was time released is that was
that the theory that they they had like
I mean when they showed up and said oh
we have a new type of highly addictive
substance but this one's not what's the
story they told about that so sure
there's definitely a there's definitely
a story there and Purdue Pharma is the
company that gets the most headlines and
is kind of kind of perceived as being
one of the worst actors in this area but
but they introduced oxycontin in the
market in January of 1996 and and from
there there was a history originally the
the drug was immediate release you take
the pill and you immediately get the the
release of the other narcotics into your
body there was very quickly a immediate
rise in abuse addiction deaths from
opioid overdoses
so I remember Rush Limbaugh I mean not
to point any fingers on any one person
but Limbaugh was in trouble for doctor
shopping and going around taking out
9999
dollars that he's supposedly giving it
to his cleaning lady sure sure and so
look at it that's that's one of the
things about this this addiction is it
it is it is gender blind
racially blind economically blind
anybody can can fall victim to this but
yes over time these companies started
adding some of these coatings to the to
the pills advertising them as extended
release drugs the where those failed was
was users quickly found out they could
simply crush the pills and get all the
hi right away what made that such a such
a bad scenario is that by making them
extended-release they made the pills
more potent and so now you have these
pills out on the market which you know
we before were smaller doses now you
have the larger doses that the addicts
very quickly they figured out how to
abuse those and people who had become
addicted from from starting out on what
they thought was was maybe a
prescription that they actually needed
okay and so that's the the theory for
the manufacturer is that you mislabeled
this you said it was a non-addictive it
was addictive correct and the theory for
the distributors like the mcKesson's
what what's the theory on the cases in
regards to the distributors sure so ever
since the Controlled Substances Act was
was written back in nineteen seventy all
distributors have had a duty to be on
the lookout for to detect and report to
the DEA any suspicious orders of opioids
and that term is defined within the
within the statutes and regulations
essentially the the way to just kind of
boil it down to it to this basics is
that the distributors had a duty to
prevent the creation of pill mills
obviously they failed miserably
you know the stories that have been
wildly widely publicized about the large
number of pills going into small
communities in in West Virginia in
Kentucky some of the outrageous stories
from from South Florida some of the
video that can be seen that it's taken
on cell phones of folks inside pill mill
clinics where you have
surround the building with folks looking
for pills those were the jobs of the
distributors was to be on the lookout
for that that activity I mean and they
failed so in and they've been caught
feeling you know mcKesson's been fined
multiple times for violations of this
specific act Walgreens who most people
think of as a pharmacy all of these all
of these chain pharmacies have their own
distributor wing so Walgreens for a long
time with supplying their own schedule
to drugs to themselves back in 2013 they
paid an eighty million dollar fine for
specifically violating this act so it's
widespread bad behavior on their part so
what is the relationship between what
you guys now you guys are representing
towns and counties municipalities and
states so the vast majority of the cases
that are pending in Cleveland excuse me
are on behalf of cities towns and
counties there is one state that's in
that litigation that's the state of
Alabama they thought that you know one
thing that's kind of unique about
attorney generals is they they never
have to be in federal court they can
always file their cases in state court
Alabama decided that that federal court
in Cleveland was the best place for them
to be so the the litigation is
proceeding there is primarily local
governments
there are many stated state attorney
generals who have brought their own
claims and in their own States there's
about an equal number that have not so
so you're bringing a federal claim
absolutely okay so you're bringing a
federal cream and all right well so and
I want to get to a little bit more into
your plaintiffs and it's interesting
that Alabama felt like we can't we're
not going to get a fair shake maybe with
our own state judges because I mean is
that is that am i interpreting that
right I don't represent the state
Alabama I certainly wasn't privy to the
to the conversations that led to their
decision to go into the MDL so you could
speculate as much like let me ask you
this then if I was to speculate that the
Attorney General in
a specific state wants to join a federal
action instead of taking it at home it's
probably because they think that their
judges are probably too predisposed to
ruling in favor of the corporate
interests is that possible sure I think
the other thing that's also possible is
they to look at the opportunity to be a
leader in the MDL and they you know the
judge pollsters appointed them is one of
the one of the briefing track cases so
they've filed the the motions to dismiss
have been briefed in their case and
Alabama had the opportunity to respond
for that and and it certainly put them
in a position of prominence on a
national basis and as it relates to the
litigation so again I can't say who's
talking hypothetical
well then all right with that said so
how is what you are doing different from
the the tobacco settlement what's the I
mean and just describe it characterize
the tobacco settlement for us and then
go into that but let me and in fact
before we do that does the history of
these companies particularly the
distributor's having paid fines does
that mitigate their culpability or does
that help you in having to say like well
I don't even have to prove that they
broke the law because the fact that they
pay to find is indication of that I just
need to prove that they actually caused
damages because of those actions that
they already copped to yeah it's
definitely the latter
those there's those actions and those
civil findings by administrative law
judges or they boost our case what makes
it even worse is there are multiple
times where these companies were were
sanctioned by the government McKesson
back in 2007 again in 2016 so you have
almost a decade's worth of conduct that
did not change as a result of them
getting paying a fine back in 2007 and
they're not the only ones so so they
boost our case because a they show
notice to the company they tell the
company hey the DEA came in and
you're what you're doing is wrong you're
doing it the wrong way and we're gonna
so serious that we're gonna we're gonna
financially penalize you for it and what
we've seen over and over again is the
conduct did not get better Wow okay all
right and so yeah explain to me
characterized the tobacco settlement and
explain to me why this is different sure
so we talked just a moment but go about
about Attorney General's bringing cases
versus the local governments and the
tobacco settlements were completely and
totally driven by by Attorney General's
I mean mop my firm was very involved in
the tobacco litigation Fred Levin was
was involved in writing the the Medicaid
third-party Recovery Act in the state of
Florida which paved the way to allow
Attorney General's to to bring those
types of claims so so we've certainly
done both the the difference is is that
the tobacco litigation was a hundred
percent driven by the AG's and in the
money for the most part that was
recovered in those litigations went
directly to the state legislatures to be
distributed as they saw fit the local
governments had almost across the board
no recovery and no saying how those
funds were spent we see the the opioid
crisis very very different we believed
it
while states do have losses and do have
some damages we feel that the vast
majority of the damages that are that
are suffered by governments is by the
local governments they're the ones that
have to to deal with the jails that are
overcrowded they're the ones who have to
deal with with the attics that have
nowhere to go to get help they're the
ones that that are running out of beds
and in their treatment centers and need
to build more treatment centers they're
the ones dealing with the the
unemployment issues when people can't
pass a drug test because everybody's
become addicted to these drugs so so we
very much feel that it did it's a a
local governmental issue and so we in at
this point in the game in the game
there's so many there's about 12 to 14
hundred cases right now in Cleveland
vast majority those are local
governments they're gonna have a very
very prominent role
in in how this case plays out okay so
ultimately what will happen is there'll
be a couple of cases that will be tried
Oh probably and those cases will
establish a round figure in terms of a
number and that number is in
relationship to the damages that
specific town has suffered we have ten
thousand cases of addicts we have an
algorithm that suggests they're going to
need X number of years of treatment some
you know you know Y number of years of
like lifetime treatment it also means
that we have a Z number of kids that are
going to be dealing with this stuff and
so you create that algorithm and that
number and so and then essentially at
one point at the end of the process the
hope is that that number is presented to
McKesson by court and says this is what
you're responsible for this is how it
gets divvied out based upon how much
damages people have suffered individuals
individual plaintiffs have suffered how
much and I get the idea of like the
tobacco settlement the money went to the
state legislature and if they had a
deficit they just used to plug a hole in
the deficit if they had roads they
hadn't repaired they fix those roads
instead of doing stuff that is a direct
result of tobacco in their state maybe
pay more for Medicaid or whatnot in this
instance
are there any safeguards or mechanisms
to make sure that the money that comes
in ultimately if you prevail will go to
those specific types of programs locally
that will serve addicts you know one
things one of the things that was
fascinating to me was it was as I went
around the country over the last year or
so and talked to different cities and
counties about this litigation and tried
to educate them on it and for the so
they could make a determination as to
whether or not they wanted to
participate one thing that I heard over
and over again was exactly that how can
we how can we ensure that any funds
recovered from from this litigation are
used to to properly address the crisis I
don't know how that's going to work out
I think I think we're too too early in
the game to
verify that for sure but as we as we've
always talked about this we want to see
funds go into three areas first
education we think it's super important
to get into the school systems educate
the kids that the pills and the in the
cupboard are just as dangerous as a
heroin needle and if a needle goes in
their arm one time it's not gonna be the
last second law enforcement and jailing
I mean that well this is not a problem
that law enforcement can solve but it's
a it's a problem they need resources to
get through this scourge of addiction
and addiction related crime that that's
occurring in all these communities and
then third and most importantly is
substance abuse treatment we have to
have a way to treat these people that
have become addicted because of the bad
conduct of these companies
Jeff Gaddy thanks so much for your time
I really appreciate it thanks Sam all
right folks
and we're gonna have someone else
sitting down in a moment to talk to us
about a wage case apparently that is in
Ohio but the opioid stuff is going to be
interesting to watch and they have
expanded the playing field I guess here
we go yes deep ok have a seat okay
oh hi we're live right here okay
so sitting down with me is Steve babban
you're with which firm live okay could
you hold on one second sorry say again
taping legal group okay and Steve babby
from the Babin from the Chapin Libre
legal group and Steve you're working on
a an interesting case that has to do
with wage tell us what it's about yeah
it's a it's a case where we have sued
thirty strip clubs in Ohio for illegal
pay violations and civil conspiracy and
antitrust violations it's it's pretty
simple essentially what happens in a
strip club is strip clubs either treat
dancers as independent contractors or is
what they call them in Ohio tenants and
that's just a way to get away from
having to pay them any wages at all
they have to pay a number of fees that
are illegal they got to pay to come in
and dance it's called a house fear a
dance fee they got to pay a percentage
of any any individual dance that they do
for a client to the club they have to
tip out to the deejay the bartender the
bouncer the manager and by the end of
the night they end up with very little
cash in hand they're doing I mean let's
face it in the context of a strip club
they're doing the the the work that is
bringing people into the establishment
right I mean they're they're the reason
why people are there and and they're
getting screwed in terms of their
payments that's absolutely right they're
they're bringing in the business there's
no doubt about that that's why that's
why people go to strip clubs is to see
the dancers and you know in Ohio it's an
antitrust claim so the antitrust laws
basically say you can't unfairly
restrict the free market and with with a
strip club organization what you have is
you have a club a that says look we're
gonna pay everyone zero wages and that
doesn't make sense unless all the clubs
join together and agree to do it if you
have club B that's paying wages and
giving them extra money well then all
the girls are going to go dance at club
B and club B is going to make all the
money so these guys have agreed to fix
the wages and they do it through a what
we think is through a strip club trade
organization in Ohio there's one main
organization it's their trade
organization and they audit the clubs to
make sure that they're in compliance
with not paying the girls any wages at
all so wait a second so how does that
work I mean they're you they all they
all agree to be members of this
consortium and then the consortium goes
around and just make sure that like
nobody is paying a fair wage to their
workers that's essentially it yeah they
audit other things and they also
maintain a blacklist for any of the
young women that want to stand up and
maybe ask to you know get the same
rights that you and I would get under
the law has there been any attempt to
unionize on behalf of these dancers and
I have a client we have so are our cases
Ohio based one of our clients is in
Chicago and she's working in Chicago now
and she has a website I think it's a
stripper labor union rights and she has
tried so there's been some attempt the
reality of the situation is this is a
this is a group of individuals that have
very little bargaining power whatsoever
right and in the strip club page scheme
itself and in the culture in which it
creates is is is a system in which the
dancers were told they're worth less
than the other people's lives right
their lives are worth less than other
lives if they were to ask to get
protections under the law that you and I
would ask for well that's probably not
going to happen for them so I think that
the culture just within the strip club
industry itself is such that the dancers
are afraid well so how did this how did
this case come about how did you get
this case so there have been a lot of
individual what we call wage in our
cases across the country against one
strip club in California and New York
and Florida and some of the bigger
states and in an Ohio I had brought a
couple and in investigating those cases
and after filing I'm found that we had a
specific trade organization that that
everybody joined up and said let's make
sure we do this together and implement
this policy together so that we can take
advantage of keeping the money in our
pocket not in their pocket do you need
in the context of I mean so there's a
couple of different actions here if I
understand it there's an antitrust
violation that you're contending is a
state state law or is that federal
federal laws no Sherman Antitrust Act
okay and and there are there are state
versions of antitrust in some states I
don't know what it is okay so you could
theoretically bring it under both those
laws as is and then secondarily you're
also charging that they are
misclassified as contractors
and are not getting Social Security
wages they're not getting any wages at
all so it's a claim under the Fair Labor
Standards Act and it's it's it's
essentially a minimum wage claim what
we're claiming is that in a free market
these dancers would be paid at least
minimum wage and that's what the
individual Fair Labor Standards Act
cases argue that you can't classify
these young women as independent
contractors their employees there's no
doubt about it their employees you
determine when they come into work you
determine what what their schedule is as
far as the times they come into work the
days they come into work the amount they
can charge for tips the amount or for
dances the amount they can charge for
drinks and that makes them own employees
they're not an independent contractor
and if you have an employee you've got
to pay a minimum wage at least and I am
zero are there any other I guess laws or
statutes or principles the theories that
you're suing on so we have Fair Labor
Standards Act the Ohio state equivalent
antitrust the Ohio State equivalent and
then civil conspiracy and what is the
civil conspiracy is that a sort of an
extension of the antitrust issue it's
it's essentially an extension of the
antitrust issue it also I guess the
antitrust issue also encompasses the
blacklisting of dancers so they
maintained a blacklist it during these
audits if a club had hired a dance with
it was on the blacklist they basically
would get a demerit as my understanding
now isn't that a wouldn't that be a
violation National Labor Relations Act -
or is it because they're not unionized
there's no that's a great question I
think it would be because they're not
unionized is probably not a violation of
the National it's worth looking into but
alright let me ask you this in terms of
antitrust do you need to prove that
there there's a and it appears that
there is a vehicle but do you need to
prove that there is a vehicle and that
there is been
a mutual expressed understanding that
we're gonna all treat our dancers in
this way or do you just need to show
that there's a de facto sort of a
situation where all the tree the the
dancer being trapped treated them I can
prove either but in our case we have you
know the first which is a per se
violation but you can prove either but
but which one do you need or are both
sufficient I think both are sufficient
but here we have a per se violation
because there are essential elements of
the conspiracy that those clubs have
agreed to and those elements are
reflected in the contract scroll sign
when they come in and dance they zero
wages you're a tenant or an independent
contractor you have to pay a house B
there are certain penalty fees if you
come in late if you don't wear the right
clothes things things of that nature and
because all the contracts are the same
and they all discussed it in the Trade
Organization it's a it's a per se
contracted violation of antitrust laws
how much when you look at this is like
how much is the cases you've seen like
uber implicates something like this in
terms of like Mis classification or do
it does it not ask me again uber and
those type of like car driving services
how much are they how much of what has
been established in the context of those
cases
pertain to what you're doing at least on
the on the wage side sure I mean the
uber case is helpful you know the MER
cases is it says same it's the same type
of case it's an independent contractor
case under the Fair Labor Standards Act
I think uber is a bit more complicated
because
so the uber argument is that the the
uber drivers have they can make their
own schedule right they can work
whenever they want that's the strong
argument in the uber case and an
argument against that as well you know
the nature of your business is uber
drivers that's it that's the only
business you have so they're they're
your employees right and the dancer
context well we have both right that is
what your business is about it's about
people coming to see your dancers and
you dictate their schedule right so so
what ends up being the remedy here I
mean do you break up their cartel is
there would the government step in and
say like we're gonna monitor for the
next ten years that there's some type of
disparity in the way that you pay or
that you all pay in a proper way or what
so I think the remedy whether the first
room it is that you're going to get the
dancers paid back minimum wage for every
hour they worked three years back times
two four liquidated damages the
injunctive relief or the remedy moving
forward we don't know yet we don't know
what the proper pace game is that the
the strip club industry wants to
implement it won't violate the law I
think that they're going to have to get
together and figure that out moving
forward
who's your plaintiff I mean are and are
they are they identifiable enough that
they're there they're suffering I mean I
imagine if there's a blacklist this is
the tight whatever your plaintiff is
it'd be exactly the type of person who's
on that black light so we have we have a
point if it was blacklisted and then we
have plaintiffs that have danced at
clubs and been paid no money and and the
reality too is you know we're not in Las
Vegas we're in Ohio and in our strip
clubs I'm sure we have some nice ones
but we have some not so nice ones too
and these dancers will leave with less
than a hundred dollars in their pocket a
lot of a lot of the time so it's not
even a livable wage at the end of the
day
so that's that's really the the other
violations they're not making enough
money to even live and where so where is
the case now and do you see this is a
case that may be I mean is this is this
a problem unique to Ohio the case right
now is in the Southern District of Ohio
in front of Judge marbly it is the pace
system I don't think is unique to Ohio
the conspiracy component and the trade
organization may be unique to Ohio we
know that our our conspiracy claims
consist of members of the Ohio strip
club trade organization I don't know
what other states do they may have
similar trade organizations with similar
policies as well so it's possible if you
guys get a favorable outcome here we're
gonna hear about this case taking place
in Arkansas and Tennessee and Illinois I
think it's possible interest and what
when will we have a notion of where this
case is going to end up landing it's a
it's a it's a fairly new case right now
I think it's going to take some time
it's going to take some time at probably
a year before we really know what this
case looks like what the real facts are
going to be as far as is it a model that
we can take state to state are you
looking for more plaintiffs at this
point or do you not need more plaintiffs
just everybody in that class you're
gonna you're able now to go forward with
the case you have enough plaintiffs and
in the event you win presumably the list
of all the people that these strip clubs
has that they've employed as dancers
they'll all get some type of notice
saying in the event that you win you are
due a settlement of X number dollars
that's right so we don't we don't need
more plaintiffs I think we have a good
number
you know what we call representative or
named plaintiffs and those are young
women that are going to participate
actively in the lawsuit and then when we
get a list we'll send them out notice
and tell them your rights have been
violated you're entitled to hopefully a
settlement figure of X amount of dollars
well good for you guys
there's certainly people who work in any
type of sex industry related jobs have
very little leverage it feels like and
are easily taken advantage of the teams
all right what what firm you from again
I'm sorry shape and shape and legal
group
that's right Steve babban thank you so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you good luck guys
thank you serve a fascinating case and
particularly in the context of how much
how much we hear there's been like a
okay I guess a renewed push to
marginalize sex workers after the in the
stormy Daniels hero it seems to me hmm I
feel like after that I should say hell
yeah in the absence of Jamie I was gonna
say I am so bummed she's not there uh
well and also the activism against and
I'm I'm forgetting the names right now
but was it the the anti sister process
the FASTA well we're gonna be talking in
fact I think our next guest they're
doing some stuff on human trafficking
here and I'm not sure exactly what what
the take is and I our next guest so
she's not going to be here for another
ten minutes or so
and so we'll do a little bit of sound
and I mean it appears I'm still trying
to get my my arms around like where we
are in the context of the the Kavanagh
my situation but it appears I mean this
is what I understand is that the
Senators are looking at a
port at its secure location today
because god forbid this information gets
out right right to it I mean rather
people like it has nothing coming out
all week already right and like I mean
there's more now in the public record
and then there probably is in this
report a peoples report definitely right
I mean honestly somehow should come out
with the people's report I'm gonna go
interview those other forty people but
the idea is we have to keep it secret
because we need to make it seem like
it's real and we have the family we need
to yeah we need to
so it's either being kept secret to
protect Cavanaugh or it's either being
secret to protect Cavanaugh here is
Mitch McConnell on the floor of the
Senate he said this this morning is this
right last night last night anticipating
that people would see this report now
when you look back at the president
going out and mocking Blasi ford the
other night he got the sense that he
thought the report was going to be
limited enough that there wouldn't there
would be an absence of more information
that would implicate Cavanaugh right
because I mean if you interview few
enough people then of course there will
be an absence of new information but
here is Mitch McConnell and now senators
will have the evidence collected by this
additional background investigation for
their consideration as well members will
have the opportunity to review
investigators records and as is the
standard procedure designated judiciary
staff members with the required
clearances will be authorized to brief
members there will be plenty of time for
members to review and be briefed on the
supplemental material before a Friday
cloture vote so I'm filing cloture on
judge Cavanaugh's nomination this
evening so the process can move forward
as I indicated
earlier this week okay and so there's
Mitch McConnell very sombrely telling us
that we've got to move forward the
process and Matt if you can up my sound
so I can hear that a little bit better
next time that was up and the iPhone
apparently was from the Senate chamber
yeah well it was from those McConnell's
pocket Richmond Connells pocket just as
I have a question for you strategically
Sam do you think it was a mistake
to hang so much on I mean it was very
effective in the questioning when he
wouldn't agree to an FBI investigation
obviously that along with everything
else like the constant lying made him
look terrible but do you think it was a
mistake to hang so much on that specific
maneuver when you could yes you could
just sort of turn in a limited FBI
investigation in such a short period of
time that didn't really yield anything
was it a mistake for the Democrats to
zero in on that so much or no I I said
at the time they needed to do two things
the FBI thing was super important to get
people like Manchin and flake and
whatnot to make it about procedure right
right I mean we've been saying that
since day one that to get the first
round of people you need to get it has
to be about procedure it cannot be
ideological right and then you focus on
Murkowski and Collins on more
substantive issues for Murkowski it's
and and by substantive issues I mean
issues that will in implead impede their
reelection right Murkowski is very
worried about native indigenous people
in Alaska who who have issues with
Kavanagh for multiple reasons not just
over the the sexual harassment claims
but other issues that it dealt with
their land I believe and Collins of
course it's it's roe v-- wade they
should have I think in the the
questioning they should have they
clearly had coordinated what they were
doing in terms of
of the FBI and I think that was good
that was the one that was effective they
also needed to hammer him on one
specific lie to show that he's a liar
right and look the you know at the
beginning of this I also speculated that
maybe and it was one of those you know
sort of I concede upfront you know sort
of wild speculations that who knows but
according to Ryan Grimm it was not
leaked from Diane Feinstein's office
that Cavanaugh existed I mean excuse me
that Ford Blasi Ford existed I suspect
it was one of the lawyers that she met
with around town maybe it's possible or
somewhere in that process it could have
been one of her friends who did it but
at the time it also struck me as maybe
not a bad thing for the Republicans to
leak because what could happen is what
seems to have happened on some level
which is that an entire political party
that is that certainly I think propelled
Trump to victory there were other
aspects but what was propelling Trump on
his side as opposed to what was
depressing things on our side was a
sense of white male aggrievement and
this fit perfectly into that narrative
it's not so much that they're worried
about the seat on the Supreme Court it's
just that like we cannot let the
feminazis take out another white man
because if that happens I could be next
you're talking about the new polls
coming out about like the enthusiasm gap
narrowing yep and you'll recall right on
the eve of the release or at least the
awareness of that letter we saw polls
that said they didn't see any stakes in
this election and you know people have
to remember that you know the stakes of
course are from a political standpoint
you know reversing roe v wade for them
but in terms of what
really lights their fire it is this
sense that oh my god
if this white guy doesn't become the
great man he's destined to be can I
become the great man that I'm destined
to be if I know that there's all these
feminazis out there and I I think that's
a lot of what we're seeing and so I
don't know if that goes away if
Cavanaugh gets I mean the problem is
that from the Republicans from a from a
strictly electoral side if they vote
cabin I and they lose that that
agreement
there's nothing worse for conservatives
than to win in terms of politically
however that is a huge price to pay for
the left for decades if they don't win
this fight it's gonna be because
Murkowski and Collins and flake for one
of our two of those three vote against
him and they'll try and do it on process
grounds but I don't know how the balance
in a flake have both said they called
the investigation thorough so that to me
I mean yeah that suggests like that is
not looking good all right so I guess
and I see let you know you got your
person there yes okay I guess now we
will continue this conversation in a
moment joining me now is Becca Timmons
Becca welcome to the program thanks for
having me Becca where and which firm
were you with eleven Papantonio
Pensacola Florida okay so you guys
eleven Papantonio starting to work on
the question of of human trafficking
what are you guys doing in that area
well it's it's an emerging area it's
it's brand new but we're looking at
holding the instrumentalities and the
tools that human traffickers use every
day to carry out the criminal enterprise
I mean they use the same things you and
I use every day they use hotels airlines
they use the Internet and we think
pursuing
these Internet's these platforms that
hosts the content of either ads for
human trafficking victims or using
websites to solicit human trafficking
victims we think that there's a cause of
action there okay let me ask you about
this because this has been of some
controversy in in our circles cesta and
Fausta that's correct
I am of the perspective that the there
are problems with cesta in Fausta
insofar as by preventing I mean aside
from like free speech issues right
strictly looking on the specifics of
this issue that by preventing or holding
liable Backpage for ads that are in
Backpage prevents them from hosting
these ads and then it makes it that much
harder for activists and entities that
are trying to save people who have been
human trafficked to track them down that
it goes into like darker corners that
unless you're a client in the past or
you have some other connections you
wouldn't be able to find quite easily
and it makes it just harder it pushes it
into the shadows even more makes it
harder to identify who has been
trafficked right and that has been
suggested among many other issues and
foster sister is gonna endure its fair
share of constitutional challenges
rightfully so it's not perfect by any
means but there are a lot of activists
for sex workers for legitimate sex
workers in the sex industry that hey
you're putting us in danger you're
chasing us to back to the street corner
where we're it and can easily be
threatened with violence and the the
other the other argument has been that
we're now chasing these internet ads
into the dark web right and that the
recourse there and the tools we have are
even more limited but yeah it's early
this has only been since April and
depending on who you ask and some people
will say oh look we've eliminated all of
these sex trafficking ads from the
internet well we don't really know yet
it's yet to be seen well it's great if
you've gotten rid of the ads but that's
not the point is it right the idea is
that's great you get rid of the
you've made the problem worse but again
we we're not sure what the impact will
actually be on it
okay so so how do you go about you want
to hold these platforms that make it
possible for people of sex or so that
could be in banks right I mean
theoretically people are taking their
their money and putting their banks but
the banks would have to have knowledge
that that's where it's coming from
liquor so who is who do you who do you
like who are you targeting well I think
probably the most attractive probably
most effective thing to target would be
these internet websites through fastest
cesta and I mean as we all know prior to
April of this year you couldn't sue a
internet service provider or a web site
for third-party content and the
Communications Decency Act as we all
know section 230 essentially created a
safe harbor saying that websites and
ISPs aren't publishers and that they
essentially get a free pass into the
First Amendment but what fastest cesta
allows us to do now is to hold anyone
who benefits from sex trafficking liable
anyone who knowingly benefits so
theoretically you're right you could you
could sue every single inch of
fiber-optic cable saying that it
facilitated human trafficking but you
know I think it's incumbent upon trial
attorneys to use this wisely and not
abuse it all right but isn't that going
to cause the problem that we were just
talking about I mean they're these ISPs
you're not going to host these things
and all of a sudden it's just gonna be
it's gonna be out of sight right and
maybe out of mind but I feel gonna be
going on right so now we have this
censorship and this huge chilling effect
right and now like we said we've driven
a deeper underground but we I don't know
if there's any evidence to suggest
that's what's actually happening it it's
it's only been on the books for four
months so yeah it's absolutely possible
but it's also possible that it's still
going on on the surface web right under
our noses okay and so assume it's going
on the surface web under our noses and
that's how you can sue people right
right its existence allows you to sue
people so but where is
how does what's the theory that this
helps people who are being trafficked
well there's there's lots of anecdotes
of kids being sold on backpage.com
and the theory is this is that it's
unquestionable human traffickers use
these platforms we don't a hundred
percent of kids in sex trafficking are
sold online and just in 2008 the FBI
found three thousand instances of
children being sold for sex on
Craigslist so we can make a dent just in
that I mean that's eight thousand kids
or it's it's there you're not gonna get
it all in one fell swoop it's gonna be a
piece mail attack on this criminal
enterprise and we think that's a good
place to start so you're convinced that
by limiting their ability to communicate
online if you can do that that that will
help the the underlying issue right I
mean unquestionably the Internet is the
biggest tool for them whether it's
luring victims or selling them are you
going to but I guess that's becomes the
question I feel like maybe we're going
around a little bit in circles maybe are
you going to be able to do that like
it's one thing for you be able to like
quash Craigslist to bang Craigslist on
this or to bang the back page but what's
to stop like I don't know somebody who's
setting up in exchange for a month right
I mean but and then just disappearing
and being an entity anymore
so we gotta try we gotta try but is
there is there no other mechanisms that
can do this like I mean following
through as the traffickers and finding
out like what airlines are actually like
flying people like what what regulations
do they have to make sure that they're
not transporting there is there is a
civil mechanism for victims of human
traffickers to sue anyone who
facilitated their victimization so there
are other mechanism outside the outside
of the internet but the the face of
human trafficking and the way human
trafficking works now has changed just
like with any business
so like I said before it's not so much
that kids are getting snapped up or
people getting snapped up on street
corners and then put up for sale or that
people are being moved in caravans and
on you know across state lines this is
the front lines are on the internet and
they are and we've we've we figure that
it's the most visible it's the most
pervasive form that human traffickers
use and so this litigation is it's
coming out of exclusively of the passing
of Cessna and fossa it would be the
first of its kind and there have been
other lawsuits that human trafficking
victims have sued you know truck stops
under the the other common law civil or
not common law but statutory recovery
using other statutes but yes I'm to my
knowledge no one has used FASTA cesta
and a human trafficking action who is
your plaintiff in this case
and that's that's that's the difficult
part how do we how do we get human
trafficking victims to come forward and
relive their their their pain and how do
we not exploit them again how do we say
we're gonna make we're gonna we're gonna
use you and make a lot of money and
we're gonna send a big message hope you
don't mind so I think this is something
where plaintiffs attorneys are gonna
have to really step back and handle this
with a lot of sensitivity so there's not
litigation right now you guys are still
trying to figure this we're trying to
figure this out this is like I don't you
know a I don't know how you get folks
who are sex trafficked to come forward I
guess maybe you could find some people
who somehow escaped that life in some
fashion but then I'm not clear how you
get the money the damages do the people
who are have who are suffering from it
there is a statute that allows for
recovery for from for monetary damages
for anyone who facilitated to human
trafficking but you're right you can't
you can't put up a bus stop or an ad on
a
on a bench and say hey if you've been
human trafficking they've been human
trafficked give us a call that's not
appropriate that's not how we're gonna
do isn't it the case that a lot of those
people don't quite know that they would
qualify as someone who's been human
trafficked in a lot of them haven't even
escaped it they they what I mean they
perceive themselves as I'm just here and
I came to this country I had no money
and now this guy's making me do this
like they wouldn't necessarily even you
know perceive that they've been sex
trafficked as much that's a possibility
and it's a possibility and we think yeah
if we just raise a little bit of
awareness and we say hey this is what's
going on and hey this is wrong and that
you're being a victim and you don't have
to do this then we've succeeded yeah
it's interesting I'm curious to see
where this goes and back at Timmons I
appreciate your coming in thanks for
having me what's about it please update
us I'll be here again I'm curious to see
where this goes thanks Hanna me all
right thanks Becca so there it is that
is a pretty nascent stuff and I'm not
quite sure how that how that pans out I
have a feeling Jamie would have liked
our first guest not so much the second
one there yeah she would have liked the
first guest well in terms of what they
said they're both nice beef she didn't
like either them personally actually all
right let's let's get back to what's
going on with Cavanaugh here so the
dynamic is that politically speaking the
Republicans are pretty happy they feel
like they have energized the you know
the the lizard brains of their of their
followers by showing the agreement that
Cavanaugh has suffered I don't know that
we have any more sound on that do we or
we got Raj Shah saying like they didn't
look into the drinking stuff yeah let's
take a look at this because it's not
just that they didn't look into the
drinking stuff
I mean there's no way to say that they
did any type of comprehensive never mind
investigation or even inquiry they spoke
to four people literally there are
people who are clamoring to give
information about this and now I guess
we're going to find out what squeeze
says and squeeze a pretty important
person in this they spoke to mark judge
they spoke to PJ and my understandings
also spoke to Ramirez is that right how
that's my understanding yeah now I don't
know why you speak to Ramirez without
speaking to anybody who could
corroborate what Ramirez says like that
doesn't make sense to me that's that
sounds to me like they are well the only
thing that she could give was
uncorroborated information that's true
because you didn't interview anybody who
wanted to co-op corroborate what she was
saying they probably put a Jack Bauer
type of guy on that could read a mind or
something
Jack I mean read mine that's a real
problem
well here is a huge problem if they were
to open up all of Yale because people
are coming out of the woodwork there
yeah I mean this is the time this is the
time parameters issue which is like in
order to actually do this you're gonna
actually need some take some time to do
it well III definitely think they could
have done it they I mean it didn't they
didn't need four days to do four
interviews right I mean I go to a
conference and I interview 15 20 people
and there's only one of me there's an
unlimited supply of FBI agents who could
theoretically there's probably 80 FBI
agents that you could send out on a
Monday morning and by Monday evening
they could have interviewed everybody
how many can you trust not to be deep
state though wow that's true here is
Raja on CNN he's jetting her secretary
yeah saying that
you know well whatever we want to know
about the memory lapses the friends who
have come forward said that they know
that he had memory lapses and he said
that he didn't and that's relevant
because Christine Blasi Ford has a story
of him being staggeringly drunk and
maybe he doesn't remember it well
they're they're not actually claiming
direct evidence of memory lapses they're
saying they don't necessarily believe
his testimony no no the real information
they're saying they were his roommate in
college they knew him in high school
they were his drinking buddy there are
more than you're talking about you're
talking about Jamie Roche I'm talking
about Chad Ludington and I'm talking
about a woman at Yale who drank with him
all the time who says that they know
that he had memory lapses because he
couldn't remember the time that he spent
with them three individuals I guess that
you're referring to have have claims
about what he said or didn't do a while
in college that is not what the Senate
is interested in or asking about again
he's gone through six FBI background
investigations all these types of
questions get thoroughly investigated
throughout one's career he's been
entrusted with some of the most
important jobs in in government yeah
over the last 25 years with a very high
profile career and all the folks that
are demanding this type of an
investigation in the Senate our
Democrats who've already pledged to vote
no they don't want additional
information to make a decision they want
to delay this problem well but all they
do is shift the goalposts it's amazing
right that's amazing I mean within the
span of seconds he's shifting goalposts
there first of all our gonna blow off
all of the evidence in real time outside
of the investigation that the guy lied
constantly about his drinking and then
it flips at the end - yeah but does all
old news anyways the stuff that he lied
about we don't want to fully investigate
as old anyways well the bit about how
he's been investigated multiple times
for his previous jobs why do we even
investigate them after those in the
first place then why why even go by that
first have one master investigation that
happens for your first day well let me
tell you something about the nature of
those investigations they are all
limited in their scope to speaking to
people that he has worked with
profession
at that time yeah maybe like they look
at some academic transcripts and some
tax returns or something it's not like
some big forensic investigation and you
know the issue with someone sitting on
the Supreme Court
the stakes are obviously much larger and
you know there was no this is a guy who
harbors the belief that the Clintons are
out to get him and this is payback and
that just seems like not exactly the
temperament you want someone to have as
a judge on the Supreme Court but again
all this stuff that we're talking about
is there's just a certain amount of
kabuki about it right something that has
to do with the impending investigation
that's going to happen if Democrats take
the house that they're trying to be so
careful with what they the parameters of
this investigation they've given it to
the FBI so that when more stuff comes
out they're like oh we didn't know about
this
yeah I'm sure look the game the game for
for for Collins and Murkowski maybe
flake to the extent that he wants to I
don't know Branson's you know yeah
exactly I mean III don't it's hard for
me to think the way that these people
think because it's just sort of demented
but the game for Mackowski and Collins
is plausible deniability
right they like they have to be able to
say at one point oh
we yeah we just had no idea we had no
idea that there was this stuff was there
and and that you know
we the FBI gave him an all-clear so we
were good but I guess we will see and if
if if Collins is saying that she thinks
it's complete that in some respects that
she has to abide by it right that that
is the big tell thorough and yeah I mean
I mean maybe the last move with her is
to just say you know this guy is going
to gut roe v-- wade and we know we all
know this you know this and if you know
but I mean she's already closed the door
on that to she said yeah weeks ago that
you know what did he say it something
that reassured her I forget what the
terminology was it's got to come down to
again that the FBI process wasn't as
well if that's what it comes down to
she's look it looks terrible
from what she said and I cannot imagine
that mansion bucks flake and Collins and
you know I what camp is well you know
why I sent that to you the other day
Matt like what the hell is going on yeah
she's like it's like forty to fifty
she's losing to Kramer
well Bible I'm wondering with Heitkamp
as if Heitkamp is definitely gonna lose
then maybe this is an opportunity for
her to say why don't I vote against this
guy on the way out
I mean do that I don't know but she's
that principal that's not the one that
were I don't know anything about her
that's that's you've watched too many
you've watched Bulworth too many times
all right let's work what's bull where I
don't watch Bulworth dude what's that
movie it was what's-his-face the I can't
remember the actor's name famous Warren
Beatty second Warren Beatty when he was
the politician who had cancer wait so
going on wraps yeah wait a second you
say you think that heidi heitkamp saying
i'm down double digits i might as well
vote against this guy don't like and
have a in with Democratic constituency
Zinn the future is the equivalent of her
starting a rap well it's not just rap
you should watch the whole movie I mean
okay he took a principled stand Ducati
was on the way out that's all right
right maybe a little bit of a stretch
yeah Oliver Platt it's worth watching
the movie
Daniel knives joining me we're going to
be talking about valsartan here although
they let me get you up here Daniel and
what farm you from Daniel
I'm with Levin Papantonio Papantonio yes
and okay so valsartan what what is that
what is that drug
well valsartan is a very popular blood
pressure medication it's called an angio
retention blocker so right now there are
currently 3 million people using
valsartan in the u.s. very popular blood
pressure medication and you'd get
prescribed this for having high blood
pressure yes okay that's right and so
what is what is the controversy around
Bell sorry well this is the largest
class one recall in you know most likely
we're still trying to validate the
numbers but it appears to be the largest
class one recall ever okay what is the
class one Rico a class one recall is
where the pharmacies and the insurance
companies they're required to send
notice directly to the consumer so
directly to the people who've been
affected by the contamination that's
inside of the valsartan and that
contamination is what's called NDMA we
call it dimethyl nitrosamine so
basically in n as in nancy not MD in
mango which is ecstasy bell NDMA and and
basically it's very toxic it cause you
the w-h-o classifies it as a possible
carcinogen but the only reason they can
only say possible is because you can't
do human studies on it because it is so
toxic that you wouldn't subject any
humans to that kind of study so wait a
second so there is a drug that three
million people take in this country
that's right there has the recall
happened yet it has it's been issued it
has and there's over 1.5 million people
that we know that are subject to the
recall already and the list is going up
and up so the FDA continues to update
the list
of the different medications you know
the different us manufacturers that had
this contaminated valsartan most of it
comes from one Chinese plant in China
where they were making the active
ingredient that goes into the valsartan
so they ship that active ingredient they
put it in a pill form here in the US
that active ingredient is contaminated
within DMA and where did that
contamination take it took place in this
Chinese factory that's right
Chinese Factory and you know we what
we've seen with a lot of these Chinese
factories and this one is no worse it's
called Wei hai Chinese factory and
essentially what happened is when
they're combining the molecules together
to give us indy or to give us the active
ingredient for valsartan if you combine
those molecules into acidic of an
environment you get these byproducts
called NDMA and DEA and other
nitrosamine x' and that's exactly what
we found in this pill so and it's a high
concentration of it as well it's is it
jet fuel like what it was I heard that
that's right MDM DMA is commonly found
in jet fuel that's the main spot so
basically people are ingesting a little
bit of jet fuel and every every time
they take this pill of valsartan
how many times a day do they take this
bill they'll take it one time a day but
these people have been taken vows at
least this contaminated vows certain a
lot of these you know clients of mine
have been taking it for four years now
how did they find out that this was
contaminated
that's a good question we're still
trying to find that out but we don't
know if the manufacturer actually came
out and recognized that they had it
inside of there or if it was one of the
agencies like the EMA we think that
maybe they got tipped off too it's the
European medical agency it's it's
basically the equivalent of the FDA but
at Europe's does the FDA test like okay
where we have the most popular
pill in the country for a blood pressure
the FDA say like okay good every
millionth pill that you send out send
one to us send us a hundred pills and
we're just going to test it in our lab
just to make sure that it's they don't
do that at all what if that would have
caught the problem if they had done that
in the last four years but they don't do
that and now that they've been signaled
for the problem process that we have
that can find that a drug is never mind
like long-term implications of a drug is
unhealthy right I mean obviously that's
right that involves more complicated
studies but just is like there's no lead
in this there's no you know there's no
contaminants in this we're just gonna
run like you know half a dozen potential
contaminates of every pill that's right
just do we have any mechanism for that
the FDA puts the onus on the
manufacturer to do that testing then
they send in documents to the FDA like
that's where every quarter we test or
gay or the inspectors go to their
manufacturing plant and they examine
those test results now what you will see
with these manufactured DEA inspectors
okay there there are only 17 of them in
all of China and they're required to
look at all these different
manufacturing plants in China so they'll
usually only get about 30 minutes to an
hour there's a manufacturing plant DEA
inspectors there are in the entire
country of China how much how many of us
drugs are manufactured in China like
what Eiko 80% of the generic medications
that we take here in the u.s. are
manufactured in China so how many
companies that we tell many comedy
factories do these 17 people have
numerous
I don't know that number but they'll
normally get one trip to factory maybe
they get two or three they'll usually be
there for a half hour ours is our best
estimate at this point but what's
interesting is even in that short amount
of time they catch these Chinese
manufacturing companies manipulating
data all the time so there's no
restrictions by the Chinese government
on these companies is there well there
are but we don't think they're they're
anywhere close to where they should be
why don't we say you know what you got
to manufacture this stuff in America
that's what we try to say but we give a
loophole which is if you manufacture the
active ingredient in China you can then
ship it over here and put it in a pill
form in the US that's their way around
the loophole I mean they do some thing
with with automobiles all sorts of
issues as long as you put it together in
the US then you get you get around the
loophole but we could say active
ingredient must be developed in
absolutely good and so when you all
right so all right let's talk about the
action that you're gonna fall out here
so you don't know why they initiated
this recall ultimately maybe you will
find out in the context of discovery
right that's right we know that they
issued the recall because there's NDMA
in the pill we don't know who alerted
the MDMA in the pill and that's relevant
because it goes to when they knew right
and how they knew because theoretically
they should have been the ones who said
like oh my gosh we have this
unfortunately we've been so diligent in
testing that we found out probably two
weeks after the first pill was made with
this stuff that's right and I will say
in terms of litigation on these types of
cases this isn't a failure to warn case
this is strictly a manufacturing defect
you're strictly liable if you put cancer
in your pill so it's they're gonna be
liable it's just a question of how big
the damages are based upon trying to
figure out how long they've been doing
this for that's right and we also think
that the US manufacturers who put it in
the pill form are also liable for this
because they're also required to do
their own impurities testing Wow so the
system failed on multiple occasions
multiple occasions and then when you're
getting when you go in for damages and
me just tell me how it works here you
you you establish like is it I mean is
it case closed as is it at least one
part of the case closed on day one where
it's like yeah there's poison in your
pills
that's right we don't know if one person
took this or a million people took it
right or two million yeah and we don't
know if they took it for one day or they
took it for four years well we're pretty
confident so there are about 1.5 million
people who have taken this pill for
years and so we've already established
that that have taken contaminated NDMA
we feel pretty confident in that the
next part of it is what is in DMA costs
and so what we've looked at we've done a
deep dive into the animal studies and
also there are some some other studies
where people are exposed to NDMA and we
believe that the strongest cases are if
you've got liver cancer if you got
colorectal cancer or if you got stomach
cancer after ingesting this MDMA for you
know a few years you probably have a
good case that that NDMA caused your
cancer okay so most of the work that
you're doing is going to be
epidemiological trying to establish just
how big the damages are not whether or
not there's a claim for damages that's
right okay and this is also one of those
scenarios we don't know yet whether or
not this is purely an increased risk
so we basically there are many other
things that can cause cancer so there's
this background rate but so we're not
going to know whether or not this early
in the litigation whether this is an
increased risk kind of case so you took
the indiamain it gave you a 50% extra
chance of getting cancer or if we can
actually see something in the cellular
process itself
you know like in DMA in the cell and
then you know be pretty crude earlier
that it's the NDMA so two things one do
you is part of the damage as a function
of like you need to in the future change
your policy or procedures to XYZ as
either a stopgap to what obviously was a
potential failure to execute or as a
better plan because you plan even though
it was well executed didn't didn't work
well we actually think the Chinese
manufacturers is very culpable in this
case I think it's you know from some of
the earlier
that we've seen in documents can't talk
about him yet but I believe that the
Chinese manufacturer is very culpable I
wouldn't be surprised that they knew
about this problem as far back as 2016
and buried the results okay so the
Chinese manufacturer buries the results
but then down the rot line they're
supposedly other mechanisms that the
people who are putting these pills
rather should have caught that that's
right so what kind of safeguards comes
from does the manufacturer just develop
them on their own or can that be
something that's part of the damages
well the FDA has given them guidance as
to the types of impurities testings
they're supposed to do but again this is
a strict liability you put cancer in
your pill right you're liable for it I'm
just interested on the other end of this
that's right obviously a lot of people
are gonna get a lot of money because of
they may either have like a ticking time
bomb in terms of cancer or they already
may have cancer or as a function of this
but for the next manufacturer of the
next pill what safeguards have been put
in place that have increased or
decreased the likelihood something like
this could happen
the FDA has all along given guidance for
how you're supposed to test impurities
in these pills and they did come up with
an update in March of 2018 that had that
been followed we feel fairly confident
that it would have been detected in
March of 2018 but we also think that if
you'd follow the guidance that the FDA
gave earlier than that it would have
been detected we also believe that we
have some information that some of the
US manufacturers or at least one of them
had detected this impurity early on but
we're still trying to confirm that
information and do those entities that
that knew about it like is there are
damages against them
is there like treble damages for
something like that like knowingly do
that I mean shouldn't there should be
criminal charges for that absolutely now
I don't know that we'll get as far as
criminal charges but there should be but
the way in which we punished that need
and the civil system is you know
punitive damages and that will
absolutely be a part of this case
ever been instances where you actually
like have enough evidence that there was
one individual who just you know was
careless enough to write an email like
yeah I know it's jet fuel I'm speaking
hypothetically
I know it's jet fuel in the baby formula
that were given but it's just gonna cost
too much to take it out so a couple of
babies may get ill they'll be okay you
know as a drug product liability lawyer
I see the internal documents for many of
these cases a lot of times they're
confidential
so we can't release them to the public
but I can tell you there are numerous
corporations where we see that very
document that sort of business decision
where they put profits over safety where
there is an easy correction to it but
they looked at and they said that's
gonna cost us more money we'll just pay
the dying widows or the the widows or
we'll just pay the damages of the
lawsuits because that's gonna cost us
less money than to actually fix the
problem and avoid the injury to these
people in the first place
can you ever put out documents like that
redacted in a way like so that you
wouldn't know what the product was and
who said it I mean just to see the words
I feel like there are some litigations
where we get to see that information
where every now and then you get into a
trial that information comes out and the
judge unseals it so then we can actually
see that information for some of the
litigations like as I mentioned one of
those would be the Ford Pinto back in
the day right but there there's no other
way to get the get I mean would it feel
like the public if they had a notion of
just how I mean evil those people can be
and then but why in that instance like
okay you've seen the documents it's
supposed to be private you have a UV
Visor settled or the court has sealed
this stuff but why should that protect
someone from some type of criminal
liability because that to me sounds like
manslaughter at best right I mean all
the time that's that's all the time we
deal with that problem here in the US
system we rarely see criminal charges
for what I believe is criminal conduct
but I don't understand how bad stuff is
kept private within the context of that
if it is evidence of a crime like I
can't write I I mean what
how is that where's the reform for that
I mean III know I'm howling at the moon
a little bigger but well I mean I can
just tell you for as a lawyer in my area
of litigation you're probably going a
little bit past my area of expertise but
I could tell you when we start off a
litigation we want to be able to get
those documents instead of having a
prolonged fight as to what's
confidential and what's not so we
usually give the agreement you produce
the documents to us we'll keep them
confidential that's how it starts out so
that's about as far as I can go other
than when we get to trial then then a
lot of times those documents become
unsealed when the documents use it a
trial can become public at that time and
I suppose theoretically if there was a
statute that said yeah there's no such
thing as confidentiality right dan and I
can say we'll keep it confidential but
statutorily if there's any evidence of a
crime Dan Nye is liable if he doesn't
release it sure and then you guys won't
see those documents going forward oh
yeah we would obviously have to be
release it but then we would have that
issue in the first place would we ever
even get those documents so where can
people hear more about the status of
this with the drug is out is when people
hear more about the status of this yeah
well I I would you can obviously see it
on our web page Levin law com that's
Ellie V I in la w.com
has it's been in the press oh yes
absolutely CNN's been reporting on it as
a last and many other many other ring of
fire reports on it all the time so if
the last Rijn if I've taken the last
Hren for a year what do I do right now
well valsartan now sorry yeah valsartan
and if you've been taking it for a year
I highly urge you to go see your
pharmacist it's possible that you you
you have the contaminated in DMA in your
valsartan but you don't know about it so
sometimes the notice doesn't get to all
the consumers so go to your pharmacist
talk to them about it get a different
prescription well see if it's even the
contaminated I'll sorry because there is
some uncontaminated outside then you're
likely safe but if it's the cam
contaminated valsartan
they're either gonna likely give you a
uncontaminated valsartan if there's
enough of it and
apply which there's been a shortage or
they're going to give you a drug in the
same class okay and then eventually
you'll hear from folks if you had some
of that contaminant but do you go to
your doctor at that point and say hey
I've been taking this stuff well you can
go to your doctor as well but the
pharmacist is gonna be the main person
who's gonna know you you switch it out
with the pharmacist right now you've
been taking it but once if you find out
that like I've been ingesting jet fuel
like are there are there recommended
steps for you to take - like sure maybe
you should get some cancer screenings
that's right well we don't know what the
incident is at this point you've been
taken in DMA for for four years the FDA
came out and said one in eight thousand
people would get cancer that was their
first estimation we think that might be
a very conservative estimate but we
don't know if it's gonna be one in 500
one in a thousand one in two thousand
but I absolutely think it's wise to go
to your family doctor at the very least
and tell them I've been taking the
contaminated valsartan I just want to do
a checkup to make sure I don't have a
cancer all right well Dan I thank you so
much for your time today I really
appreciate absolutely thank you Sam
thanks Wow always nice to hear about
those cases where you have drug
executives who are like in every single
type of executive we should do a
compilation of that question of have you
ever seen the thing where they yeah
decided to make oh I feel like over the
past six years
I've asked that question to a lot of
lawyers and they've all been like you
can't believe what I've seen they almost
never let you finish asking the question
I think dozens we've heard some
variation on that with guns drugs cars
even like the even the McDonald's coffee
case really got debunking about that
everybody that was like the world's
number one frivolous lawsuit yeah hot
coffee and we actually did it yeah and
then you actually went into it was like
no this was actually catastrophic ly
dangerous and reckless
yeah they thought olds corporation and
they seriously harmed somebody oh yeah
she had scarring all over her her crotch
she was an older woman right just right
and wanted barely nothing from them but
apparently it was practiced by
McDonald's to keep the coffee that hot
because it saved them some money about
having to reheat it it meant that they
could pre pour it you know and maintain
it on the shelf for you know one hundred
and thirty seconds which is going to
save us every day across the country six
thousand dollars or some some yeah some
excuse me some III just and I get I
Thomas Sam is Vegas mode dressed like a
g-man
talking like a sailor yeah absolute
nonsense I have to say it's capitalism
well you know the thing is is that I
guess it is it is I mean I guess it's
just that it is there's a certain have
an inevitability I guess in the sense
that if you're going to set up a system
this way that rewards greed you know how
do you find that limiting principle I
think it's like every calculation that
these guys make is we're going to
maximize profits and that's the only
thing that's important well that's like
the Koch brothers market-based
management right it's like how to do how
to save money on pipeline monitoring
yeah it's it's everything and it's like
you know III did an interview that we're
gonna play tomorrow with a guy named
Mike Berg who's handling the cases of
those gas lines that blew up in
Massachusetts Jesus
hey you know that's classic case of like
wow we got a real problem with these
pipes
all right well let's just wait on it
because if we spend the money now
preventatively all we're gonna do is cut
into shareholders right how much money
they make and so let's just wait until
it's you know a problem I mean the
fiduciary responsibility to maximize
shareholder profits pretty much at the
expense of literally everything else
yeah I think surprising about it I mean
if you have a roof right on your house
and it's it's a 25-year roof when you
bought it
and in your 25 years out everybody knows
that what you're gonna do is like well
just cuz it says it's a 25-year roof
doesn't mean that I got to switch it now
I mean I am gonna wait until it becomes
a real problem and then I'll fix it like
you know if a couple of shingles start
falling off and then I know it's a real
problem then I'll fix it but of all the
peoples houses blow up him right you
miss all this no it's real problem right
the stakes are slightly different and
you're you know unbelievable I don't
know do you have more guests coming no I
don't so let's uh let's dig into some of
the sound I mean maybe we could go into
the fun half now we might as well okay
so we're gonna go into the fun half
we'll take some phone calls we'll play
some more sound can i on me at via the
app do you have the item on your end I I
do okay I should tell folks right now
that we're still you know working on the
I think the the iOS app is almost done
we had some problems with those those
son of a guns at Apple they love to make
money and so they did not funny we
basically said like you have to give us
a way of making money with your app but
I was like come on don't you guys making
enough money can't you just let us have
our app but no so we're doing them only
mini tax haven
exactly is to contribute to the overall
haul so everybody plays their part in
helping Apple it's funny to think of
apples power in this position and then
think people think the free market is
something that exists what's that like
the Apple can just decide whether we can
have become a member button on the app
and then we act as if a free market
actually exists
well you can just not use Apple but well
but this is this is this is a perfect
example of an antitrust problem because
when you have market concentration like
this they because there's I think this
is monopsony I think I don't know I I'd
have to work out that definitely a
foreign monopoly there's no doubt about
that yes and I they owned the playing
field and so you got to give them a cut
and they could say oh you could just do
it on on Google but yes but the problem
is that you guys have been so successful
that you've now cornered the the market
now they of course didn't get their
success exclusively without any type of
government or societal help like gee but
even if cheap labor there's stories we
mined minerals from Colorado immigrants
apparently putting together stuff early
on in the in Silicon Valley which I
recently read about but the bottom line
is is that that's why we have antitrust
laws that's why we that's we Society has
decided like you shouldn't have the
ability to control markets and there are
politics because of your size now of
course they also hid money off overseas
Ireland and raised their cash so I mean
screw them but they are for the meantime
they're screwing us so that's what that
is right all right we're gonna take
quick break heading to the fun half sick
for six two five seven thirty nine
twenty I will be back for those of you
you know will go into the fun app for
those of you on the free show will be
back tomorrow the similar program David
Pakman is is here in Vegas and I'll sit
down with him talk a little bit about
politics two six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty is the number and
Michael you'll call in yep there and
I'll look at the okay alright see you
soon six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see
[Music]
[Music]
just wanna we bring back the yeah or a
couple of you put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break
that's
[Music]
you dog have Parkinsons
and the alpha males are like
almost says what what
[Music]
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
[Music]
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists birthday boy the alpha
males
needs to pay the price to be around here
[Music]
we are back this is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen I am in Las Vegas Nevada
I will take your IMS your tips on
blackjack craps and we'll play some
sound as well and we will take some
phone calls fact let's go to those calls
now you come from a 3:01 area code who's
this where he called from I don't hear
anybody do you guys you got a try again
I think it just went on your screen now
try call from a 3-0 one area code who's
this don't hear anything
you guys don't hear anything I don't
okay no so could just be good ball
column from a to10 area code who's this
two one zero two one zero
Matt are you sure Matt I'm hearing
myself back can't hear anything go
turned up go ahead
two one zero area code good afternoon
for them how you doing Matt are these
phones are they they hear me oh yeah now
you know you can hear him sorry yeah all
right all right sorry go ahead John
who's John yeah it's countess Antonia
how you doing Sam good afternoon
I'm doing good hi John what's on your
mind yeah and the latest Narus poll that
came out yesterday Republicans who say
that the midterms are very important to
them have increased their numbers from
July from 68% to 80%
you know in Maris also Democrats are up
just two points from 80% to 82% another
degaton comes from Quinnipiac where
their poll earlier in the in September
had them up by 14 point in the generic
ballot now they're only up by 7 points
538 has the percentage of Democrats
winning the house in the classic mode
it's seventy five point five percent
which is down from the peak of 83 point
one on September 16 also on 538 the
Senate Democrats are only at a twenty
three point four percent chance of
winning the Senate which is the lowest
number outside of this week since August
24th and on Sunday Democrats had a
thirty one point nine percent chance so
it's a drop of eight point five percent
since then this is primarily been since
Heidi Heitkamp and North Dakota had two
really bad polls where she's losing by
double digits and if I can't lose as
realistically you know all Democratic
incumbents will have to now have to win
and Democrats will have to win races are
currently held three races currently
held by Republicans so in both Arizona
and Nevada and they'd have to win
basically in Tennessee or Texas so you
know things aren't looking so so great
right now and I'm a little bit a little
bit surprised I mean I guess I always
figured that you know as we get closer
to the elections the Republicans would
would increase their enthusiasm but I
didn't really expect it to come with
this whole cast a sense of a guy who
tried to attempt who attempted to rape a
woman that they are actually rallying
around that you didn't expect that John
not exactly no III thought that you know
I still think this is you know it looks
like you probably will get confirmed
and so you know I think whoever loses
the it probably appears that the you
know obviously it's a law so the
Democrats a huge loss if Cavanaugh gets
confirmed I think that there will be a
bouncing back in that case but I mean I
still think that the larger structural
issues it will prevail and so you know
even though things look pretty bad there
there have been some positive points
from some Democrats also you know I'm a
little bit surprised at how far the the
the Senate has gone down and so most
people really didn't expect I camp to
win anyway and so I think that drop is a
little bit further than it should be
but I'm not really I mean if you look
like there were just eight races the
Charlie cook to move towards Democrats
there was just some LA Times polling
that came out with California House
races where California did really well
now they're do actually using a new form
of polling which is you know you have
they have email addresses of California
residents and they're spending them
questionnaires to get their polling and
one thing that I thought about that is
that you know older people don't have
you know access to computers quite as
much as younger people so that makes you
it a little bit towards Democrats but I
mean those are the you know there's this
there's there have been some positive
points for Democrats but I mean you know
generally it's been you know the last
three weeks that has not been great for
them and I mean I guess I am a little
surprised that really I mean I still
think you know they'll definitely take
this the house in the Senate was always
going to be a hard thing to happen but
it is a bit surprising because from what
I'm hearing is that
people you know it's not just the core
Republicans it's more people who lean
Republican and more men you know
obviously that are that are well I mean
look this is completely consistent with
what we know about Republicans and to a
large extent you know we have gone
through a period of time where we
thought and I don't know what's going to
happen with Kavanagh and I do think that
there is reason for Mitch McConnell to
be somewhat nervous or want to avoid
passing somebody in the in the lame-duck
because you don't know maybe Jeff Flake
says I'm too much of an institutionalist
and we have mccr ATS are taken over the
Senate then we should wait for them to
come in I mean who knows right those are
factors that that Mitch McConnell would
like to avoid who knows whether or not
he could overcome them but I mean so
much of this folks and I appreciate the
call John will see so much of this was
predictable two and a half years ago and
more if the Republicans win and they
have the presidency and they have the
Senate and not as relevant in this
instance but they have the house some
extent it's relevant they're going to
put on the court the worst of the worst
this was obvious from day one there's no
mechanisms that the Democrats can do
there's no magic the idea that it's
gotten this close with the Kavanagh I
think you know largely is a function of
the Democrats doing an okay job I don't
think they've done a great job but I
think they've done an okay job but the
the bottom line is they would have to be
operating on a level of efficiency and
strategy that rarely happens and then
they'd also need luck they want to lose
it's them I mean because there's folks
in corporatists and you still dodge for
them
every single day right I mean
idiots can say that like oh why didn't
they suspend the Senate rules and get a
hovercraft did you say that Acacio
Cortez said that she's gonna vote for
Andrew Cuomo right that I rest my case
[Applause]
Cohen from a 585 area code having fun in
Vegas I was gonna say this is this is an
eater calling from this finger like I
need it I would say that is for
yesterday I hear that steven crowder
avoids death by chocolate ice cream at
all cost because there's death in the
name and also I've been listening to
news talking all week about this whole
Cavanaugh appointment and it just I feel
like good so there's a lot of for women
but on the other hand I feel like there
still is not enough of our voices out
there and these idiots when Congress
trying to do anything the house they
they pretend they don't know you know
the sexual terminology is you they
pretend like they don't have a Google
machine it's it's a huge scam you know
we're all just so mad we're all season
my my teeth are being chewed down enough
thinking about this you know grinding I
just think like it's it's it's it's to
the point where you have to realize that
this is this is all about a power play
and that you have to hang on to this
crazy you know out of control like
merry-go-round because if you let go if
you stop paying attention that's I mean
that's what Putin did he he rapid fire
gave all these you know edicts and
orders me well you know we don't need to
you don't need to look at not
Anita we don't need to look at Putin to
know that we are the pace of stuff that
is happening in this country is out of
control
I appreciate the call Anita thank you I
certainly I mean I I'm always in a
constant state of agitation I think I've
slept probably three night at three
hours in a row maybe at any given time
over the past two weeks because this
Kavanagh stuff anecdotally the vast
majority of women that I have talked to
about this are just incredibly angry and
it's exhausting it's exhausting for
people and yet it is crucial like Anita
says to pay attention because it's only
gonna get worse it's only gonna get
worse and the importance of the judges I
mean we just had this case all right um
yeah my ID a little short of uh
something to drink here okay but we just
had a case where federal judges
basically halted the Trump
administration's plans to throw 300,000
people out of the country who are here
because they came from a a country that
was ravaged either by war or by natural
disaster they came here they had kids
they came here because they had kids who
are already here and the idea that we
rip apart these families for absolutely
no reason these by all accounts these
people function within society at a as
high if not higher level of contribution
as citizens and so there's no reason to
do it the US District Judge Edward Chen
ruled that the program's termination
that's the temporary protected status
would result in irreparable harm and
great hardship for its beneficiaries and
their families
the program protects migrants from
countries and during crisis ease Chen
wrote the administration must maintain
TPS for those four countries as a
lawsuit challenging the program's
termination is going forward the four
countries Haiti El Salvador Honduras and
Sudan I mean does anybody need to
understand like why people and certainly
look people obviously survive in these
countries but the the people who come
here from these countries likely have
lost their home had their their wife or
husband or children killed or parents
killed lost their home in an earthquake
lost their home in a hurricane and it
was never rebuilt they came here because
they had kids that were here already and
not only that I mean at least certainly
in Haiti in El Salvador's case you can
draw a direct line between u.s. foreign
policy in those places and every well do
Sudan suit I don't do Dan as well but
maybe maybe not as heavily right yeah
but I mean literally in a date in terms
of small arms flows to El Salvador in
terms of all sorts of structural
adjustment policies and not only that if
you have any kind of real experience of
say like people from Haiti as an example
in New York City um there's actually
even on that really you know secondary
self-justifying level a lot of people
that live here actually go back and they
do invest in businesses and healthcare
projects and other really important
things to actor actually counteract the
effects of things like natural disasters
and u.s. foreign policy so it actually
contributes to those long-term
rebuilding efforts that we claim to care
about anyways yep
here is Stuart Varney asking the most
important question that one could ask
and considering whether to see an
attempted rapist and a at the very least
I should say an alleged attempted rapist
and I think a proven liar you may not
know he lied about are important but a
proven liar to Senate and beer lover and
a guy who loves beer when you're
contemplating appointing this man to a
lifetime position on the Supreme Court
what is the most relevant question to
ask if you Stuart Varney
it is thus this money ok let's get the
big political story of the day is very
clearly the Capitol nomination fight I
want to know how do the markets react if
and when he finally gets confirmed let's
take it one way or another professor
Browne Berg okay
his suppose he is if there's a vote
Saturday and he's confirmed what does
the mark markets have been expecting
that I don't think you see much except
for a sigh of relief and let's move on I
think they've been baking this in that's
why you haven't seen the reactions
throughout the process what happens if
he is not confer dad doesn't get that's
what markets get nervous because it
means political intimidation is winning
the day the rule of law is out the
window guess what markets depend on the
rule of law I think they get nervous
about that because that spells
consequences not just for Supreme Court
but any other policy the left doesn't
like that's gonna give markets a little
bit of something to think about it what
is such an amazing stretch if he gets
voted down it's a defeat for the rule of
law like what law is even implicated in
this the law that mandates the Senate
vote and approve whoever the president
nominates it's a completely disregards
as laws like yeah
the laws of Barnes greenroom well no but
it sounds like it's really like if this
goes through there's a lot of people on
Wall Street who are worried that they
may have to be held to account for their
attempted rapes through the years and
that that would that that is very
problematic yeah when he said rule of
law he was referring to guy code
yeah bro this could be a complete
violation to the patriarchy not to
mention our well entrenched white
supremacy we can't have any sign that we
must be held accountable for anything
that we do unless it's done - of course
- another white guy and and then of
course we defer - how much money does he
have how much money we handle that way
easy way to the money then you just go
to the money system it's like the jump
it's like a jump on the basketball it's
man show me your checking account
it's just mad it's messy it's it's a
round-robin okay so white guy meets
black guy white guy advances white guy
meets a black woman well forget it
white guy advances white guy meets a
white woman white guy advances white guy
meets another white guy now this is
where things get interesting
how much money does that watch how much
money is that like I have boom there you
go folks
I'm sure and I think Wall Street more
generally be happy with any nominee from
a Republican president of course bar is
completely blocking any attempt to rein
I mean even implicate the work that
you're covering there today in terms of
lawyers having an ability to hold these
companies accountable without a doubt I
mean this was a tax on these folks have
been ongoing both culturally socially
and politically uh Karl Rove
specifically had his US attorneys and I
mean his US Attorney's target folks like
this big-time this is a an interesting
exchange that took place in the White
House as you know a Donald Trump is
insisting that in the context of a non
criminal case and we don't even have
this in a civil a case really this this
dynamic the the bar
- to win against a defendant in a civil
case is lower than it is in a criminal
case and there's a reason for that in a
criminal case you're talking about
putting someone in jail in a civil case
you're talking about making someone pay
some fashion for damages that have
occurred so the standards of proof are
lower now if you're in a situation where
it's like not even a case it's just a
job in a termination of should we
confirm someone to be hired for a job
it's even lower however the president
feels very strongly about this innocent
until proven guilty
unless of course well we're talking
about I hope nobody brings up and then
somebody did bring it up to Sarah
Sanders that is the central five Central
Park five the case of five young men at
the time who were coerced into admitting
guilt for a crime they did not commit in
attacking
a woman in Central Park Donald Trump
bought a full-page ad calling them
animals as a private penalty wanted the
Deaf snoring the death penalty to New
York specifically so they could be
killed was it 15 years later they were
exonerated and now they are free men but
they've spent 15 years of their lives me
I I just want a button they didn't get
financial restitution until de Blasio so
even though they were exonerated under
Bloomberg Bloomberg refused to pay out
and of course we're not talking about
like oh they're making they're getting a
killing there it's like literally like
we've completely destroyed your life
your ability to work make a living and
robbed you of yours here's some money so
you can have a roof over your head
Bloomberg wouldn't do that didn't happen
till de Blasio yep and if you want more
information on the Central Park five
case Google majority report Ken Burns
he was involved in making a documentary
about them and we interviewed him for
that but here is Sarah Sanders being
asked the question by April Ryan Aisha
Orosco in the White House press briefing
isn't there a bit of a double standard
here thank you so I present Trump talked
a lot yesterday about this issue of
being concerned about men being guilty
before being thought of guilty before
proven innocent and this idea of due
process but in the past with the Central
Park five he put out an ad basically
calling for the death penalty before
they had been found convicted and even
after they were exonerated he still
basically said that they may be guilty
and even as president he has talked
about presided over rallies where people
say lock her up talking about Hillary
Clinton
so I guess is there a disconnect between
when the president is interested in due
process for some but not for others not
at all the president actually encouraged
the Senate to hear dr. Ford's testimony
in the same way he encouraged them to
hear judge Cavanaugh's he is simply
stating the fact that we are a country
of law and order we are a country that
still believes that you're innocent
until proven guilty and we want to see
that process go through in its entirety
and it should be on a fair playing field
that's simply the only point is making
the guilty yes does he feel that now
back at the specific comments Dave real
question in the midst of this the
president has taken this our nation
president has taken this moment to say
that he's been affected personally by
all of these allegations
and he's picking and choosing just as
this question was he said to the Central
Park five was guilty and then he has
made Bill Clinton guilty because he
decided to change his line on the
Central Park five because they
interesting that you bring up Bill
Clinton nobody wants to hear those
accusers voices be heard that you're
certainly happy to hear all the other
stays no that's good I'll take that
opportunity to completely obfuscate the
issue just a little text from that ad
that pulled up goes Mayor Koch has
stated that hate and rancor should be
removed from our hearts I don't think so
I want to hate these muggers and
murderers they should be forced to
suffer yes mayor Koch I want to hate
these muggers murders and I always will
how can our great society tolerate the
continued brutalization of its citizens
by crazed MIT misfits criminals must be
told that their civil liberties end when
an attack on our safety begins so better
fascism so in the seeds that is for
definitely fascism yeah that letter is
that was the original campaign memo for
his run let's go to the AIIMS teamster
Ralph
Sam where can I send you a pic of my
breasts for a professional analysis my
back is killing me I need support thanks
bud do you hear the bit yesterday about
you interviewing abroad torts layer now
what we've discovered in Discovery Sam
was just shocking these are these things
say the velocity snap off that's it
that's the velocity of a Serena Williams
serve that's what we discovered sim oh
my god now with the Eddy memos where
these broad executives said they knew
but they didn't care steven crowder
clarifying anita steven crowder avoids
death by chocolate cake recipe because
it has death and it like he thinks the
National Socialist German Workers Party
left-wing because it has the word
socialist in it I see steven crowder
I was a good we're gonna read about
steven crowder and the
coming days I'm not going to do it now
but steven crowder i can say you know my
sense is he's the type of guy who talks
a big game but when it comes to putting
his money where his mouth is or frankly
even putting his mouth where his mouth
is he's a little bit mmm let's just say
timid that's all I'm gonna say I'm not
gonna say anything else right now
Colburn up being look at what I'm
referring to hope we're not being unfair
I I would normally hope I'm not being
unfair but in this instance I know for a
fact I'm being more than fair I'm being
more than fair and so steven crowder
Crowder
he talks a very big game but he plays a
very small game very small game mmm
check it on Alexa we will we will talk
more about that doctor chaos since
Cavanaugh is such a crap show and either
way the GOP is gonna put some
conservative with an equally terrible
judicial record is it actually
advantageous to put cabin on the court
and impeach him as soon as possible
nominee that isn't a hot mess wouldn't
necessarily have any grounds for
impeachment in their past or
confirmation hearings I always get very
nervous about sort of like these grand
schemes that involve like so many
variables
speaking of which like you know hundreds
of variables in the form of like
Democratic lawmakers that I get a little
bit nervous
my feeling is you fight the fight that's
in front of you and try and win it all
so if we just deregulate everything and
let free market self-regulate companies
will do the right thing and not
generally eff over the consumer over at
every turn libertarians are the
flat-earthers of economics yes that's
good okay Casey would you have the Green
Party candidate Howie Hawkins on your
show what is he running for this time is
he running for governor in New York I
don't know look it up MA I would have to
say highly unlikely I need to know what
he's running for you're running for
governor New York but what's okay what
let me tell you why I wouldn't let me
tell you why I wouldn't well first off I
rarely have candidates on right I mean
it's it's very rare that I have any
candidates on I have to really like them
Lester Cynthia Nixon right and and I
have to see a point in promoting them I
want to make sure that the WFP has a
ballot line for the future so and I
believe Cynthia Nixon is going to be on
that ballot line and that's why I'm
going to vote for her on that ballot
line if if that wasn't an issue would I
vote for the green candidate probably
but it's just a vote against Cuomo and
I'm confident of him winning in that
situation I would vote against him just
to keep his numbers low but I don't need
to talk to Howie Hawkins about that I
don't know I don't yeah I just I I would
really hope that people could take
whatever energy they're putting into the
Green Party and turn it into something
much more productive
whether that be outside of electoral
politics or inside electoral politics
but that experiments dead yeah
I'm happy now Sam I'm so impressed with
your separation plan for years I've been
urging clients to let their children
stay in the house where the parents
switch homes and none have been willing
this is just one reason why I have so
much love respect for you well thank you
you know part of it is also economic to
be honest with you but the main impetus
was my when I went through my parents
divorce they brought us to a
psychiatrist and we're like where do you
want to live and I said who do you want
to live with and I said I don't care who
I live with I just want to live in my
room and that's it and my sisters went
back and forth and that was difficult
for them so
you know it's hard somebody's gonna have
to have some measure of disruption in
their life when this happens and it
seems to be more fair to have the people
who had the active decision making to be
disruptive you know bear the brunt of
that it's a little bit tricky because we
still at separate times inhabit the same
space and that can create some friction
but it's good if people have the
opportunity to do it and frankly it's
cheaper it's just it's cheaper than
setting up another you know full
household to have like a smaller one you
know in New York so a guy man does
anyone in the EM our crew have any
thoughts on David Poulos running for
governor in Colorado jared Polis I would
vote for him I've heard some good isn't
jared Polis I think he ran to the left
as far as I understand it and is he is
he is he an out man
I think he's I mean he seems like a
decent candidate I haven't followed it
that closely yeah I haven't followed it
that closely either I don't even know
he's running against at this point but
North Carolina Republicans were
spreading fake picture of dr. Ford
saying she's too ugly to rape the right
is the lowest of scum that's really nice
I get a bad feeling that the Dems not
accepting this farce of an FBI
investigation would give Republicans
false license to deny findings they
don't like in the Ellison investigation
Tommy Clarkson I can't believe Sam is
talking to a creepy porn lawyer from
Ohio Trump change male dominance poem
first they came for the child molesters
and I didn't speak because I'm not a
child molester hiding hamsun no on
Cavanaugh so she's voting her conscience
she's Bulworth in it Sam Wow look at
that the North Dakota baby I look at
that good job Matt Matt Matt Matt how
did you get a line on hi
yep well I what did it Matt tell us this
story I sent her some hot dish ok wrong
me word let her know folks we got a
couple of matters to settle settlers
senator Heitkamp well that's excellent
all right folks it's public now so and
maybe what we'll do this on the on the
on the free show tomorrow but members
will hear first I will be debating
charlie Kirk at politican I will tell
you the backstory there was someone else
I was hoping to to debate at first I
didn't know that charlie Kirk was
available I wanted someone who is more
in this kind of space right Charlie Kirk
is a paid operative by the right-wing
slush machine that's fine
but one of the things I would rather do
is go to someone who is fan supported so
that I could have his fans expose him to
his fans as being a lightweight not
bright even if he lifts a lot of weights
still a lightweight I'm talking about
intellectually and politically and
whatnot but Charlie Kirk will suffice
for the time being yes
he has no constituency he obviously is
very good at managing up and that's why
he gets paid whatever money he does from
these right-wing he is on the right-wing
dole that's fine but I will debate
Charlie Kirk apparently the title of the
debate is president Trump helping the
middle class I had understood that they
were going to have a second part of that
and if not what would be better so that
I could offer some some suggestions as
to what we should do but I don't feel
inhibited by that narrow a question
charlie Kirk is of course going to argue
that middle class is doing great and I'm
not going to say too much about what I
intend to debate with him of course
because I'm sorry to see now like in my
Twitter feed a bun
of those what is he from turning point
during points yeah a bunch of turning
point toadies he's got the town heads
out on you yes they're not very bright
guys they're they're not there I'm
waiting for them to bring their a-game I
liked for the I wanted seven minutes of
my life back from watching Sam cedar on
you thank you that's the one I saw and
then I enjoy I hear Florida Senate I of
course enjoyed the one of the like and
you should see his buddy Michael Brooks
there the smuggest people on the
Internet
well I'm also gonna be the smartest
person at Politico right yeah that's
right Marcus person in IRL has the goal
to see if Foster Friess cuts is funding
off do we aim yeah I want to see you
like yes I'm gonna is going to be a
specific message to Foster Friess but we
will talk about that in a big in a bit
this is big Heidi Heitkamp put up this
this tweet this is big Heidi Heitkamp
reveals that she will not be voting for
Marc Cavanaugh and the reason is going
to be interesting folks and relevant I'm
trying to pull it up here the the
reasoning behind this as to why she is
not fighting for Cavanaugh is going to
be relevant because presumably this is
the reasoning I'm having trouble pulling
it up it seems to be frozen now here we
go the the reasoning well let's play can
we play that clip is there an opening it
now one second okay let's play this clip
because I want to hear what what the the
reasoning is Heitkamp is enough oh whoa
WDAY is website looks like it's getting
slammed look for it on Twitter in the
means okay someone's posted it but this
is a big issue what her reasoning is is
going to provide reasoning theoretically
for a Joe Manchin if Heitkamp
is voting for him and it is clear that
this is hurting her or at least there's
a perception it's hurting her in Matt's
really wretched State North Dakota then
it's going to be very hard for Joe
Manchin to to vote for Cavanaugh at this
point for anybody else right
you know she's willing to take one for
the team in this way then it's going to
be very hard for for any other tell you
what Jenks I think we have it do we have
it okay let's play it
UDA why special report sorry something's
wrong hold on it's frozen no it's
someone out audio oh I'm sorry guys I
know tickets I mean uh Sam also just put
flake and Collins and Murkowski in the
mix too if it pressures mansion as a
Democrat does it pressure them as women
I mean Wake is somebody pretending to
care sort of depends on what her
reasoning is to be right that's why I'm
if she says I don't think the FBI
document is sufficient then Joe Manchin
can also say I don't think the FBI
document is sufficient if she says that
makes it about I believe women or
something to that effect then it becomes
you know who knows if that's as
operative for a guy like mansion you
know we'll see
I believe everybody at Jenks yeah a
minute let me know if we can get that
that video I mean it's a shame that that
has to be you know that like that like
it you know it has to be sort of so
gendered and you know but we're watching
we're watching what happens with with
these people
they good it's gone from a five five
nine area code who's this where you come
from
hi this is Nathan from Fresno California
hello Nathan what's on your mind Wow
never done this before
well Rizvan thank you guys for the show
I love it
try to listen to it as much as possible
for the past couple years I just wanted
to call in and talk a bit about my
congressman Devin Nunez okay yeah
there's a son I mean definite I mean
aside from the Russia stuff he is he's
quite a character from investing in in
wine companies apparently so extravagant
yacht parties featuring underage hookers
and cocaine he's slamming our local
paper the Fresno Bee as a deep state
communist Hapag and Oregon despite
endorsing him in every election he's
running and so now but there isn't some
really interesting piece recently in his
squire I know this when I heard about it
I thought yeah something out here on
maggiore report
yeah well hello this is the one about
his his da ting an undocumented
immigrants yeah something you definitely
have on yeah we will we're gonna we're
gonna cover that in the you know when I
get back into the studio it's a big
piece I'm going to go through it and and
definitely you know the cabin I think
it's crowding out a lot of stuff that
would take you know some in-depth things
but I think as we turn back to the
investigations we're going to be talking
more about Devin Nunez but appreciate
the phone call let's go to a five five
to area code who's this that's how you
should tell all five five two five five
two five five two five five two oh yes
it is unit hi I am Matt
I'm calling from Brazil and I might be
Kurd
so I'm sorry if something awful happens
to you because I'm American I'm living
in Brazil and kind of both of my
countries are falling apart but I called
because the elections actually happened
this week here and I know you've been
covering that and there I'm kind of
impressed in some ways at how similar I
see things from the United States and
from here about politics right now and
it's something that I didn't see before
there's a lot of fake news for example
going around some people saying that
ball senado these far-right fascist
person is going to win in the first
round which I haven't seen any polls to
indicate that but some people like to
think that's the case and it's kind of a
scary situation here I live in a very
conservative area of the country a lot
of the bigger cities are conservative I
live in a state capital very
conservative and there there are calls
from ball senado and others that like
him that want to like torture people who
are against him and it's a scary
situation here
but I think the rest of the world for
anybody who's listening and says like oh
why would I care about Raziel well it's
a big country is in the Americas it's
kind of an important place right well I
mean I've been covering it yeah yeah
appreciate the call thank you
there's interesting to see the parallels
call it from a two one three area code
who's this where he come from
hi this is Karen smiley Terrance from L
like your mind I want to talk about the
Inspector General report on the battle
Anto Detention Center so like just
reading that report yesterday and like
some of the you know articles and videos
that covered in
including yours like even as like a very
cynical person who has like no illusions
about like you know us Empire and you
know crimes against humanity some of the
details in that report just like really
affected me like a lot of things happen
yeah just what the report is if they
didn't if they hadn't caught up with it
okay yeah the DHS inspector general did
a I guess a inspection a random
inspection of one of their facilities in
California they found just some like
awful basic deficiencies such as you
know there's a inadequate dental care
and there's a report of one of the
dentists saying that if you know
detainees wanted you know good oral
hygiene they could use like the the
threads from their socks there was you
know with the the nooses and reports of
guards making fun of detainees calling
them suicide failures and mocking them
and I don't know just like knowing how
horrible Trump is and everything you
know this particular story I don't know
if it's like a combination of everything
that's been going on this week it just
it really alright well we lost you for
some reason but yeah horrible story
disgusting I think we seem to me on its
face a violation of the Flores agreement
as to the conditions in which
detainees can be kept I mean it's it's
disgusting it's disgusting you know I
don't know it's disgusting I don't know
how else it can be characterized it is a
national shame among others and you know
but you know at one point yeah people
can be talking about Trump but it's the
country it's the country period yeah
it's a country and it's certainly I will
say this clearly Heidi Heitkamp maybe if
she went in and offered a more
progressive Pro program
in that state it would somehow convince
people that they should vote for her but
you look at the evidence and it appears
that what they're voting on is less
about economics and more about their
sense that like we don't want white
people to lose their privilege well nut
dakota is especially tough because they
haven't been hit as hard by the
recession because of the oil stuff the
entire time so it's a lot of people that
aren't as economically a lot of white
people that aren't as economically you
know worried as other people although
the the pre-existing condition stuff did
was causing Kraemer a headache so people
aren't entirely you know feeling that
economically secure
all right well listen I get a wrap up
we'll be back tomorrow we'll take more
phone calls do more sound and have more
interviews from here did you just hang
up on me yeah oh sorry oh sorry I don't
know no no no unless I'm not on the
phones okay
all right folks we'll be with Mort
tomorrow don't forget you can support
this program by going to join the
majority report well it's too late you
guys are all members already all right
we will see you tomorrow in that sig
to get to where I want
no son
I'm gonna get there I was late I just
got caught
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
