[Music]
there's look this is important to talk
about because we're talking about you
know today we're talking about the
Washington Post fact-checking Bernie
Sanders in a just a bizarre way we're
talking about your Joe Biden going out
there and telling a you know semi
fabricated story even saying that the
details not important doctor important
genuine rage yeah he inhabited that role
well yes it was like it was definitely
like Jill didn't bring up jello there
are times where something can be
completely fake but also completely
right and apparently someone created an
online jordan peterson text-to-speech
text-to-speech program it's been taken
down but you know in a violation of free
speech i was no kidding tires my
foundation listener josh apparently
created one and let's hear it the
afternoon dave stephen others in the i
do
stop being cowards and debate sam center
it's not actually that hard there you go
and all that is absolutely true but
that's also totally false
i want to make that absolutely clear
jordan Peterson not bright enough to
make that comment he would be the type
of guy that would call you a seder ya
know that's how he would pronounce it
though definitely let's play it one more
time just because it sounds so good the
afternoon
Dave Stephen others in the I do stop
being cowards and debate Sam sitter
it's not actually that hard so there it
is Jordan Peterson's voice coming to my
support not not him Willie but this is
you know the the other part about this
that's not funny
these are gonna be a big problem no I
mean we've been talking about this for a
while remember we we hit we saw that
test of Adobe had come up with something
like that where you can
just texted it write it out and it
creates stuff like this is that what
this was yeah that's what this is Texas
Beach compiled using his lectures and
stuff like Wow I mean that's that's
scary
well what's really scary is it's a sort
of singularity because I say the
singularity is when artificial
intelligence gets smarter than man and
now we have a text-to-speech software
that's telling more truth than the
actual IDW right that's that's true I
mean in a way and not only are they
telling more truth than the IDW in a way
they are even more dark webby they're
the dark web dark web yeah because
they're not even allowed to be online
the the voice the text is speech of
machines but this is gonna be a big
problem because I mean just for example
if this existed would Donald Trump prior
to the 2015 election like that what he
said on that bus could have been a lot
worse right he comes off the bus and
with a little bit of tinkering that's
gonna sound seamless and you're going to
hear you're gonna hear secret audio from
a speech that somebody gave in a room of
fundraisers and one of the things that
an intentional disinfo will be put out
as well one of the things that I think
is becoming very clear with this era and
Donald Trump is that there are two at
the least to very substantial narratives
of reality within our politics that are
running parallel with each other you
know that that woman who was at that
Justin Amash town hall in Michigan who
said like I I thought the mall report
completely vindicated exonerated Donald
I had no idea about this stuff I'd never
heard it and I'm you know very very a
I'm a high information voter and well I
mean
she didn't say accurate information she
was seen Justin Amash live yeah I mean
no that's a really good distinction
though III think that you know hi
there's gonna be tons of people that are
high information there was an old
Annenberg study and its really old at
this point I think I looked at it in
college so probably like 10 years ago or
something but especially people that
were at the time I think was probably
fox or Limbaugh or something they could
identify things more than the average
voter like they would be more likely
than not to know who liked the Senate
Majority Leader was or whatever factoids
but they were terrible in terms of
organizing information but they were
quote-unquote high information voters
but they were wrong on the merits of a
lot of things so those are not
definitely definitely not the same thing
right
and and but I don't even want to get
into like the what constitutes a high
information voter but that the idea that
there are two different realities that
can it coexist and that can have the
same I mean it used to be that Fox
needed to that the way that the media
would flow would be from the Drudge
Report into Fox and then out to like ABC
News and that would be the whole game
but now they don't need these stories to
migrate into the so-called mainstream or
lamestream media as John McCain's
running mate would say she coined that I
I don't know if she coined it but she
gave it popularity well she gave it
popularity and now they don't need the
lamestream media mm-hmm
there's a whole nother and I imagine
this is going to get bigger but the you
know this we're gonna see more
stratification within media but they're
gonna be able to concentrate they stay
on message a lot more than the rest of
the media does because that's not what
they perceive their job to be and you
can put out something fake and it can do
its job
and it doesn't have to last long you
drop this thing in October 15th you know
I had a George W Bush I can't believe
they don't realize how opt out of
National Guard and shut up I was wasted
and I dropped that you know October 15
2004 maybe he's not president oh no I
don't take our ol row fits debunk the
next day right
not a good move not smart I got right
EFT alright
