the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa they are
unanimous in that hate call me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday June 6 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report broadcasting live steps
from the industrial ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's program
brian mayer reporter fort Ellis or
co-editor of the Brazil wire there have
been massive uprisings and protests
across Brazil taking on the balsan RO
government already five months in with
the lowest approval ratings of any
presidency at this historical juncture
in Brazil clown fascism is faltering
plus new revelations on the political
persecution of lula de selva illegal
wiretapping of his lawyers by the lava
jato team we're gonna be talking about
all that plus both scenarios ecological
policies they are calling him the
exterminator of the future but can we
learn from the uprising in Brazil as we
take on authoritarians in the United
States and globally speaking of the
United States is threatening tariffs
against Mexico Trump still saying that
Mexico is not doing enough to support
this war on migration and a new report
that ice and border agents are taking
away the medications of teenagers that
they're detaining Jesus as the Terrorism
of the Trump administration continues at
a steady pace
Donald Trump is incredibly unpopular in
key swing states don't get complacent
stay focused but his numbers are
plummeting in New Hampshire Wisconsin
Michigan Arizona Pennsylvania Ohio and
even Florida and several others Saudi
Arabia is buying new missile technology
from China the African Union has
suspended the Sudan as the military has
been in a vicious crackdown deploying
gangsters to murder students and
protesters as it says you can get rid of
al Bashar but not the al baqarah system
it isn't just Joe Biden that's opposed
funding federal funding for abortion in
fact all members of Congress running
except for Bernie Sanders have voted for
federal bans a 1972 article surfaces of
Bernie Sanders supporting abortion
rights and condemning men controlling
women's bodies before roe v-- wade even
happened he's so good he was in fact
really good Joe Biden is really bad he
worked to undermine the Affordable Care
Act's coverage of contraception
Elizabeth Warren rips into him for
backing the Hyde Amendment and the
Democratic National Committee has opted
out of a climate changed focus debate
because why would the future viability
of life on earth be something you'd want
your presidential contenders to discuss
one white oh and I have one similarity
we both rely on astrologers for our
political guidance I'm just kidding
steven crowder has been I'm not totally
sure actually the state of his D
monetization of YouTube but YouTube is
running through thousands of channels f
Crowder but this isn't the answer either
we need a actual governmental but also
journalistic strategy so independent
creators
are not destroyed and undermined but
it's not Carlos mensis fault it's Steve
Crowder and Google's fault I'll explain
that and more on today's majority report
Brendon very good job on the board oh
thank you I would just like to provide a
little bit of positive reinforcement can
we do it can we get what's that like is
like the four seasons we should somebody
should do part of our great creative
army somebody should I don't actually
know if you see Sam's hand when he's
doing the down or up and that kind of
way
if you do you should put like the four
seasons underneath it or something I
think that would be very funny yeah
conductor I think that's a Mima bull
Jaime is here Brendon is here matt is
hopefully getting some good fun times
and restoration on his little mini
vacation how's everybody doing I'm
pretty okay today I listen to a really
good episode of POD AM America on my way
here shoutout to Jake and I was in t.o.p
Oh getting a breakfast sandwich and I
saw Megan McCain's face on the
television and I was like oh maybe I
should listen to what she's saying cuz
maybe we'll talk about it today on the
show and then I was like you know what
I'm off the clock right now
I'm gonna listen to the people I want to
listen to and it's not her why is life
choice
Brendon any similar choosing to not
listen to Megan McCain and perhaps
listen to like a Cormac McCarthy audible
or something instead no I kind of like
the view it kind of gives you an insight
into what everyone else is thinking I
like the view to know sometimes we get a
little bit you know buried in our corner
of the world like I'd like to come up
and hear what all the moms are talking
about ask the moms I also should have
asked the moms I also said you neglected
to mention that there's major
legislation in the works here in New
York State on rent control which we'll
get into later as well rent control is
gonna be one of the major issues that is
going to need to emerge obviously on a
state and local level and as we talk
about pushing and expanding the
portfolio
of what candidates like Sanders and
Warren are offering I want to see
universal public housing option and I
also want to see incredibly aggressive
pushes for rent control but being that
as it may
Bernie Sanders is everybody no knows was
at the Walmart Board of Directors
meeting yesterday and before he even set
foot in the building if I understand or
maybe when he arrives certainly before
he spoke the CEO of Walmart already
endorsed a increase in the federal
minimum wage now of course it wasn't it
I don't think there was a dollar number
assigned to it it was a we should look
at sort of thing and of course the CEO
knows that with the Republicans
controlling the Senate and Donald Trump
in the White House a move to help people
live better is obviously not going to
happen but this is the power of Bernie
Sanders and this is the power of any
frontline top level national politician
who is willing to not only advocate
important and great policies but
literally function as a labor and
community organizer it's an incredibly
powerful thing
could you imagine when this man is
president the I mean it's one thing to
talk about bully pulpit power this is
literal organizing power here he is
after coming out of the shareholder
meeting and he is gonna explain to this
reporter I believe his name is Ryan
Nobles that the walton family has still
not heard the message do you feel that
the wall
yeah the wealthiest family in our
country were 475 billion dollars surely
they can afford to pay their employees a
living wage he did say that they do
believe the federal minimum wage we are
working on but I led the effort in the
Senate to raise the federal minimum wage
to 15 bucks an hour strong Republican
opposition there in the house I hope
they will do it but with Republicans
controlling the Senate there is no
guarantee we will succeed
what we need is Walmart the largest
private sector employer in this country
to take a bold step forward and say that
all of their employees should live with
dignity and how would you respond to
some of the things they said they've
done for their employees you think it's
enough look I'm not here to you know
criticize everything that they have done
all that I'm saying is that if you work
40 hours a week in the United States
especially in a company owned by the
wealthiest family in America a company
which has apparently enough resources to
pay its CEO over 20 million dollars a
year in compensation a thousand times
more than what the average worker makes
you know if you could do all of that you
can pay your workers there's no doubt
about that I just want to really
emphasize the nothing radical about $15
minimum wage okay so let's take this in
a couple of different steps a broader
argument is an institution like Walmart
should be broken up decentralized that
even in a much better economy in society
there's certain forms of frictionless
production in a place like Amazon which
are fundamentally incompatible with
ecological sustainability and UMaine
worker practices even in a much more
democratized environment so one is break
up these companies democratize these
companies have democracy at the
workplace as Professor Richard wolf
talks about that's the long term goal I
would say the short term goal in the
next rise to push and one way is
breaking this up geographically because
$15 an hour is not going to get you
where you need to be in the Bay Area or
New York City or Seattle or Chicago but
the other way frankly and you know again
you can always have caveats carved out
and subsidies in fact Walmart can pay
the subsidies in taxes that subsidize
the bodega that literally can't afford
to pay somebody $15 an hour
these are all solvable and the question
of how to solve them is always about
taking resources that are concentrated
up here and breaking them up and
bringing them down so they flow out the
answer is actually always quite simple
but I would say that you know if you are
a target and Amazon a Walmart any of
these major monopolistic or monopolistic
tendency conglomerates we should set a
baseline that you pay your workers $35
an hour period whether you're in the
middle of the Ozarks or whether you're
in the center of Manhattan you have to
pay what would translate to some form of
a legitimate at least lower middle-class
wage period yeah and if there are places
like New York City where unions are
stronger and can organize for more than
that absolutely pay people more than
that in New York City but you're right
the floor should be like at least $30 an
hour at least 30 35 bucks an hour no
doubt for any company like that with
that type of profits and speaking of you
know what Walmart has done and Bernie
politely saying obviously not remotely
enough let's go to Sound number 13 where
a worker at this same rally she's gonna
explain her experience as a human being
working for this company
we're supposed to take care of our
people and we're not and these companies
make all this money and we're struggling
why we don't have to struggle that's why
we have people like senator Sanders on
our side because he believes that too
and really just my final question and
looking around you are not alone today
[Applause]
now it's a tough question how is it to
know that you have others who are here
also in support of everything that's
going on it's amazing because I have
people nationwide they're my family
[Music]
that's organizing that solidarity that's
uh I believe Cornel West he says that
justice is love and public oh that's it
that touched my cold communist heart
that's the reason you have a communist
heart indeed so let's just my warm
communist your warm communist heart and
there's nothing wrong with having a
heart in fact my heart doesn't care
about your libertarian nonsense
corporate ideology we're gonna take
a brief break and we will be back with
Brian Mayer of Brazil wire
you
ERD report if you're listening on
podcast and you will hear what was gel
Gilberto very appropriate music for
today's show joining us now is a
essential voice for understanding all
things Brazil and I would say through
Brazil the global left Brian Mayer is a
reporter for Telus or English he's the
co-editor Brazil wire and also editor of
I believe it is the year in lead a year
of the coup in the making which is an
incredible anthology of articles that
have been published in Brazil wire on
what happened leading up to the rise of
bolson ro and the political imprisonment
of Lula I was honored to write the
foreword to that incredible book Brian
thanks for being here thanks for having
me so Brian um out of the gate five
months in we know how horrible bowls
Naro is and you could remind people of
his record and what's he is doing with
regards to labor and dizziness people
the environment all of this but you know
to the extent there is even just an
objective analysis here how is he doing
how is how is he doing five months in is
he popular he's currently a two month
mark the least popular new president in
since the since the end of the
dictatorship okay and that's a pretty
impressive feat if you look at the
gallery of bums who've held the office
of presidents since the dictatorship you
know like Joe's a saarne who ended this
mandate so unpopular that he couldn't go
out on the streets without people
throwing rocks at him oh Jesus why is
bolson ro and and in addition to
obviously of course he's you know okay
so he's pursuing obviously policies that
are detrimental to most people which are
right-wing policies but that being said
I mean he ran on the same authoritarian
right-wing populist wave which one in
the United States which is winning
across the world speaking to people's
bigotries but also their ends
ladies and also their kind of sense of
fear and terror and paranoia and then
there's different factions inside the
bolsa narrow government there's the
neoliberal privatizes there's the
military then there's the alt-right
people what direction is he going in and
what has made it so that even the people
in his core are starting to be
dissatisfied with him okay well first of
all you know the main reason he won was
because the elections were illegitimate
I mean they removed the leading
candidate right Lula was pulling with
over twice the popularity as him and
would have clearly won the election and
on top of that they committed election
fraud against Fernando Haddad you know
who all sort of won and also all of this
Steve Bannon supported social media
crimes they committed so the Brazil's
always had a core maybe 20 25 percent of
the population that has fascist
tendencies you know back dating back to
the nineteen the original fascists in
the 30s there's always this group of
people who support the police's right to
kill anyone they want which is what
Lula's captor Sergio Moro is trying to
push through now a law that will allow
police to shoot anyone
if they feel scared but what happened
during the elections was this surge of
illegal whatsup activity you know the
plumb barred people who didn't who
weren't very political with really
negative and slanderous messages
basically calling Fernando Haddad a
pedophile and things like that and
photoshopped images and so he never had
that much of a mandate to begin with now
he took office he was supported you know
about 55% of the Brazilian population
were ruining for it to work for things
to work out so we had like a 55 percent
approval rate that's now dropped to 26%
in the first two two months in office
and the reason is because first of all
he's an idiot he doesn't have any
speaking skills he refused to
participate in any of the debates you
know except for the first one which he
was humiliated in
you know he's so socially awkward that
he insists on sitting down the entire
time in the one debate he was in where
everyone else was standing you know like
you search like completely socially
awkward not very bright there's growing
scandals involving his kids it's looking
more and more like his son Flavio was
somehow involved in the assassination of
Mario Elie Franco bowls inaros
wife's uncle was just arrested for being
in a paramilitary militia brasilia we
know more about the case of the
connections that we don't know yet that
you know obviously it's still being
reported but there are there's the
assassination of Mariela Franco and
maybe you could remind people of Mariela
Franco she's a very important figure
obviously in a martyred figure and then
there's also this broader connection
between the balsan ro government and the
bowl snarl family with these
paramilitary gangs that operate on a
nexus with the Brazilian police and so
on and and let me just tack onto that
also the very scary thing about that too
is it mirrors in some ways Colombia
right where a lot of the sort of dirty
we work of right-wing governments and
the police state is outsourced to
paramilitaries and drug gangs that are
affiliated with them and it seems to be
that there's a kind of similar model in
bolson arroz brazil well that's kind of
like what it's looking like really I
mean the militias normally like for the
militias are a recent thing you know
they started in the 2000s and to date
most of them I mean if it you've had
like death squads you have a long
history of death squads and Brazil which
are very similar to militias except
Malou the difference between the
militias in the death squads is the
militias have like they don't just kill
people they actually control territory
and they set up extortion rackets and
squeeze local business owners out of
money and make all the people living in
that neighborhood by cooking gas from
them and by their pirate cable TV
service and in return for that they
protect that neighborhood against crime
you know that's how they started out so
they're a little
different than death squads which
historically have just been like
committing assassinations for
politicians and things like that but but
it's basically been a Rio de Janeiro
thing but now it looks like it's
spreading because Michelle bolson arroz
uncle was in they just uncovered one
operating in Brasilia so this does look
like it's spreading across Brazil a
little bit not that much yet because
that in a lot of seasons the drug gang
still have a really firm grip on things
but basically they're their organ
they're organized crime groups made up
of police officers you know normally
military police sometimes firemen and
it's either like ex cops or current cops
working on their days off and they're
you know extremely right-wing there
they're a living legacy of the fascists
neo-fascist military dictatorship
ideologically like if you're if you live
in a neighborhood where the militia
controls it right
they beat teenagers up who dye their
hair yep you know they shoot people for
smoking marijuana and stuff like that
there's super reactionary and right-wing
in it and what bowls narrows ethos is is
like he stands for all of their values
okay and it's coming out you know more
and more evidence showing that it was
one of these militias from here the
Spader's community in ridges and arrow
that was behind the assassination of
Mary Lee Franco and the mother and the
wife of the head of this militia were
employees in state congressman Flavio
bolsa narrows cabinet for ten years and
that's Boston our Oh son yes and then
they arrested the shooter right and he
was living two doors down from Shire
bull Cesare and this luxury condo
complex you know and here's a retired
police officer how could he afford to
live in a millionaire luxury condo
complex like they found a hunk over a
hundred machine guns in one of his
properties and these are the exact kinds
of guns that bolson are just tried to
legalize through issuing that decree
without going through Congress
right and you also mentioned that the
very specific steps that Sergio Moro who
of course was the lead the the
persecutor of Lula who then took a job
as Boston arroz justice minister the
bolson ro government and also
politicians and affiliated with him to
formally legalize not only greater
ability for police to kill people which
is already a massive problem to begin
with in Brazil in places like the
favelas and the periphery and then also
rules that are frankly they're they're
analogous to like the stand your ground
rules that Alec has pushed in the United
States making it easier for farmers to
kill people that happen to walk across
their land as an example so there's this
giant put and we've already seen these
spikes there was a story of a Brazilian
musician I believe a couple of months
ago was murdered with his family in the
car in his car so this type of thing is
spiking and being pushed explicitly as
policy yeah exactly and also morals
pushing his crime package which he's
been unable to pass until now thank God
you know it also includes all these
measures to protect militias right okay
so he's not an anti-corruption Crusader
but publications like as Co as America's
quarterly New York Times and all these
other publications tried to pretend he
was well he was persecuting the lines
not he doesn't care about corruption at
all he's trying to make it harder to
arrest militias militia leaders right
and in fact although I read is and
correct me if I'm wrong to that so when
we talk about drug drug gangs running
neighborhood the militias are going up
against the drug gangs and again in an
analogy to Colombia not only are you not
dealing with a drug and violence problem
the militias then just in addition to
their reactionary politics and their own
viciousness just like the drug gangs
they take over those same drug
distribution networks as well so a lot
of them are also implicated in drug
business in some militia controlled
territories they don't allow any drugs
but in rio das Pedras i know that
they've made a partnership with command
familia which has a partnership with the
pcc which has a partnership with the
Calabrian mafia and they're setting up
drug-dealing tables in certain spots in
public in that favela area which i've
actually spent a lot of time and i
actually filmed on a BBC documentary
called welcome to rio one of our
characters was from that neighborhood
and i actually met some of the militia
people at that time and kind of have a
pretty decent knowledge of how they
operate because of that before we get to
these incredible counter protests and
the real incredible activity of
resistance of the brazilian left on the
streets particularly around these
education protests in the past couple of
weeks can you just really quickly remind
everybody who Mariela Franco was because
I do think it's important you know in
addition to noting her assassination how
important and unique she was in not only
Brazilian but international politics and
activism well Mariela Franco was an
afro-brazilian lesbian socialist City
Councilwoman was from a favela you know
and it's a very rare type of personality
who would get elected to public office
in Brazil which has so many class and
race issues and she was someone who
because like you know the biggest
problem you you look at black lives
matter in the US and how much people
have mobilized and everything imagine if
there was a city in the US where the
police were killing four black people a
day that's what's going on in Rio de
Janeiro right now right so Mariela
Franco well she was in City Council she
made an issue of going after police
violence and going after the militias
and opening investigations against them
and she was very she wasn't anti police
she also passed pushed for legislation
to provide more financial support to the
families of slain police officers I mean
she wasn't like she was trying to
address the problem the best way
possible she wasn't like say no declare
war against the police or something like
that's pretty much seems to be why she
was killed because she was directly
confronted these militia people but
she's also turned into a symbol of
everything that the Bulls in our
administration hates everything that
these fascists hates gay black woman
from a favela you know right so this is
why she's turned into this kind of
symbol and I'm you know I met her once
she was super super nice before she was
a city council woman she was working in
the office of us stayed congressman
Marcela fresh or night I was going to
meet him and I spent like an hour and a
half waiting for him and she was super
nice to me the whole time and I just
remember her being super nice person
what has been happening in the last
couple of weeks there's been
demonstrations and pushed back the whole
time but it seems like in the last
couple of weeks that it's been sort of a
watershed moment with a couple of
different factors Bowl scenario trying
to push through a whole set of policies
that would completely gut and devastate
education in Brazil privatize it
eliminate departments and also the
ability finally after being silenced in
solitary confinement of President Lula
speaking and then these massive protests
against the budget cuts and against the
education attacks from bolson ro so
start us I guess by talking about the
education stuff first what is bolson ro
trying to push through and what have the
protests looked like on the streets
across Brazil okay well basically what
Bolton I was trying to do is privatize
higher education now when Lula was
president
they built 17 new free public
universities and 100 over a hundred and
twenty new campuses to these public
universities across the country and they
invest they doubled the education budget
and then when Dilma Rousseff was
president she she passed a measure that
tie all profits from the state Petroleum
Company to public education and health
right so they invested heavily in it and
tomorrow
takin it all down he cancelled the law
about the petroleum profits he froze
education spending for 20 years and so
an tempers the president who took over
after the who that removed Dilma in 2016
congressional go ahead just want to let
people know he already crippled the
university's public university system
you know like he cut scholarships in
half he cancelled this program called
science Without Borders that would send
over a hundred thousand students four
years abroad in the best universities in
the world like Harvard and places like
that and spas never came in now his
economics minister is one of these 1970s
Milton Friedman protegees from
University of Chicago who worked in
Pinochet's Chile for a decade and his
sister is president of the Brazilian
national distance learning Federation
and so this is like everyone's looking
at this is like an attempt to
the public school system so that more
and more people will start getting these
cracker jack box diplomas from these
for-profit distance learning schools so
this is Betsy DeVos I mean this is
exactly what Betsy DeVos and Paul Ryan
and she's probably friends right and so
but when he announced this this was like
people were just saying this was the
last straw you know this was the in
Bruges in Portuguese I said this is the
drop of water that became a tsunami hmm
and so immediately
bowls nor was giving a speech at the
public high school in Rio and thousands
of kids gathered out in front of it
booing him and then the organized left
kicked in the organized left which is
the base of PT Party and has alliances
with other Left parties too but it's
been the base of the PT Party since day
one meaning it's the labor unions the
teachers unions connected to the coot
Union Confederation okay which has 8
million members it's the second-biggest
Union Confederation in the Americas the
and these wonderful students
associations like the the Oni which is
the National
undergraduate student Association which
was formed in 1937 to fight the fascist
new state of jets julio vargas was
outlawed during the military
dictatorship they started organizing the
national high school students
association in the national graduate
students association all started having
these democratic assemblies in hundreds
of cities across the country about how
we're gonna plan these protests and so
on May 15th they put over a million
people on the streets of 200 cities
across Brazil oh okay
and they staggered it so it started in
the smaller towns you know so as the day
progressed we saw bigger and bigger
cities on the news putting more and more
people on the streets so the the morning
started with towns like you know
Colorado population 300,000 people got
50,000 people on the streets right so
this was just this was amazing and after
that day also not bolson are announced
without showing anything on paper that
they were gonna reduce the amount of
cuts by 25% to try and like break the
momentum of the protest but nobody buyed
it and so they so Olson are called his
supporters out on the street for this
counter protest which completely fizzled
out they put people on the streets of
like 50 towns across the country but
many of these protests only had a few
hundred people in them and the biggest
one in Rio de Janeiro in balsa narrows
stronghold you know that they had like
40 or 50 thousand people but the student
protests on May 15th put three hundred
thousand people on the streets in Rio
right so they the bowls in our people
managed to put 50 thousand people in the
street The Guardian created a false
equivalency between these two protests
as if they were equal size and I saw
this happen in a lot of media and a lot
of Twitter I even saw people associate
with leftist publications in the u.s.
went out personally to the right-wing
protest and took pictures and so though
these people don't seem to be so
right-wing they don't seem to be so
radical but the protest was calling for
shutting down the Supreme Court and
shutting out Congress like the Nazi
protein
in Germany in the early 30s that was the
goal of the protest because the Supreme
Congress are fighting with balsan are oh
yeah so so then they had the second one
and a lot of people were like oh is it
gonna fizzle out will it be as big as
the first one and it was as big as the
first one and those were this past
weekend on the streets another million
people on the streets then on Saturday
in South Pole that the marijuana rights
march 50,000 people on the streets
booing both Bosna and on Sunday they had
the free Lula festival 80,000 people in
the streets yelling free Lula and on
June 14th there's gonna be a national
general strike all public transportation
shut down all factories shut down the
last big 135 million people didn't go to
work that day and but the difference
between the general strike in 2017 and
now is that all of the students are on
board the last general strike was
successfully blocked President Tymers
attempted to reform the pension system
didn't have a decent from the students
this is going to be this so what's so
great about it right now is it's the
students and the union's together on the
streets of Brazil protest streets
they're the pressuring local lawmakers
they're holding Democratic assemblies
and public meetings in neighborhoods
around the country explaining to people
what these reforms would do to their
lives you know it's not just but you
can't just put people in the streets
anymore because the media will always
lie about the crowd sighs you know if it
fits their needs so this is a combined
action that's very well organized and
very inspiring well that's something
else I want I want you to lab right on
and I and I do just want to note and I
would you know the coverage of the
Guardian and the New York Times in the
Washington Post the BBC remains just
absolutely abominable I mean well we'll
get to it later but I I was making the
point I was please watch the
conversation I had about Lula
specifically with ana kasparian on The
Young Turks and you know what I've been
saying regularly on both that interview
and on my show and
show is you know even and of course I I
think the charges against Lula and the
persecution of him is a hundred percent
politically motivated and and at the
very in there's a lot of complexities to
understanding what is and is in
corruption and how these things function
or don't function particularly in the
context of capitalism and so on but to
make a really simple point when you read
a report in his example The Guardian the
New York Times they'll still say that
Lula was convicted on money laundering
charges regularly or charges related to
lava jostle and what's incredible this
is that even according to that metric
that is in fact not true he is convicted
on a gifted apartment charge which has
we always say it has no material
evidence is based on one plea bargain
testimony but even before we get to that
how ridiculous the cases and how it
would be thrown out in any objective
judiciary the fact that it's still
reported as being convicted of another
charge just a test to the relentless
failure of these media websites in
dealing with Brazil let's imagine that
he actually did get this apartment as a
gift office right even though they can't
prove it happened the dates they were
talking about were after he left office
so how is that corruption if you're not
in a position in a political position
another public official someone gives
you an apartment even though he's never
you never visited it they never prove
that it was ever registered in his name
never set foot in had no evidence but
even if he had even if he was living in
this apartment you know it happened
after he had left which wouldn't violate
in which and then and then again that's
the point I would make then is then we
could say okay we would want to you know
discourage that sort of behavior between
companies and politicians then okay fine
let's talk about Tony Blair lobbying for
for Kazakhstan and sitting on the board
of JP Morgan let's talk about President
Obama spending you know weeks
Richard Branson on vacation and he and
Hillary Clinton giving speeches to Wall
Street you know okay that's fine that is
a legitimate source of conversation but
then we got to talk about and deal with
all of it and particularly in a
Brazilian context where there's endless
actual serious allegations with material
evidence for people like Michelle Tamara
or Jair bolson ro okay in fact it wasn't
even the allegedly receiving the
apartment that for them in jail was
receiving illegal you know receiving
free reforms on this apartment which
they also won able to prove had ever
taken place they said an elevator was
installing but the mtsc social movement
invaded the building after Lou's arrest
and took photos there's no elevator in
in the apartment you know right but the
value of this apartment the entire value
of the apartment was less than half of
what Obama charges for a speaking fee
right now right I mean they froze all of
Lula's assets he had almost no money
considering he was president for 12
years I mean he's not like Hillary
Clinton and Bill Clinton he's not a
millionaire or anything you know no it
needs to be very clear about what that
case is and there's one other new thing
that we got to get to in a minute about
it involving wiretapping and Sergio Moro
but before we get to that I just want to
say because you you were talking about
these these innovative tools that were
being used by the Brazilian social
movements in these protests and I just
want to say to you know part of the
reason that we have conversations like
this is obviously you know a place any
country is an important in and of itself
but I really hope people in the United
States are listening and in addition to
the vital importance of elections and
defeating Donald Trump and electing good
candidates you know don't forget the
power of things like the teachers union
strikes in West Virginia or the Chicago
strikes and more of and you know these
things are incredibly important so in
that context can you give us a sense of
some of the history and thinking behind
some of these Brazilian unions and
social movements that have allowed them
to do this work so effectively well you
know I was really disappointed to see
Alexandra Ocasio Cortez talked about how
her model for socialism is Northern
Europe you know because there's so many
good examples in multiracial societies
in the Americas of left unity and left
organizing you know so these Brazil has
these incredible social movements that
are connected to the unions too but
basically they rose out of the fight
against the military dictatorship during
the military dictatorship the only
organization that was allowed to really
mobilize people in poor neighborhoods
was the Catholic Church and there was
some amazing work done by the Liberation
Theology
branch of the Catholic Church where they
were they would meet and conduct these
adult literacy classes based on Paulo
Ferreira and methodology introduced
local leaders to each other across
cities and across the country and of
course they were all excommunicated or
censured by by Ratzinger you know when
john paul ii came in but at the time it
was an important mobilizing tool and so
you have these these groups that were
set most of these social movements i me
up the unions in the social it's two
different things you know but they're
they work together but the social
movements mostly still organized without
using the internet you know because and
it's a it's a smart thing to do because
the internet is constantly monitor than
surveilled and everything and so it's
hard it's harder to like infiltrate and
you know hijack the meaning of a protest
if you can't figure out what's going on
because you're not a member of a cell
within this organizing group maybe I
don't know much about what's going on in
the u.s. these days because for 20 years
but something that could be applied to
organizing work in the US less reliance
on the internet you know everything you
do on the Internet's being right
monitored and there's all this money
invested in trying to get leftist
fighting with each other all the time
because it's so easy to do we got to
always be working on our own internal
cultures without a doubt so that being
and this I just wonder again I'll plug
it again you know when you read Brazil
wire not only do you understand vital
things like the
u.s. foreign policy that will make sense
it as an example go back to the Snowden
revelations
why was the NSA so aggressively tapping
Dilma Rouseff not because they secretly
thought the Workers Party was some
radical project which in fact it was an
incredibly positive and energetic one
but it wasn't it was a good social
democratic one but they weren't willing
to privatize core Brazilians
geostrategic assets that would be my
guess why the NSA was tapping her so
aggressively as an example but also when
you read Brazil wire you'll have an
understanding of things like the
landless workers movement and so on and
all of these other incredible pieces of
organizing that as you say they're multi
identity they're class-based they're
Union base but they're also doing this
real genuine socialist democracy that is
in fact the the the highly directly
regional model and hemispheric model for
the left in the United States so let's
talk about it just in the last couple of
weeks Lula's been speaking and I think
being clear again about you know just
watching him how why he was such an
incredible president why he is such an
admired leader as the Pope actually
speaking of Pope of the church Pope
Francis has actually written him a
letter indicating you know I think as
much as he can that he supports Lula
that's significant even if you are a
religious person that has real
significance in a country with such a
high Catholic population and also new
revelations of the aggressiveness of
wiretapping that the prosecution team of
Sergio Moro was illegally wiretapping
Lula's lawyers and their conversations
with Lula and yet another example of how
totally illegitimate this process was
basically Mauro who's been working with
in collaboration with a US Department of
Justice since at least 2009 we know who
headed up this joint US Department of
Justice SEC Brazilian public
prosecutor's investigation was allowed
to act as a judge ruling on his own
investigation with no jury
you know he's broke
series of laws in the course of
arresting Loula
and I'll just mention like yeah it's so
great that he's talking now but when you
see Lulu talk you understand why they
had to shut him up
yep for an entire year in order for both
snarl to win the election yes
they wouldn't talk if he could have
given one interview before the election
bull star wouldn't have won and that's a
that's illegal you know they let TV
cameras come in and interview mass
murderers inside jails in Brazil but
they wouldn't let anyone interview Lula
for a year okay so now the the the new
thing that's come out it's the second
motion that the defense teams filed to
dismiss the case due to illegal behavior
on the part of Sergio Moro who's now you
know this far right-wing justice
minister trying to legalize cops ability
to kill people you know the first one
was that a US Department of Justice
official was Acting Deputy Assistant
Attorney General Kenneth Blanc who
admitted on film that they'd had a
series of informal talks with Sergio
Morrow's team in the lead-up to Lula's
arrest and that's a crime in Brazil
government agencies can't communicate
with governments from foreign countries
without going through protocol for
security reasons so that enough should
have been that alone should have been
enough to drop the case you know
completely throughout all charges but
the new allegations are the new proof
that's come out is that moral wiretapped
14 hours of telephone conversations on
25 phone lines from Lula's defense
lawyers between his defense teams
offices and lula and they use this to
create a kind of org chart to map out
every possible move that the defense was
going to do in advance this is
unprecedented for a judge to do
something like this velasca Martines
who's been on your show before you know
she told me that the only present
they've ever found of a judge
why are tapping defense attorneys was a
case in Spain where the guy was
permanently debarred you know a few
years you can't you cannot you don't
have a functioning democracy
Percy if the government is allowed to
wiretap defense lawyers without it so
yeah so that's yes and again this is
this is also in the context just a few
more examples in the last minute I mean
another thing that happened in the
election again and in this case it was
dropped but in addition to the
misinformation and propaganda and like
AM panes on whatsapp and so on a couple
weeks before the last election there was
a public revelation that Fernando Haddad
was going to get charged with corruption
that had no blame in fact not only that
I have no basis to it a couple of weeks
after the election the there was sort of
quietly mentioned that actually those
charges weren't going to go forward and
there wasn't enough to the case it just
happened to be leaked in such a way to
maximize the propaganda campaign against
the Workers Party and going back to 2016
there's been illegal leaks from Sergio
Moro and any most I mean just evil would
be the only word in amongst all of these
sort of personal tragedies that Lula has
been dealing with in a death in addition
to the you know assault on Brazilian
democracy and himself you know his
people might be aware that his grandson
who was seven years old died of
meningitis a couple of months ago and
they finally allowed Lula to at least go
to the funeral they took him there under
total security guard in a horrific sort
of dystopian image well in fact he
pointed out and you reported that and
one of these searches that Sergio
Morrow's team did they they took Lula's
grandsons iPad and never returned it
another thing like it's come out that
Lula's got a girlfriend now you know his
wife died right a couple of years ago on
you know she had an aneurysm on the day
they raided their Morrow's team raided
her son's house yep you know because she
was feeling so stressed out about all
this stuff and died a few days later so
they found out Lula has a girlfriend
he's been dating this woman since a
little bit before he went to jail you
know and she's a public employee raised
in Curitiba so the the government found
out they transferred her 600 miles away
so she can't visit Lula anymore yep yeah
this kind of just one quick thing
regarding those leaks about Haddad a
week before the election that was Sergio
Moro did the leaks okay and that alone
is a crime you're not allowed to talk
about leaked any information about
investigations during the actual
election campaign like during the two
months before the election that's a
crime he committed a crime when he did
that but he was also lying because the
there is no these accusations have
already been thrown out but you know
they were reported in The Guardian yes
if they were like legitimate accusations
I'm just and the final loop on it just
recently there was a piece in The
Washington Post as part of the internal
conflicts part of the reason that both
scenario said she having such a
difficult time is that there's also
massive internal conflicts and
incoherence and incompetence that in
some ways are analogous to what you've
seen with Trump and part one of those
factions fighting is Sergio Moro and The
Washington Post a couple of week ago or
so had a headline saying you know
anti-graft you know prosecutor having
trouble and new government or something
still giving this extreme far right wing
say distich totally unethical and again
if you're the Washington Post you can't
say all those adjectives but you at
least have to start saying you know
controversial prosecutor that's the
favorite word of the sort of neutral
prosecutor you're gonna you know neutral
of neutrality of a place like the post
you better start seeing them using that
type of language and the Guardian has a
reputation and some areas earned as
being sort of liberal or center-left
what abominable coverage they have of
Brazil ongoingly well I'm just glad
their masks of fakes left you know and
now coverage is falling because of their
atrocious coverage of Venezuela too you
know like now the
there's a lot more solidarity in the US
for Venezuela than there is for than
there was for Brazil during the coup yes
and I blame the media and some of the
left in the US on this but but it's just
become so blatant with Venezuela I don't
think very many people still believe
that the Guardians coverage in Latin
America is progressive you know with
John Pilger and Tom Phillips where pills
are called Phillips a clown Brian Mayer
as always I appreciate your time
immensely you can find the links all the
ways to follow Brian's work and by the
book the Year a year of lead which is an
incredibly important anthology I'd
really recommend everybody read that
with voices from Brazilian laughed
including also the former Brazilian
foreign and defense minister who sell
celos Ameren I'm sure I'm mispronouncing
that but he is a brilliant read on on
also how all of these stories fit in to
the attempt to form basically
alternative regional and international
blocks of power whether you're talking
about the brick form formation or other
attempts at Latin American integration
underneath the print pink tide which
also by the way one of the critiques
leveled at the prank tide which in some
cases is legitimate in some cases just
sort of saying a truism that you can't
do much about was that it benefited from
a commodities boom but in fact regional
integration and long-term strategy for
the region outside of just being
subservient to the US would help absorb
those shocks and diversify economies so
leaders like a little Lodge Chavez and
so on we're in fact working on that and
probably that is one of the reasons that
the United States really started to
aggressively re-engage beginning in 2009
with the coup in Honduras but anyways
please read that read the Brazil wire
follow all of Brian's work also at Ellis
or Brian thank you so much for doing
this much appreciate it take care
really big fan of Brian Mayer and his
work all right folks
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become a
member that's how this show is possible
that's how conversations like that are
possible that's how all of the
conversations we have that are
independent left global deep dive but
also not playing to you know various
dumb trends or sentiments either I won't
elaborate on that but become a member of
the majority report today that's how it
all happens check out just coffee dot
coop Fairtrade tea coffee or chocolate
beautiful example in a lot of respects
in fact of what someone like the great
Richard Wolffe it's talking about and
while I'm at it let me just say if you
haven't yet go check out economic update
on YouTube and on podcast Richard Wolff
is great we're lucky we have these
people I would say just one other but
say I don't know Bill Fletcher jr. would
be another great example of that of
people who really have a lot of
experience and great insight who we can
learn a hell of a lot from so I've been
listening to Richard wolf for a long
time
definitely Richard wolf is he's Misha
Bukka on tuesdays michael brooks show we
had a lot of fun with hassan i did
a commentary on the european union
elections and how a left strategy would
look particularly in the UK and then if
you haven't heard of thomas sankara you
need to know thomas sankara is he's one
of the most inspiring figures we have in
African and international politics
assassinated in a coup backed by the
French in 1987 brilliant figure Milton
al-ahmadi
another awesome amazing journalist and
historian that I want everybody to read
and know about was on was an incredible
deep dive and then the postgame we did a
debunk with Ben Burgess we don't we have
a new nickname for Peabody jig which is
Pete dumbu de jedge talking about his
horrific aliy delusional nonsense
Supreme Court plan and many other things
this weekend
an illicit history with Rob Larson going
back to John Stuart Mill it's called
capitalism verse freedom become a patron
patreon.com slash TM BS because just
like this show TM BS is all about its
audience and that direct
a content creation that way incredibly
excited about what we're doing illicit
histories from Silicon Valley to the
history of Jamaican politics to theory
primers on everyone from Marx to CLR
James patreon.com slash TMDs Jamie so
this week on the anti Fattah we have a
collaboration with our friends Lexi and
grant from swamp site chats they're
really cool they call themselves the
gayest highest communist podcast I don't
have a checked to see if that's true but
they're the gayest highest one that I
know of we talk about communist a shin
three and a communist nation theory is
so intense that we're actually doing a
series on it it's called high theory get
it uh-huh and this episode we talk about
the 1974 foundational communist a Shinto
the Eclipse and re emergence of the
communist movement written mostly in
1969 to 1972 by the Frenchie Jill dovey
and I found it pretty interesting I'm
still wrestling with some of the ideas
in there I think my brain is still in
recovery mode honestly from taking in so
many high level ideas but check it out
oh I also was awesome yeah I think it
was pretty good
I mean I'm biased but uh I think people
may find it interesting it's definitely
some it's it's like a good way to reckon
it comes out of the left communist
tradition so it's a good way to reckon
with the failures of the 20th century of
various communist movements without
abandoning the Marxist project awesome
that's important
listening of course Matt does a great
show called literary hangover
fascinating content on people like
Margaret Fuller and George Orwell and
and also great it's also another history
podcast I'm really glad that everybody's
going in so hard on history because it's
it just couldn't be any more essential
all right fine
all right folks we're gonna take a break
we will see you in fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right dude you want to smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
 exactly I'm happy now oh yeah now
listen to me two three four five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we could double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make under a million dollars just come
here not bad use me you you
alright gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
rise these people Shitler with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half everybody we are
here
braack braack from VA Michael is running
down the monastery steps to check his
YouTube all last week and now a text
patreon all last week and now Sam's
trying to demonetized YouTube Sam's
trying to Alden do all that meditation
hang in there Michael well actually I
have to say I guess I will talk about
this a little bit um and I guess I it
does require that the yes TMDs is
monetized as is this channel but even
more so than the jar report which is
over 90 percent memberships cmbs is 99%
99.9% patrons and memberships and I like
it that way and if our channel got
demonetised we would fight and complain
about it because it shouldn't be frankly
and and it would have fat you know I
mean you know it would be bad because
there's like a person who does it for us
and like paying them to do it
we'd have to you know recess few things
but and I also think it's important
we're on that platform but it's uh it's
all about the members all about the
patrons and that's certainly the way I
want it and I know that's the way Sam
wants it but I I do want to talk about
this Steve Crowder thing because
I think there is a big problem here that
people are missing on both sides of the
equation and I just want to say out of
the gate it is not Carlos Mazdas fault
in fact this whole latest round is
revealing a structural problem of Google
and YouTube and Silicon Valley more
broadly but will keep its focus and it
was also on steven crowder steven
crowder to be really clear in the most
narrow sense which is YouTube's own hate
speech guidelines uh
I'll read them hate speech is not
allowed on YouTube we removed the
following content browser hatred against
the individuals or groups based on any
of the following attributes age caste
disability ethnicity gender identity
nationality race immigration status
religion sex gender sexual orientation
victims of major acts of violence and
event and their kins or veterans so I'm
somebody who absolutely is very much
generally for both values reasons but
also strategic reasons very much on the
side of you combat what you don't like
you mock it you confront it you don't
ask for it to be removed now here's a
problem in the broader internal
contradiction of course of right-wing
people who whine about this stuff is
that we're all doing this on private
corporations platforms that can do
whatever the hell they want there's no
First Amendment protection on YouTube
it's a private platform there's no any
protection it could they could say the
company's done tomorrow that's it
so the smart analysis is to say to
yourself all of these conversations and
businesses and politics are generating
on these private comments
which already posed all sorts of
structural threats to everybody privacy
the economy and so on how are they
either made public or broken up in such
a way that people's ability to be on
them isn't fundamentally jeopardized but
as long as you by the way you support
unregulated monopolistic capital they
can take down your channel they can D
monetize they can do whatever the hell
they want with it
now what Crowder did with maza is right
up at that line according to what
YouTube has said he constantly endlessly
did racist homophobic garbage about a
specific person and there's a flow out
from that and it is not a flow out and
Sam will talk about the Joe Rogan thing
tomorrow I thought in some ways it was
pretty funny because part of my
interpretation of that was that Joe was
kind of saying like hey if we're gonna
all of a sudden be so sensitive you got
to be nice to somebody who's a little
touched like Dave Rubin I could be wrong
aaaghh natively limited I think we're
his words I could have been wrong but I
I sounded to me like maybe Joe was
saying that Dave Rubin that that maybe
there's a very broad bipartisan
transportus and huge consensus that
maybe Dave's a little bit limited but
that that being said if you say uh
Carlos maza
is I don't agree with the content he's
putting out on my channel and he's
promoting a policy set or media ideas I
object to and you should go politely and
respectfully but also could be
humorously tweeted him about it and
suggests that you have a debate together
if you don't see the difference between
that and doing a bunch of dumb pure I'll
targeted a team
to teach them to be Lisp
impressions and then having an audience
of those same teens calling a
guy a all day on YouTube on on on
Twitter and in some cases I believe he
said he was boxed uh you're delusional
and again the crisis that were in if
you're from the perspective of a content
creator is at Steve and Crowder's feet
not Carlos masa for saying hey I read
your Terms of Service they're being
violated I'm not asking you to do
monetize political content I'm not even
asking you to go after any type of an
atom by the way you shouldn't I don't
you know don't do monetize a Dave Rubin
show my opinion that's that's and the
lane of mock the hell out of it
debunk it work it over it's not Mazda's
fault
it's Crowder's fault but the bigger
structural problem here is that one
these companies are unaccountable
monopolies that's the bigger picture
piece but the second thing in my opinion
is that these are media entities that
refuse to act and acknowledge that they
are as such these whole companies
business models have in fact run just
sort of a bull vicious bulldozer through
media cost tons of people their jobs
destroyed business models disrupted the
ability of to do investigative
journalism there's one gentleman I
believe it's I forgetting his name I
believe his name is Fisher who's Mindy
monetized his whole channel is dedicated
to covering fringe politics and he is a
journalist
Carlos Maz I believe has tweeted out
saying this is exactly what I did not
want to have happen historian had their
channel D monetized because they
embedded speeches of Third Reich figures
because they're historian they're not in
any way promoting this they're giving a
historical description and the reason
that YouTube will not handle this
responsibly is the same reason that they
allowed their algorithm
to be used to ferment a whole culture of
fascism and hate to begin with on the
platform which is that it's a capitalist
incentive structure and it's run by
algorithms so what you have and just and
Carlos Massa again who we need to
absolutely a hundred percent have his
back he said himself he's like look I
not only did I didn't say go do you
monetize all political content and now
he's gonna get harassed and blamed for
that when his only singular complaint to
YouTube was can you deal with one
specific high-volume quartet creator
that is constantly on me because of an
other trait that you have listed in your
own terms already that doesn't require
real Whelan reinvent it but ultimately
if you get to a conversation where you
start saying YouTube needs to curate a
little bit and think a little bit and
disaggregate again even the distinction
on a continuum between someone who has
odious right-wing garbage views but
should absolutely not be removed needs
to be confronted analytically and so on
versus something like the Crowder thing
if you can't make that distinction
you're not making it because you're not
employing any number of tens of
thousands of really good unemployed
journalists because of your business
model so my opinion is that YouTube
there needs to be a demand that
companies like Google hire ombudsman
hire editors hire people and those
people by the way we should be fighting
that they come from independent
backgrounds and not simply recreating
mainstream media ideologies because what
you've had so far is what is Facebook
done Facebook has outsourced things like
okay we'll deal with Russian propaganda
by outsourcing things to the Atlantic
Council a right-wing neocon think-tank
and then all of a sudden Telus or is
undermined now Telus or shouldn't be
here only source of news on Latin
America but it's a very important source
of news and ain't no garbage conspiracy
stuff what is YouTube do YouTube has a
freak out every once in a while because
of some you know bigot idiot like
Crowder and then all of a sudden runs
through the whole media space
including D monetizing people who have
come to rely on that to do good work
so the demand should be you are a
journalistic organization hire and staff
people who are journalists not
algorithms because then the other thing
that is gonna happen is that this will
again structurally favor the right
because a Crowder a Reuben all of these
people yes they sell trinkets yes they
have some people that pay them yes
there's YouTube ad revenue but we all
know that at the end of the day if this
platform and other platforms like it
become entirely demonetised who are the
people in the media ecosystem who can go
with hat in hands and already do get
money from fall stir-fries and the Koch
brothers what in fact are Ben Shapiro or
steven crowder they're nothing but
mouthpieces for corporate America that
is the sole purpose of their existence
so they'll always have that inbuilt
funding advantage so I hope I'm being
clear here that my three takeaways are
if you are getting demonetised blame
Crowder not maza if you have a concern
about these blanket D monetization
without any analysis and strategy an
ability to make basic distinctions and
establish smart and intelligent human
focused standards blame Google and
YouTube and that the answer in addition
to the Brig or macro answers of breaking
up monopolies antitrust laws and in my
view absorbing some of these as public
utilities you have to deal on those
three fronts yeah I totally agree with
you on all of that but I don't think
it's gonna happen
anytime soon because hiring actual
journalists and editors and humans to go
through this content would go against
the entire business model of what a tech
company is of course right because some
people think that tech companies make
money because they invented something
new in the world and sometimes that's
true but a lot of the time they're just
taking a pre-existing industry and quote
unquote
disrupting it which means doing labor
arbitrage doing regulation arbitrage and
finding ways around all of the rules
that we have in place for doing business
in like kind of a civilized way right
like uber is another perfect example
right it's not a tech company it is just
an illegal taxi company and judge
they're finding in more and more places
that uber drivers are actually not
small-business owners but workers and
employees and we know in every single
one of these cases whether it's Carlos
Mazda saying hey I'm getting Docs
because of this or somebody
realizing that working from for uber is
actually a a horrific financial
situation in labor situation being there
isn't us yes it runs counter the answers
were on counter to the Silicon Valley
model because the aunt ultimate answer
to all of these questions like how do
you have a flourishing vibrant diverse
broad in every category on independent
media on new platforms that doesn't just
recreate old corporate media which will
be where these companies will go if in a
way that also monitors you know things
like incitement again yes total
contradiction and reworking the Silicon
Valley business model how do we protect
drivers in a you know in in in the new
you know in the quote-unquote sharing
economy yes a contradicts the uber
business model I mean we know that
that's our answer to you know
fundamentally to all these things and we
need to at least start putting them on
the table
I think demanding some type of actual
journalistic oversight though to me that
seems like an area that actually could
get some buy-in even in the more short
term from the sort of like Jonathan
Chait sivan of the world like you know
like well by golly that's you know
they're doing content they ought to have
some people who know how to do content
so that to me I think that's an
important idea to try to push because I
think that that's one that you can start
to build a pretty broad organizing base
around if you present it properly yeah I
agree and Lord knows there's a lot of
really
people that need those jobs absolutely I
mean I used to work in the written word
and I no longer do I'm here right now
because of what's going on and the media
biz and you know I'm very lucky I'm very
grateful for this job but a lot of
people we're not so lucky
absolutely you are calling from an 8 for
7 area code who are you where you're
calling from
eight for seven are you there all right
see next call you are calling from a
three 300 area code who are you where
you calling from three three oh I don't
even hear the person last time was
behind this guy I don't even hear
anything
three three oh are you there okay bad so
far definitely if you're gonna call be
ready try one more call you're calling
from a 6-1 Oh Ariel code who are you
where you calling from maybe there is
something going on I'm Michael key hear
me sir
oh yes good to hear you 6-1 Oh what's
your name where are you calling from
hello you're here hey Steve what time
off Autobahn Pennsylvania what's on your
mind Michael a there's a delay yeah I my
my voice comes through and then you
don't better well I'm hearing you
clearly I don't know I mean if there's a
delay on your end I wouldn't know are
you hearing me right now
[Music]
to appeal the signs that they placed on
her you can find out more information it
says here this the other thing I want to
get your opinion on is the ability for
Bernie or any other candidate to force
climate change to do as a power play
against the dancing leadership all right
Steve thanks a lot all right thanks yeah
I'm pretty confused by that I'll try
another call hopefully it was something
with him but there's nothing I can
really do over here um I think that was
Chelsea resists on Twitter go check it
out Chelsea Manning is back in jail as
part of the ongoing persecution of her
[Music]
yeah so support Chelsea Manning for each
Elsie Manning in addition to that I just
and I'll do more content on this but I
will I think all charges need to be
dropping us to Edward Snowden and every
single charge related to Julian Assange
as journalism needs to be dropped and
people really need to get to focus and
set aside
whatever they think of this person for
whatever reason uh and I still get a lot
of feedback well people will say like
he's not a journalist first of all those
charges are so aggressive and this has
been a problem of trying to criminalize
investigative reporters for quite some
time you know Obama administration
didn't escalate to a level of actually
prosecuting Assange on this but you know
we know that as an example I believe Jay
brooms Verizon was held in jail so this
is a major danger to begin with the
Assange charges could implicate down the
food chain down to what we do I mean if
you read that literally that getting
this information just even looking at it
or presenting it is innately dangerous
and neatly attend them on to espionage
charge that's gonna implicate us
headlining the United States publicly
says that there's very few civilian
casualties in Yemen or Syria
but this independent group or this leak
a whistleblower is documented that
they're killing a lot of innocent people
in Afghanistan Syria or Libya
I shouldn't say not an independent group
but any form of leak and if you care at
all about these things like democracy
you have to be horrified at those
charges and you know I'm sorry this is a
much bigger deal than Donald Trump you
know saying Jim Acosta you're a jerk
can you call in to the phones and call
back and again apparently there's
something funky going on with them I
will do that sorry folks calling back in
right now go ahead yeah just the idea
that thank you for calling into the
majority to take down a journalist
yeah I'll leave your one comment or
quick could be charged with a crime for
publishing information that was leaked
to them is horrifying horrifying and
dangerous to everything and I you know
people again you need to get focused on
what the actual picture is there because
that's a fundamental threat to the
United States as far as to to freedom
into journalism
as far as the second point goes um I
would be really uh I know that jay
Inslee sort of banging it most because
jay Inslee governor of Washington is
trying to run for president on a climate
platform I've given him props in the
past and I've actually heard that
Subway's his record in Washington state
doesn't necessarily jibe it isn't as
good as what he's necessarily forwarding
so I and I don't know enough about that
but people ought to look them up if
they're interested I mean obviously I'm
not gonna spend that much time I mean
I've given him honorable mentions
because you know there's plenty of
people that are polling at less than 1%
and they're talking about nothing he's
polling at 1% talking about the climate
crisis so that makes him stick out
obviously in a positive way but I'm not
sure about his record but I know that
he's trying to force the DNC and he
correctly to have a debate that deals
with the ecological crisis the future
viability of human life and I think that
if the candidates and I'm sure it would
be the candidates that we would
Specht obviously Inslee and then Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and I think
probably Tulsi Gabbard I'm not sure who
else but anybody who's trying to sort of
sensor that mic Ravel if they wanted to
get together and have a conversation a
forum about the climate crisis and maybe
highlight the fact that the DNC wasn't
into it and highlight the fact that if
Joe Biden or you know whoever else a
Christian Gillibrand or beta O'Rourke or
Buddha jej or whoever else wasn't
showing up but actually I bet my guess
would be O'Rourke and Buddha judge would
show up and Cory Booker would show up as
I think about it I don't know what the
rules that govern these things are but
I'm all for the idea of pressuring the
DNC or independently organizing a
climate forum climate debate there
obviously should be one on that that's
somewhat of a big deal
Colin from Nebraska Richard Wolff has a
great intro and advanced Marxian
economics errs on YouTube including
using Marxian class analysis to analyze
household work for example it also gives
us a rhetorical base when my mom was so
mad after her 8 to 5 job and then
slaving away in the kitchen great stuff
left his best yeah check out he is
awesome he is great um all right I'll
try one more call here before we get to
some sounds see if a call can go through
successfully you're calling from an
eight-six Oh area code who are you where
you're calling from hey Mike Anthony
from Connecticut hey Anthony how's it
going seems like everything's alright
yeah it's going good now what's doing
good listen I wanted to touch on the
Crowder topic a little bit okay go ahead
um so you get a lot of the free speech
uh you know people out there and I don't
see them taking into consideration
Mazda's right to free speech being
violated by Crowder right because I
don't understand that he was basically
be legitimizing his opinions for being a
homosexual from my perspective and I
would think that that has a silencing
effect well this is where it gets yeah I
don't
yeah I'm sorry I definitely don't agree
with that
I mean we need to be an in that very
narrow technical sense of spree speech
we need to be really specific about that
you know that's that is an including by
the way frankly specific at the point of
functionally there are obviously free
speech issues implicated by platforms
look like YouTube but it is not as long
it is is a private platform a free
speech issue in the constitutional sense
it isn't right and if you want to make
it one you need to get the government
involved now obviously I think you know
I think with this sort of idea of
forcing and pressuring I think there's
limited utility to any logic of Google
do better
I'm very skeptical on that which is why
I support policy solutions to rein in
these companies and solve these problems
but I think insofar as you're telling
YouTube and Google to be better Google
to be better a real clear way of saying
you got to be better that's not just
good enough first first you let a whole
hate ecosystem develop it and you
facilitate it with your algorithms and
you let these toxic pernicious cultures
develop on your platform and then you
get enough bad public blow black
blowback that your answer is to just
willy-nilly de monetize a couple of
things and and again these things are
always going to hit the left more at the
end of the day because there isn't a
fallback funding mechanism right so you
know we know that that Ben Burgess data
0 books a video a couple of months ago
clearly debunking a ben shapiro argument
in favor of israeli expansionist
policies ben Shapiro's fans got the
thing totally taken down and destroyed
and the funny thing that i do see and
again one of the real things that we
need to be very clear about was you know
the type of thing you're talking about
no it's definitely not a free speech
issue it's just an issue that we need to
destroy crowder on for doing right like
that's that's definitely not right each
issue but
at the same time I've definitely seen
and started to hear some very disturbing
examples in colic even in university
context and there was a good
conversation on this unsterile books of
like you know conservatives can do this
play this game too and they also have no
zero ethics right like if we go on this
trajectory and we don't have on YouTube
governed by actual journalists you are
gonna see things like you know hey wait
a second right-wing Mandela called Sam
 like the you know if you have
stuff that can be weaponized by cynical
people given to a corporation that has
no actual commitment or accountability
for what it actually is a media platform
that is a really big problem in a really
big threat so that is why I want a big
part of this conversation to Center on
you need to be real and recognize that
you're actually a media platform and you
need actual human beings with actual
journalistic experience actually you
know judicata these things and having a
sense of them that's what you need to do
so yeah I do like that prescription
wanna yeah absolutely and and of course
eff steven crowder right thanks for
taking my call Mike appreciate it man
thank you you're calling from a 308 area
code who are you really calling from hey
Kowalski what's going on what's on your
mind how's the fair state of Nebraska I
wanted to talk about I was kind of just
curious what's the mindset on the coast
were about all of the devastation from
the spring floods we don't know sorry go
ahead go ahead sorry whether or not they
claim to be conservative or not is that
no one's really been
talking about the fact that we just went
through like a 500 year flood crop
production is last I checked we were
just barely breaking over half and like
we're usually 90% way through our plants
they play now now just curious if you
guys had heard much about this or if
it's not really on your guys's radar I
feel totally ashamed to say it's not on
my radar
it should be it comes your Brendon it
comes up when I said when I go through
the news every morning but in terms of
like call-to-action really unfortunately
the only things that I see people
talking about are people in grain
futures on Wall Street who are saying oh
that's actually pretty funny ya know
back in March when we were it was a lot
of flooding we had like a major dam
parade it was pretty bad like I'd never
seen anything like decide cows drowning
but the weird thing was is we had the
governor declare a state of emergency
episode in Iowa but if you ever searched
in on Google you had to go to page three
or four to find that Nebraska had done
that because at the same time that's
when Trump was talking about the fake
order emergency crisis or whatever and
it literally just round out a
thousand-year flood that was spanning
almost a thousand miles across the
center of the country Wow well I
honestly could not believe that it was
not more major news I mean I think for
me the best I could tell you the best I
could tell you for as least far as my
content goes on a a Michael Brooke show
and on majority report I know that as
you know I think getting back into the
business and I know that Sanders has put
forward a really important monopoly
bustling fan plan with agribusiness and
there's a huge amount of stories to tell
about you know corporate monopolies in
small farms the environment public
health bio systems diversity and all of
those issues so they're really crucial
and I definitely plan on talking about
them more because it overlaps with
everything with inequality with
if wealth concentration climate change
deforestation all of it so and public
health and human wellbeing and food
diversity and crop diversity so it's a
good parent Lee all this rainfall has
something to do with a lot of yep
yes I read that too yep it's all
interdependent thanks man
appreciate the call you you're calling
from a six one seven area code who are
you where you calling from oh hey
Michael
yes Jamie Brendan Salam alaikum lepton
theft Salam alaikum
that's a very good greeting hello oh
yeah I actually tried to get this in an
IM yesterday when it was really fresh
but for circumstances i guess we'll have
to settle for today but okay nine years
ago my friend's brother was arrested in
news beckysan and thrown into prison
without a trial on totally
charges related to his brother's human
rights and labor activism there yes and
after years and years of pressure and
tireless organizing he was finally
released from custody yesterday so I
hope you get a quick shofar for yes one
what's his name okay put me on the rock
mama who young the rock William
[Music]
where is that where is this person now
my friend actually well he actually he
was the one who's kind of working as a
human rights and labor organizer in the
90s and 2000 in Uzbekistan I mean to say
nothing I was like their freedom of
speech and open society issues she was
working with basically they have issues
of what is essentially fighting child
slavery in the cotton fields kind of a
leftover from the soviet tradition and
doing that he had to flee first to
russia and then basically Russia was not
respecting the European Court of Human
Rights
um saying that you know he was allowed
to stay the refugee and he a couple
years ago got asylum in Czech Republic
so he is there but his brother and
family are still out in Uzbekistan but
through kind of a lot of their ongoing
work got they've made it so that child
labor is a much much smaller deal in
Pakistan than it used to be but of
course the people doing that are the
ones that get punished so how many
people live and you ah what I hate 20
million or more emitting it I want to
know if it's bigger I mean
Kazakhstan has more area but Rebecca
Stein has more people just I think
historically it's a more fertile land so
it was kind of a center of the Silk Road
what is the part what are they what is
the most influent you know like what
like what is the most like sort of of
those staanz like what which one has
like the kind of biggest influence or is
like the dominant ones you know um
depends on what I mean as much as I
really really hate like the Sacha Baron
Cohen thing the thing that's a joke
about like gossips done is Becca Stein
kind of duking it out for number one
status or whatever there is I'm sorry
again it's the biggest I mean this
medicine is totally isolated even
apparently they have less fresh freedom
in North Korea now so I mean in
Kyrgyzstan it's quite small and
Tajikistan is dirt poor beautiful little
place but like struggling so the other
two have a variety of size and natural
resources and you know authoritarian
leaders of various degrees of Cruelty so
yeah I would say respect Astana has
traditionally been a bigger human rights
violator but I mean that's only by
degree I got it
Rachel thank you for the call all right
thank you all right let's talk about
three different tales of abortion views
of abortion contraception Bernie Sanders
and this is from a report in Newsweek
how many different areas of key policy
and I'm not gonna let people take this
away from Bernie Sanders it's become
ridiculous it's either somebody actually
saying like no you should have supported
the Reagan back death squads and lack of
independent determination for people in
Latin America in the 80s which you
should not have and people should remind
themselves that you know things like
opposing the Contras and having at least
some understanding of Wiese the
Sandinistas come to power in the 80s was
of course part of the left and people
like Sanders but people like Chris Dodd
and John Kerry were profoundly critical
of Reagan foreign policy there in fact
why did iran-contra happen because the
Democratic Congress in the 1980s made it
illegal to formally fund the Contras
that's why the Reagan administration did
it with illegal arms sales and funneled
the proceeds back to them so Bernie
Sanders right on civil rights right on
Vietnam right on an income inequality
right on the 1980s in Central America
wrong on some things but let's be real
there's a lot of consistency of right
here and wrong on some things evolving
on others here's another one he was
totally right about Newsweek a 1917 72
article services showing that Bernie
Sanders backed abortion rights a year
before Roe Vermont independent senator
Bernie Sanders backed abortion rights
and ridiculed male dominated legislators
governing woman's bodies in a 1972
article surfaced Wednesday the
commentary reveals another stark
decades-long contrast between he and
former Vice President Joe Biden's
progressive stances Thank You Newsweek
that's exactly the way I was gonna frame
this segment Sanders told Vermont's
Bennington banner newspaper in September
nineteen seventy two months before the
US Supreme Court's ruling on roe v--
wade that abortion procedures should
only be boo concern between their woman
a woman and her physician the article
cites several letters the then Liberty
Union candidate for governor wrote to a
local named newspaper calling for the
abolition of all laws dealing with
abortion drugs and sexual behavior it
strikes me as incredible that
politicians think they have a right to
tell woman that she can or cannot do
with her body Sanders told the
Bennington banner in September first
1972 this is especially true in Vermont
where we have a legislature which is
almost completely dominated by men I'll
just note because there's still this you
know aggressive ludicrous propaganda
campaign waged against him as somebody
who in spite of having impeccable
credentials on this area specifically
you know if he doesn't phrase a response
exactly according to the tick-tock in a
Chuck Todd interview you know people
flood him but this is an unimpeachable
commitment not only to the right
position on this issue but even of
course to the structural misogyny and
ludicrousness of of men in fact even
having anything to say on this issue
outside of women and their doctors now
back to Biden for a second back to
Newsweek Biden who was a Democratic
senator in Delaware from 1973 to two
9 stated Wednesday that he still backs
the 1976 Hyde Amendment the measure
prohibits the federal use of funding for
abortion except in cases of rape incest
and when a mother's life is in danger in
1977 when Biden voted against a measure
to allow Medicaid to fund abortions for
any victim of rape or incest despite his
opposition the exception passed and a
year later Biden again voted against the
same measure to protect the woman's life
at risk
in a 1972 article entitled abortion up
to conscience not government Sanders
says Sanders relays the brooklyn-born
politic for montt politicians
progressive stance that liberals will be
slow to embrace for decades and bortion
this is Sanders is an issue which brings
out deep feelings in people and I
respect the feelings of those who
opposed abortion on moral grounds I feel
over that these people should not be
allowed to impose their sense of
morality or religious feelings on other
people who hold a different opinion
perfect exactly now jumping forward a
little bit more and we will get to that
sound in a second but I also just want
to say that it wasn't even just abortion
that Joe Biden along with things like
school integration we could pick any
period when we talk about Joe Biden's
record we could talk about the role of
drone warfare 'he's the role whatever
role he may have played in the Obama
administration's economic policies and
putting major cuts to Medicare and
Social Security on the table during the
Obama administration we could talk about
being in the Senate writing the crime
bill supporting the invasion of Iraq
writing vicious bankruptcy legislation
which Elizabeth Warren got her start in
public life fighting against but now
we'll just go retro and we'll go to his
70s and 80s stances against abortion and
uh his his imposing civil rights but it
didn't end there because according to a
new report in the intercept all the way
up to being a vice president in the
Obama administration quote Joe Biden
sought to repeatedly undermine the
Care Act's contraception mandate working
in alliance with the US Conference of
Catholic Bishops to press abroad
exception that would have left millions
of women without coverage Biden's battle
over contraception is a window into his
approach to the politics of reproductive
freedom a function of an electoral
worldview that centers working-class
Catholic men over the interests of women
the issue has been causing his
presidential campaign some comfort on
discomfort on Wednesday Biden's campaign
clarified that he remains a supporter of
the so called Heidemann a provision that
bars federal money from being used to
fund reproductive health services
so let's actually well we'll get to the
to that clip next and make it two
segments but these are the two leading
candidates in the Democratic primary
right now one candidate who has a
hundred percent voting record every step
of the way in every aspect of women's
reproductive freedom and choice and
sovereignty opposes the Hyde Amendment
which is horrific in terms of its impact
on poor people and is and totally
class-based warfare politics who wrote a
column not only having the right
position but identifying the sexism of
the counter position in 1972 while
presenting it respectfully which I'm
sorry and in an electoral sense in no
way in a policy sense is still
appropriate and correct this guy is
running for president he's one of the
options that's Bernie Sanders then
there's Joe Biden who in 2019 supports
the Hyde Amendment that is incredible a
commitment that is a genuine reactionary
streak that isn't even expediency we got
to give him that and then a whole media
infrastructure of people who have an
irrational bizarre
hatred of Bernie Sanders and are gonna
say like well you know when he endorsed
full abortion rights and vigorously
condemned and we're not even gonna
mention and he didn't even mention
actually used his fundraising list to
raise money for grassroots organizations
fighting the assault on women in places
like Alabama he he he paused and cleared
his throat
before he condemned the Georgia
legislation so that proves that he's a
total Pro Joe Biden no Joe Biden's no I
mean you know hey he was it was the 70s
man you know sometimes you oppose busing
and Medicaid exceptions for women's life
being in danger give me a break
look if you want to support your body
and that's fine whatever
but be real about what you're supporting
and stop making up about Bernie
Sanders because not only it's like not
only are you lying about his position
now and through the 90s we even have a
freakin 1872 column before roe v-- wade
just give up the ghost
stop yeah I mean I will say there is
that the constituency of people who were
doing that to bernie last time around
don't seem to like joe biden very much
either right like there is a
constituency of them a sincere liberal
women who care more about gender that's
the lens through which they view the
world a lot of the time because they
have an income level such that that is
the primary axis along which they
experience oppression and the last time
around they really really just wanted to
have a woman in charge which i get it
totally but given these two choices i
don't think they're gonna back biden i
think they are backing a lot of other
candidates at this point in time
including Elizabeth Warren Connell
Harris at all and it'll be interesting
to see where they go to as more and more
of these candidates drop out of the race
because Joe Biden absolutely does not
appeal to these people he's making his
claims to a socially conservative
constituency and he's like when he jokes
about like the me to stuff or whatever
that's what he's doing
he's playing to that this is really I
mean I just just yeah I mean and to
really underline like I just just for
this I want to keep it super focused on
that like the Hyde Amendment stuff and
the votes on abortion in the 70s are you
know this is not on you know it's no I
know it's not the same raksha role and
going into arguing and undermining not
only was it wrong on
Merritt's and the policy with Obama the
Obama administration even on an
operative you know real politic level
used the contraception issue enormous
Lee effectively in Obama's re-election
yeah so let's just go to this and and
we'll keep going on the similar theme
Jamie but I just want to set up a
different segment a little bit because
and Jamie points this out all the time
and it's a hundred percent correct that
abortion is obviously not just a
question of either where you stand on
questions of freedom or coercion or
sovereignty or rights those are crucial
questions obviously there's central
defining questions and being on the
right side of those is fundamental but
also when you get to the issue the Hyde
Amendment
you are talking class stuff you're
talking race stuff you're talking
profound disparities and I think not
only the types of profound disparities
that have always been central and have
always been wrong but ones that might
emerge potentially it's totally possible
that an extreme far-right Supreme Court
could absolutely sign off on a complete
abortion ban in a case involving you
know one of these state initiatives it's
totally possible and we should be
preparing ourselves for that absolutely
and it's also totally possible that we
live just in an even more stratified
country and the ruling does come down to
something the effective abortion is
still legal in say New York or
California and it's totally illegal and
even criminalized in Alabama so how does
that translate in terms of class in
terms of mobility in terms of legal
safety in terms of another huge
disparity in terms of basic services
that people have access to depending on
their economic standing on the Hyde
Amendment is the precursor to that if
you wrote a history of this stuff keeps
going in a reactionary direction you
will identify 1974 the Hyde Amendment
two years after roe v wade as the tip of
the spear of saying okay we'll retreat
on it to some slight extent
by criminalizing poor women for
accessing health services which
incidentally we want to do across the
board anyways because we want to gut all
public health programs so that's what
Joe Biden's stances it's not just you
know and again it's funny because I have
no I actually I have no problem with the
idea of building as broad a coalition as
possible in speaking different
constituencies we should not miss that
in fact but that's a substantive assault
on millions and that could be the policy
precursor of well I'll quote Andrew Neil
stone-age politics Elizabeth Warren is
are gonna articulate that very
effectively here with Chris Hayes there
was an interesting thing happen today
the for Vice President Joe Biden came
out and said that he would not support
repealing the Hyde Amendment that is a
provision of federal law that bars the
federal government from funding abortion
services through Medicare Medicaid and
others you disagree with that position
yes I do is Joe Biden law yes
there so I look at this I've lived in an
America where abortions were illegal
yeah and understand this women still got
abortions now some got lucky on what
happened and some got really unlucky on
what happened but the bottom line is
they were there and under the Hyde
Amendment under every one of these
efforts to try to chip away or to push
back or to get rid of Roe versus Wade
understand this women of means will
still have access to abortions who won't
will be poor women will be working women
will be women who can't afford to take
off three days from work will be very
young women will be women who've been
raped will be women who have been
molested by someone in their own family
we do not pass laws that take away that
freedom from the women who are most
vulnerable it's absolutely right she
articulates it perfectly empower fillet
and that should be played and beamed and
repeated constantly constantly and it is
the distinction between you know if you
want to go somewhere and say hey I grew
up around here and I get where you're
coming from and I don't necessarily
represent this you know different
demographics and different waves of
different social attitudes on a cultural
level and what we're signifying to each
other that's fine that's part of
politics but the question of women's
fundamental justice and health with
regards to abortion and health care
generally is absolutely non-negotiable
and not only as Joe Biden negotiated it
he's on the wrong side of it and she
told you the exact material consequences
of that so you know of course perfectly
put by elizabeth warren excellent I
don't have anything to add to that
you're calling from a five to five area
code who are you worried calling from
Ohio sir I'm calling from New Jersey hey
Nestor what's on your mind
um well I wanted to three things but two
are like just really quick so I'll just
leave it for the end maybe pick on
Nestor because we we don't have a huge
amount of time all right
so the one I'll open with is if I can
just do a like super shameless plug sure
no problem
wall then check out my essays on Marion
West I like to do Marion West's who's
Marion West Nestor Nestor I mean I still
see him but I don't hear Nestor well
hello hello Nestor yeah go ahead give
your plug root because you we lost you
go ahead like it's an online magazine
also like like management your book
what's the name of the magazine party
what is it
sorry what max what is it called
Marion West Marion West is the name of
magazine and you wrote a okay what is
the essay I'm just like a contributor
they're like I'm kind of trying to get
started on with this like whole writing
thing so just I'm just like clogging me
so people well what's your Seldane
what's your full name so people can you
gotta tell them well they're writing
about and what are you writing about
it's and then my last name is the face
be um sorry it's like a Spanish name so
like calling me right this minute people
want and what are you write about okay
and what are you write about I'm kind of
like one of the leftist contributors
I've written about nationalism like the
intellectual dark web
like perspective from the founding
fathers and like republicanism like I
decided like but you know oh that's
great all right so Marion West people
check it out thanks for the call man
appreciate it no yeah just real real one
thing real quick very quick thing I
wanted to talk about what no you know
it's gonna be too long about quill it
okay thanks for the call well callin
someone yeah I Colin Colin and you can
call in on a Thursday if you want to
talk specifically with me about it
thanks for the call in the Soudan just
just I I get it
but like just if it helps write a few
notes for yourself so you're not so
flustered and there's nothing to be
nervous about
I know people get nervous all right but
there really is nothing I want to talk
about Sudan so this movement in Sudan
has been going on for almost a year and
it was sparked by a massive increase in
bread prices and other cuts and
austerity protest movement began as such
Milton and I went in depth on this along
with what's happening in Uganda on TMDs
on Tuesday and that will be clipped on
the Michael Brooke show YouTube channel
and also we've done other segments on
Sudan as well the big things to remember
contextually are its anti-austerity Omar
al-bashir who's ran Sudan since 1989 was
finally dislodged this guy was a major
liberal cause celeb when he was
committing crimes in Darfur almost 10
years ago and of course all the human
rights activism here obviously it didn't
understand all of the geopolitical
complexities but it was right in the
broad definition that of course on the
brush urban baarish boomer al Bashir was
absolutely a gangster and a thug and a
war criminal and so on
it is astonishing the profound lack of
interest until quite recently of a
incredibly resourceful smart brilliant
bottom-up Sudanese movement that
mobilized in some of the very creative
ways that Brian Mayer was talking about
in terms of people's councils in terms
of youth movements in terms of the
traditional labor unions and
professional classes in Sudan and the so
there that's one note the other note is
Omar al-bashir is actually sort of
brought himself back into the
international system somewhat by being
quite helpful in blocking people from
migrating to Europe as an example and
cooperating in his own authoritarian
wave with the authoritarian wave in the
Western world countries so there's
always that relationship between capital
and between other and the West and the
third thing as we've learned from Egypt
it's never just the figurehead it's the
system that they've put into place from
their crony capitalist networks the
military and also gangs and
paramilitaries that are subcontracted to
do the dirty work
so the Sunnah knees have stayed out in
force because this military transition
council they knew was not what they
wanted they want actual change they want
a removal of autocratic leadership and
the old ineffective official opposition
parties and now the crackdown has
started and it is so ruthless and
murderous people are getting shot people
are getting murdered then they the gangs
that are in military that are killing
them are blocking the roads to the
hospitals so people bleed out so people
can have their injuries treated the
Jonjo II which were the group that was a
household name No maybe not quite a
household name but a George Clooney name
when they were in Darfur committing
murder they're part of what has been
unleashed in Khartoum to prop the
military so that's the context this clip
on Amy Goodman on Democracy Now is with
a Sudanese activist marine al Neill
that's at marine L Neil mari87 Twitter
and he or she is explaining the state of
the protests with Amy Goodman on
Democracy Now can you talk about the
numbers of people have been killed why
people are sitting in and who did the
killing the numbers are saying that it's
more than a hundred is actually a gross
underestimate because still the citizen
is not a safe area it is difficult to go
and find that the dead bodies of the
protesters that may still be there there
are also news of people being still
stuck in buildings within the certain
area they cannot leave because the
streets are full of rapid support forces
this is the the forces that have
attacked the Sitton and are still
terrorizing Khartoum Khartoum is for all
intensive purposes currently under
military occupation by the rapid support
forces previously known as the ginger
weed under him a trees leadership and he
is still calling for attacking the
people who are barricading the streets
around Khartoum he's saying that they
will pay the price
many believe that when he Matisse's
paying the price he is only talking
about killing and there's a explain who
he is committee is the leader of the
rapid support forces he is currently the
the vice president of the military
council and he's the person who's
leading all of the attacks that are
happening that have happened at
dissident and are happening around
custom in a significant step the African
Union has suspended Sudan over the
violence against protesters Donald Trump
is on the road and I don't know the
extent to which how stupid Donald Trump
is in some ways matters and obviously in
other ways he actually has a great
cynical horrific intuitive grasp of how
to be a you know an authoritarian public
entertainer or a clown fascist but you
know he also doesn't know about
and sometimes his profound ignorance is
funny other times it's a lesson in
important area so brexit
of the many disasters emanating from
brexit could under law undermine the
Good Friday peace accords which have in
all of their imperfections kept peace in
Northern Ireland for decades since 1997
I believe as a deal of the Accords part
of the reason this works is because
there is a open border policy which
allowed people in Northern Ireland who
wanted to unified Ireland to live and
function as if they live in one country
and those loyal Royalists those who
wanted to stay inside the United Kingdom
were still in fact inside the United
Kingdom so it was a nice win-win /
lose-lose for everybody that's called
diplomacy so it's a major problem in
terms of brexit Donald Trump is in
Ireland and he had some really
insightful comments about the Irish
border
[Music]
[Music]
so nobody sure is gonna work out the
prime minister of Ireland leo
Varda car has to basically say like
actually it's sort of the opposite which
is some big stupid Porter contraption
would bring back the troubles now I
don't know what Donald Trump was doing
in the 1980s I know what he would like
me to think he was doing and I'm not
necessarily convinced he was doing those
things but I can tell you that as
somebody who I think at the very least
did like the New York Times / version of
being you know of wanting to be able to
be at a party and being like I mean an
ek big stuff I'm sure that he was lucid
enough to do that
and in the 1980s and 1990s you had
paramilitaries associated with the
far-right forces who wanted to keep part
of the UK kneecapping people murdering
people
you had the IRA Irish Republican Army
engaging in guerrilla campaigns
civilians were killed there was even a
there was pretty major activity going on
in that part of the world and the Good
Friday Accords brought people together
who were like had killed members of each
others like families literally in some
cases to work out a very complicated
deal that has saved a lot of people's
lives precisely because there isn't a
border irony upon ironies and the prime
minister of Ireland has to have one of
those moments of like
you know it would be one thing if you
weren't president United States just sit
here and watch you be a bloviator cause
you think he would have at least
stumbled across a cranberries video at
some point I don't know what the hell I
was stumbling across alright let's do a
couple more pieces to sound this is also
important and also on democracy now
shouts the Amy Goodman Juan Gonzalez so
Donald Trump is threatening tariffs on
Mexico the in fact what's extraordinary
is that some of the companies that have
migrated production from China because
of Trump's economic war with China have
gone to Mexico and now this guy is a
rationality and idiocy follow them
there's a lot of complexity to this
stuff I don't know all the elements of
the economics of it although it does
have obviously the China one has
enormous implications for farm States
but what he is trying to do in Mexico as
first of all he's smacking away Amla on
low has attempted in a way that is not
surprising to move in a progressive
direction on some key areas inside
Mexico and at the very least do his best
to not totally inflame the United States
while not endorsing the Venezuela coup
that's the position he's tried to play
Trump here is totally smacking down his
olive branches which isn't a surprise
and you're gonna hear about this because
this tariff thing is gonna be major part
of the reelection because it's economic
nationalist warfare and the point is is
that Mexico which has in fact been
cooperating with the United States war
on refugee and migration just fine under
amla we wanted far more teaming
demilitarization of mexico's borders in
Central America well they're not in you
main enough they're not vicious enough
or maybe the horrific conditions that
are still forcing people to try to get
to the Mexican border or such that
there's simply no choice well Donald
Trump is demanding Mexico do even more
to support this ethnic cleansing
campaign in the United States and Laura
Karlsson who i interviewed a couple
weeks ago is on Amy Goodman at Lauren
Carlson and she's gonna explain exactly
what those Mexico tariffs are all about
this threat of imposing tariffs of 5%
going up to 25% in October is economic
blackmail essentially what he's saying
is that Mexico should do more to
alleviate and this is these are his
words the crisis of illegal immigration
at the border in the letter that he the
statement that he put out regarding the
tariffs he says that these tariffs will
be in place until Mexico has taken
effective actions that will be
determined by our discretion and our
judgment so it's not even clear exactly
what Mexico is supposed to do and how
they're trying to negotiate what's
actually happening at the border we have
to remember that this characterization
of a border crisis is essentially false
these are not unprecedented numbers and
this is not an unmanageable situation
what it is is a manufactured crisis that
Donald Trump is using for electoral
purposes in order to create an image
that immigration is the number one
problem that the United States faces and
mobilized and essentially racist and
white supremacist base yep that's it
there's nothing more to know about this
that's what's happening yeah and he's
distracting people from all the ways
that he's actually screwing up the
economy that's exactly right
toom all right let's do well let's do a
little palate cleanser just for fun and
then we'll get back to something also
serious but this is a victor ger
compilation steven crowder who has put
all YouTube craters in jeopardy uh with
his relentless bigotry - Carlos Meza he
is the one that you should be pissed off
at as well as of course Google and
YouTube as a company this is why we
can't have nice things
yeah and this idiot by the way who's
having a big tantrum can still go to any
number of corporate right-wing fat cat
funders because in addition to like of
course you know teaching kids to hate
gay people and all this stuff the real
thing here is to teach the kids that you
know we shouldn't have an EPA but you
have to acknowledge that Steve Crowder
is talented or do you this is Vic burger
with one of the most uncomfortable
compilations I've ever seen in my life
all I can tell you is Steve crowd or
CPAC and rap kid oh yeah a nice day oh
stand up right next to your junk I wrote
a column on the benefits and virtues of
abstinence remember that yeah oh
absolutely
pink shirt call themselves a family I
don't care it's a real phobia I mean how
do you get over is it like spiders and I
was a kid I did touch one oh it's creepy
therapist okay Carl now touch this
Richard Simmons dancing to the oldies
volume four I wasn't gonna come out with
me this morning had a good time
[Music]
call it reaching across the aisle enjoy
your intolerance I feel like we should
be demonetized for playing that I'm
sorry so this is the great you know I
mean I'm sorry this is overdone at this
point but the right is getting good at
comedy and the left should be skipped
that
is jeopardizing your YouTube
monetization you demand the demand in
the future the only difference that I
would have is the demand then if you try
I want to say it again
it's a journalistic organization hire
journalists and Ombudsman and you tweet
at YouTube to reinstate people's dollars
who are doing really good work and tweet
at steven crowder and be like dude why
did you jeopardize a whole bunch of
independent thought in journalism and
you're not well I'll just say as an
editorial you're not funny just shows
the degree to which we do not live in a
meritocracy when a guy like that can be
propped up by billions of dollars in
what coke money I don't know I don't
know his funny yeah I have no doubt and
have that many it's just it's not cool
man it's not if you believe in I if you
really believe in the meritocracy in
competition you will hate steven crowder
there's no doubt about it
our friends friends the surfs um
this would be the last segment we do on
this but you know an example though of
what happened to them is another really
big concern in their case it was so
insane that they actually got reinstated
but they had a basically a bunch I
seemed to me some type of coordinated
right-wing campaign with a bunch of
false complaints and their whole channel
was taken down and this will be the game
of totally cynical people who don't have
any commitment to free speech or open
exchange or an understanding of satire
you know make no mistake that like we do
sometimes need to retrieve some concepts
there is a huge
of value in freedom of speech there's an
endless amount of value in satire I 100%
support those things and they're under
threat because of you the people who
talk about them all the time and the
corporate monopolies that we need to
fundamentally reform so the serfs are a
cross and airy tale about all this and
they put together a really funny video
basically explaining why there needs to
be antitrust enforcement if I understand
let the read off the subtitles Oh
Brendan would you like to read it off
sure I don't do the read set YouTube
headquarters take this from Chernobyl oh
the new HBO show need to make a decision
everyone is waiting Sun is 2 million
followers 3 million our Pride Month
coverage is about Crowder now we change
our banner to flag the pride flag surely
that's enough just give him another
strike here it is three strikes okay
listen up
you didn't violate our Terms of Service
he did it again sir yes we know already
his apology for the call doesn't count
the people didn't know okay let's try it
was trying to debate Carlos and that
doesn't violate the tos
be selling the t-shirts the socialism is
for ones
okay.we demonetised his account he
doesn't make any money from ads he picks
them from selling most t-shirts that
doesn't matter shows we took action you
need journalists in charge of this can
somebody in the DSA queer caucus remake
those shirts like an ironically that
lame-o zactly what I was thinking I was
where I was actually shocked that those
shirts were not done proactively by by
LGBTQ socialists actually I was like
that is such but that is perfect
Brooklyn irony gear come on in New York
this is a big thing there are over a
million rent stabilized apartments whose
protections will expire on June 15th now
this is a major thing obviously because
there's already a housing crisis in New
York as there is a housing crisis across
the country with real estate speculation
and wealth inequality driving it but
this is one remnant of vital legislation
that is protecting some of the last
remnants of middle and working class New
York and it's terrifying here you look
at the amount of people who lose their
homes and go from one town and one
borough to the next to the next people
who have good solid middle-class jobs
communica muting from bleak expert
expert back into New York City where
they work or maybe they've lived for
generations
it's a massive crisis and I'll read now
from a report in The New York Times the
conflict over New York City's rent law
has turned raucous on Tuesday as
hundreds of thousands of tenant
activists flooded the state capital
leading to a scuffle and dozens of
arrests for activists for months
activists have been casting have cast
the looming rewrite of New York City's
New York's rent laws is a
once-in-a-generation battle the state
that regulates almost 1 million restate
rent stabilized apartments expires on
June 15th with Democrats in controlled
the legislature for only a third time in
more than half century progressive
legend
makers are pushing for more tenant
friendly provisions now with 11 days
remaining the fight hasn't as increased
in intensity as one bedroom rents in the
city of hit an all-time high at a time
when New York as the largest homeless
population in the city that's the crisis
those are the stakes find out who your
legislator is who represents you in the
New York State Senate we should follow
up on this and put a guide and push the
hell out of this over the next several
days and I also we also wanted to
highlight that New York's new public
advocate and if this is any indication
he's gonna be a great one Jumaane
Williams was arrested along with the
protesters so that's excellent let's
play some footage of him
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
and that's money that they've printed
with Andrew Cuomo's face on it if you're
watching Andrew Cuomo is one of them
Andrew Cuomo who I believe is sporting
Joe Biden one of the worst politicians
in the country one of the most harmful
to working people he might sign the
legislation though he will read that
they had the votes in the Senate and he
has said that if the Senate passes it
he'll sign it that's the other flipside
of even the worst Democrat because of
the nature of coalition politics might
be forced to sign of essential
legislation people's lives and this
needs to be a first step for breaking up
the real estate industry public housing
good excellent high quality look up
Vienna public housing and massive
Universal rent control so and that's
real leadership from Jumaane Williams
that's excellent if that's an indication
of what he's focusing on is public
advocate then he'll be a great public
advocate and I'm excited to vote for him
for reelection and for other offices he
might be interested in including well
left start talking about the mayoral
race soon but finally getting a mayor in
New York City who's gonna go to war with
real estate and not beg for them for
some wits for some crumbs while they
donate to his campaigns and that's why I
can never take de Blasio seriously as a
presidential contender absolutely this
is what a public advocate should be
doing like literally advocating for the
public and I got to give a little shout
out to the state senator for my district
Julia Salazar because her just cause
fiction bill is probably the most
radical in this whole this whole raft of
legislation that taken together is being
referred to as universal rent control
just cause eviction says that the a
tenant cannot be evicted or denied the
renewal of a lease because they wouldn't
pay an unconscionable increase in rent
and what that means is it's indexed to
something called the Consumer Price
Index which is decided by a variety of
things but it would effectively cap rent
increases at three point three percent
at virtually every single unregulated
New York City rental apartment which
would
all of our lives absolutely alright
let's take one more call maybe only two
more because we do have to go soon but
try to get a few more in you're calling
from a 303 area code who are you where
you're calling from and we're also just
we'll say we'll have information on how
to support Julia Salazar's bill how to
keep up the heat on Governor Cuomo and
push and push and push and push on this
if in here in New York there's this is
nothing is more important right now
you're calling them a 303 area code who
are you where you're calling from hi
this is Brittany I'm calling from Denver
hey Brittany what's on your mind
I was laughing to myself yesterday I
listened to you guys like every day and
I had you guys are like my speaker and
we have a bunch of construction crews at
our house right now and I had to like
run across the room and turn it off
because it was just funny to hear when
you guys yell a joke out or whatever
it's always much louder than whatever
you're talking about so you were yelling
something about like we need to get the
Mexicans out of here like joking and I
was like oh my god oh yeah sorry about
that oh no I mean it's just funny but um
I was calling because I'm I'm always
trying to like figure out how to get
this point across better to people when
I feel like you boil down whether you
vote Republic or you know Republican or
Democrat or whether you're a liberal or
conservative but like I wish there was a
better way to say like if you just look
at the most liberal places in the
country versus the most conservative
like what is the life expectancy what's
the health like what's the education
like you know like it's very clear that
there's a better way of doing things
and I just wish we could as liberals
figure out how to get that across a
little better
well I my only thing that I would
disagree with a little bit is I don't I
think you do have to really look at it
not about geography but his class
because even in the states that you're
right they do have higher life
expectancy it is because of basically
let's just say good social democratic
policies or progressive policies right
that's the part that I think that you're
talking about it's more education more
health
you're funding and that's why yeah but
that's where I think it's really tricky
because the economies are not
necessarily better for everybody
so I actually remember using an argument
like that on somebody several years ago
and you know I should have gone right to
a more socialistic argument because they
said oh well because like they
were a driver and they were like I used
to live in New York and sure but I
didn't qualify for any of those programs
or when I did they didn't cover enough
and then I moved to Texas where I was
able to buy my family a house for like
no money
you know relative to New York I couldn't
even afford rent there but now I get a
full home here with a yard and it's by a
park and you know the cost of living is
way lower so I think you got to really
be like why would you vote for anybody
Republican or Democrat frankly you know
not when you know I always say obviously
if it's terrible Democrat against the
Republican vote for the Democrat 100%
I'm not doing that silly game but it
isn't just a question of Democrat and
Republican we know that because there's
plenty of Democrats who have been
incredibly harmful for people's
interests so I think it's better to say
you know do you support policies and
ideas and people that are going to
increase your life expectancy or no and
you know maybe you could use any number
of examples you can do use examples from
states you could use examples from other
countries but it's also you know I've
had it thrown on me like hey California
is the big liberal paradise and as a
huge amount of homelessness and it's
like yeah I don't support those policy
sets I was in California right I would
be doing every the state income taxes on
those Silicon Valley companies are you
kidding me
it would probably woulda hit out on me
so it's different well that's kind of
the nature of a big liberal area or I
mean a big metro area no it's not no
it's not doesn't have to we could take
care of I mean look at a place like
Vienna I mean we could absolutely
proactively make it so that there isn't
a homelessness crisis there's nothing
natural about it the resources exist
yeah it's all just a question of how we
use them
yeah I always take issue when people
want to orphan the red states or the
quote-unquote red states because you're
never looking at the whole picture a lot
of these states contain a lot of
low-income people low-income people of
color who are totally disenfranchised
and don't really have a voice in
electoral politics for whatever reason
and when we're building a working-class
movement we can't leave anyone behind
there's a great piece Britney I would
check it out by Bill Fletcher jr. he
wrote for the Jacobin in 2014 about how
the left can't give up on the south
which because primarily his tradition is
is both on the tool of labor organizing
there and obviously also civil rights
but thanks a million for the call
appreciate the call all right thank
thanks all right final call today sorry
we're leaving a lot on the table but we
do need to go but this person's been
waiting for 80 minutes you're calling
from a 401 three area code who are you
are you calling from hello Adam hey
Adams yep Adam tell everybody where
you're calling from man thanks
I'm calling from hey respect thank you
I'm just calling I want to talk about
Department of Energy and Massachusetts
is proposing and world changes to allow
biomass power plants to be classified as
renewable energy and have access to the
subsidies for for renewable energy as
far as the state like green energy
program mm-hmm there was a there was a
hearing about yesterday that I attended
and I opened some information basically
the um it's it's renewable because if
you can grow back trees but for the
first 100 years of operation biomass is
more carbon releases more carbon than
coal all right so it's it's actually
extremely harmful to
in addition releases a particulate
matter into the atmosphere deficit so it
sells so we were running a little tight
on time so do you want to tell anybody
like what they could do interview
cuz that sound it's a big thing to fight
in Massachusetts really important all
right so on tomorrow Friday 5:00 p.m. is
the deadline for submitting public
comments to the Department of Energy in
Massachusetts you can email them at dor
e dot RPS at mass gov and you can tell
them that you oppose including biomass
as a renewable energy in eligible for
subsidies and in general that you oppose
biomass power plants awesome thanks a
million for the call man take care thank
you very much for taking it thanks man
Adam from Springfield thank you sir
okay we're gonna take a few IMS and then
go cuz I've an appointment at 3:00 but
uh oh and also I should say I made a
mistake get your tickets
the TMDs live show August 24th in
Chicago I should have mentioned that
earlier link on the website excellent
Marshall project reports ballot
initiatives led to police reform
Washington state new training will
include implicit and explicit bias
patrol tactics history of race policing
de-escalation mental health training and
administering first aid to people after
using deadly force resigned Central Park
five prosecutor continues to lie see
Newsweek article I emailed you with
direct contact USF saline one of the
Central Park five if you want for an
interview he travels and speaks about
criminal justice reform racism their
experience told him about mr and he's
agreeable alright yet we'll try to
follow up on that I'll see you about Sam
I'm preparing an illicit history on
Trump and the Central Park five which is
gross okay have you guys heard of the
Australian government rating multiple
news agencies because they're reporting
that special forces were killed in
Afghan civilians for all the idiots
defending crowd or perhaps their actual
threats the speech is supposed to a guy
targeted for a person with homophobic
slurs
well that is apps
true and it's also true though that then
be agitating against the Assange case
because that's exactly right Rob from
Austin I'm glad to see Michaels
recovered from taking in all those
high-level important ideas though I
definitely have not okay final I am of
the day those two Kentucky Fried comrade
hey I'm our crew wants Perot in an
interview we had with Shahid butter but
our on the into D podcast Shahid is
challenging Nancy Pelosi seen for
Congress in California's 12th district
he's incredibly awesome interesting guy
let's just say the term general strike
was dropped during the interview left
his best Shahid is awesome we started
following one another on Twitter and he
looks like great like not only a great
candidate willing to take on doing
something like challenging an see Pelosi
and obviously you should support his
campaign but somebody who's both been
doing a ton of stuff for a long time
before as a lawyer and activist and will
continue to do whether he defeats her
and gets elected to Congress or just
moving on out of it alright folks thanks
everybody we're back here tomorrow in
that state
get to where I want
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better
No
[Music]
kid
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
well the option
[Music]
there
brakes
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
