the announcement today by Mike Pompeo
that the United States pulling out of
the INF treaty not totally unexpected
the US government has been saying that
Russia is in violation of the treaty
since I think it was 2014 2014 with the
introduction of a new long-range missile
that that Russia had introduced the this
is a treaty that was signed 30 years ago
I guess that basically took thousands a
couple of thousand I should say
ballistic and cruise missiles off off
the board as they say I think and it was
supported by on-site inspections that
allowed both sides to trust and verify
compliance with the treaty and Trump has
decided to unilaterally pull out of the
treaty here is Mike Pompeo explaining
supposedly why Russia has jeopardized
the United States security interest and
we can no longer be restricted by the
treaty while Russia shamelessly violates
it if Russia does not return to full and
verifiable compliance with the treaty
within this six-month period by
verifiably destroying its INF violating
missiles their launchers and associated
equipment the treaty will terminate not
sure why this is happening now per se
and not sure what the the six months is
about either that puts us into the
middle of the summer I'm not 100% sure
what what that's about but I'm not
unconvinced that Trump doesn't want to
campaign on it well I think that that's
why it's weird I think to do it now and
to talk about it
months from now right what do you mean
campaign on it I think that what we
talked about with Joseph sir and Sione
when I had him on a couple weeks ago
makes I mean first of all there's a
history to this and all Bush was trying
to pull out of he didn't he destroyed
the ABM Treaty to do the missile defense
shield fantasy so there's a I mean
Republican people don't like these arms
control agreements and I also think that
what we kind of established this through
line with Surrency Oney where he said
there's all of these discredited
ridiculous fifties and sixties
Strangelove ideas that have that have
been rebranded and her back in
Washington and he said like part of it
is just like getting our mojo back our
vital bodily fluids and so I think that
you know it wouldn't be a prime thing
but I could see him saying something
about we're gonna have the best Arsenal
and the same we would say build that
wall yeah that's why I just find the
timing just weird to do yeah I can't
tell you the timing but I mean I'm sure
his he'll hit it but could it overlap
with some of the I mean I don't usually
go to the Russia place but cuz this
overlap with some of the heat around
Russia and him being like yo you're
talking about how I've a deal rush I
just jumped as well it's been hard I
actually think that that's what is
driving a lot of this this this attempt
to show that he's being tough with
Russia frankly I'm not sure that Russia
necessarily cares if they were we're all
under their violations no that's not
this is gonna make them not in violation
meanwhile organs Senator Jeff Merkley
Elizabeth Warren Kristin Gillibrand ed
Mackie Ron Wyden and Bernie Sanders
along with Kamala Harris sherrod Brown
Tammy Baldwin and Van Hollen were there
as well those names sound familiar it's
because most of them are running for
president and they introduced the
prevention of arms race Act of 2019 and
it basically calls on a series of
measures it acknowledges that Russia has
broken the treaty
but it calls on a series of measures to
try and inhibit Trump's unilateral move
so ops the Ed Markey though he's been an
arms control guy for his whole career
yeah and this is going to be one of the
nice things about having seven senators
or six senators running for president
because they're all going to be out
racing each other to do the right thing
we don't have you know joe Manchin's not
going to be running and so everyone's
going to be pulled to the left
theoretically and pushed to do the right
thing not it won't necessarily make a
big difference in terms of legislation
but in the short term but it will make a
big difference going forward and we'll
talk about this a little bit maybe later
in the program too because there are
three different more than three but
three or four major pieces of
legislation to reduce the cost of drugs
in this in this country that are being
that are all being presented by
presidential candidates
