[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the founder
and CMO that its chief meme officer to
you Sean McHale we of data for progress
welcome back to the program Sean thanks
so Sean there's two things that I want
to discuss with you first came up
because the Supreme Court just I guess
it was Friday blocked two gerrymandering
rulings in Michigan in Ohio lower courts
had tossed out the congressional
districts Congressional Maps I should
say in Michigan in Ohio
both those situations up until 2018 in
Michigan's case but no hyo's case still
continues to be highly problematic in
terms of the how many people go out and
vote for Democrats and then how many
Democrats end up in the congressional
delegation you know places like
Wisconsin obviously the worst of stuff
like that and you are part of a new
initiative to I guess it's what the kids
are saying today gerrymandering
would tell us about that yeah absolutely
so we teamed up with the folks at pod
state of America whoa whoa whoa excuse
me yeah you know they have a massive
enormous platform really large base and
we wanted to get out this initiative to
as many people as possible and so fair
enough we're working with them you know
ironically you know I actually wanted to
call it the blue Virginia project and
they actually came up with the profane
name rounded up words I can't even speak
it on the air you know I have to I don't
like
I don't like things where words so I
don't have yeah so the the idea behind
this is that yeah absolutely the courts
have for the most part stalled on on
gerrymandering
you know there's no progress being made
but right now the most effective way
that we can fight back against Rainman
during its individuals is by supporting
you know candidates down ballot to help
break these these gerrymanders and so
the first state that we're taking a look
at whose Virginia which has legislative
elections conscience 2019
it actually has had their mastery drawn
the the maps were so racist that the
courts threw them out so what we want to
do is we want to make sure that in this
cycle progressives are really investing
to make sure that we gain the most out
of these sarah maps and don't let any
any seeds go to waste so every month
data for progress does some math looks
at some mathematical models and comes up
with ten candidates that we're going to
run in a slate and folks can donate to
those ten ten candidates on the slate
none of us take anything off at the top
but just go directly to the to the
candidates now okay so these are ten
candidates in the state itself like
running for per person to the House of
Delegates the state Senate okay but
Percy you don't do like three in
Virginia and then three and I don't know
Pennsylvania well supposedly doesn't
have all that change in 2019 but yeah in
the 2020 cycle we're going to probably
expand it to do more states and we'll
select candidates across those those
things but just sort of because 2019 is
the first year we're doing it in
Virginia is the main state in which
gerrymandering is playing a significant
role that's not okay okay and people
should also be aware that in 2020 is the
year that the census takes its its
census
and these are the numbers so really we
have until the 2020 through the 2020
election to get turn as many state
houses blue as possible to to impact the
redrawing of these districts which
happens following 2020 essentially after
the new census material comes out right
yeah absolutely so as like we're using
Virginia sort of a pilot that that's
sort of how excited people are about
this idea you know already we're seeing
hundreds of hundreds of people
contributing so once we break the
gerrymanders in Virginia we are going to
turn to the other key states where folks
should be investing down ballot I think
will like one of the most exciting
candidates we're supporting is actually
a woman named Sheena Bynum Coleman and
she is actually running against Curt Cox
who is the Speaker of the House of
Delegates he's the guy who drew the
racist districts so I think it would be
sort of poetic justice if he ended up
losing to a black woman after drawing
this incredibly racist map so she's one
of the ten candidates were supporting
with this right the other ones that
you're pushing is it Joshua Cole yes
absolutely tell us about our move Josh
McCall came up just short in 2017 it was
he was outspent three to one but still
closed in and lost by a couple hundred
votes that district was sort of under
looked at the time because there was an
Obama Trump district and the party was
at that time really investing in this
idea you know we got a we got to win
back the the suburbs and really focusing
on those Romney Clinton districts that
split so this is a chance for us to
invest early in coal
you know he was outspent three-to-one
last last last like when we think that
if he if he was really on parity he has
a chance to flip that well what is the
impact of money in in in races this
localized
I mean I you know one of the things that
I noticed in in the wake of Trump's
election I think I must have gone to
three or four ad hoc semi ad hoc women's
groups that had set up for the very
purpose of funding state races across
the country like adopting you know the
Colorado Legislature or legend in these
places and I never really saw any data
or any follow up on how much of an
impact it had for a state senator to get
an extra I don't know ten fifteen twenty
fifty thousand hundred thousand how much
money we talking about makes a
difference in these races sure so so a
couple things on that one is the theory
of change that we have um I think there
are a lot of groups that do this they
spend a lot of time like you know give
us money will you know have this
overhead and then we'll you know pick
these districts and you know we'll sort
of we'll play we're like the general in
the Army you know with the money in my
view is actually did that actually
doesn't make a lot of sense we run an
incredibly bare-bones operation you know
we have people who build the models but
the most part once they're built it's
just the matter of running the data um
so we don't like to do the thing where
we like our generals on the battlefield
you know making PAC expenditures and
in-kind donations our view is we find
the races that we believe are the most
likely to be the pivotal see the sort of
last statement lips and we encourage you
to give the money there there's no
overhead it's just an act blue form that
we continuously update so we really try
to do as bare-bones as possible um we
did this last cycle with give smart and
there's actually
a study that we did were sort of
obsessed for the same question that that
you had and our targeting was incredibly
precise right at the pivotal district
nearly all of our money went to races
that were decided by fewer than ten
points most of money going to races that
were decided by 2005 and multiple races
that we supported ended up in recounts
which shows you just how close those
races are and we ran a regression model
controlling for a variety of factors and
we found that being on the vidiians
smart list did predict a higher
probability of winning than what would
expect for just controlling for sort of
district specific factors like prison
share of the 2016 vote so we're fairly
confident that this money has a big
impact and the last thing I'll say is
these these races are often you know won
and lost by a couple hundred votes in
many cases these candidates are raising
you know a couple hundred thousand
dollars would be a big campaign and so
if you're considering you know giving
money to be the like the extra ten
dollars on a presidential campaign
that's already going to raise ten
million dollars and a quarter you know
why not be the extra ten or fifteen
dollars that decides whether or not a
campaign can you know pay for a mailer
or you know pay there Canvassers to do
another walk you know most of these
candidates are not going off on Aaron's
expensive TV ads you're funding the
bare-bones operations your money is
going to go a lot further then you know
being another dollar and a edit
consultants wallet there's got to be
some type of you know figure where you
can say like one dollar to a state
Senate campaign or a state assembly
person campaign is the equivalent of
like giving a hundred thousand dollars
to a presidential campaign right I mean
that's more or less what it's got to be
your one dollar
relatively speaking can can have that
type of impact all right let me ask you
this question about the nose you guys me
I will I will sit down this evening and
we'll work on those numbers and as soon
as we have them I'll come back and show
and share sure we found
oh you mean Shawn none of the guys that
pod save America thought to look into
that stat no oh that's weird
all right why because they're so
knowledgeable about politics it seems
like a fairly obvious question for the
that's all right I'm just curious
no because they're so funny they're so
funny but anyways you know no they've
got a much bigger platform I understand
Shawn now so let me ask you this when
you have the ten candidates how do you
choose how do you decide that it was
going to be ten did you say let's do ten
as a round number or we're only going to
do candidates where we think our money
has an X percentage chance of changing
the outcome and also in that question to
what extent did you guys assess their
politics like you you clearly like the
Sheila Bynum Colman race and you like
Joshua Cole do you have people in there
that you'd be like well they don't
necessarily they're not on my wing of
the party but at the end of the day the
most important thing is we need these
seats we need to have the congressional
districts drawn in a way that gives
Democrats at least a chance if they get
more votes to have more representatives
yeah so the ten is you know reasonably
arbitrary but I will say that the number
the number stays the same but the people
that we're supporting is going to change
each month um so we are going to be
recalibrating based on you know how the
first month turns out if we have a
candidate who you know was on the first
round and we're looking at their their
numbers and we're feeling pretty
confident then we're going to sub in
someone else on the question about the
ideology that's definitely something
I've been thinking a lot about it was
something we didn't waste heavily in our
give smart initiative and what I am
doing right now we're actually working
on about four different down ballot
projects that are each going to have
different missions because we really
want people to feel empowered when
they're giving money down balance so we
are planning and should be rolling out
very shortly an initiative that is
explicitly focused only on progressive
candidates and then we will have climate
and a very interesting immigration
criminal justice initiative as well and
I assume you're doing those with like
slate gabfest and and who else what else
you gonna do like one with the Joe Rogan
show or something like that we can talk
about that Shirley I'm very well may do
that all right so you've just negged me
into partnering with you that's how do
you think what do you think it's all
about how do you think this business got
built so alright so we've we put a link
to to the F gerrymandering campaign at
the where you can go to the act loop
page and you can contribute I mean I you
know this is I mean we've been saying
this around here for for a couple years
this is the dollar for dollar this is
where you're gonna get the most value
out of your campaign contributions and
in terms of the long-term health of the
country frankly it is it is crucial and
it's quite clear now it's quite clear
what's going to happen at the Supreme
Court they're basically gonna say there
is no there is no prohibition against
partisan gerrymandering regardless we've
talked about this issue quite a bit
Anthony Kennedy had set it up above six
seven years ago eight years ago that
he just needed some type of way of you
know ask social scientists to come in
and help us determine when something was
overly gerrymandered it should be enough
to say you when you look at Wisconsin
and say Democrats won 56 percent of the
vote yet Republicans control 64 percent
of the Statehouse it doesn't make any
sense and if the courts aren't going to
do anything about it which it appears
it's not the only way to fight this is
going to be through initiatives like
this and so Virginia is okay one last
thing
please you know Virginia has two tennis
entries senators not not the best
governor lieutenant governor at the
current moment and I think the one thing
that I see these investments sound
balance is really building the next
bench right of you know Democrats and in
you know in a lot of cases I mean in the
last cycle you know we really put you
know half a dozen and women progressive
women of color weirdos who refuse to
take money from Dominion energy and that
is the the bench future Congress member
centers and statewide elected officials
so really investing in young people
vesting young talent is really important
particularly because there is real a
real age divide within the Democratic
Party younger representatives and
legislators tend to be much more
committed to the progressive movement in
the values of progressive movement than
the older legislators are okay and
lastly if you can I would love Jon
Favreau's autograph that would be great
oh and appreciate my last point that
would be great
he went to Holy Cross my hometown of
Worcester yeah
