[Music]
Ochs let's play this this is a little
bit of a problem there's a lawsuit
obviously that Dean Obeidallah has just
won I am contemplating some possible
litigation around this clip that we're
about to see it has come to my attention
no this is not the clip I just come to
my attention that David Pakman is going
after some of our listeners and as you
know first set we have a program well
we're getting to that we have a program
here where we deputize a lot of people
to go out and tattletale on other
progressive talkers and of course spend
good money on people to monitor what
David Pakman is saying and then call in
and tell us what it is David had an
issue with that
let's let's hear it let's not go to that
one because we have a different one that
we're dealing with but so let's get back
to the Sam cedar show but anyways
regardless with your Rogen one second
so the point is is that someone called
in the other day I guess it was a Friday
and said that David Pakman had said on
Joe Rogan that was was squishy ond
medicare-for-all or whatever and Pakman
is upset because the caller
mischaracterized what Pakman said which
i think is is accurate insofar as the
there was a mischaracterization but so
here he is playing that call right now
that the left is to absolute
specifically on the topic of Medicare
for all I want to hear what you guys
think of this take seems like he's open
to the type plan Liz Warren has also
been flirting with as she all steps away
from Medicare all while note you guys
think of that characterized that plan
because I mean I didn't I didn't
what did what did Backman say I think
he's open he's open to the public option
things like that he says that the lesk
is too absolute about wanting just
Medicare for all he thinks that there's
other plans that we can go with in
regard to solving the Medicare issue I
mean III I don't I'm not even going to
play Sam's response because I didn't say
what the caller wants Sam to react to
I've not stepped away from Medicare for
all I haven't said that what I want is a
public option okay so look I know we
don't need to hear what Paquin saying I
want to know why David Pakman just D
platformed me in the middle of my
comment so if there's anybody out there
who's watching this you should be
calling David Pakman and telling him
that I'm upset about being two people at
for him and then call us back and tell
us exactly how yeah they call us back
and let us know what he said this is the
only way that we can figure these things
out but summarize what he said back said
about what you said that he said about
what we said and they give us a nice
little thumbnail don't even go into that
but he details your sort of ballpark in
your language Mary right so that's
that's what we're doing this is this has
to stop and the only way for it to stop
is it to go full circle at least two
more times
let's go to the
