[Music]
Rober cutter brought up the the point
that there is a nascent nascent movement
among young black people to tell their
parents essentially like look Joe Biden
isn't necessarily the the best choice
and I think if you are in any way
mystified and it is the case that Bernie
Sanders has a very diverse base of
support racially diverse socially
diverse economically I mean its diverse
but you know it's it is it is true that
Elizabeth Warren dominates in terms of
the the audience for progressive ideals
she dominates in the more educated
wealthier folks which is not to say that
it's billionaires a millionaire's type
of thing but Bernie Sanders has a
broader coalition of working-class
people now Nate silver points out but
it's not impressive because his numbers
are not as big as they were during the
2016 election and that the only reason
why he has diverse numbers is because
there are less numbers of white people
who are following him so he attained
diversity by losing white voters
relative to where he was in 2016 now
this is a unique way of measuring
diversity because in some respects you
could make that argument about the
Democratic Party the only reason why the
Democratic Party looks
so diverse is because less than 50% of
white people vote for them but if all
white people voted for Democrats -
there'd be less representation of black
people in their coalition
percentage-wise it's a very odd
perspective to take it's I think it's
it's like technically accurate but it's
it's a very odd perspective to take so
if you are confused as to why Bernie
Sanders would have a diverse following
and a strong following of young black
activists in particular but but young
people more broadly speaking this clip
of kianga Yamata Taylor at the afro
socialist DSA event is I think sort of
on point it is the world we are not
called to this movement based on the
things that we don't want or based on
the people that we don't want to vote
for for the first time
our lifetimes we have a candidate for
whom we can proudly vote for who has an
actual chance to win we have an
opportunity to vote for the things that
we want and not just vote against the
things that we don't want universal
[Applause]
housing for all an actual strategy to
confront the climate crisis jobs with
living wages and union protections
precisely why this campaign despite the
slights and derision has attracted a
broad audience of ordinary black youth
and young black workers they are
attracted to the campaign for the super
reason that capitalism has failed the
vast majority of poor and working-class
African Americans many of us have come
to the realization that capitalism and
its so-called colorblind market economy
has never worked for us it didn't work
when we were bought and sold on the
market it hasn't worked when we have
been either locked out or marginalized
within the job market it has not worked
when we have been left out or
marginalized within the housing market
in fact there is no Golden Age of
American capitalism that we can point to
and say that's when African Americans
benefited from this system so when
Sanders says the name of the system and
Marx capitalism at the root as he is
speaking to us I mean it is pretty hard
to argue with that construction I think
you could argue that slavery was I don't
know could you argue that it was pre
capitalist not really no I mean it was
you're obviously exploiting labor here
that equitation sort of like some people
say it sort of was the central
exploitation to launching capitalism in
this contract early known yeah it's very
hard to imagine a well you I don't think
you could have slavery in the context of
a socialist society could you on some
level I mean I suppose you could have an
authoritarian if you had an
authoritarian but a Genya
only socialist society now part of the
problem is that it's hard to achieve but
it's a very hard argument to refute now
I mean you could say like well this time
we're gonna get right with capitalism
well that's where tea I jumped on
Candice Owens exactly nay maniera that
you can go back to the make America
great again for black people but there
it is
