[Music]
here is a Donald Trump calling for the
abolishing of immigration judges I don't
know exactly how this would work but
there has to be some process for
adjudicating the asylum claims of people
unless we essentially roll back the
asylum laws and say that there cannot be
any asylum in this country that we will
reject any folks who are subject to the
myriad of reasons why we might offer
them asylum in this country of course
narrowed the the opportunities for
asylum for largely people from Latin and
Central America in terms of domestic
abuse or fear from gangs but here's
Donald Trump here's another solution to
this just get rid of the judges so that
there's no way to adjudicate these I
guess I mean it's gobbly but let's
listen and what we have to do is
Congress has to meet quickly and make a
deal I could do it in 45 minutes we need
to get rid of chain migration we need to
get rid of catch and release and Visa
Lottery and we have to do something
about asylum and to be honest with you I
have to get rid of judges every time and
you won't even believe this mr.
secretary-general you catch somebody
that's coming illegally into your
country and they bring them to a court
and they bring him to a court can you
and the Secretary General NATO's like
yes this is crazy oh my I mean whoever
heard of such a thing you have courts we
don't do that in the eurozone no we have
large tubs of water we just throw them
in and if they float
I might be getting close to that yeah
there is it possible just for the record
the number of people who are granted
asylum by judges right now is fairly low
oh it's I don't think it's it's
certainly not higher than 30 percent of
the cases that go in I think it's
somewhere between twenty and thirty
percent is my understanding but it slows
the process down that they have to
contemplate whether I mean this is just
a you know absurd and it's not a
legitimate proposal of course none of it
is it's all absurd and it really Donald
Trump is running on his strength he's
returning and reverting to the mean
which is we're going to attack I mean
this is what he wrote down that
escalator the one thing that really
resonated from his opening speech when
he ran in 2016 was that they're sending
over their worst rapists and whatnot I'm
sure some of them are good people
it's his light motif indeed and speaking
of that motif here is Kris Kobach the
possible pick for Trump's immigration
czar recall that Kris Kobach was laughed
out of multiple courts on his attempt to
disenfranchise voters and this guy
really really has it in for non for for
non-white people and their ability to
vote he was a charlatan going around to
various counties I think across the
country getting them to dump people from
their roles and and then offering his
legal services to represent them and the
court cases that preceded and then lost
the cases here is here is Kris Kobach on
with Lou Dobbs and this one is deploy
immediately
dozens of immigration judges as well as
a fleet of passenger planes and the
thousands of empty mobile home trailers
that the United States owns right now
is attempting to sell at bargain prices
on the internet instead of selling them
deploy them to border cities and create
processing towns that are confined and
so when someone comes in and falsely
claims asylum we don't release them for
six months onto the streets the United
States we process them right there in
that camp where they have their three
square meals they're living in a nice
mobile home and then as soon as they're
done as soon as the claim is rejected
they're on the next plane back home and
then the people back home suddenly
realize hey he just left here two weeks
ago and yet he's back maybe going in
these caravans isn't such a great deal
anymore
all right so so the theory is that what
we're going to do is build areas that
are obviously we're going to have to put
fences around them and what it will do
is it will sort of concentrate them in
these camps that's what we're we're
looking to do we're going to try and
concentrate in these crossing towns
concentrate them in these camps and
they'll have nice little trailers to
live in and we'll give them three square
a day what could possibly go wrong yeah
indeed and maybe we'll give them some
work to do
this whole theory that work is the real
freedom this whole theory that they're
gonna get sent home two weeks later and
tell all their friends like don't bother
going again either is purposefully
ignorant or or just completely uncaring
as to the situation that forced them out
of the country in the first place the
reason why you get people who get booted
from this country and then they come
back again and attempt to come in is
because their living conditions their
situation in which they are returned to
is untenable so even the travelling
itself becomes a way of escaping that
and so the bottom line is we've seen the
benefits of actually providing aid to
these countries
there's there's plenty of data to show
that as we provide more aid to these
countries they have the ability at least
to protect some of their own citizens
and but it just goes to show that
there's a lot of disingenuous nasir I
mean none of this is vast reason is not
genuine in the road to its fascism
they're basically doing what he said
already like a small number of people
get out on parole
most people are kept in what they call
Helena's or ice boxes which they keep
very very cold on purpose so the people
will give up and go back and and that's
why we also have now something at least
15,000 children that were warehousing
because they've also scared the
relatives of those kids from coming to
pick them up so that's all been mission
accomplished ladies and gentlemen
