[Music]
and that leads us to this the endless
and this this pivot to power outages so
first of all I'm not you know what about
ISM has a complicated history and
actually what about ism was initially
used by people to shutdown has always
been used by people to shut down the
critique of US Empire right and at the
same time I think sometimes it's fair to
complexify a conversation that being
said to see the likes of Marco Rubio who
is a dangerous empty suit he manages to
pull that fusion off tweeting first of
all showing the ball by tweeting out a
photo of a sodomized and murdered
Muammar Qaddafi the transparent face of
the sociopathic US empire that he is the
point man for in Latin America and then
to say oh well there are these these
these power outages in Venezuela they're
terrible what word did you have to say
for eleven months when Puerto Rico which
is an exploited US colony and I mean
that in a literal sense a colony was
without power for 11 months and now
people in Puerto Rico are having their
food stamps cut so there can be a
massive austerity wave to pay off
vulture funds no word about that but
there's some problems in Venezuela now
again in the long term is there problems
in Venezuela is infrastructure which is
the result of all the things we already
know us sanctions us interference and
governmental mismanagement yes we
already know that is the timing of these
blackouts a bit suspicious yup some
people with information from people like
Snowden and who are sort of tuned to
that world they say it is possible that
the United States can do something like
this obviously I would put nothing past
the intelligence services the CIA or I
mean after Stuxnet I mean yeah I mean it
right we right precisely we blew out we
created a global computer virus because
of something that was supposed to target
specifically so or Israel did was that
US or Israel or apart we I think is a
partner she's a partner she I think it
was really maybe taking point so yes we
could be doing this it also could be an
organic problem in Venezuela which is
why the answer is and if you actually
cared about the well-being event as well
in a diplomatic process you would
immediately remove all sanctions on
everything to do with food and services
to the population and a you could help
get their infrastructure going again or
be if the problems remained exactly the
same without constant US economic
terrorism then you could actually
definitively say this is all medoras
fault
which is totally impossible to say now
but here is Elliott Abrams who should be
only known for lying to Congress about
iran-contra and spinning war crimes mass
murder and genocide from Latin America
and human rights abuses from Latin
America to the Middle East
here he is these exchanges are
interesting first it's on the power grid
and secondly it's just the ongoing u.s.
Imperial approach to who gets recognized
as the legitimate power in Venezuela
yeah we come in after he asks the power
grid question and second could you
explain to us the article under which
mr. Vidal declared it says the president
say it is said that it has expired last
week you don't explain that to us yes on
the blackout we're not there I believe
there is a consensus now that by far the
most likely explanation is these
extremely high voltage lines which tend
to bow as the months go and years ago by
that is they are not straight they tend
to sag is a good word into trees and
bushes and that creates the possibility
of a fire that is what more I would say
more experts have given as a explanation
so how do you avoid that it's
you cut and prune and keep trees and
bushes from approaching the lines and
they haven't done that there has really
been no maintenance not just for years
but for decades tonight so stop
terrorizing their economy well there's
that and I this may be too
conspiratorial this is just me
spitballing here but the way that he
says over months and years and they
haven't done this over decades makes it
seem like they've like intelligences
agencies have noticed that in they're
like oh this would be a really good
thing to blame one we need to write no I
don't think you know I think that's just
get out it's a good out there's really
been no maintenance not just for years
but for decades on those they have three
high voltage lines coming essentially
from the brewery down that's our best
explanation it is if not formed
obviously by examination but rather by
reports that we've seen from a fair
number of experts as to the Venezuelan
Constitution the National Assembly has
passed a resolution that states that
that 30-day period of interim presidency
will not start ending or Counting until
the day Nicolas Maduro leaves power so
the 30 days doesn't start now it starts
after Maduro and they that that's a
resolution of the National Assembly
after they did that this is roughly a
month ago we could we could try to find
the date for it was when when he was
took the mantle yes when when president
that wasn't there that's correct
when people asked a question how do you
know I I was elected for four years to
be President and then two years in you
changed the rules so that your term
didn't start you know hasn't even
started yet exam
it's cuz you don't get a vote because
you're not in the national assembly but
we under their system yes I mean we're
taking the the national assembly is the
only legitimate
Democratic institution left in Venezuela
and their interpretation of the
Constitution as you know is that as of
the date of this alleged term for Maduro
the presidency is vacant but they have
also said that that 30-day period starts
when Maduro goes president of an interim
that doesn't exist yet the 30-day end to
his intro interim presidency starts
counting because he's not in power
that's the problem Maduro is still there
so they have decided that they will
count that from when he actually is in
power and ridore was gone I think it's
logical
he is interim president but he's not
able to exercise the powers of the
office because Maduro still is there
interpretation is that until and unless
he actually has the power to run the
country he's not actually no in turn
there is their interpretation is that
the Constitution requires a 30 day
interim period but it those 30 days
should not be counted
while Maduro is still there exercising
the powers of his former office so this
is the actual bureaucratic spin of us
couse there is a technical rule which
we've made up on the fly because we've
made up on the fly that we recognize one
source of power overriding all other
institutions and legitimacy z' in
venezuela and we then make up an
imaginary rule to justify the other
imaginary source of power that we've
recognized it's almost like if you've
ever played with you know like a niece
or nephew or something like that
like here's this world I've made up and
these are the rules by which you have to
participate in my game and you're like
okay sure here's I guess we're gonna do
that
except this guy is the power of the
entire intelligence apparatus right so
this guy's actively trying to institute
a coup right now looks like as Wella
it's like all those old like that old
Chomsky book like what we say goes or
those sorts of titles like yeah like we
can just basically this into
reality that's it who knows that better
than Elliott Abrams really Elliott
Abrams says I mean LED brooms covered up
some of the worst I mean the types of
things that the Reagan administration
with a point man of Elliott Abrams
backed in places like El Salvador and
Guatemala would make Isis look twice
