[Music]
Bernie Sanders has announced an
incredibly important piece of
legislation with Alexandria Acacio
Cortez to rein in predatory lending
practices this is at the same time where
Donald Trump is pushing forward a plan
to lift every single protection and
restriction on agencies from harassing
you bill collectors from hounding you in
your home seven days a week Bernie
Sanders is working to do quite the
opposite with aoc here he is with Ali
Velshi and Stephanie ruhle once again
correct policy and Bernie Sanders are
very strong and clear political
communicator and moral communicator here
let's go okay all right so what this
would do as you just articulated is it
would cut sharply into profits for
lenders the banks that make these these
loans and issue these credit cards do
you have concern that because of that
the banking Lobby is very very strong
and they influence a lot of your
colleagues as you have known for the
last few decades do I have concerns
about that well that's um that's kind of
an understatement look you got Wall
Street and the drug companies and the
insurance companies basically running
the United States Congress that's why
the rich are getting richer and so many
people are sure but I think he'll and I
mean this from the bottom of my heart
you have a profound moral issue every
major religion Christianity Judaism
Islam every religion understands that
usury and loan-sharking are immoral and
let's call this what it is this is loan
sharking now I don't know that the well
paid executives are mostly going around
go around breaking people's fingers or
their kneecaps but what they are doing
and think about this half of the
American people today have no wealth at
all they're living paycheck to paycheck
you got a medical emergency your car
breaks out these are desperate people
and then they go to Wall Street and they
are charged outrageous interest rates
Wall Street profits
of soaring people get further and
further in debt while wages remain
stagnant this really is disgusting and
it is got that we have to stand up to
the greed of Wall Street this is exactly
right and again there is a real
consistency here let's play the lead the
throwback clip just to complete this
cycle I mean in the 1990s through well
into the Obama era this guy was not
taken seriously for talking about the
reality of what has been happening since
the late 70s accelerating through the
Reagan Clinton errors ripping apart
regulation primarily tax cuts to
redistribute wealth to the top people's
lives getting harder and harder and
harder and predatory Wall Street into
financial services companies filling a
gap of absolute human desperation with
usury rates and their credit cards as an
example this is Bernie Sanders victory
speech in 1990 getting elected to the
house he was right then right now as I
understand it
congressman Smith has just conceded
[Applause]
there's one point that I've been making
throughout the campaign and I want to
make it again tonight and that is you
all understand that it is not going to
be Bernie Sanders or any other member of
Congress that's going to bring about the
change that we need that what we need in
this country is a mass movement of tens
of millions of people who are prepared
to stand up and say we want national
health care
[Applause]
we want the millionaires and the
multinational corporations who have not
been paying their fair share of taxes to
Stockholm
that we want money going into education
and Environmental Protection
and no more star wars what celfon is
[Applause]
why as I stand before you I think that
maybe one small state might go down in
history as being the leading state in
the fight for a political revolution
a political revolution which takes power
away from the multinationals and the
wealthy and gives it back to the people
where it belongs couple years ago from
that point Joe Biden was on television
demanding that George Herbert Walker
Bush put more nonviolent drug offenders
in prison all right
