I mean we thought two or three weeks ago
that the the Muller investigation was
wrapping up but I think that was
probably a head-fake it was announced
this week that he his investigation is
funded to September I guess it's
possible that they could they would take
some wine downtime but it appears to me
that we're ongoing and that this week
will prove to have been revelatory in
terms of not just Paul Mann a support
and Michael Flynn but also Roger stone
and Rick gates where what's happening
with this week that implicates those two
well I think what what what people have
been looking for is to see whether or
not you know the Rick gates case he was
Paul Mann affords top-deck deputy he
also worked on the inauguration and he
was in but he was in and out of the
White House the first five or six months
of the Trump administration working with
Tom barek who is good friend of Donald
Trump and who also ran the inauguration
so Gates was you know and get so Gates
was involved with all of this stuff he's
one of those guys that had you know
access in the campaign the transition
the inaugural and the White House
afterwards so he had a lot of
information to share so his sentencing
you know if it is you know if Muller had
you know decided to continue the his his
sentencing and say you know we'd come
back we still get he's still cooperating
we need more information from him it
kind of indicates that maybe the kids at
Muller case is winding up quite as
quickly as everybody says as for stone
it you know this is going to be hid
they're going to set a trial date for
him and the government is asked for the
fall so I think it's October and people
are saying well you know if he's going
to do that he's obviously not winding up
and it's not necessarily true because
he's put a couple of DC you know US
Attorney's on the case who may be able
to pick it up if Muller winds up so here
you have and just to sort of give an
overview again just just very quickly we
had four top Associates of Donald Trump
man afford gates Roger stone and Michael
Flynn all of whom were in the very top
levels of Trump intimacy and Association
appearing before federal judges in one
week and you know you can say there's no
witch hunt but you know there's an awful
lot of you know people flying around on
brooms and you know you kind of it's
kind of hard to say that there's nothing
going on here when you've got all that
happening in one week's time
yeah that's pretty nuts I mean I you
know this is a it's a silly exercise at
this point but just the idea that like
you know Barack Obama would be President
and table to Axelrod would be going to
jail and I don't know John Podesta would
be you know awaiting sentencing and you
know Bill Burton and you know the rest
of them would all be you know Gibbs
would all be awaiting arraignment or
yeah I mean it's you know Reverend
Wright would been we know with him
working in the White House and then I
mean just the it it's just mind-boggling
to contemplate right yeah I mean it just
it's mind-boggling to contemplate where
we're at at this at this juncture all
right well look i want to turn attention
to and i don't know if we're gonna have
enough time to talk about we can maybe
talk about it in the next segment as
well earlier this week
well you know what let's let's save that
we'll save that for the next segment
because i want to talk about nancy
pelosi's impeachment proclamations and I
think it's it's highly problematic
because of well certainly you know
lessons that I think we've learned from
from the past here but before we get to
that and we'll get to that in the next
hour what we also know this week that we
still have yet like even in any way
implicate Jared Kushner or the Jovanka
Jared and Ivanka and
in junior I mean all of this stuff with
man afford in New York and certainly
with Cohen in particular in New York
because there's got to be right if
they've got if if Cyrus Vance has been
lining up fifteen indictments with Paul
Manafort they're certainly you certainly
got a bunch for Cohen too right
I would think so I mean you know I would
think so I mean this is you know the
deed this is this is sort of the nexus
of the well it isn't sort of it is it's
the edge the epicenter of the Trump
crime syndicate and there are any number
of tentacles there I mean look we've
read about this stuff for years I mean
just for everything from tax evasion to
you know insurance fraud and you know
the hiring of undocumented workers and
and payoffs and you know it just in the
list it goes on and on and on of
potential crimes and I mean of course
you know I mean looking at the big
picture here again just as it was with
Paul Manafort you have to wonder how did
Trump get away with all this stuff all
these years yeah he may have hit the
wall now but it took him becoming
president of the United States before
anybody went some may want to take a
look at this guy what's going on here
you know and you can only imagine what
other people are doing if he's been
doing this so you know I mean this is a
very revealing moment and in our system
I mean for a lot of reasons and in a lot
of different ways but I mean this this
idea that all these people have been
been basically working you know they've
been conducting their business on a
criminal basis and and you know been
lauded for it and you know being invited
to all the best parties and and
everything else and you know it's clear
that this was a criminal enterprise so
you know I don't you know Jovanka I mean
there is something so wrong on so many
levels with the Jovanka story and of
course there's this new book out about
them and the way that they have been in
the White House just that alone the fact
that they have this nepeta I mean if
there's ever been a
a better illustration of wide nepotism
is wrong this is I think are absolutely
right well listen when we come back in
the next hour let's talk about
impeachment and then of course we've got
a lot of legislation on the burner
there's a lot of things happening we'll
talk about all of them in the third hour
Digby if you'll join me I'm Sam cedar
this ring a fire radio we'll be right
back
