we are in an era where it seems that
there is and I don't want to overstate
it but there seems to be a resurgence in
Labour's sense of its power regarding
withholding its its labor we saw over I
guess it was last summer a series of
teacher strikes we've seen some this
year we've seen the power of the flight
attendants Union which I think was not
given as much credit as it deserved in
ending the government shutdown and
you've written a piece that basically
says that there is another way to build
the the labor movement and I think this
week I think it was Bernie Sanders came
out and talked about a federal law that
would essentially attempt to nullify the
the concept of right to work and what is
now I think about 27 states across the
country but you have a written a piece
that be the way to rebuild the labor
movement one of the ways is to do it
state-by-state and you use as a model
for this the conservative anti-union
advocacy that has been an ongoing
project of the right for four decades
just give us the the broad outlines of
what that anti-union movement has been
sure thing so as I talked about in the
piece I go back to the 1970s and I
discussed the formation of conservative
groups of activists donors and
businesses most notably the American
Legislative Exchange Council or allit
but also the state policy Network and
Americans for Prosperity in later years
and I talked about how those groups were
formed out of the sense that
conservatives were losing ground at the
state level to unions to public sector
unions which had just gotten the right
to collectively bargain and participate
in labor relations
and in politics in a real way during
those decades and those organizations
recognize that if they were going to
make inroads in power in the United
States they're going to have to do it
across the states given the important
role that states play in setting policy
across the United States and shifting
politics and so that's exactly what they
did they went state-by-state and passed
cutbacks to public sector labor union
rights and private sector labor union
rights through right-to-work laws cuts
to collective bargaining and laws to
make it more difficult for labor unions
to participate in politics and crucially
you know they never saw those cutbacks
as an end in and of themselves as I
talked about in the piece they saw it as
part of a broader political strategy
that would weaken Democrats and weaken
the left and as I've shown in other work
when states pass right-to-work laws
Democrats do worse at the polls up and
down the ballot and it's harder for
progressives to push less lenient
legislation so that's the story I paint
of how conservatives learn the
importance of the states and learn the
importance of pushing anti Weber or anti
labor legislation across the states and
I'm saying that progressives today
should harness the energy that we're
seeing through the teacher strikes
through private sector mobilizations to
pass laws at the state level and
organize at the state level to rebuild
labor rights ultimately I think that's
the only way that the labor movement and
the left is going to restore the clout
that conservatives have retrench all
right and and I want to get to some of
the things that have taken place really
in the past year and past couple of
years that have really or could have and
and may have undercut the the strength
of unions at least undercut the
pre-existing funding model that we had
and I want to get to that in a moment
but just in terms of that of that that
long long game that the conservatives
have played to undercut unions which as
you say also has a direct bearing on the
the power the Democratic Party and we
should also add the Democrats were also
tacking away from you
during that period of time as well
certainly they weren't necessarily
passing legislation that would undercut
the power of unions but they were they
were being a little bit of Fairweather
friends if you if you will but I mean is
that's a fair statement yes I think
that's exactly right it's just so
striking to look at how conservatives
and Republicans versus Democrats have
treated labor unions over the decades
while conservatives were hard at work
pushing Republican lawmakers to vote for
cutbacks to labor union rights Democrats
were generally on the sidelines if you
look at state level control you know
Republicans as soon as they gain
trifecta control of a state government
they push for cuts to collective
bargaining for public sector labor
unions and right-to-work laws but
Democrats don't have a similar portfolio
of policies that they push when they
gain power across the states
there's no Democratic equivalent of say
a right-to-work law and that's similarly
true at the national level during the
last period when Democrats controlled
Congress and the White House under the
Obama administration the Obama
administration notably labor reform sort
of fall by the wayside there wasn't a
concerted push to rebuild that power at
the federal level either there was
certainly talk of card check which would
have made it much easier to unionize
engine shops and that seemed to melt
away as soon as the Democrats took power
so there has to be you know and and I
want to get into sort of the strategy
that you're advocating here but we
should also be aware that there has to
be a willingness I'm the a genuine
interest on behalf of of Democratic
voters as expressed with their
candidates to do this otherwise it's
just not going to happen it's not just a
question of strategy it seems to me
or lack of lack of policy options to the
extent that there's a lack of policy
options I think that ties back into the
actual will of the Democratic Party my
sense is that's changing you know with
with a different generation of Democrats
but
a lot of the Democrats that we've had
now the baby boomers they came up in an
era where the power of unions was was
was undercut even within the Democratic
Party I mean it wasn't a particularly
Democratic apparatus but we used to not
have primaries we used to just have some
union leaders that more or less in a
backroom negotiating with a couple other
Democratic party leaders as to who's
going to be the nominee yeah I think
it's exactly right the Democrats took
the labor movement for granted that
every two four years when it was time
for elections they counted on unions to
do the hard work of grassroots
mobilization to get people to the polls
to support the sort of candidates that
were put up on the Democratic ticket but
in between those elections they didn't
do much to shore up the strength of
labor unions let alone giving labor
unions the opportunity to expand but I
think you're right that the center of
gravity is changing and I think it's
notable that the legislation you
mentioned that was introduced in the
Senate to ban right-to-work laws at the
state level that was supported by I
think virtually all of the candidates
running in the twenty twenty Democratic
primary who are in the Senate all right
well look let's let's take a break here
and when we come back I want to start
going through the the process really
essentially the strategy that you the
outline in this piece on how to build
rebuild the labor movement
state-by-state and we're going to go
through two if there is any type of a
sense of which states we start at I'm
curious if the Conservatives as they
attacked the labor movement if they had
a strategy about where they would start
and where they would end all right we're
gonna take a quick break I'm Sam cedar
this is wearing a fire radio I'm talking
to Alex hotel Fernandez he's written a
piece in The American Prospect how do we
build the labor movement state-by-state
what progressives can learn from
conservative anti-union advocacy we'll
be right back
