Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program a yokai benkler he is a
professor from Harvard Law the Berkman
professor of entrepreneurial legal
studies their author of multiple books
including his most recent with with
co-authors network propaganda
manipulation disinformation and
radicalization in American politics
welcome to the program thank you very
much happy to be with you so let I want
to start I guess let's start with just
the the the methodology of the research
that that offers the that provides the
foundation for the book and then I want
to start with the history before we get
to what your research found but but just
give us a sense of what kind of research
you were doing that that had formed the
basis of this book so we at the Berkman
climb Center at Harvard with our
colleagues at the Center for civic media
at MIT have been developing a platform
to analyze media ecosystems generally
using very large data analysis
essentially we straight and collect
millions of stories about a million
stories a day from around the lung and
we build it into a system that then
allows us to search for more stories on
a given topic put them in a database and
allow us to analyze millions of stories
how they link to each other what text
they use on which they how they are
tweeted how they are shared on Facebook
or at least how often they're shared on
Facebook and with these materials we
then also add case studies where we do a
deep dive into a particular topic
look at how television covered occasion
the Internet Archive TV web archive and
particular study this particular book is
based on analyzing four million stories
from April of 2015 until the first
anniversary of the trump presidency had
very heavy focus on the presidential
election a cop until the election and
then more broadly on national politics
since then and this this dynamic is not
alright let's let's go to let's cut to
the quick in terms of the the broad
strokes in the course of your research
you essentially found that there are two
large subsets of media consumers within
politics the right and the and
essentially the the center and the left
as the second one tell us what the
distinctions are between those two
subsets so what we found is even more
than just that the consumers are in two
separate group but that the producers
too are in two separate groups so when
you look at how media producers link to
each other that's to say this has
nothing to do with Facebook nothing
there with Twitter it's only I'm writing
a story and publishing it online I'm
linking to other stories this is
something about how I is the producer
and deciding who I give authority to
like a credit to and why down and we
also used how often sites were tweeted
together so for example if I'm somebody
who tweeted a story from the New York
Times and we did a story from The
Washington Post on the same day our
network analysis would make the New York
Post or the New York Times and The
Washington Post close to each other if I
tweet Breitbart and Fox News on the same
day than Fox News and bright Park will
be on the same day and that shows us the
consumer side what they're paying
attention to what we saw both when we
analyzed open Internet web-based linking
and when we looked at Twitter and when
we looked at Facebook
and even when we focused on text and how
to use a similar text what we saw was a
repeated pattern the right-wing going
from Fox and the New York Post all the
way to Alex Jones an info war and
Gateway pundit and truth even true
pundit and the craziest conspiracy sites
all have a single network there are
single insular networks where the
producers link mostly to each other and
the consumers read mostly that by
contrast we didn't see anything parallel
on the left instead what we saw was all
the way from relatively historically
conservative center-right at least
editorially publications like The Wall
Street Journal all the way to mobilise
nettles publication like daily kos or
historical left-leaning publications
like Mother Jones are all actually part
of the same media ecosystem they're all
anchored in traditional media they all
link primarily to traditional media
including near Times Washington policy
and then etc they all their audiences
also have a much more diverse media diet
and they read much more broadly across
from left to Center so we don't really
see a symmetric polarization where the
left and right are each going off in its
own way what we see is that the light
has spun off into its own insular system
and the West has essentially become a
single media ecosystem and there's
almost no center right there are almost
no publications that you would today
historically were right but today would
you consider center-right National
Review we can standard basically get no
attention Alex Jones today has a bigger
audience than any of these historically
conservative publications there is no
center right there just a right and the
list and so what what are I mean let's
let's talk about the implications of the
then the narrowness of the the media I
guess diet and network so both from a
consumer and a production side the
narrowness of the right let's talk about
the implications of that first before we
get in or maybe it's easier to talk
about it the implications relative to
the diversity on the center center-left
essentially what we saw both in general
in the structure and when we dug into
specific case studies was that the right
operator Don what we came to call a
propaganda feedback loop that is to say
each of the outlets on the right has to
compete on ideological purity and being
and feeding its Guardians more identity
and bias confirming news whereas nobody
on the right has any incentive and in
fact is strongly incentivized against
saying no that's false
actually that's going too far let's be a
little moderate so what you don't see it
all on the right is competition that is
moderated by fact-checking and reality
checking the only way to differentiate
yourself is to continue to be loyal to
the identity confirming narratives and
to criticize others who step out of line
what we saw in the rest of the media
ecosystem including on the left is that
even when a crazy conspiracy theory did
take root for a little while because the
audience pays attention to such a
diverse set of media because the media
that get the most attention operate on a
journalistic model that is fact-checking
constraint because even many of the
outlets that are less oriented operate
in that journalistic model the
conspiracies don't survive long
and instead there's a tension between on
one hand trying to get audiences by
confirming their biases which happens on
the left as well and on the other hand
not going too far out of line from
what's reality because then you get
criticized from other sites that the
left pays attention to so the right
operates purely on a propaganda feedback
loop where they only repeat the same
bias confirming truths and nobody tries
to constrain the other whereas on the
left you see a tension between efforts
to confirm people biases and make them
feel good about the news and at the same
time being constrained by the fact that
everybody still focuses on a reality
check dynamic and we should say that
this not only applies I mean to the the
media outlets themselves but also to
theoretically to the politicians right I
mean because they end up being you know
in the the the all of the I guess the
actors within what you could consider
sort of the conservative world or the
center center-left world so when I'm you
know even if I'm Speaker of the House
I've got to deal with essentially Fox
News and everything that's around it so
I also have to all of my incentives are
to at the very least either be quiet or
to actively confirm and support these
sort of other narratives that's
absolutely right and and again we see
this in the data essentially think of it
as a three-way interaction media outlets
want audiences and the audience gets
attention brings attention by enjoying
the stories that confirm their beliefs
politicians want audiences and they want
to confirm their beliefs because they
also attract it now if the media outlets
will always support and amplify what a
politician
only says what audiences want to hear
does is that that politician gets
airtime politician which says you know
what that's going too far that's not
true
well at the best lose attention and lose
their audience and their media outlets
and at worse be vilified and actually
have the news outlets attack them for
being too soft as it were and so
essentially you have this 3-way network
of audiences police media outlets media
outlets police each other and police
politicians to all toe the party line
instead what you have with the rest of
the media ecosystem that covers the
center center left and left is that the
outlets identify politicians who are
lying and criticize them as well the
politicians who want to compete on being
reality based actually have an audience
that can tell the difference between
truth and fiction rather than just in
what sits and doesn't fit the party line
so the politicians face completely
different media and audience incentives
on the left then on the right the
outlets face completely different
incentives and sources of discipline and
the audience is therefore face
completely different media ecosystem and
on the right there's simply
reinforcement of toeing the party line
and competing on who can do it in a more
pure and extreme way whereas on the left
you get this balance between trying to
appeal to your voters preferences but at
the same time being constrained by a
media ecosystem that will hold you to
the facts of what you say so what what
what accounts for this difference I mean
this is because and I think I mean the
boy is it is it simply I mean what
accounts from to the extent that you
have a sense what accounts for this
difference
so the first thing that we need to learn
from this difference is that most of
current debates about what's happened to
American political media has focused on
technology whether it's the Facebook
algorithm or fake news clickbait
spammers or whether it's Russian bots or
or most of the stories whichever they
were had a strong technological
component because both of these
populations are actually at the same
technological frontier and in fact if
you look at use surveys people on the
Left are younger generally and therefore
use the technology more whereas people
on the right depend more heavily on
traditional media like television and
radio you can't keep blaming the
technology that's not where most of the
action is instead you need to look at a
story that you can't find from our data
and in the book what we do is we step
away from the data and we start looking
at the history of the last 50 years of
media policy of political culture of
technology and the story we tell
actually has very little to do with
Facebook's algorithm and a lot to do
with walk allowed Rush Limbaugh writing
then the outrage industry as a major new
business model that makes millions and
so I mean let's let's let's talk about
that because you know having been a I
guess an am talk radio that that entered
into this in many respects to
specifically deal with Rush Limbaugh at
a time you know when YouTube did not
exist when Facebook was something that
just like college kids maybe you know
vaguely knew Twitter did not exist at
that time this was the dynamic the the
in some respects to the extent that we
had a precursor to social media radio
talk radio was it in many respects so I
mean I think people are familiar with
what happened with the
fairness doctrine being rolled back it
allowed for rush limbaugh to go on three
hours a day but what else was it why why
did the right adopt that model and the
left never really pursued it or was it I
mean how conscious of an activity was it
by the right to pursue this so I think
there are several elements that we
explained in the chapter on the origins
of asymmetry in the book and first of
all there's a component that has to do
with the political realignment of the
Republican Party essentially after 68
with the adoption of the Southern
Strategy you see a shift of a strong
component of the Republican coalition
becoming a white identity audience that
is captured within the republican party
because it's rejecting the civil action
then in the seventies you see
evangelical christians who were present
but not politically mobilized being
mobilized by the success of the women's
movement to predict a traditional
patriarchal family and resulting in the
rise of the moral majority these two
audiences christian evangelicals who got
into it through televangelism
and the christian broadcasting network
that was the third most watched radio
network in the 1980s and christian
broadcasting alongside rush limbaugh and
talk radio created a base of within the
audience that was a large coherent group
that provided a commercial audience for
this model the second thing that
happened is in 1996 in addition to the
repeal in 1987 of the Fairness Doctrine
that you mentioned in 1996 there was
also repeal of group ownership rules
that allowed Clear Channel to emerge
as a major player in radio that allowed
Sinclair to emerge as a major player in
broadcasting companies whose names you
don't really know but then actually in
the case of Clear Channel owned stations
from coast-to-coast including buying the
producer of rush limbaugh glenn beck
hannity on radio so now you essentially
have a seamless network of radio
stations coast-to-coast practically 24
hours a day selling this outrage and
hatred as a form of candy essentially it
makes you feel good about your identity
if you agree with it and you tune into
it and it draws you in and it may gives
you a sense of community in this base
anchor so the right moves early the
right relied on deregulation and the
emergence of technologies of abundance
baam baam radio first then increased
channel capacity and later on the
internet to harvest the benefits from
this new audience on the left you had
first of all the fact that the light
moves first meant that traditional
journalistic outlets also gave political
confirmations to people on the left the
more that the light was stuck in its
propaganda a feedback loop the more just
telling things how they are already
reinforces you as somebody who is left
in your beliefs because now you're
getting all of the benefit of mainstream
journalism turning toward the right and
saying that's false so that was one
element the fact that the right was a
first mover it's entirely possible at
least in theory that had the left moved
first it would have been reversed the
other thing is that the Coalition on the
left is much more diverse and doesn't
have this very large coherent center of
white identity and Christian voters and
instead has so if you look at radio
black commune
these are largely considered a market of
their own latina communities are largely
considered their own NPR is largely a
highly journalistic organization but
with an editorial tilt or a feel that
serves and reinforces left beliefs in
that regard more like The Wall Street
Journal obviously than like Forks so for
somebody like air America to come along
for MSNBC to suddenly read change its
practices in 2006 they're already
competing with for an audience that is
getting some of its partisan kicks
simply from truth-seeking journalism
they're aiming for a much more broad and
diverse audience without the same core
of what provides the bread and butter of
the right-wing media and by the time the
internet sites come along on the right
the outrage industry has been around for
twenty years the audience knows what to
expect you can't compete anywhere else
on the left it becomes much harder to
compete completely separate from reality
and instead we see this more constrained
partisanship even from outlets that try
to be more partisan
