[Music]
like you know and I know that the book
is that the this troll army memed Donald
Trump into office but it really is more
that this is indicative of perhaps a
certain mentality that was existing that
that that Donald Trump took advantage of
both in real life and online on some
level but to what extent do you think
that this was used by Bannen to create I
mean how do you think this was leveraged
by him I it was fairly well he was sort
of ahead of the curve at that point and
realized that there was sort of this new
coalition of young men that would vote
for Trump which is sort of unusual right
the idea that in 2016 2017 youth
counterculture sort of breaks a piece
breaks off and it kind of goes to the
far right is pretty wild but it's not
that many votes right I mean they didn't
get that many votes right the idea is
that the question of how many people
voted is sort of or how much it matters
sort of culturally is sort of a
different issue right so you know it
it's not like this is the entire Trump
coalition right there's sort of there's
still sort of all of these you know one
percenters who love the Trump's in
office and all of these cool white
working-class voters in the middle of
the country right and then there's these
people right so it's one coalition that
Bandhan realizes will also vote for him
and also sort of be the sort of cutting
edge of mean creation so like when
Donald Trump quotes tweets himself as
Pepe the Frog right that's a 4chan
symbol of loserdom and when Donald Trump
does it he tags Breitbart in it right
okay so the idea is that they're sort of
generating this sort of like cultural
campaign that is going to look that make
Donald Trump mix Donald Trump look sort
of cutting-edge and Hillary looked like
behind the curve because she always is a
little behind the curve already right so
like it kind of entry emphasizes that
I mean they since sort of become
disenfranchised or the little
disenchanted with Trump writers of the
Trump's incompetence has fragmented this
coalition a little bit but it still
exists
they don't really they're not too
enamored of Trump anymore so where does
this this phenomena that you write about
does it weird where is replace it for us
all right because I'm looking at like
you know we have let's say the IDW right
where someone like Shapiro comes out of
the Breitbart or a world or keep some
distance I think from that now but it's
not right too far of distance right you
you know Peterson and on some level Sam
Harris these are folks who and and Joe
Rogan to a certain extent even you know
maybe perhaps a little bit more distant
but they all offer like a direction for
young men as to like this is how you can
better yourself and empower yourself
there's there's a how to quality to that
and we also you know we still have sort
of the the the hard alt right although
they seem to have lost some traction
Bannon seems to be adrift like where are
these people does this phenomena is this
phenomena over and it's just mutated
into different things and what I mean
it's certainly mutating right it's on
the internet so it mutates that and
we've seen it mutate a lot but the it's
not over so Charlottesville I would say
it sort of has two or three sections
right there was the gamergate era then
there's sort of the Trump era where
they're emboldened they go outside been
and has mobilized then and then there's
a third sort of post relic Ville era
where the the underlying phenomenon
right these men still are
disenfranchised they still have very few
prospects and sort of hope in their life
and they still sort of live very dark
nihilistic lifestyles right like life
hasn't really gotten better for young
people they're still mired in debt and
sort of on the bottom of the economic
ladder so
those main causes are still there so
it's still there the question of what
form it takes well we now know there's
been a lot of good reporting and I'm
still writing on it and so the idea that
they're back on the internet they're
afraid to go outside when I when I when
they do have rallies like go to the
rallies and they're sort of now
embarrassed at being humiliated sort of
in this in this culture they they're
most of them they used to sort of be
bold now they're sort of afraid to talk
to me a lot of the time but they're now
on the internet and they're hanging out
in discord groups they're hanging out on
4chan and H Hannon and really when they
do go out is when they're so despairing
and nihilistic that they want to murder
a bunch of people that was the New
Zealand shooting and then the copycat
shooting in Poway California those were
both h-hand shooters so it's sort of
like links into this mass shooter
phenomenon where a lot of those guys
were alright so it's still there and we
hear an adult and we don't know what
form it's going to take but as you say
like what happens is these sort of like
hucksters at the top the Youtube dads
that are that are selling a lifestyle
and sort of a way to pick yourself out
out of that lifestyle like they
constantly in the state of shuffling and
replacing one another right like soyeon
oppas is out and then Peterson gets in
or whatever and and that's the right
there's still a whole set of them and
they're it's like how else do you
explain them because they're idiots
other than the idea that they're sort of
this force bubbling out pushing them
from the bottom which is this sort of
mask like how do they have those big
numbers it's because there's a ton of
kids like at Taco Bell who are educating
themselves and raising themselves online
they don't know like that's that's the
closest I get to philosophy who are
those YouTube dads now I mean you name
them right like there's Peterson Gavin
McGinnis Stephen Ball you knew or
whatever like on Maude oh yeah like this
there's I mean there's so many of them
and of course like it doesn't it's this
is also keys into a larger sociological
phenomenon where if you're just that age
no matter what your political standing
you're on
tube you're hanging out on discord
you're probably not reading much like I
work as a college professor and it's
hard to get my students to read books
but they're on YouTube constantly right
so they're just getting all their
information from YouTube so like this
subset of them who are sort of like
really despairing and happened to be
young men they're drawn to like hang out
in a sense sort of virtually with with
these sort of like YouTube dads or sort
of YouTube gurus who are like oh I'll
help you out I'll like I'll figure out
life for you let me well so let me ask
you this about like how many how many
people do you think we're talking about
like what are we talking about you know
people I mean are and you say you go out
and see them in public I mean because I
think certainly my own personal
experience on let's say Twitter I think
I get an outside snow ssin of how many
people are actually on Twitter because
it really is it feels like everybody's
on Twitter but that's just because I
know a narrow set of people and they're
all sort of like-minded and it just so
happens to be that is the key demo for
you know that's the the people I follow
on Twitter but Twitter you know is not
necessarily representative except for
you know a specific group how many
people are we talking about here because
on some level I still think we're living
in an era where we have yet to fully
socialized societies not caught up with
social media like we don't you know we
had a period where it's like this guy's
got a hundred thousand Twitter followers
we should get him a book deal and then
you find out well it doesn't really work
that way but you know nobody's gonna buy
that book necessarily but well how many
people are we talking about I mean
that's a really good question I know
that you know fortune is still one of
the most popular message boards on the
internet right there salahuddin
thousands of posts an hour or something
so these five sketchies numbers I am NOT
like a pollster like I'm not a numbers
guy so I don't know like estimating the
sort of the size of the population I
probably at this a year very wrong
I mean I guess like I sort of approach
from the other end where I'm like
looking at someone like Jordan Peterson
and you're like why right like how does
he have a million people listening to
him like who are those people right so
they're sort of like these people who
are too mean not saying very smart
things but they have these huge
followings or gamergate right it's like
well why did millions of people do this
though yeah like compared to sort of the
size of the United States I'm not sure I
mean to me just sort of like teaching
college right all my students know about
this is sort of the culture they're in
right it's so I think if you're a young
person this I've tried to sort of fairly
describe young people's culture in
general right so this is sort of a large
aspect of it this is sort of how they
regard their politics and their reality
but it's going through YouTube are going
through certain message boards I guess
that sort of a dancer on the idea that I
don't know the thing is it may not be
important right like it's not like I
think I mean if we had the ability to
say like we're going to we're going to
determine that you need to constitute
this amount size of the population to
legitimately have this type of authority
in our society and we you and I had the
ability to do that it would become more
relevant but what's more fascinating is
that it could be very few people and
it's creating like it's in charge of our
culture which is also frankly the the
reality with things like cable news
right I mean we have a very small group
of people in cable news who are
determining you know what we did what we
decide is our news I mean it's sort of a
fascinating fascinating dynamic where do
you lastly where do you think it goes
from here I think it will remain online
and we'll probably see another
manifestation in the physical world
eventually it's going to rise and
persist as a political coalition of some
sort that it's not going away and
or are the unfortunately the the mass
shootings are going away either
that there's still gone on every month
or so so I think if the underlying
causes are addressed if in some way this
sort of code the left sort of a the less
of better answers for this coalition
actual real ways out of poverty a sort
of actual real opportunities if I think
the left does well and the next election
cycle and reaches out to them then the
coalition could be broken off right like
for example weirdly like on a champ
and HN and 14 like two or three months
ago half the coalition was like oh no we
don't like Trump anymore we like
inter-gang because we want a thousand
dollars a month right so it's sort of
like this pseudo libertarian socialism
or whatever sort of brand of socialism
that is like or something like that
they're like that's that's what we want
we're not fascist anymore right
if it's all teenagers and it's or older
men who act like teenagers but that
still means they're material and very
variable and they're in a constant state
of identity crisis so it can be broken
up does it look like it's gonna be
broken up anytime soon right now maybe
not I guess we will have to wait and see
the book is you came from something
awful how a toxic troll army
accidentally memed Donald Trump into
office Dale Barron we will put a link to
your book at majority dot F M thank you
so much for your time today really
appreciate it yeah thanks for having me
on
