[Music]
the Trump White House decided to end
their celebrate celebration early by by
joining in a case that has been that
originally the US government was
fighting the fifth circuit was the fifth
circuit court had ruled that or was
looking is looking I should say at a
case involving the Affordable Care Act
suggesting that pre-existing conditions
should not exist because of the Trump
administration ending the mandate or the
tax implications if you do not sign up
for the ACA and basically saying that
you cannot split off one portion of the
law from another the US government has
now joined that case and thinks the
entire fordable Care Act should be
essentially enjoined itself we will talk
about this more with our guests
amongst other things but it's a pretty
stunning reversal not to mention that
the reporting is that the White House
overruled the Attorney General on this
now if you're familiar with the US
government generally the Justice
Department is a little bit more
independent than this but apparently not
in this instance because the problem of
course you can see the problem here
right is that when a law is passed if
the US government doesn't stand aside
that law from term to term unless there
is some type of major problem legally
with it it is
it is problematic for the operations of
our government however from a political
standpoint I don't think that the
Democrats could be happier unless Donald
Trump literally walked around the front
lawn of the White House naked it never
becomes any less of a disturbing image
the the one thing that this is telling
is that for all the talk over the years
that like Donald Trump is trying to
distract us like there's some type of
plan behind his ravings as a madman's
two dimensional chess right this is
actually like less than two dimensional
chess it really is like you know this is
him saying like I'm going to show you
consistently I'm going to distract you
even from the things that I think are
good it's checkers with being unclear
what the rules are so this is turning
attention obviously to health care at
the very moment that I think Democrats
would want to all of the research now
coming out of the 2018 midterm elections
was that the Democrats probably picked
up an extra dozen or two seats in the
house because of health care Democrats
ran obviously on a whole myriad of
issues but the the primary issue in the
2018 election was health care and this
was done at a time when it appeared that
the Republicans assault on the
Affordable Care Act was over so health
care is still remains a primary issue
and the real question is is how our
Democrats in what Democrats are going to
propose what proposals here's Bernie
Sanders on on Chris Hayes program last
night
and it's interesting only in so far is
that Bernie Sanders sticks with the
message and is not going to I mean he is
running on medicare-for-all and a very
specific proposal but medicare-for-all
that would involve expanding not only
who is eligible under Medicare today to
everyone but also expanding essentially
what Medicare does if you're on Medicare
now you pay premiums they're low
relative to other insurance you have
co-pays in certain instances it doesn't
cover everything you got to get
supplementary insurance under his
Medicare proposal Medicare for all
proposal all that goes away and your
coverage is expanded it is cheaper and
[Music]
it's available to everyone and so here
is um Chris Hayes asking about what
about other incremental measures would
you support those in the near term okay
so you talk about where we should go so
I want to talk about that now the the
Democrats introduced legislation in the
House today that is focused on some
reforms and modifications to Obamacare
particularly people who are in the
exchanges who have very high premiums do
you support the legislation the House
produced today
no I support the Medicare for All
single-payer program look let me clear
so you don't support that incremental
reform no the incremental reform that I
support is phasing in Medicare for all
first year we would lower the
eligibility age for Medicare from 65 to
55 and cover all of the children and by
the way expand medicare coverage for
elderly people to include dental care
why glasses and hearing aids that's the
incremental four year program that I
wrote in the I support right about this
so if that house bill were to come over
to the Senate you would vote against it
right now look right now it's right now
we are working on what I have fought for
my entire life health care is a right it
has to be publicly funded it has to be
comprehensive the current system Cris is
dysfunctional it is enormously
we spent hundreds of billions of dollars
every single year on administrative
course outrageous compensation packages
for the CEOs of the insurance and drug
companies ultimately we have got to do
it every other major country does and
that is guarantee healthcare to all do
it through public funding save huge
amounts of money and administrative
costs so that's medicare for all ok so
there's lots of people running on
Medicare for all but there's been some
positive for one second I just want to
point something out here so the fix to
the Affordable Care Act who knows
whether it would pass in the Senate my
guess is it absolutely would not but
let's just assume for a moment that
there was actually some viability to
this I mean the Democrats are doing the
right thing by introducing this because
they want to get Republicans on the
record for specifically voting against
at least in the house fixing the
Affordable Care Act because Republicans
cannot vote for anything that helps the
Affordable Care Act at this point
because they all voted against our voted
to replace and repeal it literally 60
times so this is smart politics in terms
of getting in the house
because it's never gonna actually be a
vote in the Senate and this is probably
why Bernie says I it's it's irrelevant
to me I'm not I wouldn't vote for it
because I'm not going to give any cover
to Republicans in any way and because
I'm gonna vote for something else but
understand people have to be very clear
on this the Affordable Care Act covers
20 million people half of those people
are roughly are from expansion of
Medicaid the other half are people who
are not eligible for employer
employer-based health care and those
people go into exchanges in states
across the country that's ten million
people it's a fraction of of the people
who get health insurance in this country
the Affordable Care Act did not do such
a great job in terms of containing costs
and the Republicans have done a very
good job of
of getting rid of those cost controls to
the extent that there were any the best
thing the Affordable Care Act was the
PPI part that did was the PPI part and
that was the patient protections that
was things like pre-existing conditions
things like you can't have rescission
you can't have you you can't you don't
have lifetime or yearly caps if you get
super ill and it costs $750,000 they
can't get rid of your insurance because
you went over your $500,000 lifetime cap
or whatever it is you can be on your
parents program till you're 26
there are certain essential services
that that make health insurance actually
define has health insurance right you
can't just sell something that says like
well we're gonna pretend like you're
covered and that's health insurance
right use a coupon for contact solution
right you can't sell a car that doesn't
have an engine and say it's a car yes it
looks like a car smells like a new car
when you get in but it doesn't have an
engine it's not really a car so film the
rain maker actually does a great job of
illustrating fake door-to-door fake
insurance plan right I mean so that's I
mean that's basically what what it did
so when he says he's gonna vote against
this he's basically saying look the
clown time is over the ACA was certainly
was a step in the right direction
but in the final analysis it did not
provide affordable care that did not
happen and it is highly vulnerable to
attack as we are witnessing right now
just in terms of like executive actions
all do it through public funding save
huge amounts of money and administrative
costs
so that's medicare-for-all okay so
there's a lots of people running on
Medicare for all but there's been some
interesting sort of debate about what it
means and there's sort of two different
ways that people are talking about it
now one is what your you've talked about
a four year phase in you lower it and
you get Medicare for all the other is
the idea of sort of a Medicare buy-in
right so you don't say everybody's in
the Medicare system you just say
everyone has the option to you can
obviously buy in a Medicare rate that's
called Medicare for America there's a
bill with that name of the house that is
polling very well right now 51 to 30%
where
the the sort of more traditional medical
for all the you support is is even what
do you what do you think about that as
an alternative why not sort of slide
towards a system in an optional way
because ultimately we have to recognize
that the current system is incredibly
dysfunctional and wasteful its goal is
to make profits for the insurance
companies and the drug companies you are
not going to be able in the long run to
have cost-effective universal health
care unless you change the system unless
you get rid of the insurance companies
unless you stand up to the greed of the
drug companies and lower prescription
drug costs that's the only way that you
could provide quality care all people I
look at healthcare Chris the same way as
I look at public education right same
way a look at police protection fire
protection all the people get it
regardless of the income it is publicly
funded that is the most cost effective
way to provide care to all so now we're
going to talk to our guests in a minute
and I think she will tell us that there
are other options besides a a
single-payer system and that that
function around the world the the irony
is is that the buy-in may be the least
efficient that you could have because
you do not get the the cost savings by
having universality within that
insurance pool and you still retain all
of the problematic aspects of private
insurance so I mean it's one thing to
have I in my opinion and we'll talk to
our guests about it because she's done a
lot of work on this
but it's one thing to have supplementary
private insurance but if you do not have
a system that is designed to basically
take care of the vast majority of people
like more or less like our public
schools do then you will not get the
efficiencies that you need and you will
not have a durable system because it
will not function the way it's supposed
to but we will talk to our guests about
that in a moment
can we appreciate that poll for a second
too because that's not a poll of
Democrats that's a poll of everybody
right so the amount of support for
single-payer
even among Republicans is very
encouraging yeah it's I mean I would
want to see the way they they phrase
those questions because you know I had
not heard of the American for Medicare
and I was in the is in the phrasing I
just I remember doing a couple of being
involved in focus groups in my brief
like brands whatever sort of time and
like they're profoundly easy to
manipulate it's all I'll say I just
remember being involved in focus groups
when I was living in Boston waiting
tables and trying to earn fifty bucks
Angelo did you go just as with a jury hi
you should have been thrown out and I
only lie about everything
well so if anything the real numbers are
even higher than that well we don't know
but the bottom line is that they're
definitely up the more people hear about
it and understand the proposal they the
more people appreciate it because you
know 10 years ago I don't think these
numbers would have been anywhere near
there but
