this is also a funny story and it's you
know this ties in what we were talking
about with Jeff Hauser today about the
investigations that need to take place
if Democrats take the house
we know that the Saudis provided
billions of dollars billions of dollars
to real-estate ventures to the Trump
Organization Saudi Arabia announced last
week a twenty billion dollar investment
in an infrastructure fund managed by
Blackstone Group which of course whose
head has a very close relationship with
the Trump Organization and has lent four
hundred million dollars to the Kushner
business as well and has deep ties to
Kushner and but here is that same
dim-witted
Eric trump on Fox and Friends and I only
say he's dim-witted because he's
dim-witted because it's so obvious that
it would reflect poorly on me if I
didn't point it out before we play this
fit
here's Trump saying now this is he
thinks he's being clever and maybe for
the Fox and Friends audience he is but I
you know investment in Russia investment
in Saudi Arabia is not the same as
getting money from those places and them
investing in you right in fact if I
invest in those countries I have some
leverage right because they need my
investment that's why if I was to take
twenty million dollars from George Soros
or the Koch brothers you as an audience
member should say hey wait a second
they've got a little bit of control over
it versus if I was lending to
it's tauros $20,000,000 George sorro's
may have to answer to me the day but
Eric tries to pull some jujitsu here by
saying we have not invested in them
listen every time there's an
international incident they say wow the
president's too nice to Vladimir Putin
that's because he has so many
investments in Russia he says he's too
open to letting this investigation play
out that's because he has investments in
Saudi Arabia you're running the Trump
Organization what's the reality there's
zero investments in Russia there's zero
investments in Saudi we have absolutely
nothing to do with those countries and
by the way my father's been tougher on
Russia than probably any human being in
the world that's what happens when you
give offensive weapons to Ukraine right
Obama never did that so what happens
when you promote you know American
energy you take away their largest
financial you know stream which is oil I
mean that's what built oil and gases
would build Russia and all of a sudden
we're saying hey you know once you buy
American oil we've got a lot of great
oil workers we've got a lot of great
energy in the US how about this will
supply you all the energy you could ever
possibly need don't buy it from Russia
yeah impressive for Putin yeah
yeah I would love to hear him answer the
question how much are you in hock to
them not how much are they in hock to
you how much are you in hock to them but
I'm really surprised the Fox and Friends
guys didn't hit him on it
it looked like Ducey might have done
that he had a moment there but sometimes
that's just like that could you never
know with like Ducey it could be just to
the producer whispering in his ear his
cookies in the greenroom what yeah that
had the the sort of feel that he was
prepared for that because he really hit
the ground or um you know no we don't
have any advantium it's question was
like two-pronged which is rare as well
yeah he doesn't do that extemporaneously
