[Music]
meanwhile also the one more storyline
they're gonna try and put out there
remember now we are living in an era
where we have two competing narratives
one is for conservatives one is for the
rest of normal people and the
conservative one is going to be and
they've attempted to do this for a long
time in fact a lot of what's going on
here is creating this narrative that the
Russians never interfered in the
election that it was actually the the
Ukrainians who were doing it on behalf
of the Democrats and we're framing the
Russians and there's this huge
convoluted mess which we can talk about
in a bit but so anything that will
enforce that reinforce that will work
and here is Donald Trump
the story is now that the whistleblower
gave the information to first the CIA
lawyer and felt like wait a second I
don't think this is going the way it
should go they don't seem to be doing
anything with it so he contacted a
staffer who worked for Schiff to seek
advice Schiff never met the guy but
heard the general gist of the complaint
obviously the whistleblower report had
not been written up at this point
without knowing the person's identity
instructed his staffer to tell him to go
to the IG the Inspector General and file
a whistleblower complaint and that's
what happened more or less exactly how
you would imagine this the process
should work particularly if the
whistleblower is concerned that I don't
know anybody's gonna I'm gonna put this
into the whistle and like I might be the
one taken out like he was obviously
afraid that the whole system had been
compromised which is a perfectly founded
and accurate assessment of the situation
it's a deep state folks in fact there's
every reason to believe that had he not
told Schiff via an intermediary
but we would not know anything about
this whistleblower report because
remember this whistleblower report was
being sat on by the Director of National
Intelligence Schiff had to know that
that was happening that's why he called
for it on Face the Nation
whatever was two or three weeks ago
that's how this all went down it was
obvious somebody had told them that the
report existed here's Donald Trump
responding to that say she was perfect
it couldn't have been nicer I saw Rick
Scott I saw many of the senators talking
about it many of the congressmen talking
about it
not a thing wrong unless you heard the
Adam Schiff version where he made up my
conversation he actually made it up it
should be criminal it should be
treasonous he made it up every word of
it made up and read to Congress as
though I said it and I'll tell you what
he should be forced to resign from
Congress Adam Schiff he's a lowlife he
should be forced to resign he took a
perfect conversation realized he
couldn't read it to Congress because it
was perfect was a very nice conversation
I knew many people were on the phone not
only were many people on the phone
we had stenographers on the phone taking
it down word-for-word he took that
conversation which was perfect he said I
can't read this so he made up a
conversation and he reported it and said
it to Congress and to the American
people and it was horrible what he said
and that was supposed to be coming from
me but it was all fabricated he should
resign from office and disgrace and
frankly he should look at him for
treason because he is making up the
world okay now you'll recall the
Ukrainian the Ukraine memo call memo on
page one says it is not a transcript and
the story we've been told is that there
was not stenographers on the call so if
there are stenographers on the call
release the transcript release the
transcript hash tag released the
transcript I can imagine
that there is someone right now
somewhere in Washington DC
wherever they do these things writing up
the text of the subpoena that is going
to call for that transcript President
Trump on October 2nd stated that there
was a stenographer on the phone we want
to see the product of that stenographers
work if you do not provide it for us
this will be prima facie obstruction so
stay tuned because I think that's what's
coming up
