[Music]
speaking of just bad people here is a
here is a Georgia senator David Perdue
trying to justify and you know Georgia
now there is a call for boycott Georgia
is a center for production film and TV
production in the country North Carolina
has some Georgia has some The Walking
Dead and is shot down there and the
other shows the former episode of their
last season of queer a Atlanta you know
there's a lead Atlanta has a lot of
production Turner Broadcasting down
there and this abortion bill that has
passed in Georgia which is not in effect
yet but there was a could prevent
victims of rape from getting an abortion
would effectively ban abortion for the
vast majority of women who don't find
out that they're pregnant until usually
five or six weeks at least after they
become pregnant this is a bill that
would criminalize women leaving the
state to go to a state where abortion is
legal and the way they're justifying it
now you know for a long time they tried
to do with late term abortions and the
fact is that there's so few of those
that are in any way elected in to the
extent that they are elective they are
only done so obviously with the consent
of a doctor of a medical practitioner
they now have created this myth of
infanticide of children that have been
born and
parents decide like I don't want the kid
now and we're gonna kill it as opposed
to some babies that are born with the
full knowledge that they will not
survive and come out either in writhing
pain or severely debilitated and cannot
be maintained their life cannot be
maintained and that happens obviously
very rarely it's very painful and
certain instances these children that
the the mother is given the choice do
you want it to be recorded as live birth
or not alive birth because the baby
basically is born dying with death
imminent as opposed to theoretical you
know ultimately going to die but this
has become a talking point for them
because they know they're losing this
battle it's definitely in the forefront
of our minds now and get backfired on
those Democrats when they all said you
can have an abortion even after the
baby's born or kill the baby after
baby's born so well that's what solid
posit this is less incredible this is it
this is it yeah this is Fox and Friends
we're Ainsley Earhardt is basically
saying Democrats are in favor of
infanticide which incidentally is
illegal when they all said you can have
an abortion even after the baby's born
or kill the baby after babies born well
that's what's so ironic we're talking
about this law in Georgia nobody's even
talking about what has just been passed
in a state by the Democrats I mean that
is outrageous and fanta side is where
they have gotten to this regime on their
side has gotten so radical that they
think that's okay well George is taking
a stand sin yeah it's I mean the the
Republican Party it's just like you know
some psychopath
psychopaths complete psychopath show me
a little white baby another sacrifice
I'm second aboard a white baby till they
were the grapes am
