[Music]
this is AOC at South by Southwest with
the senior politics editor at the
intercept as well as TM BS regular do
you know you don't have it
TM b s regular breanna joy grey you
could see her I mean she's been on
Michael Brooks show
I mean maybe ten times she's regularly
on and what's so interesting about this
is really the fact that of course the
right is having a tantrum about this but
a certain type of pundit that is
attached to the old make-believe system
of let's pretend you know let's sit down
with somebody like Howard Schultz who
has absolutely no political information
or understanding let's allow him to draw
a moral equivalency between Medicare for
all
and kidnapping children and ripping them
out of their out of their arms this is
the you know the the full pathology of
the he shet you know he said she said
one side you know says that two plus two
equals five maybe I'll even give you
let's say it's one off it's a little bit
of a massage and the other side says two
plus two equals four hundred and fifty
five thousand right but they're both
they both have perspectives so AOC is
going to give a little historical
breakdown about Ronald Reagan that is
just this this isn't a polemic this is a
objective description of the Southern
Strategy and the Reaganite political
project and one perfect example I think
a perfect example of how special
interests and the powerful have pitted
white working-class Americans against
brown and black working-class Americans
in order to just screw over all
working-class in there
can is is
reaganism in the 80s when he started
talking about welfare queens so you
think about this image welfare queens
and what he was really trying to talk
about was this who's painting this photo
he's painting this like really resentful
vision of essentially black women who
were doing nothing that were sucks on
our country right and it's this whole
tragedy of the commons type of thinking
thinking where it's like because these
one this one specific group of people
that you are already kind of
subconsciously primed to resent you give
them a different reason
that's not explicit racism but still
read it in a racist caricature it gives
people a logical really Jackel reason to
say oh ya know toss out the whole social
safety net yeah and also a Reagan talked
I believe about the young bucks as well
who were benefiting from government um
Matt you do a historically focused
podcast where did Ronald Reagan
announced he was running for president
in 1980 where did he choose his launch
campaign oh the Neshoba County County
Fair and I'm blanking on the name of the
Philadelphia Mississippi Delphian
Mississippi which was of course a place
where for civil rights workers people
who I had come from the north to help
register African American voters and
work for the civil rights movement were
murdered at the time states rights in
particularly in 1980 were a a bear I
mean did the
barely a dog whistle every single person
knew what you were talking about when
you said states rights because even arch
segregationists like Strom Thurmond
that's what they said it was actually
quite rare Jesse Helms or George Wallace
being more at the other end of really
coming out and just straight up saying
what these people thought and the
straight-up grotesque bigoted comments
but a lot of the other prime opponents
of preserving apartheid in the United
States wanted to couch it in genteel
rhetoric and a core part of that genteel
rhetoric was states rights so Ronald
Reagan in 1980 announced he was running
for president in a town where civil
rights workers were murdered in
Mississippi and spoke on states rights
again that this is an objective comment
you know like it was President Obama a
senator from Illinois before he got
elected president yes did Ronald Reagan
run a white supremacy based campaign yes
and in fact if you go and look in the
1980s with some differences because
there was maybe a little bit more at all
though in a much more overall regressive
time there might have been a slight more
attempt at plausible deniability when he
was in the White House but just like
under Trump you actually saw a
significant increases in hate group
activity and groups like the Klan
running sort of in tandem with the
Republican Party and of course he would
go on in addition to using race to
divide the electorate and attacking
african-americans in every way possible
including gutting communities and crime
legislation and so on he also would veto
a sanctions package targeted at
apartheid South Africa which by the time
late in his administration was so
controversial that the Senate overrode
the veto and that actually included a
handful a chunk of Republicans of course
nothing like that would happen in
today's world so Ronald Reagan is a
racist and what aoc said there should be
looked at
as you know the equivalent of any other
politician just having a sort of good
basic understanding of modern u.s.
political history and anybody would tell
you otherwise is either living in a
fantasy world or is a active agent of
racism themselves 100% and also this
goes back to some of my issues with
means testing or even sliding scale
right because one of the things that
enabled Ronald Reagan to exploit these
resentments and the divisions within the
working class was that the the Great
Society programs were largely
means-tested and they were not universal
so I think if we're looking to rebuild
some sort of social democratic welfare
state we want to avoid repeating some of
the mistakes of the past especially
considering we can certainly afford to
fund universal programs
definitely I found this anonymous quote
about this this is a anonymous Reagan
campaign official to the Washington Post
expression discomfort with the choice of
the location says quote it would have
been like we were coming to Mississippi
and winking at the folks here saying we
really don't mean to be talking to them
urban league folk
yeah
