now I heard it I read an interesting
quote the other day I read an
interesting sort of analysis that that
Trump had doubt when he went to Texas to
stump for Cruz and he had that big rally
in Houston the Cruz people think he hurt
them because the polls started to move
up for a better O'Rourke after he came
so you know even in Texas maybe Trump is
starting to get a little toxic which I
found kind of interesting but you know
he's doing his thing I mean he's going
out there and yes his his strategy
entirely is to just double down as
hardcore as he can on the anti-immigrant
xenophobic anti media you know every
every kind of harsh ugly you know sort
of strategy that he that he thinks got
him where he where he is I mean he said
that he in this interview with Axios
which I guess is going to premiere this
weekend on HBO they you know published
some excerpts from it and he just said
well you know this is what people want
from me and it's my only way of fighting
back this is why I won and I think that
says it all for him I mean I think
that's what that's that's the you know
he's just has a very very limited sort
of understanding of politics and it's I
won because you know I'm a nasty bastard
and I fight back and you know everyday
everybody hates the media and it does it
doesn't really get any more complicated
than that the problem is is that you
know Trump had enough you know you hate
to say it's an opportunity but he had
there was a moment that he could have
potentially reached out to some of those
suburban voters that you were talking
about at first you know the people who
they think are probably gone and some of
these these people who you know may have
been in you know districts that Hillary
won or maybe some of these you know
white suburban women who have been
Republicans their whole lives but now
they're voting Democratic they say they
are in this election because after those
two tragedies last week he had you know
he could have and hit parently his staff
approached him and said you know we
should do an oval office speech
you talk about unity and bringing the
country together and everybody would you
know think about it people have been
shocked kind of like this Trump doesn't
do this you know and if he could have
pulled it off and acted it halfway
decently who knows maybe some of those
people are some of the independents who
lean Republican could have gone well you
know maybe Trump's not so bad you know
and in the as you know when when the
chips are down he can come through and
he's not quite the you know horrible
jerk that we thought he was certainly
there would be a lot of media people who
would have said like this is the day he
really really became president he made
the pivot right I mean honestly we know
that would have happened I mean he's
just a you're in for it he's not
constitutionally capable of it and and I
wonder I mean here's the thing I don't
know that he's wrong
like you you know that's I mean that
counter sort of like factual scenario
that may have helped him but it also may
have heard him like you know I mean III
don't I don't know I mean that's the
thing about this midterm that I think
has the potential to be super super dark
I mean aside from you know the idea of
the Republicans controlling the house
and the Senate the way in which they win
if they were to somehow maintain the
house let's say the winning in that way
would be really disturbing I mean let's
look let's look at this video and the
like clearly Trump is all in on this
strategy of of basically set of like a
sadistic I promise you I will be the guy
to oversee the US government shooting
you know snipers on some type of
imaginary wall shooting would be asylum
seekers you know as they try and come
approaching the wall I mean this is
basically what he's going on and doing
it's all a
bleeped strawman right we know the
caravan to the extent that there's going
to be anybody left in this so-called
caravan by the time they reach the
Mexico border they're not going to be
here for months there's no doubt in my
mind that we're not going to hear
anything about this in two weeks unless
the Republicans win the the house retain
the house but here is Donald Trump
talking about what the plan is but I
will tell you this anybody throwing
stones rocks like they did to Mexico and
the Mexican military of Mexican police
where they badly hurt police and
soldiers of Mexico we will consider that
a firearm because there's not much
difference when you get hit in the face
with a rock which as you know there was
very violent a few days ago very very
violent that break-in it was a break-in
of a country they broke into Mexico and
you look at what's happening in
Guatemala
just to mention Guatemala along with El
Salvador and Honduras it's disgraceful
that those countries aren't able to stop
this because they should be able to stop
it before it starts and the United
States pays them a fortune and we're
looking at not doing that anymore
because why should we be doing that when
they do nothing for us so now it turns
out that the military was not aware of
this change in orders that most of their
weapons were not going to be used like
literally their most of their weapons
we're going to be under lock and key
like they you know this is clearly
maddis is saying okay we'll send 5,200
military personnel to the border and
they're just gonna hang out like this is
gonna be like an R in our situation but
put that aside for a moment he is
calling for the u.s. army to fire on
immigrants in the event that they have
rocks in their hands yes that is what he
did and in fact he later
in that same sort of QA after his silly
speech yesterday he went on to say that
he had told this old the the the
military to change that order and that
he was telling them consider it or he
said consider it a rifle if somebody's
throwing a rock at you now I mean you
know this is obviously I mean there are
a million laws that are going to be in
to him in force at this the idea that
and I don't even know what what the
thinking in the military is from what I
read yesterday and saw people sort of
talking about they're of different minds
within the military about the about
whether or not this this operation what
are they calling it patriotic Eagle or
something I don't know and something
should be called Operation white
supremacy right but you know they
they're of different minds about whether
or not this is you know a good use of
their of their time effort and resources
and it's going to be very very expensive
it's going to cost billions of dollars
you know did the only thing Trump will
ever write a blank check for is is the
military and you know this the idea that
this could that something terrible could
happen as a result of this is obvious I
mean you know look I don't want to you
know digress too far here but do you
only have to think about you know the
Gaza and the West Bank to think about
how rock-throwing turns into tragedy
club even on our own borders well in the
past there has been there have been
incidents like this with and with the
military back in the late 90s said the
military shot a data they hate I mean
they used to send troops to the board
this isn't the first time the
president's done this but it was always
under the auspices of trying to stop
drug trafficking never before has it
been to stop a bunch of you know ragtag
group of mothers and their children at
the border I mean that's just never been
done before but there have been troops
there and there was a terrible incident
in the late 90s where a soldier who was
deployed on this drug mission
accidentally shot a young goat herd
unarmed you know Mexican kid who
accidentally crossed the border
tending his goats and it was a terrible
thing and you know it really made people
think twice about whether or not you
ever want to do it now George Bush did
he sent a bunch of troops down to the
border without 2000 I think or maybe it
was six thousand I can't remember but it
was a lot and it cost billions of
dollars his his operation did so you
know this gambit isn't new which is why
I think maybe mattis is going along with
it he's a little more acquiescent than
people sort of expected him to be
because it has been done before and but
this but you know this is a different
atmosphere right I mean we are in a
people he Trump is building people up
into a frenzy and I don't know if he's
building US military troops up into a
frenzy he probably is building the
Border Patrol up into a frenzy and I can
guarantee you that all these militia
guys who were going to come down and I
quote help
he's definitely building them up into a
frenzy so you're you're setting up a
situation for something very tragic to
happen and which I really think and I
think maybe he wants that to be honest I
I think that's very possible and we
should also say you know there are even
there are greater implications and we
you know we're starting to see more and
more of this right Boulton are ou
elected in Brazil now he's moving the
embassy to Jerusalem in in the the
Brazilian Embassy and just today the
Nigerian Army which this week shot and
killed multiple protesters who were
throwing rocks under investigation this
is their their biggest defense they
tweeted out that video that we just
played please watch and make your
deductions essentially saying look the
president United States says if you
throw rocks it's like firing weapons
therefore we you know we cannot be held
to account for shooting unarmed
protesters and and and this is you know
for for you we had been asking for you
and I have been talking about in the
lead up to you know after the Anoat to
the inauguration and sort of
contemplating what are the implications
of foreign policy you know this is one
of those
we see this time and time again where
you know I don't think it's citizens you
know just going about our daily basis
particularly you know people who may be
a little bit jaded as you know a lot of
folks are we're conscious of that the
United States in many respects
maintained even though there was times
we were certainly hypocritical about it
but maintained some type of normative
values in the world that had some type
of restraining impact on other
governments around the world and we're
seeing what happens when we sort of let
go of those the you know where we create
a little bit of slack in in those type
of normative values Oh a lot of slack I
mean I would say it was alert you know
it was kind of an abrupt change you know
that that yeah I think you and I have
talked about this a lot you know this
kind of that the scary sort of aspect of
this you know it's all scary what he's
doing domestically is very scary but we
don't know yet whether or not our
institutions have the resilience to be
able to resist this and we'll see on
Tuesday our first sign of whether or not
it's actually possible because the
Republican Party of course is you know
they've proved that they are not going
to be part of that they're not that
institution is dead so we can't really
kick count on them but maybe the vote
will do do something anyway to give us
hope that we can bring that back but on
an international level we just do not
know what the result and the
consequences of this man being president
is going to be
