we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Thursday June 13th 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks on a Michael slam
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrial ravaged Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on today's program senator Bernie
Sanders joined Sam yesterday in a
pre-recorded interview they talked about
completing the New Deal why democratic
socialism is the way to defeat oleg our
key and the ways in which he stands out
that are so clear in the Democratic
field then joining me Andrew rice staff
writer at New York Magazine when you're
gonna gut an island with austerity you
actually need managers bureaucrats to
fill in the details and that's why
McKinsey is in Puerto Rico carving up
the place it's a very disturbing report
talk about that and the McKinsey way
colonial status of Puerto Rico then of
course we'll get back to Sanders defense
of the democratic socialist tradition in
America Donald Trump says he still
welcomes outside info from other
countries
I mean I guess I guess those are new
playing fields I don't know Facebook is
route worried about Mark Zuckerberg
privacy
explosions reported on two tiger tankers
in the Gulf of Oman as Turkey and barks
on a major armed cells purchased from
Russia there's gonna be a hearing on
reparations in the house next week and
the murderer of three Muslims Craig
Stephen Hicks pleads guilty and is
sentenced to life in prison
House Democrats launched an
investigation on jewel as Illinois's
governor signs legislation protecting in
bortion rights and Bernie Sanders has
called for the immediate release of
political prisoners Lula da Silva as yet
more drops from that story coming out in
Brazil now implicating at least one
member of the Brazilian Supreme Court
potentially as another member the
Brazilian Supreme Court says Lula must
go free now peace process undermined in
Yemen and might be heading towards
elections in Israel all that and much
much more on today's majority report so
what we're gonna do is I have to tell
you about something important and then
we're gonna get to Sam's conversation he
recorded I would say what was about five
o'clock yesterday with senator Sanders
so this is fresh this is hot off the
presses um obviously worth watching and
we'll be right back but first I want to
tell you that one of today's today's
show is in part sponsored by Skillshare
and if anyone who go and anyone who goes
to sk l dot s h slash majority report
for that's the number four is going to
get two whole months of totally free
access to skill shares entire library of
super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community that offers courses
on everything
designed to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
and everything in between
there's a skills cue share a course for
everyone you have no pro you'll have
you'll have no problem finding the
courses that will be useful to both your
personal and professional life whether
you want to sharpen your skills with
something you already love doing or you
want to learn something totally new
Skillshare has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it I
need to build up my confidence as a
language learner but I have definitely
been starting to explore the Portuguese
section of this website
definitely pretty relevant for me and
then you know there's also like super
ambitious ones like I mean there was a
time where you could say like Spanish
Arabic and Mandarin and then of course I
mean learning any language would be a
great skill set but there was like you
know in the world as it is learning
those three languages are you know
you're covering a lot of really
important bases there so I'm starting to
explore Portuguese and I want to see if
I gain some confidence I want to see if
I could at least develop a little bit of
a skill set in Portuguese and then maybe
after that something like Mandarin will
see just think you can get two entire
months of free access to every single
course offered by Skillshare by going to
SK l sh slash majority report for just
think of everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months that's
sk l dot s h slash majority report for
and we've put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on youtube
alright folks we're gonna take a brief
break and we'll be right back with sam's
interview with bernie sanders i senator
thank you so much for doing this well
thank you papa me so let's jump right in
i saw your speech this afternoon i
enjoyed it i got to say i was struck by
the disparity between your speech and
comments that i saw senator excuse
former Vice President Biden make this
week you spoke quite a bit about
movements that are endangering America
and the vice president said that it was
basically one man he also said that he
was the solution for that one man
problem well what is your solution we'll
just tell us what the movement that you
think is threatening America and what is
your solution I'm curious as to the
disparity there well it's not only sadly
enough an American effort it is it is
global and that is we are looking at a
merger of oligarchy which insists
systems around the world which are
controlled by extraordinarily wealthy
billionaires and what's our Terenas I
mean that's kind of what's going on in
this country and what people like Trump
and other people around the world do is
to retain power is they try to divide
their people up or by appealing to the
most basic of basest instincts and focus
the anger of the people on minorities
where they are religious minorities
whether they are are immigrants whether
they are part of the LGBT community or
people who have a different religion
than the majority but the point that I
made today is that as a nation we have
got to recognize that the best way to
defeat a llegar key and the best way to
defeat authoritarianism is to bring
people together around a progressive
agenda an agenda which guarantees
economic rights as human rights and the
point that I made is that way back in
1944 in a not well publicized State of
the Union speech Roosevelt Franklin
Roosevelt said something very profound
he said you know what we have no rights
in this country that protects our
political rights freedom of religion
freedom of speech freedom of assembly
etc but we do not have anything that
protects our economical
and human right so you can you know you
can March you can protest but it is both
guarantee that you can have a job that
pays you a living wage you can have any
religion you want but there is no
guarantee that when you get sick you're
gonna have the resources to go to a
doctor or if you're an elderly person
afford the prescription drugs that you
need to stay alive so the theme of today
is that economic rights must be
considered as human rights and that is
the need to continue what Roosevelt
began some 80 years ago and so I'm
curious as to how it could be that there
is this type of disparity and perception
of the problem I mean that having gone
through the past eight years prior to
Donald Trump and and frankly the the
decades before that as well that people
have such radically different vision of
what the problem is the scale of it the
structure of it right well you know I
think that has a lot to do with media
frankly in this country which is owned
by large corporations and you know I'm
not one like Donald Trump who believes
that there's fake news out there the
meteor is the enemy of the people
that's nonsense of course and dangerous
but what I think is that for a variety
of reasons our media does not recognize
the reality of what's going on in this
country today and we've got to do that
and that means it's not just 40 million
people living in poverty it's not just
by half a million people tonight
sleeping out on the streets that's the
worst case scenario it is half of this
country living paycheck-to-paycheck
it is tens of millions of people who
cannot afford to go to the doctor when
they are sick it is one out of five
people not being able not being able to
afford the prescription drugs that their
doctors prescribe it's kids not being
able to afford to go to college or
leaving school without raises levels of
student that it is the crisis of climate
change and what it will do to our
country in the rest of the world unless
we deal with it so you know I think what
I am trying to do is to say look these
are the wheel
real problems facing ordinary Americans
and unless we have the courage the
courage to take on Wall Street to take
on the insurance companies and the drug
companies in the military-industrial
complex of a fossil fuel industry unless
we have the courage to do that we're not
going to make the kind of progress that
we need to so in your speech you
enumerated the 21st century economic
Bill of Rights like it mentioned earlier
and so you you have these and you'll be
rolling out these proposals you'll have
these plans that that go towards
establishing these rights and these
material benefits for people what
happens if if say Joe Biden is wrong
that the Republicans do not revert to
some type of mean as it were I'm not
sure what what that mean was but what
happens if we have a president Sanders
and you have these these plans and these
proposals which sound great what is
there a meta plan a strategy how do
these things go forward
if they work are good sound that's what
you know that's a absolutely right
question look this is what I believe and
this is I think what the French hates me
a bit from other candidates and it's
what I believe you know I think if you
look at the history of real change in
this country take a deep breath and
think about art what are they and I'm
not talking about superficial changes
modest changes about real change think
about we're talking about a hundred and
twenty hundred and thirty years ago
where workers had to engage in enormous
struggle for the right to have
collective bargaining and to form trade
unions and end child labor took massive
amounts of grassroots organizing and
struggle to make that happen you look at
the civil rights movement and understand
that real change
never takes place from the top on down
it wasn't just Lyndon Johnson signing
the Civil Rights Act or the Voting
Rights Act
millions of people African Americans and
their allies who said you know what
we're going to end segregation in this
country all people have the right vote
regardless of the color of their skin or
you look at the women's movement you
know as we talk a hundred years ago
today women did not have the right to
vote how did that change come about come
about because you had some great guys
men in the Congress well there was some
but that struggle basically was one
because women and their male allies took
to the streets some of them died one
gave up their lives in the struggle if
you look at the gay rights revolution
that's taking place in this country of
the last 3040 years think about
Stonewall 50 years ago it is people with
incredible courage who took you know
again took to the streets uh who with
humiliation and and physical attacks to
say you know what in this country people
should have the right to love whoever
they want regardless of their gender
environmental movement the same so here
is the point every idea that I am
talking about and that is the need for
health care for all the need to have
jobs that pay people a living wage and
raising that minimum wage to at least 15
bucks an hour the need to cut
prescription drug costs and a half the
need for affordable housing the need for
a clean environment the need to make
sure that companies like Amazon which
made 11 billion in profits last year
don't get away with not paying a nickel
in federal income tax all of these ideas
are supported by the American people but
they are not going to be we're not going
to see the changes that we need unless
there is a political revolution
unless ordinary people get involved in
the political process in a way that we
have never seen before and the way we
defeat Trump the way we defeat was our
terian ISM the way we defeat oligarchy
is when working people and young people
and all of us begin to stand up and to
fight back Center you know as I hear you
say that like you know I think I've
probably the first time I interviewed
you was maybe close to 15 years ago on
America and I I can't help but think as
you as you as you list those things of
the different movements that have taken
place in this country to make change I
wonder because you know for years I I
think I perceived you as being very much
sort of a conscience of the country and
I wonder if there you have felt that
your role has changed in some way
because as you make that list of things
that you're talking about it just
strikes me that I know that you were
involved in those in those fights you
don't reference yourself in those and I
wonder if in some way the past several
years that during the course of the
2015-2016 election you perceived your
role as not just being someone who could
remind the country of these things but
in in some more active way and in a way
sort of returning to your roots well
look I don't see the separation Sam what
I see is that if we're going to defeat
what's our adhering that's one of the
points that I made this afternoon it's
not just that what FDR did was good
public policy and standing up including
the lives of working people you know
what else he did all over Europe
countries when fascists or in Germany
you know Nazi and what he was able to do
is tell the working people of this
country in a very difficult moment that
government was there for them and in
America the President of the United
States would stand for them so we're
looking at not just good public policy
we're looking at good politics we're
saying the working people today are
working two or three jobs you know what
that doesn't have to be the case people
who have no health care get involved in
the political process you had a
government that's going to left that's
gonna represent working people and we
can bring about change and in doing that
we can fend off the authoritarianism the
oligarchy the Trump represent so what
I'm talking about here is my belief and
recent polling has suggested that but I
can beat
are in this country someone pulls out
they're hungry reading them by a
double-digit number uh and especially in
battleground states like Michigan
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania so uh I think
in this case they answer your question
good policy standing up with working
people is good politics as well do you
do you think that with your you're sort
of I guess the more recognition and more
in many respects political power that
you've developed that has led you to to
more opportunities to put that to use I
mean I'm thinking about things like your
your work with getting Amazon to raise
their wages going to the Walmart meeting
the the frankly the the War Powers Act
with with Yemen I mean these are all
things
these were intractable issues in some
respects and you have been able to pry
them loose and in you know at least well
that's right I mean I think that that is
correct and you know and I think in in
the case of Disney for example uh uh we
heard from Disney workers who are
marching around Danna Haim a Disneyland
Anaheim California you know a Mickey
Mouse and Donald Duck outfits and they
were making ten eleven bucks an hour and
we stood with those workers and we
forced Disney frankly to pay their
workers fifteen bucks an hour and Amazon
the same thing they were paying workers
ten eleven twelve bucks now we heard
from these Amazon markets we used our
social media we did everything we could
in Jeff Bezos and Amazon said okay we'll
pay their workers fifteen bucks an hour
and as you indicated you know I've been
working with the fight for 15 people at
McDonald's from just an Iowa the other
day marching there's some incredibly
brave people who just went on strike
they left their job said at McDonald's
and they said you know what we can't
make it on 10 11 bucks now we need a
living wage and I went to the Walmart or
those directives we'll see what happens
there but you know we're going to
continue our effort to tell the
wealthiest family in this country the
walton family who owns
Walmart but if they cannot take their
workers starvation wages how much of
your work on the War Powers Act and in
regards to ATM and and and frankly
calling with representative Roca Hana
for the the freedom of Lula from
imprisonment is is tied into this sort
of movement that you see that is rising
across the the globe right I mean you
know look one of the things that we have
managed to do for example is to raise
the issue of Yemen which is an
unbelievable and horrific human tragedy
the UN estimates that if we don't stop
this war and get humanitarian aid in
there hundreds of thousands of people
will be dead by the end of this year and
that millions could die of famine if we
do not end war in years to come and I
was very proud to work with role to work
with some conservative Republicans
frankly in the Senate to say that the
President does not have the authority
does not have the constitutional right
to get the United States involved in
that war and we want it for the first
time in forty five years we use the War
Powers Act for a majority vote in the
House and the Senate not surprisingly of
course Trombino that we aren't able to
overcome the veto but that was a major
step forward in getting the Congress to
reclaim its constitutional
responsibilities over war making which
has essentially to taken over by
presidents for many years
lastly senator I know you're busy here
what do you think is the the greatest
challenge that your campaign is facing
right now I mean what what do you feel
that that you need to achieve
particularly leading up over the next
couple of months before Iowa but but
into the campaign well you know we have
I think in an unprecedented way Sam we
have over 1 million people in every
congressional district in the United
States
America signed up to volunteer and work
on this campaign and it ain't easy and I
think dance your question the challenge
that we face is how we help build this
unprecedented grassroots movement which
not only will we need to win the
election and to defeat Trump but also to
transform this country and that's what
we're wrestling with right now and it
ain't easy it really is not but making
that million-plus people into an
effective fighting machine uh is I think
be a cute challenge that we face right
now
and that's one that I mean are you
contemplating - like how you keep that
machine to function in the event that
you win or frankly even in the event the
answer is absolutely yes I mean that
ties into what I believe is the
political revolution all right I think I
got to get all right now oh thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it well thank you thank you
bye bye bye yes that's exactly right but
I gotta go I've got a run Jesus Christ
how much that that Bernie Sanders really
is the perpetual crater of shame for
anybody who's tired in their 20s and 30s
it's just like I have to go end the war
into genocide in Yemen organize Walmart
McDonald's workers run a presidential
campaign run a media studio which is a
sociological prisoner free a political
prisoner and then do like 50 hits I mean
my god maybe that's the only advantage
of MSNBC's disgraceful treatment of him
in his campaign is that he is a couple
of less obligations but yes I will
obviously we'll talk more about that
that speech in the second part of the
show but for now we're gonna take a
brief break and we're gonna go speak
with Andrew rice he's a reporter for New
York magazine the piece is the McKinsey
way to save an island
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Andrew rice he's a
contributing editor at New York Magazine
Andrew thanks for being here hey thank
so you wrote this piece the McKinsey way
to save an island um I mean you know
it's no secret if you know you know the
people watching and listening know the
politics of this show that there's a lot
of criticism of corporate and us conduct
in Puerto Rico and I think that this
reporting does really fit into this but
before we get there I mean can you
explain the two different trajectories
of this story at least as I was able to
read it one is what is McKinsey as a
consultancy what does McKinsey do in the
private and public sector well well I
mean that's that's like people have
written books on that on that something
and it's really it's a little hard to
sum up because frankly McKenzie does so
many things like McKenzie does
everything from you know if you're if
you're looking to like you know work on
your supply chain for your wind turbine
company you know you bring in McKenzie
to talk with though about that if you're
if you're a catastrophic ly in debt
principality of the United States that
needs consulting services on how to
slash your government services they also
do that like they do almost they do
almost everything that that a client
might might ask them to do the one
unifying thing is that they charge quite
a bit for it right and so when we talk
about the predicament that Puerto Rico
is in it seems to me that it's really
important to sort of establish and and
you know the sort of bigger context for
it which is that there isn't you know
there is this I mean I would say it's
you know obviously a colonial status but
there's a lot of limits in terms of what
Puerto Rico can and can't do in terms of
its own macroeconomic policy and
recently there's been through a variety
of for a variety of reasons and
of course exacerbated by Hurricane Maria
this demand from capital from hedge
funds basically to start to sort of
slash to service Puerto Rico's debt but
what is the sort of legal political
mechanisms around Puerto Rico like I
think it just and sort of broadly like
spelling out like what is the control
board what is the sort of current legal
status how did Puerto Rico kind of get
into the situation of needing or
supposedly needing the services of a
company like McKinsey what what is that
what that sort of part of the story well
this is so the story starts with
Christopher Columbus right right but to
skip ahead a few centuries I mean
basically you know Puerto Rico's
statuses is as you say a sort of quasi
colonial status they would they would
probably a lot of people in Puerto Rico
would delete the quasi part you know
they have non-voting representation in
Congress and and so therefore they're
largely dependent on members of Congress
oftentimes people from the Puerto Rican
diaspora who to represent their their
interests in Washington so they and they
have a local elected government governor
legislature and so on that has governing
authority within the island just like
any state government does the only
difference is is that they you know of
course they don't have any electoral
votes but also they that that they don't
have the kind of constitutional
protections that the US state has in
terms of you know it's ultimately kind
of ultimately it exists in a kind of
it's it's self government exists as a
kind of you know because of the federal
government decrees it so right so what
ended up happening was over many many
years
Puerto Rico
borrowed lots and lots of money to fund
their to fund their their government and
to fund services oftentimes you know
services though that say for instance
like a Medicaid program that they have
they don't they don't get as generous
treatment from Medicaid as it as a US
state would so they were kind of having
to make up a gap on something like that
out of their own tax revenues
consequently they ended up running up
these gigantic debts largely you know
kind of encouraged and underwritten by
financial institutions that were more
than happy to issue this debt because of
another quirk of its territorial status
it has a special tax exemption and it
was very it was a very kind of
attractive investment for a lot of
mutual fund for holding bonds was that
right for holding bonds right yeah yeah
sure so because because Puerto Rico you
essentially it's it's quite complicated
but essentially because of Puerto Rico
the fact that they're not a state the
the their their municipal bonds are
there or you know those state bonds
would be you know are not subject to
state taxation and in the same way or
federal taxation in the same way they're
what's known as triple tax-exempt and
consequently you know this Medina severe
e very ironically they're considered to
be this very very safe investment this
very kind of stayed you know stable
investment that would got a kind of
favorable tax treatment and so therefore
a lot of you know Vanguard or you know
just you know just any kind of mutual
fund that you can think of would have
probably some portfolio of Puerto Rican
bonds now of course what happened was is
that as often happens is that you know
goldman sachs and other financial
institutions came in and said you know
we could like you've got a pretty good
thing here there's a market for this
like let's kind of come up with some
more creative ways to securitize your
government revenues why don't we like
why don't we carve out the sales tax
revenue turn that into a separate kind
of bond what if we carve out the this or
that other rum bonds there's actually
Rabanne there that are tied specifically
to revenues from rum and so you know so
fast-forward about 20 years of doing
this all of a sudden you know without
anybody really kind of keeping track of
it within Puerto Rico or being well
publicized within Puerto Rico all of a
sudden it turns out wait hold on we've
got 74 billion dollars in debt and you
know we're far apart a little ko says up
sorry we can't pay this back we're gonna
have to go bankrupt and there's a
problem you know there's a problem there
because basically unlike Detroit unlike
New York City in the 1970s Puerto Rico
had no legal mechanism to declare
bankruptcy in fact it was specifically
left out of the federal bankruptcy code
chapter that the governs municipal
bankruptcy and classical colonial status
I mean that's how they could do that how
you look errect probably because of its
I mean so in the big picture yes because
but because of its colonial status in
the little picture like no one actually
seems to I've asked many people
including many people were not
sympathetic to you know the Reagan
administration that was like the the the
the you know was the administration and
office at the time this bankruptcy thing
happened like no one actually seems to
know the actual reason why Puerto Rico
was left out it was specifically
exempted from this in the 1980s there
presumably there was some reason why but
it's one of those kind of kind of
legislative you know kind of small print
and in some kind of huge omnibus law
sort of things that nobody can quite
figure out why it happened but yes yes
suffice it to say if Puerto Rico had
congressional representation it probably
wouldn't have happened to them right so
anyway you know a generation later it
becomes an issue and so Congress has to
pass a new law specifically to allow
Puerto Rico to declare bankruptcy what
year is this in terms of time this is in
2016 the tail end of the Obama
administration Obama is on the way out
Treasury the Department Treasury his
Department of Treasury is saying oh god
we got to do something about Puerto Rico
like you know we got you know we're
gonna we got to figure out some way to
to help them work out this debt because
these hedge funds basically what
happened is Vanguard and all the all the
mutual funds I mentioned before that
held all this Porto Rican bonds well as
soon as things got risky they were like
we're out of here
they sold their they sold their stuff
and they sold it largely to to distress
debt hedge funds whose specialty is as
you as your listeners probably know they
do this often in various different
scenarios buying up debt and in trouble
companies or troubled countries or
troubled you know anything and I'm
basically trying to squeeze a little bit
of blood from that from that stone and
and make a make a sort of margin
marginal profit of or whatever it is
that they sold that they bought the
bonds for it some very depressed price
and you know so all these hedge funds
are in there and their whole business
model is basically to kind of turn the
screws on the Puerto Rican government so
they were they were saying things like
and and they were getting some
Republican congressional support from
the freedom caucus and others they're
saying things like you know let's say
you know let's let's start closing down
you know Puerto Rican government
ministries as you know and let's you
know you know do these extraordinarily
draconian cuts you know cutting pensions
for for poor puerto rican former
government servants and
on in order to pay back the this debt
service and they were basically saying
you have no recourse under federal law
you're specifically exempted from
bankruptcy so you know pay up you have
to do it um
so Obama administration Congress
including you know to their to his
credit I'm you know Paul Ryan you know
replicated the conclusion and some other
Republicans in Congress and the
congressional leadership came to the
conclusion that you know nah it's not
going to be tenable for us to just like
for the hedge funds to just completely
turn Puerto Rico into into a debtor
state so they created this law it's
called promesa promesa allowed poor Rico
to declare bankruptcy to basically seek
protection from bankruptcy court which
means that they don't have to pay debt
service while they're in this bankruptcy
proceeding and the and the kind of the
kind of bargain there that the the thing
the the the the rub for for the Puerto
Rican government was they had to accept
this federal oversight board called
called the oversight board in Puerto
Rico it's often called and so the hunka
hunka came in and yeah I mean I think
all that all the kind of dictatorial
overtones are attended once they came in
it's a it's a federally appointed group
of group of folks equally Republican and
Democrat not equally there's four to
three Republican I believe and they came
in and and they they were charged with
trying to work out the 73 billion dollar
debt problem and so they came in there
were experts many of them are experts on
this that and the other thing but you
know it's a gigantic problem they didn't
have a lot of people they didn't want to
hire a big staff so what they did is
they said you know we're going to hire
these these guys McKinsey to come in
and tell us how to work out the debt but
also how to try to make Puerto Rico's
government finances sustainable and
that's where that's where really my
story you know begins with Mackenzie's
efforts to do that which have included a
lot of really drew Connie and cut yes so
I want to get right to those McKinsey
cuts and also you know credible charges
of conflict of interest on the part of
Mackenzie as well but so I mean you know
this is just my sort of editorial but I
mean is it fair to say that you okay we
have this larger historical colonial
context and there's a lot of other you
know rules that we can't get into that
affect Puerto Rico's ability to generate
its economy there's a lot of very you
know weird and unjust taxes that apply
specifically to Puerto Rico and things
like importation and and so on there's a
shipping regulator there's a shipping
tax whose name I'm forgetting at the
moment but it's very important so you
you get to this position at where Puerto
Rico's sort of bled out to begin with
then the debt crisis hits there's the
really radical extreme notion of just
you know going in an utterly devastating
Puerto Rico but sort of cooler heads
prevail and it's like well instead of
just total savagery we'll have like a
kind of slow bleed out too and and you
know some basic necessary protections
like you're in bankruptcy you don't have
to service your debt at the moment but
we'll have this oversight board we'll
bring in McKinsey
and we'll do you know in fact very
vicious cuts but in a more kind of
systemic slower way than what people
like the freedom caucus were proposing
and all along the way you know none of
the real questions about the status of
Puerto Rico democracy in Puerto Rico and
then of course would Trump you add this
dimension of you know playing to his own
base and his own just sort of you know
utter disrespect for the Puerto Rican
people you know throwing paper towels at
them like he's shooting baskets and so
on
and that brings us to where we are so
what yeah I mean be in this piece you
know you do a very good job
you're very fairly representing the
McKinsey point man on the ground for
this stuff and sort of his you know I
will say highly stereotypical kind of
management speak about innovation and
all of these you know red flag words but
you know what are they actually doing in
terms of cuts like what does this behind
all the sort of jargon what does this
actually look like I mean it's it's a
it's a pretty thorough going complete
revamping or or gutting depending on
your point of view of it of the entire
Puerto Rican public sector so let's
start with like the power authority
prepa which was gained a lot of
notoriety after all this started because
you know they were unable to restore
power to the island for you know a year
basically prepa is in the course of
being privatized and and sold off to
private private entities you know
there's similar stuff is going on with
other government parastatals there's
thoroughgoing cuts throughout the
government and and hundreds of schools
are being closed now to be fair to
McKenzie and to the oversight board some
of that the school closures were in the
works prior even to perm s it there's an
there's an ongoing systemic problem with
population loss in Puerto Rico which led
to many schools being under populated so
there's maybe there's maybe actually an
educational policy justification for
doing it but nonetheless it's been you
know implemented in a very painful way
that's caused a lot of controversy and
and and the who does has been sort of
like largely the you know taking the
blame for it
you know there there's you know poor
Rican tensioners are taking significant
haircuts sort of an average about ten
percent on their on their pensions which
weren't that big to begin with you just
go through you know and and and if you
want to really get into the weeds which
is actually where McKenzie operates
right you know they operate in the deep
deep deep deep deep impenetrable you
know kind of numbers that are actually
where the the real power is right you
know there's a lot of stuff going on
there you know like it's too too
complicated to for first of all for me
to completely understand I think and
second of all for us to discuss in the
context of this but but but like suffice
it to say that like there's a lot of
stuff happening on spreadsheets and with
computers there have that it ends up
having you know really like really like
kind of noticeable effects on Puerto
Rican life just to take you know you
know one example our collaborators that
we were working with on this story we
you know at Puerto Rican an
investigative news website I talked with
the head of the Department of Public
Safety who was complaining that you know
they're having this catastrophic crime
wave in part because of the the Police
Department has lost so many officers and
and the head of the Department of Public
Safety was complaining that you know
because of the her State Board he wasn't
able to buy bullets right which kind of
seems like a very basic thing that the
police probably need get to you know
because I do there's a few other things
I want to cover in the last you know a
couple of minutes we have but I do in
the end I want to loop back to a
philosophical question that actually and
maybe I should just I'll set that aside
but I think it's actually there's two
quotes that are really important to
Center but before we get there the other
major part of this story is that I would
say
as I said you know a very credible
allegation about a conflict of interest
in McKinsey in terms of their work in
Puerto Rico and I would be very
interested too because as you also note
in the article they're doing this sort
of stuff in a lot of places across the
Caribbean but what specifically is the
charge of a conflict of interest between
McKenzie's consulting work and their own
financial interests as a broader you
know global consultancy which again you
know as you said they work everywhere
this is they're involved with everything
from Trump administration immigration
policy to Mohammed belt Ben Salman's
plans for Saudi Arabia so what's the
what is it yeah there's basically this
but McKenzie has something called the
McKinsey Investment Office story the
1980s supposedly to kind of manage
retirement funds for McKinsey it's grown
into like about a twelve billion dollar
fund and they operate internally they
operate some hedge funds that are you
know have you know a billion or more
dollars in assets under management they
claim that there's a big Chinese wall
where you know that the where the they
you know they that the hedge fund people
don't know anything about what the
consultants are doing there's a lot of
questions about that and in part you
know even if they even if it is
completely being done if they're even if
there's complete sort of informational
compartmentalization what it really
brings to the fore is the fact that you
know McKinsey doesn't disclose anything
about who it's working for and it really
doesn't it just goes anything about who
it's investing in so the only way that
you can really is you can really you
know assure yourself that McKinsey isn't
doing things the benefit McKinsey is to
take Mackenzie's word for it and
Mackenzie's basic does it basic position
on this is like of course we wouldn't do
this because we're McKinsey you know
they they have this kind of like they
have this kind of you know almost sort
of aristocratic attitude about it
they're the foremost management
consulting firm in the world and and
therefore you know and they have this
kind of unimpeachable reputation and and
therefore you know they they can they
can kind of do that they could do things
differently than other people do for
instance in bankruptcy court you're
supposed to you're supposed to disclose
everything that you're you know all your
investments if you're a lawyer working
in bankruptcy court bankruptcy advisor
you're supposed to say I'm invested in X
Y & Z and here are my other clients
McKinsey wasn't doing that they ran into
a bunch of trouble it's kind of
complicated and but anyway suffice it to
say became a big controversy they
weren't disclosing things that looked
like they could be complex of interest
in terms of benefiting from austerity
packages in Puerto Rico just I mean you
don't need to spell more of it out but
that their work in Puerto Rico could be
implicating some of their investment it
was far broader than just Porto Rico
like what what the what happened when
when it got sort of when when they
examination when it's they started being
examined a little more closely as it
turned out that lo and behold had fun
that because he operates had a
substantial investment in Puerto Rican
government bonds short rest government
bonds that happened they just happened
to get be part of a settlement that got
there was quite a generous settlement
from the government these bondholders
got a lot of money back and you know
every cent that the bondholders get back
and these bankruptcy settlements is you
know it's money that's not going to the
Puerto Rican government it's money that
they're paying out the door to Hegeman
so so this became quite controversial it
was you know it was investigated by the
oversight board I should say the
oversight boards own internal
investigation found that there's no
conflict of interest but you could
understand how people in Puerto Rico
weren't necessarily taking that at face
value I can understand how I'm not
taking over the board is completely
dependent on McKenzie for everything
right I mean everything that's they
couldn't kick them out
yeah I mean not to interrupt but I mean
look obviously again I look of course I
don't believe it just don't believe it .
but frankly even if you took a more sort
of moderate moderate or modest position
on it you could just say even look even
if it was theoretically clean under the
current arrangement you could never
demonstrate that just definitionally
because the level of interdependence
here and so i think that yeah right
so in and that brings me to the last
couple of minutes because i want to
touch on because you really do a great
job too and this is also highlighting
some philosophical themes and so to me
you know yes there's one element that a
lot of firms and a lot of bureaucracies
and companies like you know McKinsey
they can they can one they can get away
with doing a lot of damage by over
complexify and you know sure there's
some operations there's some things or
some technical capacities that are
complex but on the other hand i think
that there there's like you know there
is the other end of it which is that
actually is pretty simple does the do
you have bullets or not do you have you
know schoolbooks or not is actually not
terribly complicated um and and you know
i think a lot of this actually we've
learned a lot of this from the Wall
Street meltdown you know of Wall Street
banks so you couldn't possibly
understand all these mechanisms well
maybe not in the terms of you know
sitting in front of the computer and
generating algorithms but certainly we
can all understand enough to know the
systemic risk you're posing to the
global economy so I want to just give
you two quotes to me that just sort of
highlight that so one you quote from a
very good piece that was published in
current affairs by a young McKinsey
consultant who wrote this piece they
wrote the piece they quit the company
and discussed because they were
disgusted by Mackenzie's work with the
trumpet administration's immigration
policy and this person I guess
apparently is a he even though it's
anonymous but we know the person
McKinsey is capitalism distilled it's
advocacy of the primacy of the market
has made governments more like
businesses and businesses more like
vampires end quote
that seems to me again it's polemical
but that sounds like you
strip the polemic indefinitely I don't
think anybody would disagree with the
assertion that that's what they're doing
making it run more like a quote unquote
business then we go to the gentlemen
who's in charge of McKinsey in Puerto
Rico telling you again and this is the
most sort of Howard Schultz Ian kind of
peak line imaginable set aside politics
set aside policy set aside all of that
there was a true management crisis that
has come to a head because of the debt
isn't that sort of like the distillation
of not only the fact that you know when
you adopt that rhetoric that always
basically means that you're gonna do
policies that are you know not gonna be
good for you know working or
middle-class people but that the
McKinsey way of not acknowledging just
precisely of where it they are actually
coming from right or wrong it's that
we're just doing math versus we have a
very clear idea G about how the world
works and we're using our quantitative
skills to implement it right or wrong
well I mean I would I would sort of - I
would actually sort of take a slightly
different view of it which is that I
think that part of what's going on is
that the McKinsey folks are just are
having to deal with a really kind of
jarring recalibration or just in the way
that their work is judged you know I
think that until recently I don't I
think it was you know the idea that
private sector kind of management
oriented solutions were the were the way
to reinvent government as Bill Clinton
you know to use the couldn't Tony in
phrase right and clear Chelsea Clinton
worked for or for Mackenzie right you
know the like that idea had sort of a
had a kind of like a broad I think
bipartisan acceptance in Washington that
this was the management efficiency was
necessary and that the and the kind of
McKinsey asked solutions technocratic
uh you know private sector oriented
solutions to governance problems were
we're kind of not only just like the the
way to go and the like most effective
way to solve to solve government
government problems but also like that
they were like considered to be
apolitical and I think the big thing
that's changed and in the thing that
McKenzie is having a lot of trouble
grappling with is the fact that you know
there's now a whole movement in which
people are saying wait no you're you're
you're a political solution is in fact
political right you you're you're
claiming that you're claiming that these
are just sort of that we're just like
we're just here then we're just here the
management consultants here to tell you
how better to manage things like you
know we'll leave the politics to the
politicians and a lot of you know I
think a lot of people are basically
rightly standing up and saying no way
you don't get to like you don't get to
claim that you're you're the only people
you're the only honest brokers here and
that you're in a your solutions which
you know that are you claim are the
right solutions always happen to end up
benefiting the same kind of cluster of
of interests in society you know I think
that there's been widespread questioning
of that and questioning of question of
their motives question of questioning
their their preconceptions and
questioning the effects of those those
preconceptions and I think you know to
the degree that I have have sympathy for
them it's I do have a little sympathy
for the fact that like these folks have
been gone through their entire lives in
their entire careers basically being
lauded for you know for the way that
they approach problems and and now all
of a sudden it's being viewed in a
different light and they're they're
suddenly having to kind of grapple with
the possibility that what they consider
to be the sort of broadly accepted you
know conventional wisdom is not in fact
that you know
back being accepted by society anymore
yeah I mean I'm sure that is you know
psychologically disruptive for them they
can fall back on for sure yeah yeah I
just I for me I find it to be as a
journalist I find it to be an
interesting nominally an interesting
phenomenon to explore and and I mean I I
generally come from the point of view
that like I mean sure there are bad
there are people who are just outright
bad actors right and and you know the
guys the guy the McKinsey guy who went
to go run Valeant Pharmaceuticals you
know like you know even McKinsey people
that I talk to her like that guy you
know was bad news but like but but I
think that there are a lot of people who
are there who basically you know work
the hardest thing for them cognitively
to like work out is if they think that
they're the good guys right they think
going in right Puerto Rico with like a
set of solutions and like you know they
think that they're that sort of like you
know management consulting ninjas who
are like there to like you know to kind
of come in and solve this problem for
for this for this poor been aided you
know island that hasn't had good
management you know for four generations
and let's face it like you know they
haven't had great management for
generations there's some truth and and
and and what and what Mackenzie's saying
and I think most Porto Ricans would
agree with it but but like you know I
think I think that the I think the
problem is is just like you know the bay
they expected to be greeted as
liberators right and that and that and
they weren't I think that I mean the
last thing I'll say I think that that's
a very good analogy and the other thing
that just struck me and again you know I
think we even need to be very aware when
we talk about mismanagement and so on
just be Porter Rico of certainly not
distinguished themselves but again
there's such a context that this exists
inside that the idea of you know to me
it's almost analogous to how did we get
a conversation in this country for a
really long period of time where it was
like you know it's it's the teacher talk
about something like how Puerto Rico is
managed and when you say greeted as
liberators it also struck me how and you
know just your your final thoughts on
this that you really spend a lot of time
again just you know and not questioning
their motives or anything like that but
just the idea that you have some twenty
four year old or something that just
graduated from Yale or Columbia coming
in and rejiggering identified on you
know police going into neighborhoods
that they have nothing to do with they
don't live by and again sort of in a
similar analogy you can almost strip
aside the individual motivations of a
particular police officer and just say
there's a structural problem here and
the idea that you're having people who
have no real connection to a place come
in and make drastic decisions about it
structure set up that systematically
screws over report yep and and like and
so you know McKenzie is just one portion
of that but they're they're far from the
only one you know and and I think that
like I think that I think that you know
blaming one set of people or one company
or one government is like it's a lot
easier than then taking a hard look and
saying like you know why is it that the
United States basically owns an island
and doesn't give it any legal
representation and also you know quite
systematically stars of the kind of kind
of tax support that that a USD would
have 100 percent it's a fascinating
piece and you write rice the piece is
the McKenzie way to save an island
that's a New York magazine a lot to
learn
Andrew thanks so much for your time I
really appreciate it hey thanks for
having me take care alright folks a lot
to get to in the fun half we're running
a little bit behind so let me just say
but Joe
I am / become a member you can click
also on the home page it's very easy to
do less than 40 cents a day it's how
this show does what it does which I
think and I mean experts though it does
but I mean really I mean from content
like that to even like some some
important sort of corrective work on the
Rubens and Crowder's of the world
covering a lot of bases between all of
us and and obviously with Sam at the
helm here so support us spread the word
also of course very proud of and excited
about TM BS this Sunday illicit history
and primer of the modern history of the
Labour Party in the UK and the
leadership of Jeremy Corbyn with Don
Foster of Jacobin and the Guardian and
of course Glenn Greenwald was just on
and I'll be talking about these just
incredible revelations on the process in
Brazil patreon.com slash T mb/s if you
haven't yet we've cracked we're well
over our first 50,000 we just crossed it
last night Michael Brooks show on
YouTube got a flavor of the very
different sets of things that we cover
there but obviously presumably if you
like this show you'll you know very high
likelihood you'll like T mb/s Matt
literary hangover yeah if you've been
looking for the most recent literary
hangover episode it's probably because
you're not the patron that's the
such--such where the joys episode and my
George Orwell series so check that out
and of course you can check out the anti
Fattah history as a weapon and all the
other content there as well the wu-tang
of the left wing podcast universe we'll
see you in the fun half
you
oak so we had to play all that welcome
to the fun half where we have much to
get to let me see here but let me start
with a call if I'm in the phone system I
hope I'm in the phone system I thought I
had called it oh here we are
okay let me take a quick call you are
calling from a 702 area code who are you
where you coming from
702 my codes both hey how you doing bro
flamingo I have a bone to pick with you
my friend listen you already beat me to
the point I got two things I want to
talk about Mike I definitely apologize
not mentioning you have completely
forgot I'm very sensitive you well you
you dis me again you forgot I mean I'm a
sensitive guy he was just I was in eat
at the moment I'm sorry by the way
excellent excellent take down at rahm
emanuel very informative i really like
that's probably my favorite michael
thursday i heard it cools very good yeah
i'm i am and um but what do you have on
your mind though what's what what's
really thinking okay Mike oh I'm sure
you heard cuz I know this you know you
do touch my uncle politics but I'm sure
you've heard about Donald Trump and he
basically said hey you know I'll take
foreign intelligence
yeah it's against heard all that stuff
yeah mice here's the problem you know at
this point Nancy Pelosi is doing
basically political malpractice at this
point he has to be impeached it has to
be some punishment on the table now at
this point Mike you know we've been in
the he's basically been in the trenches
for a long time now all we're getting is
like lip service a lot of lip service
you know we all know in prison XYZ we
need we need punishment that is I just
say really quickly bro flamingo I'm glad
you said that because I know you know
part of the reason I cover some of this
stuff less is not I think actually some
of it is very important but I actually
think you know in some that I thought he
gets over Heights and other part
that are you know the value of each of
us are finding different things to cover
and talk about so that more people are
more informed about more things but I
just want to say that I think the idea
that comment about he should be in jail
there are three ways in which that's a
disaster
because number one I don't think frankly
and this is where I will be like a
squishy liberal while Donald Trump I'm
sure I mean look Donald Trump probably
should have been in jail for years right
I actually think that people should be
very wary of mindlessly aping when he
says that if you have any interest about
preserving any of these so-called norms
and I'm gonna say that things like not
jailing political opponents is a hell of
a lot more important than a quote
unquote norm livre yeah I don't yeah
Lula Libre I don't care about norms I do
care about not jailing political
opponents frankly so right okay so
that's one thing now the second thing is
if she's saying that from a substantive
place which she could very well be then
that well then that's insane that she's
not impeaching him because if somebody
if you actually are saying other than
some t cheap you know talking point
trick that a president should be in
jailed and you have to impeach them
immediately and third you know one of
the reasons that I you know my position
is and I I have not had a strong feeling
about impeachment one way or another
until Rashidah to Lib said impeach the
 because I like that
ethos frankly and I just think it's like
do it or don't and the every day that
they don't do it they look weak
they're miss reading history and it's
it's embarrassing that they come out and
throw those little trinkets like oh he
should be in jail which is by the way a
a problematic thing to say in and of
itself if you're not gonna justify it
and ludicrous if you're not gonna go for
impeachment so anyways that's why that's
a bright but the problem is though my
any actually right by the way but this
is all across the boy at this point now
for exam I'm talking about people like
from Brett Kavanaugh to Brock Turner to
the police
Tangela chimp himself well you don't
punish these guys this is what you get
we get a lot of no fence sitting do
whatever look I get it you're saying
that in my dad you know you seems
political and people the Liberals Bieber
but those in the room whatever problem
is it was a political you're supposed to
punish your political enemies this is
what happens when you sit there
it's a negotiate with these thugs and
rapists okay basically at this point
Mike you actually and we're seeing ever
seen kind of big generals but here you
know in a schism in the party your stare
I'm saying but at the end of the day
people want material tangibles people
like material material tangibles uh
punishment and justice okay cuz no
because what we see now Mike you're
saying we reset the brown shirts i ate
ate ice going at the latinos okay it's a
little bit the domestic police thing I'm
sorry to interrupt you but that's
another thing frankly that really you
know and this gets into the tension of
the fight between supposedly left and
liberals though I have to say I I just
don't accept I think especially if you
watch his speech yesterday Bernie's been
very clear about these things but that's
another thing you know make your pick is
Donald Trump this unprecedented
dangerous ocher which in many ways he is
in other ways he's just simply the
product of capitalism and all these
other things in my opinion but if that
is the case then you can't treat him
like you're in just some kind of normal
tussle and I think that you know that
there's a certain part of the democratic
and media establishment you know
Venezuela is an amazing example of that
you know to one hand say that this is a
racist and competent and then entertain
the idea of supporting a reach regime
change effort that he's in charge of
Magisto even setting aside ideology it's
just so unbelievably incoherent and it's
gonna be affect you know it's gonna end
your and you know you're gonna be
rightfully pissed off by that I mean I I
agree with you I just really feel like
at this point no you know Mike after the
comments yesterday just want to
jumping-off points me go up to
portion or that's what the file to me
that was the final straw at this point
look we are the future okay did the baby
boomer is in order you know you know the
Dixiecrat and Klansmen like biting soft
plans and I'm sorry the soft plans okay
but these guys they got to be punished
now or call to the carpet for the
mistakes at least at least Bill Clinton
hold for his trash I think he apologized
for Biden's crying the clown is able he
had a sense you have had if I agree with
you people need to be held accountable
and we need to fight and I appreciate
the call thanks man appreciate all right
take care
okay is this the sound this is
apparently Donald Trump you know to be
honest with you I don't I mean look if
this is how we want to play okay but it
is another reaffirmation that to the
extent that this guy has any conscious
process about anything that to the
extent it's not all just you know pure
just nonsense and garbage running out of
his stupid mouth the only pattern to his
behavior there's a pattern of of
certainly bigotry goes back to the
Central Park five and then the other
pattern is generating immunity for
himself and I do mean immunity so you
know look there was all this controversy
about the last election and I'm gonna
double down on you know taking
information from from foreign sources
now you know let's just see what he has
to say the sound is off guys do we need
to reset this okay I'm just not sure
what's going on there guys you got it
all right if you have it now we don't
even need to reset it all right you
ready girls I'm down jr. is up before
the Senate Intelligence Committee today
and again he was not charged with
anything
in retrospect that way not only wasn't
he charged if you
read it with all of the horrible fake
news I mean I was reading that my son
was gonna go to jail this is a good
young man that he was and then the
report comes out and they didn't even
say they thought he was dog food you're
going to the FBI when he got that okay
let's put yourself in a position you're
a congressman somebody comes up and says
hey I have information on your opponent
do you call the FBI his son is not a
congressman you do I've seen a lot of
things over my life I don't think in my
whole life I've ever called the FBI in
my whole life you don't call the fo yo
see that's the real like sometimes you
got to do business with Sammy the bull
have you you building buildings things
don't happen if there's a rat I think I
mean you do I've seen a lot of things
over my life I don't think in my whole
life I've ever called the FBI my whole
life I don't you don't call the FBI you
throw somebody out of your office you do
whatever Gore got a stolen briefing book
he called the FBI well that's different
they're stolen briefing but this is
their bleach bit email these emails from
a foreign intelligence service that's
that like notes from another campaign
thing I love how he even see basically
he says the thing that's way less
important than what I'm talking about
yeah that's the one before it all he
knows is he needs to make a distinction
it doesn't matter if that distinction
actually helps him when you think about
it absolutely everything but this is
understand this is somebody that said we
have information on your opponent oh let
me call the FBI give me a break life
doesn't happen the FBI director is wrong
whoa your campaign this time around if
foreigners if Russia if China if someone
else offers you information on opponent
should they accept it or should they
call the FBI I think maybe you do both
if somebody called it's a win win from a
country Norway was information Norway
ain't trying to help you get reelected
huh
let's be very clear about that yes
president Trump you have
on the Hillary Norway we have
information on your hallway oh I think
I'd want to hear they have information I
think I'd take it if I thought there was
something wrong I go maybe to the FBI if
I thought there was something wrong but
when so which I mean if they were
against us right well that I just that's
depth the marker I wanted to lay down
because I get you know less in a tizzy
about these things frankly in a sense
that you know if if if and you know no
other campaign would ever handle things
the way Trump does but my point is is
that if information somehow filtered in
in a non-traditional way that benefited
your preferred candidate on you know I
know I'm sorry we live in this world I'm
not sure it's the end well Corbin was
helping Bernie somehow well actually
that was a major controversy when Bill
Clinton was running for for office the
major government I don't remember
specifically what it was but they I
think they leaked things related to his
draft resistance or draft-dodging which
was supposed to help George HW Bush I
mean you know even really relatively
benign things like that are not unheard
of and of course when you know ROH
Khanna he hasn't introduced it again but
I remember I think in 2017 he introduced
a bill saying hey we should just make it
illegal for the CIA to do anything that
Russia is accused of doing even have
many co-sponsors so you know let's again
let's be real and have like an adult
conversation about this stuff but the
important thing here is that he's laying
down another and to me this is the as
far as I'm concerned this is the real
marker of his lawlessness okay yes
broadly and publicly saying I'll take
information from everybody yes that's a
problem but the real problem is is
exactly what Matt just said is that his
metric would be if this Bennet if if the
same arrangement happened with any other
campaign he would caught calling for
them to have their citizenship stripped
and be sent to like the archipelago so
that's the point is is it's another you
know double standard
some wonder ways of you know having to
deal with Trump is really dealing with
somebody who does not even pretend to
have a cursory respect for our
institutions I mean he is just
functionally lawless their favourites in
our elections it's not an interference
they have information I think I'd taken
I thought there was something wrong I'd
go maybe to the FBI if I thought there
was something wrong but when somebody
comes up with Apple research right they
come up with up or research oh let's
call the FBI the FBI doesn't have enough
agents to take care of it but you go and
talk honestly to congressmen they all do
it they always have and that's the way
it is it's called Oppo research by the
way we'll say that is a pretty the
difference between Oppo research which
is hiring somebody to dig up information
versus direct data slightly different
thing yeah there's this weird thing
where it's sort of like this stuff does
interest me especially like in the pre
Trump era these sorts of stories were
very interesting right like the Nixon
stuff about the Paris peace talks like
the actual like well not actual this is
actual - which is dumb
also but there's this like is this weird
thing where it's not a surprise that he
would say like you know everyone does it
and it but it's it's almost a relief
that he's saying it out loud like at
least we can like top use this as a way
to have conversation I almost think he
brings it up because he thinks everyone
is gonna be so uncomfortable and will be
afraid to actually talk about it all
right but that's not our problem really
like this is this is basically just red
meat for us it's I mean and it's it
really opens up the door for and it
requires some subtlety of thinking right
like when he said the thing about you
know Putin and he was like what you
think we're so good or something you
know something to that effect of like
you're gonna come Lorelei's me about
what Russia does like are you kidding me
like you think we run like a daycare
center
and you know what was so revealing in
the response and the only smart response
what you know one was there's definitely
a part a huge part of his constituency
that's represented in how the right
conceives of itself now and fits with
ice and fits with lawlessness and fits
with racism and all the rest of it which
was to basically say like yeah exactly
and we'll go and kill and murder whoever
we want and in fact they have been in
civilian casualties of spike they're
supporting a genocide in Yemen Yemen but
then the sort of establishment Arian
conventional liberal response was to get
into West Wing mode and pull out the
sniffing the smelling salts and just
retreat to a fantasy about what the
United States is in the world stage in a
way that not only is historically
illiterate and politically foolish it's
actually quite offensive to human beings
across the planet and the one you know
correct answer and I think maybe Alex
Perrine put it which was like you know
yes it is funny that Trump sort of
sounds like Noam Chomsky but no
Chomsky's point is that that's a bad
thing
nots like not a hey get off of my case
we kill innocent people too
whatever so the point is is to you know
take those so yeah look if Trump is a
launching off point for a whole set of
conversations about how we interfere in
other elections about how Russia is
interfering across the globe how China
is interfering across the globe how
political consultants are used the Nexus
I mean you know huee is gonna be another
major thing here and one of the charges
against who way is that they are working
in concert with the People's Liberation
Army to project Chinese foreign and
defense policy if you don't think that
the NSA and other aspects of national
security establishment have some
collaborative relations with Google and
Apple at certain points I would say that
you're being you know off-the-charts
naive so you know it's not to either
indulge and go down to the mock level of
Trump which is what even some people I
think have been irony poison to have
done weren't even on the right but then
you can't you know we can't West Wing it
because a lot of these things he says in
his own
but disgusting way are true and so we
have to have like the hard work of
actually figuring out you know how to
actually deal with these problems
including you know electronic and
campaign interference and so forth
because we do it everybody does it to
the extent they have the capacity to do
it and it's only gonna get more of a
problem you know as we move I mean my
god we're worried about social media
bots and campaigns wait till we are
dealing with 5g in smart cities and you
know I mean the problems that could
arise out of this you know in terms of
misinformation you get really deep I
mean there might need to be to the
extension you know international law
works a geneva accords governing things
like surveillance and drones and stuff
like that you know those are the terms
that we need to start to thinking versus
how dare he we would never do what was
that that's right not America this is
not America I mean you know you could
just you know the next time somebody you
know Joe Biden that's his shtick but
like and you know everything is America
yes America is of course a philip
Randolph and Martin Luther King jr. and
the accomplishments of FDR and the
dissent of Eugene Debs and the and
activism of a more Fred Hampton you know
of course it's an enormous Lee complex
country that has in you know some
amazing traditions and capacities but
it's also like you know I mean just on
its face this is not America about the
Charlottesville rally when the to
material building blocks that allowed
this whole thing to flow out were a
genocide and the slave economy is just
you know again morally wrong
historically illiterate like what the
hell does Joe Biden mean I mean
literally what do you mean you know
because all of these things are
demonstrably America there's a great new
report in The American Prospect that
actually implicates some of the dirty
dealings between democratic officials in
Puerto Rico as part of the backdoor to
tom Perez's election as DNC chair and I
want to say you know III want to hold
myself accountable when I make you know
I don't think look I hundred percent
supported keith ellison but i think i
also said at the time like hey this is
kind of like the establishment picking a
sort of liberal member of it this isn't
the worst thing in the world we need to
support keith and one that position is
actually way less tenable than it is two
years ago because frankly we're already
in a different moment the party has
quote-unquote moved left so now the
argument is about what does this
actually look like in terms of power
restructuring and again that's another
distinction that separates Bernie
Sanders from the rest of the field
um but Tom Perez specifically as a
public spokesperson as a fundraiser as a
strategist has just been comically
subpar and the path to which he got into
that position was so disgusting to
justifying nothing he's a plant
he is a plant any incredible mediocrity
and so he's confronted by some kids from
the sunrise movement who've been doing
excellent work on centering the climate
crisis and their question is is like why
is the Democratic National Committee not
going to have a climate specific debate
I mean climate change is literally the
question about the basic ability to
inhabit planet Earth as human beings
seems like it should probably be on the
docket and of course not only are they
not going to have one but there's very
draconian rules now about having
independent debates of the DNC
so he's confronted by a great young
activist and here is Tom Perez and as
you could imagine he handled this really
well week and a half ago governor Inslee
called and said I would like to have a
climate only debate and I said what I
just said to you governor we are going
to have a more robust and granular
discussion of climate in the course of
our debates if this season
ever before but to change the rules
because the candidate who has made this
his signature issue wants us now you
know four months later by the way when
we announced our rules nobody complained
everybody said I get the rules of
engagement and I understand why governor
Inslee wants to do this and I understand
the importance of the issue but to
change the rules now and say we're going
to do it differently after we had all
agreed on the terms of engagement then I
need to go back to a number of
organizations who said I want debate on
my issue and my issue only and we don't
have enough debates to do that we're
gonna do climate changing not yours
there you go
right so if you understand the impact
that the climate crisis is going to have
it isn't a single issue it's going to
affect literally every single aspect of
our lives the air we breathe our homes
with 15 candidates which i think is
almost half it's not just endly it's not
preferential treatment for him if you
hold a climate change debate and I would
say that the rules are very thin defense
for against the climate crisis it's
going to affect single issues very real
so right and now the I mean look it is a
very fun when you have the juxtaposition
of like her facts are right the moral
case is right the she's I don't know how
old she is but she's already far more
articulate and strong speaker than Tom
Perez and just I mean we'll get back to
him but I really do want to just I'm
sorry I have to you know just I'll be a
blunt instrument on this segment let it
sink in that he will not support a forum
on arguably outside of nukes which isn't
even on the table I mean my god every
single presidential election I think
should probably have an arms control
forum for God's sake but an issue that
is literally existential and his
argument is rules I mean this is this is
uh you know we can't treat you at the
hospital for a you know gunshot wound
because somebody didn't fill out a form
correctly type of stuff and I'm sorry
this idea that
would have to go back to activist and
and disappoint them by saying like
they're not gonna be able to dedicate
the time to him that's not going to be a
surprise to those activists like they'll
be used to the Democrats being like yeah
we're not good yeah I think they'll be I
think they'll bid wait a second at least
in this case you're actually blowing us
off for not a formal obvious oh you're
doing they always do oh thank ya at
least in this case you might be doing it
for something that actually matters and
there's 12 debates scheduled like or not
scheduled yet but they're supposed to be
twelve debates by at the end of April
2020 you can't fit one in that's climate
based and we should also point out that
that provision they have which says you
can't do our debates if you do any
independent debates absolutely a single
issue crisis is very real and that is
why at the end of the day I urge you to
judge us I always say when they end of
the day you and also the the hand
movements that he clearly got he said
some coach or even just watched his own
YouTube videos it's like I bet he still
watches the Republicans don't give a
 about your video yeah his one
moment which even then was only sort of
look basically ironically funny crisis
is very real and that is why at the end
of the day I urge you to judge us on
whether I kept my word that we are going
to have a broader and more robust debate
on climate than ever before we there are
debates where you there wasn't a
question about climate change in the
debates last time so it's a pretty low
bar yes you carve out a section of the
debate and it's on issue a or it should
be we will be doing that throughout the
course of the wild debate season whoa
there are a number of different ways to
make sure that we meet the North Star
principle you and I North which is our
and a change is real it's it's an issue
that was not discussed adequately in the
past we're not going to allow that to
happen
again and we're gonna do it in a way
that make sure that we are respecting
the gravity of the issue
Jesus you already aren't I mean unless
the rest of that clip is also we're
gonna expropriate fossil fuel company
Yeah right it's like how about yeah you
know what I will trade a debate for the
complete nationalization and criminal
prosecution of the leadership class of
all the major fossil fuel companies
that's I'll trade you for that Tom
that's so frustrating like our no stop
principal that climate change is real
yeah Tom we know climate change is real
the problem is what is the Democratic
Party gonna do about that yeah I mean
this is incredible like this is like a
if climate change is real every single
national leader of the Democratic Party
from the 1990s has said climate change
is real I mean I don't even know like
that's not even saying some like vague
cafe targets or something Tom Tom Perez
is a disaster and we should keep and it
doesn't matter you know what if it
benefits jay Inslee and I've heard you
know jay Inslee has been my sort of like
you know him and Gravelle have been my
kind of like favorite you know 0%
candidates but I've heard that his
record as governor and Washington
doesn't necessarily match up to his
rhetoric and so that's worth I mean
frankly I don't know if it's worth
exploring now because he's not a factor
in the race but the truth of the matter
is is like if he's opportunistically
promoting that we need to Center the
climate crisis good
that opportunism should be rewarded I
mean could you it yes so childhood logic
I'm sorry Brielle just gets you one
second but like just the idea that
you're like oh we can't talk about the
most important issue facing humankind
because one guys using it to his
political advantage
it's very opportunistic to take on
something that will save the human race
right right what yeah look I mean if you
look at right exactly and if look if jay
Inslee is sitting there like you know
what I frankly don't give a about
polar bears in fact I think if we would
just let Peter teal figure it out we
could do a climate change but I want to
run as a boring middle-aged
like governor and the only path to do
that is to reach out to these lunatic
kids that think that somehow a gate will
be able to breathe in the future if that
is jay inslee secret monologue well then
actually he would be a far more sort of
interesting public character that he
seems to be but then great so what
precisely the opposite of a sam harris
argument right now intentions are
irrelevant to this conversation have a
climate debate and just you know tweet
in a very respectful and nice way but
say hey Tom do you think you're doing a
good job hey Tom would you care to
revise your answer to the young
activists about why we don't have a
climate debate hey Tom do you think we
could fit in a 13th debate on the most
urgent issue facing the planet hey Tom
can you like audit a class at Brown
about running a political party because
the Lord knows I hope you're not
teaching it turn up Vega Wow Sam finally
caught up with Marin and interviewed a
president glad to be here for this
historic moment yellow sweater that one
didn't come through Josh from Arizona
you guys talk about the Raytheon merger
no I don't know about that that sounds
important actually Kentucky Fried
comrade one of the things that bothers
me Oh a Biden's claim that the
Republican fever will break when Trump
is losses that even if we grant that
absurd idea it would have been true of
any Democrat who beat Trump right
precisely except he's implying first of
all he's insulting President Obama by
doing that which Sam has pointed out and
that's why the Obama people don't like
it and there's and maybe there's even a
racial kind of implication by that I
mean I could see that and then also
there's you know the notion that I think
is also in it which is like okay their
fever will break just enough for them to
stop sort of winking at Nazis which I
guess is good and then also enough maybe
for us to team up to finally cut Social
Security which I am totally not at all
unconvinced wouldn't be on the Block in
a Biden presidency given his entire
history Brock from
is this a joke I think this is a joke
Brock from BA from VA mildly teasing
progressive allies Blake Pakman is
exactly what turned Dave Rubin from a
progressive comedic genius into an
YouTube alt right tour guide do you want
more Nazis because this is how you get
bored Nazis okay yeah I hope that's a
joke Eric Weinstein yeah yeah that
sounds like an Eric Weinstein point
sizzle chest long time volunteer valley
listener and member here and it's my
birthday today show of our Pili's well
happy birthday and much love to the
Pioneer Valley
so Bernie did this address on well
actually you know let's let's start with
funniness first you guys remember Marco
Rubio little Marco he was another great
embarrassment to this country's
political class people actually thought
that he was some type I mean the first
brand of Marco Rubio is that he was the
answer to Barack Obama and what was
incredible and you know I've said this
so many times of like one can and should
be if you have left politics be a
profound and relentless critic of
President Obama's record on Wall Street
on the economy on national security on
aspects of health care on labor on the
environment and so on right but the
notion that anybody it wasn't just that
he had a certain charisma he's an
incredibly smart guy who took a very
strategic approach to his own career and
I wish more so for all of the Democratic
Party but then much of the national
press and all these Republicans they
just they they they their delusion and
disrespect that Barack Obama was so
profound that they were just like he's
youngest she's you know he's young he's
in his 40s and uh he you know he plays
basketball he seems kind of fit he has a
non Anglo name
that's our Barack Obama you know in a
way that was just totally delusional and
disrespectful to Obama and then of
course Marco Rubio ran for president it
was a disaster he was humiliated by
Donald Trump he had a few moments where
even though even Marco Rubio who I have
absolutely no respect for I think he's
not bright I think he is purely the pawn
of the arms industry and far-right
interests in Florida there's not a
single issue in which he's distinguished
himself on but there were one or two
moments with Trump where it actually
seemed like even this total dull
careerist registered that you could not
have a dangerous bigoted narcissistic
authoritarian as president but of course
he endorsed Trump and count out the
Trump so even that one or two moments
where I actually genuinely thought he
had some human recognition that Trump
was unacceptable is
and now he here he is is just a you know
another far-right war promoting
back-bencher he tweeted out that photo
of Qaddafi couple weeks ago which is I
think actually helpful in our resistance
to regime change in Venezuela and he
needs to find a way to get back into
relevance and so since a an important
and dynamic and conscience driven
politician like Bernie Sanders is
talking about democratic socialism and I
don't know maybe there's some you know
ninety something like bolita
entrepreneurs you still remember the Bay
of Pigs here is Marco Rubio talking
about democratic socialism is quickly
becoming a trendy phrase in American
politics but why has it become so
popular among some because it allows the
radical left to ignore the incredibly
destructive history of socialism and the
promises are very familiar a universal
basic income free college government-run
health care a guaranteed government job
for everyone there's just one problem
democratic socialism is incompatible
with our American values democratic
socialism hasn't worked anywhere in the
world and in fact there are people
living in America today who came here
because democratic socialism destroyed
the economies of their countries there's
no doubt that our public policies must
change to better reflect our values of
dignified work and strong families and
thriving communities the democratic
socialism that will never be the answer
okay and of course just in the last
point Marco Rubio is obviously voted for
every single rich in corporate tax
giveaway he's voted to cut protections
for consumers he's voted to destroy
health care for tens of millions of
people I mean we know what his policy
said is right we we know that obviously
the idea that there's any policy set
that would even remotely benefit anybody
who isn't an oligarchy is a lie and
ridiculous on its face but the to sort
of actual substantive answers to that if
that could even summon any substance our
first and easiest which is wait you're
talking about people fleeing higher
liver living standards and higher life
expectancy and better life outcomes from
sweet
Norway and Denmark to come to the United
States to not have healthcare pay for
college and deal with extreme wealth
inequality and when it comes to
countries in developing world and
particularly countries that people like
Marco Rubio want the United States
militarily and CIA involved in and
potentially assassinating people and
destabilizing governments well it's
pretty useful to remind yourself that
actually most of these governments going
even back to the Michael Manley
government in 1970s Jamaica
were really focused on in fact
implementing some form of the same
successes that the New Deal did here and
countries in Europe were able to achieve
for themselves and the reasons that they
weren't able to do it was because
countries like the United States relied
on them to have cheap labor and have
their resources exploited in a supply
chain that didn't work for them at all
so I doubt Marco Rubio or anybody who
took that video on it all seriously
would understand any of that but those
are some actual talking points that you
can use to have a real historical
conversation about these things now
here's some footage of Marco Rubio
hitting a kid with a football this is
just a visualizes attempts to talk about
talk to the kids okay what's this Rubio
cliff here is this a classic okay is
this from a February 2016 wow this is so
fun we are taking our message to
families that are struggling to raise
their children in the 21st century
because as you saw Jeanette and I are
raising our four children in the 21st
century and we know how hard it's become
to instill our values and our kids
instead of the values that try to ram
down our throats in the 21st century
it's become harder than ever to instill
in your children the values they teach
instead of the values that they try to
ram down our throats in the movies and
music and popular when I see repeating
says Rebecca why do you keep saying
do you need a drink of water you
lightheaded I went when I was working
with fusion on the 2016 campaign we did
the RNC debate and in South Carolina and
I remember I knew Trump really had a
chance when they were like four College
Republicans with Marco Rubio signs
outside and then a bunch of people just
surrounding them with Trump stuff like
you out shouting them down I was like
Marco's got no chance
little Marco has no chance let's just
face it guys it's not good happy for
look it's a tough ride he said I've
never seen a young guy so thirsty you're
calling room a 7:07 area code who are
you worried calling from hi Logan I'm
con from Sonoma hey Logan I don't mind
so I was just caught oh I'm good I'm
good I'm just calling because I wanted
to encourage people to get involved in
their local politics as much as possible
I recently ran and successfully one
person I'm a City Council and as a
result of that election we raised
minimum wage in Sonoma so we're going to
17 in 2023 and then trading with chain
CPI we're also increasing taxes on
hotels and BRB OS and using that money
to fund the affordable housing and it's
pretty amazing I had no political
experience before but I was born and
raised in a town it's a town of about
like ten eleven thousand people and it
is amazing once you start getting
involved how quickly you can start being
a positions of decision-making and I
just think it's a really good thing for
people to do we put a lot of energy and
effort in the national politics but
looking locally can be something that
can have direct effect on people's lives
very quickly
awesome Logan congratulations thanks for
the call all right so Bernie Sanders
gave a really important address
yesterday at George Washington
University and I I you know I did I
actually did do a long stream on this
yesterday on my channel and I'll try to
elaborate some of those points and maybe
find some new ones I think
um and which one there's you starting
with one okay this is actually really
really important part of the speech and
you know there's a huge amount of
substance in it and it is incredibly
important I'd recommend everybody read
Harvey JK it is important particularly
it's just a matter of practical politics
to embrace that FDR legacy in the
context of a Democratic primary and in
fact very disappointingly even Elizabeth
Warren and this Atlantic piece laughed
at the idea of democratic socialism
which she also stood up to clap Trump
when he said we're will always be a
capitalist country or whatever he said
yes which is a disaster and it's a
disastrous way of conceiving the world
and it's a disastrous wave it's a
limitation on your sense of democratic
possibility and serious accountability
which will undermine even good
technocratic reforms and part and so you
know as far as that part of the speech
goes the the question for all the other
Democrats is do you support completing
me me New Deal or not
you know forget your snarkiness and
historical illiteracy about the term
democratic socialism
do you support completing the economic
Bill of Rights which coalesce is with
the agenda that Bernie Sanders put on
the table going back to 2016 and his
banged on for four decades in 1999 in
1944 when Franklin Delano Roosevelt
basically said in order to in reality in
actual real world to realize the
liberties that are enshrined in the
Constitution you need a economic and
material base for it and without an
economic and material base those are
false promises and Bernie put that
across very well and he also looped it
with the fact that as we see I mean the
hatred of Bernie Sanders from the
corporate class from the political class
it makes sense why you know the worst
people the Democratic Party the people
who run Center for American Progress the
Democratic leaders the people who've
been having this model that has
worked for them professionally for
decades but has mostly actually been a
critical failure for the Democratic
Party and of course god forbid it's most
necessary constituencies poor people
working people people of color in many
key areas that they hate this guy and
you know one of the reasons that I find
it's so mystifying and bizarre that you
know people who example who are you know
frankly not part of the oligarchy buy
into the propaganda against him is
because it's you're doing the job of
other people who don't generally share
your interests and it's incredibly
self-defeating and even we're the
legitimate criticisms of Bernie they
frankly come from a very left position
that is not represented by any other
candidate and so you know Bernie is
gonna go back to the classic FDR quote
here about the real forces that he's up
against Wall Street Silicon Valley
pharmaceutical health insurance men much
the leadership of the Democratic Party
of course the Republican Party and he's
gonna echo Roosevelt in exactly how he
rightly feels about it like today the
quest for transformative change was
opposed by big business by Wall Street
by the political establishment by the
Republican Party and by the conservative
wing of FDR's own Democratic Party and
he faced the same scare tactics then
that we experienced today red-baiting
xenophobia racism and anti-semitism in a
famous 1936 campaign speech Roosevelt
stated and I quote we had to struggle
with the old enemies of peace business
and financial monopolies speculation
reckless banking class antagonism
sectionalism war profiteering
they had begun to consider the
government of the United States as a
mere appendage to their own affairs we
know now that government by organized
money is just as dangerous as government
by organized mob
and Roosevelt concluded and I quote
never before in all our history have
these forces been so united against one
candidate as they stand today they are
unanimous in their hate for me and I
welcome their hatred
that was that was FDR in 1936
now despite although it does sound I
must say it does sound a little
contemporary doesn't it
despite that opposition by rallying the
American people FDR and his progressive
coalition created the New Deal one four
terms and created an economy that worked
for all and not just the few so this is
really really important and again I
think he's exactly right about the
forces that are up against him and also
the fundamental distinction between his
position in this race and others it's a
difference you know as Ben Burgess said
it's it's not a question even of better
it's just a different kind and then he's
gonna go on an outline his plan for
economic freedoms and their importance
freedom is an often used word but it is
time that we took a hard look at what
that word actually means ask yourself
what does it really mean to be free are
you truly free if you are unable to go
to a doctor when you are sick or faced
financial bankruptcy when you leave the
hospital are you truly free if you
cannot afford the prescription drugs you
need in order to stay alive are you
truly free when you spend half of your
limited income on housing and are forced
to borrow money from a payday lender at
200% interest rates are you truly free
if you are 70 years old and forced to
work because you lack a pension or
enough money to retire are you truly
free if you are unable to go to a
college or a trade school because your
family lacks the income
are you truly free if you are forced to
work 60 or 80 hours a week because you
cannot find a job that pays you a living
wage are you truly free if you are a
mother with a newborn baby but you are
forced to go back to work immediately
after the birth of that child because
you lack paid family leave are you truly
free if you are a small business owner
or a family farmer who is driven out of
business by the monopolistic practices
of big business are you truly free if
you are a veteran who has put his or her
life on the line to defend this country
and tonight will be sleeping out on the
streets this is so important and it's so
basic there's no substance to those
other freedoms without the material base
and you know and again this is another
very important way and linking with the
fight for every category of liberation
and against the bigotry and white
supremacy there's a reason also that
Bernie Sanders centered so much of this
in the 30s and there's a reason why we
look at great leaders like Nelson
Mandela or olof palme in that broader
democratic socialist condition a
tradition because they were some of the
only players who made all of the major
calls write about authoritarian and
fascism authoritarianism and fascism and
yes there is a vitally important
American tradition here including by the
way quoted extensively from dr. King
that is democratic socialism the civil
rights movement was a two-sided movement
one hand to end American apartheid and
legal discrimination it was also to
complete the New Deal by stripping away
the compromises with the Dixiecrats I'm
making it universal protections for all
forms of labor and all forms of social
delivery so and there's a radical
tradition of Deb's who is of course
Sanders is a hero and then there is even
with the historical complexities the
hugely important accomplishments of the
New Deal
so it was very disheartening you know
the Atlantic caught up with his rivals
and they said as Bernie Sanders leans
into socialism his rivals laugh Waterloo
Iowa making Elizabeth Warren laugh can
be tricky throwing her off her talking
points is almost impossible but both
happened when she heard that her 2020
opponent Bernie Sanders who's scheduled
to deliver a major address today and
according to his campaign entitled how
democratic socialism is the only way to
defeat a thora
the only way to defeat oligarchy and
authoritarianism the Massachusetts
senator shook her head
it was Sunday evening we were standing
in the backyard of the house in a poorer
side of town and it goes on she's making
her spiel um and then she says I'll have
to hear the speech she said
diplomatically um and you know she kind
of brushed it off and said I have to
hear it I have to hear it but her first
response is to laugh and then we go in
descending order they asked you know
Hickenlooper and Ben and I don't even
know why they would you know they're
irrelevant um Kamala Harris simply said
huh-uh and so on ask her dad come on
yeah ask your dad if you're confused he
would have some expertise on this but
the thing about you know or maybe he
might not want to speak but the thing
about this is that it's sure it's
campaign stuff and it's juvenile and
whatever but it's they're not just
rejecting Bernie Sanders they're not
just rejecting the absolute necessity
when you talk about real human beings
that need these policies I mean it's
disgusting if you have any sense of
actual people in your life that need
medicare-for-all that's not a luxury
it's not a negotiation that need massive
debt cancellation that need a structural
approach to fighting racism and
xenophobia and fascism which Sanders
also outlined yes its offensive that
they would dismiss that and it says but
it's it's a historical literacy that
rejects their own party and tradition
I mean how many you know FDR dinners are
these candidates going to what's your
position are you you know do you want to
live out in the in 2019 and and include
of course the you know and and and build
on the legacy of a philip Randolph and
Martin Luther King jr. and Eugene Debs
and FDR for a fully realized 21st
century American social democracy and
full democracy for all human beings here
because that's the only way it will work
or are you
you know the inheritors of in you know
Peabody gingers case the he's in former
McKinsey guys we talked about earlier
that was his first gig out of college I
the post 1970s technocracy corporate
tinkering strain or if you're really
gonna aggressively reject you know the
EFT the art legacy well you're on the
right wing part of the party that Bernie
said in the beginning and you would have
been on the wrong side of everything
that we need from Medicare Social
Security civil rights legislation and so
on so I you know pathetic pathetic to
laugh at it when you are denying the
history and you also don't have your own
philosophical architecture to hang a
broader argument around about who and
what we should be in this country um
let's go oh okay we'll loop back to this
just briefly so what is this that we
have up here this is a trump praise
session okay this was this on the list
oh I see I see it's number five so
Donald Trump has you know it continues
to take heat and so he needed and I
don't even I don't think this is a
special moment I think this is just the
way his cabinet sessions began I mean
you know there is the element of don't
think about individual this or that
personalities that the the broader
historical economic forces and so on and
that is mostly true and then there's
also the fact that this particular human
being is president and that's pretty
 wild check out this praise
session
more work that we're doing in terms of
troops and polenta
very very productive good thank you and
I see you got ambassador georgette how's
it going well I can't I can say this
tolling is really an important ally of
ours they step up and support us we have
a number of deliverables I think mr.
president as a transformational
president that you are you will be very
very pleased with the progress that we
have made a certainly under your
leadership and Preston's leadership mr.
president thank you and who is that that
is georgette mossbacher who is
apparently the ambassador to Poland and
she is a American business executive
entrepreneur and political actor Fox
News contributor I bet and guess which
president nominated her Varma Obama no
well that's great good job I'm here as a
member of the United States Advisory
Commission on public diplomacy you know
bipartisan reaching out across the aisle
schools Fox News Fox News apiece
I want something from the Truman
Foundation who the norms control
internship somewhere and was part of the
Iraq war planning on the Democratic side
another rubble good side let's get
somebody talks on Fox it's a lot mr.
president she doesn't believe you were
born in the country even better
reach out she made her money in
cosmetics if you can believe Michaels
salmon Michaels impression of Sam hey
Michael Jessica Reuben wrote a piece in
The Washington Post I mean we're already
off to a bad start
who's Jessica Rubin she's the names
Foyle on a she said I mean she's a she
was a ultra neocon and I guess now it's
Jennifer Rubin Jennifer Rubin what'd I
say oh Jessica this person wrote Jessica
Rubin but it must be Jennifer Rubin
Rodan opinion beast washington post
blahblah showing warren ahead of Sanders
starting its maybe because I don't know
what poll were talking about here I
heard one state poll I don't that's a
that's an outlier poll she's definitely
growing look they've done an incredible
media play because they've they've done
they've gone from totally accurately
saying wire bado and Budaj edge getting
all this attention when she's putting on
a policy blueprint which was a hundred
percent right to now like you know
they've totally got the media going for
them in a very effective way it's
definitely to their credit that the
electorate is tired of old grumpy male
politicians doubling down on being a
socialist and advocating for policies
that the American people don't really
want what's your current take on this I
think she I think she is out of touch
the current situation well I mean look
number one of course she's out of touch
with the current situation to the point
of where I'm quite confident if
Elizabeth Warren was president Jennifer
Rubin will be agitating against all of
her good reforms anyways so you know
this is not a sincere assessment of the
electorate this is somebody who has a
fixation and a hatred and a bizarre
obsession with Bernie Sanders I think in
her case unlike so many people who sort
of like posed and various forums who I
don't even think I have any policy case
I think in her case don't forget the
fact that while she's you know she's
totally repulsed by Trump correctly uh
this is a ultra neocon a war monger an
advocate of Bush era foreign policy so
Bernie Sanders as someone who's took the
lead in the against the genocide in
Yemen who's been forthright about
needing to avert a catastrophic war with
Iran who's spoken out critically of in
the most basic terms of the Israeli
occupation I mean Jennifer Room is not
gonna like that stuff look I find this
whole grouchy I don't go here in general
because I think this stuff is is at
times frankly very misused and you know
sometimes you critique a candidate you
have an opinion about a candidate and it
not is not necessarily filtered through
identity uh and sometimes it certainly
is and I will say some of the things
that I see about Bernie Sanders are apps
lutely either anti-semitic or or I guess
a gist I mean you know I I mean just
he's a grouchy old man I mean what kind
of if you look at Donald Trump Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders and you think they're
all three the same thing you're not able
to do political analysis for a living so
that's what I think of that here's
another thing that Jennifer Rubin
probably would not like so what we're
gonna talk about what's happened in
Brazil and you know I interviewed
Greenwald on my show this reporting is
stunning and you know I've reviewed this
case on this show it obviously means a
lot to me and it's very nice to have
this reporting mean that more people are
catching up on it because it is really
important it is really important that we
have the world's most prominent
political prisoner in the world sitting
in a jail cell in the world's fifth
largest economy in the largest economy
and country in Latin America and that
there is almost undoubtedly a US Justice
Department role in it that matters and I
think it also matters more broadly
because it goes to the heart of why we a
need to put foreign policy back on the
table in terms of conversation and
particularly u.s. interference in Latin
America and B because a simplistic
one-dimensional rhetoric about quote
unquote corruption has been proven quite
amply to only benefit far-right
authoritarian leaders like Donald Trump
drain the swamp or junior bolson ro or
or bond or Putin or Duterte or Modi or
net or even that Yahoo hilariously
enough but I'll just touch on briefly
the releases from the intercept keep
growing and growing and growing in terms
of just the stunning corruption and
politicization of the prosecutorial team
that went after Lula they maintained
publicly the whole time that they
weren't political that they didn't have
an interest in the outcome of the race
and the fact that Judge Sergio Moro who
was sort of a you know served this odd
dual judge prosecutor position took a
position as JR bolsa narrows justice
minister that should have been enough
for every single person in media
and be a person people with any
progressive political bona fides to
immediately reject and along with the
fact that the case against Lula was
threadbare and relied on compelled
testimony of one person that should have
been enough but now these documents are
endlessly filling in and I'll just
highlight a few things so one of course
contrary to their public position they
were actually hugely invested in the
outcome to the point where Judge Sergio
Moro collaborated with and secretly
coordinated a mapped strategy with the
lead prosecutor in a way that I think is
absolutely illegal and a totally
unethical so he would plan when to go on
raids he would help them rewrite briefs
so they were stronger there was work to
undermine Lula's interview ability to do
an interview even after they had already
jailed him in this political way and the
other really significant thing was the
case he was convicted on the prosecutors
themselves to lead prosecutor uh Delton
dalla GaN says in one of these things
basically he's like I he's basically
saying
apart from this item I am I am I am for
I am apprehensive about the connection
between Petrobras and the enrichment the
enrichment is supposedly what they what
they convicted him on was that not even
for getting an apartment actually it was
for getting improvements on an apartment
so this is him talking about that case
Petrobras in the enrichment after they
told me I'm apprehensive about the
apartment story he wrote in a group
telegram chat with his colleagues on
September 9th 2009 four days before
filing their indictment against Lula
these are points which we have to have
solid answers on the tips of our tongues
none of his subordinates responded to
his messages and the materials examined
in this article so four days before
indicted a former two-term president a
national icon who brought tens of
millions of pop out of poverty he's
saying to his own prosecutorial team
what we're about to charge him with
seems pretty weak and not related to the
case now there's new revelations on at
least one Supreme Court justice that
have come out and an endless amount of
of really revealing the corruption and
and just utter disgusting this a judge
Sergio Moro
and Bernie Sanders finally and
thankfully has come out and said I stand
with political and social leaders across
the globe who are calling on brazil's
judiciary to release lula and annul his
conviction the 2018 elections are
completely illegitimate lula LED in all
polls and was jailed in this totally
corrupt and political way and i have to
say don't take politicians words for it
but i played this on my show before lula
was put in prison in this grotesque
farce of Sergio Moro on lava jato and it
is worthwhile to listen to credible
foreign leaders particularly when
they're incredibly successful
progressive presidents here is Lula da
Silva speaking with Amy Goodman last
spring a couple of weeks before he is
put in solitary confinement on these
ridiculous charges and kept from being
elected as brazil's president which he
almost certainly would have been we are
awaiting accusers to show at least some
piece of evidence that indicates that i
committed any crime during the period
that i was in the presidency now what is
behind that is the attempt to
criminalize my political party what is
behind that is the interest in a part of
the brazil together with a part of the
press reinforced by the role of the
judiciary preventing her from becoming a
candidate in the 2018 elections yo
continued is a fear the political era
and i continue challenging the federal
place the office of the Attorney General
I continue challenging judge and the
appellate court show the world
Brazil single piece of evidence of a
crime committed by a portamento topo2
DCI tuna fish 30 behavior of the
judiciary in this instance is a
political form of behavior that's
absolutely right all of the reporting
validates this 100% and I will say look
forward because this team of prosecutors
in Sergio Moro are so political
right-wing and unethical
they've already they were illegally
tapping Lula's phones they released
distorted phone conversations to
embarrass people and so on going back
years so I'm sure they will respond with
more dirty tricks in propaganda he's a
political prisoner he needs to be freed
now and we need to look at this very
seriously just really briefly from the
intercept a probe however is also the
probe this is the carwash prosecution
has been accused of political bias
repeated violations of constitutional
guarantees and illegal leaks of
information to the press a separate
article published stated by the
intercept reveals that the carwash
prosecutors who long insisted they were
a political and concerned solely with
fighting corruption we're in fact
internally plotting how to prevent the
return of power by Lula and his Workers
Party
so this reporting is incredibly crucial
because first and foremost he's a
political prisoner he needs to be free
Brazil didn't have real 2018 elections
corruption as a discourse favors the
right and we need to understand how to
talk about it properly and in capitalist
and oligarchic terms and then also
because the US media still to this day
has covered this case in an incredibly
biased way which has elevated these
right-wing hack prosecutors and repeated
their propaganda and lies about Lula and
it wasn't just the New York Times The
Guardian The Washington Post and so on
who did horrific jobs on this and you
need to be reading Brazil wire and of
course the reports the intercept it was
even some quote-unquote progressive
sources wow that's kind of a I don't
know that kind of that's amazing yeah no
that's amazing I want to get a lava jato
t-shirt
um yep
I don't know if anybody else wants it I
I'm gonna pass on the lava jato t-shirt
particularly if you're talking about
another country it's your obligation
particularly if you're on the left
why don't you seek out real left-wing
sources in that country because even the
ones in Brazil that were much more
critical at Pt would have told you that
the process against Loulou against
delmas Rousseff was a coup and that the
prosecution of Lula was totally
politically motivated and so you have
almost certainly with some direction in
support of the US Department of Justice
a social democratic government that
refused to privatize key geostrategic
assets that lifted tens of millions out
of poverty built hundreds of new
universities made incredible gains in
public health criminalized and now a
fascist is in power and part of the
handmaiden of all of that is just
repeating corruption problem I feel
proud of myself about that I mean look
it's a problem you can't understand what
is the difference between someone
working within the confines of a corrupt
political system to deliver for human
beings versus taking ten million dollars
and putting in a Swiss bank account
it's a fundamentally different thing and
even in the United States I would never
compare Hillary Clinton to Lu Lao it
would be a profound insult to Lula
you know Democratic Party has
accomplished nothing compared to what
the Workers Party has accomplished but
that being said how did we get into a
situation where a guy who is corruption
itself is running around talking about
drain the swamp and then Hillary Clinton
who absolutely was involved in what I
would call structural corruption she get
stared as the corrupt one which she is
part of the corruption of our system
against the guy who like literally has
endless accusations of that you need to
be able to make these distinctions that
think intelligently about it and
ironically the other horrifying thing
about Brazil is that what happened to
Lula
is what Trump is always lying about and
freaking out is gonna happen to him
right I'm he persecuted by the deep
state Lula basically was law fair by the
Brazilian political class to criminalize
him in his party lie about him make him
a political prisoner and then on the
other hand Donald Trump quite clearly
would love to be able to do what these
people have done to Lula to Hillary
Clinton to Barack Obama so there's a
lesson on both ends of this here hey you
need to broke on a release the statement
Bernie Sanders released a statement you
need to go praise them both and then you
need to go and flood everybody else with
a pretension to progressive leadership
they should have done it months ago and
today after these revelations that not
every single forget even progressive
Democrat hasn't come out and demand that
his release is stunning and I'm
including that on a spectrum of
everybody from a guy like Bader O'Rourke
who likes to pretend he's in tune with
things too at the very least I mean my
god I'm always being told about what an
anti-imperialist tulsi gabbard is she
hasn't even signed any of the Lula
letters to begin with
I'm suspect of that is is that that to
me this is red flag all over the place
that's exactly how I put it
and another great example to show that
Elizabeth Warren has no global
solidarity has no understanding of
international affairs from a non you
know interventionist and and a real
critique of u.s. foreign policy
perspective and of course you know aoc
profoundly disappointing and no speed
you know from Grijalva or other leaders
it's it's it's just incredible that they
haven't all come out for this all right
let me take another call you are calling
from a 978 area code who are you where
he calling from Michael what's up man
it's Eric from New Jersey Eric from New
Jersey what's going on what's on your
minds Oh what's up brother um so I
wanted this talk last time I called the
majority port we talked about Medicare
for all you and I talked about it on
patreon cause I just want to talk a
little bit more of the strategic end of
it because I don't think I need to
preach to the choir
I think robably most your listeners are
pretty much on board with it
I don't know if you caught that New York
Times article that came out that
basically talked about exploitation of
medical professionals by this whole
bureaucracy of the system that a lot of
people been kind of sharing that article
around you know I catch it no tell me
yeah it was basically it was a testament
to the fact that the medical field the
healthcare field has been bureaucratized
for the past thirty forty years and that
the rate of growth among administrators
in the field has been like hundreds to
one the rate of job growth and you look
at doctors compared to the
administrators who are basically paid to
just follow them around the microscope
and make them check boxes has grown ten
to one and how the field is basically
thriving and meeting its quotas and
meeting its deadlines and meeting its
productivity because they're taking
advantage of the fact that clinicians
are so dedicated to what they do that
they'll stay the extra hour to complete
charge still see all the extra patients
still click all the box to tell them to
click they'll do basically anything you
need them to do um because they're
dedicated to what they do they are in
the process of you know they're in the
field of human healing and that's
basically being used by the sort of
bureaucratic you know structure within
the medical field to just squeeze
whatever out of them that they can and
that sort of connects clinicians doctors
psychiatrists nurses pharmacists whoever
to the sort of working class in general
yep and I think that together sort of
over the edge of really getting a
broader support throughout the country
for Medicare for all yeah I think to
have the overwhelming support of doctors
and nurses would really be the sort of
final nail in the coffin because to be
able to say hey look whatever you you
know Fox News contributor whoever else
do I think about this look seventy
eighty percent of doctors nurses what I
mean I think that would be a major
strategic advantage and I think if I
could get in Vern easier somehow what I
would tell him is you need to take this
message of workers rights and labor and
speak directly to doctors nurses
pharmacists physical therapists
everybody and say look you're being
exploited
this sort of private for-profit health
care system and went under my Medicare
for All system we are going to make sure
that people who are actually in in the
business of laying their hands on
patients and taking care of people
you're going to be in those conference
rooms we're going to design a system
that sort of puts the soul back into
health care we're going to make sure
that you are not turned into sort of
mindless data enters we're going to move
past the stage where you spend twice as
much time in front of a computer screen
as you do with your patients and I think
it's that I'm ready to incorporate that
messaging you know I think and I think
that's if you actually talk to doctors
who are not I mean right now the polling
I'm long Doc's is like a little under
fifty percent support medicare for all
and if you're actually going to talk to
physicians and say like what's your
concern with this why don't you think I
think most are just concerned with more
they hear more government they think
more bureaucracy they think more box yes
bureaucracy less bureaucracy without all
of these insurance companies undermining
your I that makes total sense to me man
I think that is a point that he should
definitely make I appreciate the call
sure that good Thanks
you're calling from a three one seven
area code who are you worried calling
from hi this is Frank from Indiana hey
Frank what's on your minds well first of
all I've watched Bernie's speech
yesterday I thought it was great and I
agree with most of your comments about
it but I wondered if you saw this
article in The New Republic by Connor
Lynch called the left's failure to
envision a world without capitalism
mmm-hmm no I haven't read it and so
basically the main point of the article
without going into much detail the main
point of it is that the author's saying
that Bernie by focusing on FDR's legacy
and extending and fulfilling that legacy
what he's really doing is arguing for
you know a robust
social-democratic welfare state and that
a lot of what he's arguing for is really
just you know policies that would be
considered status quo in a lot of other
developed countries well I'll tell you I
think
can I just is that is that the argument
because I can tell you what I think well
yes I've heard that him he doesn't you
know Bernie isn't really at least not in
his speech he wasn't really arguing for
okay yeah he wasn't arguing that wind up
sure sure okay yeah I just you know
there's a couple of different things
that come to mind when I see this kind
of take and I and one hand it's like
look in a broad intellectual sense it's
true and if I wanted to be generous and
I'm very hesitant to be generous right
now because I you know I'll explain that
in a second but it's like look our jobs
if we care about advocating a world that
is post-capitalist that has these more
structural you know long-term reforms
we're creating space for that in
journalism you know what do you when I
do a long you know a show on something
like Thomas Sankara or we talk about the
Meitner plan or whatever I mean that's
what we're doing so there's value to
that and there's a sort of you know
pedantic college truth about that point
what I find incredibly irritating and I
don't want to question people's motives
but I I see including by the way some
people that a couple of years ago we're
not even anywhere really particular on
the Left all of a sudden you know
there's a lot of personal brand work
going on it seems to me where it's like
okay I understand and I can kind of you
know I can out just anybody on this sort
of stuff like you know I agree okay like
yes Bernie Sanders you know foreign
policy is not a you know it's not a
printout from the like Cuban Central
Committee's foreign policy memo right
like I I'm aware of this ya know okay
great very so
to what extent are we really taking in
the importance of this collective
endeavor now historically unique it is
versus our own sort of either narrow
kind of pedantic points with each other
in the media world or even just our you
know making sure that we're sort of
branding ourselves as being radical I
think you know yes of course is the
political project more ambitious than
social democracy yes and I and by the
way I think for very practical reasons
that Bosch Garson Cara outlines in his
new book but then it leads me to my my
third point which is okay sure would be
status quo in Europe what the hell does
that even mean I mean we're talking
about something that would even a
fraction of with so radically improved
tens of millions of people's lives and
yeah and the effort to even get that
passed and done I mean even to get
warrants agenda passed and done will be
so Herculean and involved so much effort
and sub such implications for how we do
politics that you know the idea of like
oh it's just this sort of little it's
like yeah I guess but it's sort of like
the little piecemeal thing which is the
difference between you know tens of
millions of lives and also people's very
sense of what is even politically
plausible because to me you know yeah
we're negotiating a dialectic where
Bernie Sanders has already opened up so
much more space in mainstream politics
the fact that they would sit down and
say the right strategic move is to frame
this and by the way you can correctly
frame this as part of FDR's legacy and
then you know I don't know I guess I
could get on Twitter and say he should
have you know I don't like quoted Chavez
or something but you know I don't know I
I look I I'm not I don't hide my ball on
this I think this elections really
important I think it really matters and
you know and I agree so that's kind of
my view on it and I mean look and I also
just
want to say I have read the article so
you're you know I feel I'm trying to
have a broad response to this be on the
article but I think like you know it
runs the gamut from broadly generically
true too
okay but so what what you what do you
actually do with it and my skepticism
about how some people are kind of
positioning themselves in a media level
and then through on through to having
actually a very real conversation you
know about and again like look a
practical distinction would be Bernie
Sanders cannot support and he has not
supported intervention an event as well
that is really key right and then and
then you know what is he gonna rip into
Maduro yeah it probably is and some
people really don't like that and some
people agree with that but he ain't
doing again you know like you if you
want this guy to get out give a speech
and say you know or another thing when
Daniel Ortega was saying down wiki I was
pissing on a flag he's not gonna do that
and and he shouldn't do that because we
actually want him to win the presidency
you know this isn't like a kind of
hipster project and the extent to
opening up and expanding our horizons
that's still the work of movements and
journalists and local politics and that
will also have a reciprocal relationship
with Bernie him you don't think I
haven't been frustrated as hell that he
hasn't come out and said for ages that
Lula should be immediately released of
course I am but I also recognize yeah
and but this one last example you know
if after these releases he still didn't
say it that is where I would come out
and do a segment be like what the hell
but he did it and it's like I get the
calculation you know the best path would
have been the same months ago I think in
this case she could have been more a
little bit more aggressive but whatever
you know I don't know that we got to be
real about this race and the stakes of
it that's really my bottom line so I
guess yeah and I agree with you I think
it's important you know not to minimize
what Bernie is doing and the movement
that he supports and you know how as you
say you know it could you know literally
say
tens of millions of lives but I guess
what I'm wondering is I mean do you
think that if he did give a speech
you know explicitly defending worker
ownership of the means of production and
so on I mean do you think that would
baby sneaked it impossible for him to
succeed politically uh it would totally
depend how you framed it but certainly
using that phrase would at this moment
yes now oh yeah without a doubt now he
could have he could have I think if he
mentioned you know maybe he could have
mentioned some of his really innovative
proposals they are for grounding on
supporting workers and owning firms he
could have used that as an example of a
kind of like dynamic yeah of the moment
solution and I don't think that that
would hurt him and I don't think it has
hurt him that's actually by the way
speaking of policy proposals that's
about the most innovative proposal that
anybody's put out but you know yeah so
yeah I mean look sure it could have been
a little bit more of that but a lot of
what I've seen is that's a very specific
thing that could mayor may not have been
in his speech and he should highlight
but yes if he used the phrase seize the
means of production we're not there yet
I'm working on it maybe by 2:30 a
candidate can say that but let's not you
know let's find pretend that you know
running for president is the same as
building social media clout as a as some
type of left-wing pundit you know I have
a real problem with that I appreciate
the call me yeah no thank you
yeah all right sorry yes we got a run
I'll take one last call really quick
because you've been on for 90 minutes
but this got to be really quick because
we're running late you're calling from a
five to six to five six to area code who
are you where you're calling from hey
Michael this is Nick from Seattle
otherwise known as the David Pakman
Chandler
well I I had not seen that video until
we played it but apparently you have
very much annoyed our friend David yeah
yeah and I got to be honest I didn't
mischaracterize I'm a bit so I mean
that's not you wanna say sorry you
apologize to David Pakman sir but you
said yeah yeah whatever use a quick call
it because my actual pointer okay
sure go ahead what's your point I
believe that mere exposure to actual
leftist ideology is all many
right-wingers need to question their
faith in the right wing I think that the
next step is questioning the capitalist
system as a whole both my mother and
brother were Rubio supporters in 2016
and I remember back in 2008
my mom liked Santorum and now they are
fully in Bernie bro territory awesome so
perfect yeah the downsides of capitalism
are pretty obvious constant financial
breakdowns and massive income inequality
are obvious even for the politically
oblivious professor Richard Wolff has
discussed a focus on the workplace in
implementing socialism which could be
part of the answer but what I'm more
interested in is discussion about is
what can be conceded in order to not
make it seem like socialism is some
utopia but an actual system we can
actually have so what are the major
obstacles and an already implemented
socialist system and I know there's a
lot of different socialist systems but
I've just an abroad then what are the
obstacles yeah no not the obstacles but
like if if we were to already have
gotten there what are like the major
like problems that we would be facing I
I mean how could we know that we're not
there I mean there's still gonna be
always be but I you know to be honest
with you I think the only thing I'll say
really quick and I do have to go
I actually agree with bosch Cara's take
on this that not only is common wood
some type of socialist or communist
system not being into politics it would
be an enhancement of politics because
you'd actually have a lot more democracy
in terms of a lot more sort of you know
not not some idea that every type of
thing would be collectively decided at
all but there would necessarily be a bit
more engagement in things so you would
probably be dealing with you know the
complex's some of the same complexities
of how to how do you actually plan an
economy what are you prioritizing at
different given times our people
actualizing themselves I think those
things will all still come up I mean
there would still just be the problems
of being a human being and being alive
but you know in some ways it's that's
it's interesting question but it's it's
it's hard to Chronicle because even in
the social democracies we have we know
the biggest problem is mainly capital
reasserting itself on the system but
anyways I appreciate the call man thank
you all right folks we gotta go so let
me read to Iams we need to get Trump a
triple XL stop snitching t-shirt
I like that Bull Prague if that's trumps
attitude to info from foreigners why
does he give a about that still
dossier because it's against him
we know that Congressional baseball fan
a true story back in 2015 before the
primaries I was at a conference where I
worked for in a hotel when I was leaving
Marco Rubio was going into this hotel
gym and had the shortest workout shorts
on with the whitest crew socks and big
white tennis shoes and he was holding
like three water bottles that should
have been the last I am um let's see the
final I am of the day
goes to JB Tom Perez will be in
Albuquerque tonight we're planning on
asking about a debate devoted to the
climate crisis ask him ask him about why
they won't let candidates do independent
debates at least if they won't let him
do a specific climate one indeed thanks
everybody we're back here live tomorrow
I was
yeah no clock is ticking
the choice
yeah
