[Music]
Joe Biden he talked about TPP last night
and I just want to say here it's very
important to remember that Bill Clinton
Barack Obama every single concert
corporate Democrat who is promoted trade
deals which are really simple they're
not free trade deals they are corporate
bureaucracy deals particularly TPP was
condemned as one but one of multiple
examples but I'll just focus on this one
for the moment international medical
activists because it would have been a
direct threat to generic drugs and
readily accessible drugs for
underdeveloped countries that was one
area it would have cost a lot of lives
the investor dispute mechanism is an
anti-democratic mechanism that would
basically override nation states ability
to legislate environmental labor
protections in favor of whatever a
corporation demanded whether it was a
bank pharmaceutical company tobacco
company tech industry and every single
time the Democrat says that they're
proposing a new time of trade agreement
or backing a new kind of trade agreement
Bill Clinton said NAFTA would have
unparallel environmental and labor
standards it did not it led to a
proliferation of sweatshops
environmental pollution it was actually
great for cartel trafficking was a huge
breakthrough in how drugs are moved into
this country and it lost a fair amount
of blue-collar jobs TPP also and Barack
Obama used the exact same rhetoric so
Joe Biden here is pretending even though
he fought his heart out along while he
was vice president for TPP even though
it was anti public health anti worker
anti-environment he's pretending now
that he would support something
different
by resorting to the same rhetoric that
Democrats that try to sell these awful
deals have
always resorted to let's take a look
from last night Vice President Biden
just to be clear would you or would you
not rejoin the TPP yes or no I would not
rejoin the TTP as it was initially put
forward I would insist that we
renegotiate pieces of that with the
Pacific nations that we had in South
America and North America so that we
could bring them together to hold China
accountable for the rules of us setting
the rules of the road as to how trade
should be conducted otherwise they're
gonna do exactly they're doing fill the
vacuum and run the room and run the
table so again this means extremely
little as far as it being a
counterweight to China that's the prime
way TPP is still a Seoul from a
geostrategic standpoint and there's two
ways of answering this one of course
from a worker normal person perspective
you are not in competition with China in
fact there are some very significant
overlapping interests between working
people in both countries and working
people internationally obviously
everybody regardless of conditions wants
to get paid better have more power over
their own work lives the other dynamic
here is that you know China and the
United States obviously have had for
quite some time now a reciprocal
relationship where you basically
exchange to a cheap sweatshop labor for
incredibly cheap products that dynamic
is changing I mean China is now but
certainly a power in its own right and
only going to get more so that's just
reality I'm a big critic of many aspects
of the Chinese model and foreign policy
obviously and they've also lifted a lot
of people out of poverty and they are
going to reassert their role in the
world it's a historic anomaly an oddity
that China has not played a more
significant role in the past couple of
years that bodes very badly in some
areas I bodes well and others
potentially so that kind of rhetoric
though of containing China and getting
serious about I
and all of these types of things first
of all the United States has a
reciprocal relationship obviously
between Silicon Valley and the defense
establishment and so on so that's one
thing so if you want to really deal with
China and these more sort of
geostrategic questions there needs to be
things like a Geneva Convention on how
we deal with technology how we deal with
hacking and drones and all of these
other types of issues but you know the
geostrategic concerns of a very narrow
set of interest is antithetical in the
TPP to the lived concerns of people who
work across Asia people who need
medicine and everybody who breathes on
the planet this is Joe Biden 2013 loving
TPP the trans-pacific partnership wraps
the most ambitious
he said the TTP in the last clip and he
can't
I think the TTP is it was the European
version TTIP personally thinks yeah I
thought I could be wrong but I think
he's making it and it's some type of
mistake like that the trans-pacific
partnership wraps the most ambitious
trade negotiation underway in the world
it will break new ground on important
issues from the challenges of
state-owned enterprises to ensuring the
free flow of data across borders to
enhancing regional supply chains to
ensuring transparency and cutting red
tape we're also working to strengthen
protections for labor in the environment
we Americans we welcome competition it's
stamped into our DNA it is not a problem
what we're talking about is shaping a
new standard they can become the metric
by which all future trade agreements are
measured you know the genuine
competition pushes our companies and our
people stunning that he would say the
free flow of information when one of the
prime aspects of this is an incredibly
restrictive intellectual property regime
which would you know if you want it yes
it would that's what Hollywood wants in
terms of bootlegging movies that's free
trade that's right that's free trade is
making sure
or that there aren't bootlegs in a
market in Shanghai sure whatever and
then far more seriously you're talking
about IP laws that will protect
pharmaceutical companies at the expense
of global Public Health you go back to
the late 1990s and the Clinton
administration had to reverse themselves
on this because Al Gore was getting
protested at every single event by
activists when he was running for
president the South African government
starting to recognize in the late 90s
the scale and scope of the emerging AIDS
crisis wanted to deal with generic drugs
as part of their solution the Clinton
administration at the behest of the
pharmaceutical industry threatened
extreme sanctions on South Africa and
that's another great example I mean I
don't have time obviously to get into
the controversies around Thabo and Becky
in South Africa and AIDS but just even
consider that element of the story that
has been Saudi emphasized while there's
been these kind of single focus on a
particular leaders views of the science
which are wrong views but that's the
bigger context so you're talking about
that type of enforcement for a whole
range of drugs across the globe under
TPP it's a fundamentally anti worker
bill a fundamentally aunty public health
bill and he obviously is not talking
about doing anything different I mean
this is a very Trump move almost this is
just cuz it's something different it's
gonna be great it's gonna be great
you're gonna love it
so uh Joe Biden continues his non I
guess not even devolution just his
stasis mendacity his mendacity the 1985
Democratic Leadership Council Energy and
it's not good for you folks not good and
also and I say this is somebody who
again it's like I disagreed with Sam I
don't think him saying don't be too hard
on me kid I think frankly a lot of
people find that kind of charming I
don't like he can't go after him on
every single thing when you talk to a
broader base of people but I am becoming
increasingly concerned watching
debate that like this guy is just
absolutely not up for this like on the
substance and also on like he's not up
for this like he's looking very bad up
there and I'm starting to get quite
concerned about the idea of the guy
being on a stage with Donald Trump
