[Music]
but the point remains and here's Mehdi
Hasan talking about this
the point remains everything that that
the doll jump is doing it goes from
being on Donald Trump and I've said this
for a week
I finally tweeted it out somebody was
like boots about time you tweeted it cuz
you said a day and a half I'm gonna say
it every day now
the founders contemplated someone like
Donald Trump which is why they put
impeachment in there but they also
assumed that resummoned different from
Nancy Pelosi who would actually attempt
to hold the president to account with
the tools that they have provided and
when you do not do that you own it and
until Nancy Pelosi gets her caucus to
vote for impeachment until that time
Mitch McConnell and the Republicans will
not own it when she does
they will then own it and they may say
we're don't care it's BS but at least
then it's on them and that's what you
start to run against them Donald Trump
there was a poll out today NBC poll see
if we can pull this here I'll send you
the it's NBC News poll and it basically
shows oh how much you know what policies
Democratic voters want and what policies
here it is
it's an NBC News poll and Wall Street
Journal a record share of voters just
like Trump personally there's no they
also sort of don't like his policies
gives a breakdown of what policies
people like will put this up this is a
nice graph that that shows you the
difference between Democratic primary
voters and all registered voter
dreamers staying in the United States
eighty-nine percent versus sixty-seven
percent across the board Medicare buy-in
seventy-eight percent for those under 65
again sixty-seven percent there's a lot
of keep going down a little more you'll
see it right here there's a lot of
Democratic there's a lot of very
progressive policies you get down to
Medicare for all 63 percent of Democrats
like it 41 percent of American public
but it says eliminating all private
insurance I think if you were to put
making private insurance obsolete
there it might change those numbers but
I would also add that building a wall
gets around 43 percent and Donald Trump
seems to do pretty well running on that
so but the other thing that came out of
this is essentially the Democrats want
to make this a referendum on Trump and
Trump wants to make it a choice between
two bad options which is basically what
we've been saying here for a long time
Trump is going to try and depress the
vote by making the alternative seem
tainted as well and so that people go
screw it the Democrats have one perfect
way to nationalize every single house
election every single Senate election in
the country and they can do it and
nationalize it and by making it about
Donald Trump they can make every single
election about Donald Trump whether
you're running for Congress in East a
bum place in Montana or in you know
downtown Houston or upstate New York it
doesn't matter and that is to push
impeachment and make every single one of
them either vote on it or make a
statement about it
and then it all becomes about Trump and
Trump is the most disliked president
that we have had in decades and decades
and decades and the presidential
elections will run the present you know
there's that's a different calculus
can't just run against Trump because you
have to make sure that you are building
a force field around yourself
essentially as the presidential
candidate but if you're in Congress and
you're in Senate you can run against
Trump and you can make the Republicans
own it if if you vote to impeach in the
house
there's Mehdi Hasan making a point about
the Democrats is simply not doing their
job I mean you have to admire the
brazenness of the hypocrisy when it
comes to Donald Trump's attacks on his
opponents for this president of all
presidents to attack the child of a
rival I mean which should we talk about
Ivanka Trump and her Chinese trademarks
and should we talk about Don junior and
Eric and the Trump Organization and the
non-existent Chinese wall between them
and the guy in the Oval Office I mean if
they're irony beyond irony but the
Republicans are good at this stuff
they're shameless they're brazen they
take advantage of the whole media both
sides ISM and therefore they're going to
continue doing this and I think Trump's
gonna carry on doing this stuff because
joy one thing that's missing from your
timeline that you showed at the start
for me a very crucial date July 25 Jahre
25th is the day he made the call to the
Ukrainian president allegedly eight
times pressured him to investigate
Biden's son what happened on July 24 the
day before robert muller testifies in
congress saying this president has not
been exonerated this president could
still be indicted after he leaves office
and what happens nothing no change in
the democratic leadership position on
impeachment so if you're donald trump
and you see where i mean i can get away
with 2016 why wouldn't you do it again
in 2020 yeah there it is you basically
said like I guess what I did was legal I
might as well do it again it worked so
well the first time
seconds there are implications I mean
aside from the what you leave on the
table in terms of the politics if you do
not pursue impeachment
there's also implications that you're
basically saying to the guy there's
nothing you can do that will get you
impeached nothing nothing I know what to
do with that information
holy cow this is a total open-door
policy they sent out Steve minuchin this
guy should be in prison this guy should
be just getting out of prison it seems
to me for what he did in the foreclosure
crisis he's not largely because Carla
Harris ignored recommendations from
people in her office maybe there was
nothing there
this whole thing is like this whole
administration in many respects is like
that part was Saving Private Ryan which
I did not like frankly but the idea that
like they should have killed that German
soldier because he came back and shot
one of the I can't remember who it was
that was not I didn't particularly like
that movie I thought the Thin Red Line
was a lot better and said what it was
then Malick had a a movie out at the
same time saving Brian doesn't matter
but the point is is that Steve minuchin
when you do not hold these people to
account at the time that they commit a
crime or a civil violation a lot of
times these guys come back they don't
just go like oh I got away with one I'm
gonna go home and count my money it's I
am completely untouchable that means I
can go forward and take more I can steal
more that's why we have Steve minuchin
as the Treasury Secretary out there
trying to argue that yeah I mean
it's not a lot of money to us why would
it make a difference to Ukraine is do
you know if the if why the aid was
delayed and did it have a connection to
the Ukrainian president's decision not
to work with her well that I can tell
you that there was no connection I have
been involved with secretary Pompeo and
others on the national security team on
the issue of you know how do you know
for sure I know you you can is there
do you know 100 percent well what I know
is I've been in discussions when we
discussed that and that issue never came
up during your meetings absolutely with
the president and can you explain how
all of a sudden when the egg got
released more money showed up where did
that money come from there was 250
million entity and they got an
additional I think a hundred and forty
million that they didn't expect what did
that do you have any any idea where it
was appropriated money they came through
the State Department so they that was
there they didn't know they were getting
this money is there any indication why
they got the money when they did I I'm
not sure it's correct for you to say
they didn't know they they got the money
president said he was surprised to get
it the president of Ukraine said he was
surprised to getting an additional
hundred forty million dollars he said it
was a pleasant surprise but that he was
surprised I think I think he was
referring to his expectations as opposed
to necessarily a surprise but you're
getting into details again these are
foreign policy issues they've been
discussed at the national security
council the principal's level these were
not connected issues but you have any
problem with Congress looking into any
of this what I have a problem with is
Congress asking for a transcript between
world leaders I think that those are
confidential discussions and that's a
difficult precedent okay but it does the
president have any says he said nothing
inappropriate so why not release the
transcript because again I think that
these are confidential discussions
between world leaders and world leaders
expect that they're going to be kept
confidential it has nothing to do with
this call per se no it's just the
precedent that they're concerned about
I love precedent I was concerned about
the president's folks so Steve Newton
saying with a hundred percent
assuredness that when Donald Trump came
in and said to
they told me to delay the money he
didn't say it's because they won't give
me dirt on Biden see no collusion no
losers never said it even never said
never said it never said it's because of
what they're doing would buy never said
it I never said it but Jimmy and there's
a chance even was that explicit about it
there's a slight chance but it's
probably more like like we're not giving
money to we're not playing ball they're
not playing ball they're not on our team
they're not good people they're bad
people
and that nice that mean that would have
been the that would have been the the
question for Chuck Todd to ask right
Steve a Newton like okay that never came
up the Biden thing why did you delay it
but what were the reasons
what were the geopolitical reasons that
you delayed it and then ended up coming
back with 50% more money than they
anticipated I think he answered that
when he said it came through the State
Department well it came through the
State Department yeah I did but what was
the reasoning that I mean that would be
the question that I would ask like
what's the reasoning you say it's not
because of Joe Biden okay so when he
came in there what reason did he give
you I don't like that flag I don't like
the colors in the flag we need a better
press and opposition party wasn't he
saying he'd what they were gonna give it
to him because of their history of
corruption and they just weren't sure
that he was corrupt or if he wouldn't be
corrupt until he had the conversation I
mean I don't know maybe that's what it
was in fact he was so convinced 'iv
convincing that he was not corrupt
we gave him a 50 percent tip you wanted
240 million we gave him we gave him like
380 he was see just came off as like a
really not corrupt guy if I get an extra
like 140 million dollars I would be
gushing about that phone call to Howard
it was a nice funk oh yeah nice I wonder
what that money was for
that is a very Trump way of doing
diplomatic endeavors where you're like
man this guy was such a great server at
the restaurant at Cipriani's I just gave
him a 50% tip you guys a good guy loose
lips right sometimes sometimes you have
so much extra money you can't talk
