so yesterday we were talking about the
attempts to to unseat Nancy Pelosi as
the leader the Democrats in the House
and ultimately she's vying for Speaker
of the House and I was telling you my
reasons why I would like to see her go
or at the very least the problems I have
had with what she has announced or even
maybe not even trumpeted about her
tenure as a Speaker of the House and
that was specifically the pay-go
provisions where any new programs must
be paid for you cannot deficit spend and
a house rule that said you need a
supermajority to raise taxes on anybody
but the top 20% and the combination of
those two things in my mind makes it
almost impossible to pursue any
progressive bold progressive agenda and
it gives congressmen and women and out
as to why they couldn't pursue it
because there's no way to raise revenue
and we have to raise revenue because of
the pay-go rules and we can't raise the
revenue because there's only we can only
tax the top 20% and this tax may burden
you know people in the top 40% or
whatever it is now with that said we
mentioned the 16 signatories of a letter
we thought it was gonna be 17 yesterday
and I think it's relevant and
significant that it's only 16 because 16
essentially is the number of people who
can
vote against pelosi and she could still
win by one we don't know exactly how
many Democratic seats they're gonna be I
suspect we're gonna pick up one or two
more but as it stands now 16 plus the
218 that you need puts it at 234
Democrats in the house I think that's
about where we are right now but the
reason why and I have been saying this
for months
the hesitation about getting rid of
Pelosi is that someone's got to be there
and no one has stepped up on the left to
take that position and there's not clear
that anybody on the Left could win that
position or I should say to the left of
Pelosi at least presumably and aoc was
on chris hayes last night and this is
how she put it and I think it's spot on
so one of the big issues right now is
this leadership fight so there are 16
House Democrats who signed a letter
saying the time has come for new
leadership basically saying they won't
vote for Nancy Pelosi if ben mcadams
wins in Utah that's their one vote short
of blocking her where are you and how do
you read this fight well for me when I
when I was reading this letter that was
kind of a release today my main concern
was that there is no vision there is no
common value there is no goal that is
really articulated in this letter aside
from we need to change and for me what
that says is you know I do think that we
got sent to Congress on a mandate to
change how government works to change
what government even looks like but if
we are not on the same page about
changing the systems and the values and
how we're going to adapt as a party for
the future then what is the point of
just changing our party leadership just
for the sake of it what I'm hearing from
you is that you don't feel like there's
a ideological or substantive sort of
agenda driven core of this objection no
I mean if anything I think that what it
does is that it creates a window where
we could potentially get
conservative leadership and when you
actually look at the signatories it is
not necessarily reflective of the
diversity of the party we you know after
we have about 16 signatories 14 of them
are male there are very few people of
color in the caucus there very few
there's very few ideological diversity
it's not like there are progressives
that are signing on it's not like you
have a broad-based coalition so I find
it you know I I don't I'm not totally
bought into the concept you all right I
mean that is what a smart leftist sounds
like where she realizes this is what the
the playing field looks like and so I
can I can go out and pretend the playing
field looks like something else or
completely ignore what the playing field
looks like and do something that's just
basically arguably self-satisfying but
gets us nowhere in terms of an agenda
the fact of the matter is I think to a
person the people who have signed that
letter are to the right of Nancy Pelosi
and I mean I'm looking at the letter me
no I don't think so is this the sort of
thing where they were all hoping that
the Dems would perform worse in the
midterms and this would actually make
more sense from their end or what's
their what are they thinking no the
reason why that's not a coincidence
because they're in a district where they
had to separate themselves from Nancy
Pelosi because Nancy Pelosi from
electoral standpoint is I think toxic is
too strong of a word but she pulls very
poorly these districts Bradley pours
play you know polls not so great in a
lot of districts but apparently not so
badly that it's gonna bring you down if
you put yourself at arm's length so
these 16 people
they are signing this letter because
they want to run again in two years and
they don't want to be associated with
Pelosi that's all well and good and
their opponents gonna say my opponent
says he doesn't like Nancy Pelosi vote
it with her 85% of the time and they're
gonna have to overcome that but at least
they're gonna say like look I I signed a
letter on day one I'm against Nancy
Pelosi that's how that's going to go
down so that explains their motivation
but if you want a more if the idea is
that we want Nancy Pelosi out because
she has a tin ear to where the country
is moving in terms of moving to the left
electing someone who's to the right of
her is not going to help you however
saying to her you know we'll bring you
the votes we don't have a candidate that
we want but we will bring you the votes
instead of abstaining because you need
our votes as long as you start to
basically take a couple people that we
sign off on put them under your tutelage
train them to be the leader after or in
the leadership after you go which you've
said you're transitioning out of
probably within the next two years
that's what's happening and so but she
put that very very savvy it's
unbelievable to me how savvy she is she
doesn't even start off by saying they're
ideologically to the right cuz she
doesn't want to alienate anybody in the
car in the Democratic caucus why bother
it just it's the third or fourth uh you
know sort of where she gets like they're
not necessarily that progressive
everybody knows it's just that she's not
throwing anybody under the bus
unless there's value cuz this is not a
performance we're not watching a play
this is about someone who's trying to
build power in an institution and doing
it in various different
various ways I mean I feel like I am
defensive about this because I can't
help but think there's gonna be some
morons out there who feel betrayed or
think that like oh my god this is why
the Democrat you know the there's a lot
of dumbness around and so this is one
both to praise her and to to answer
those dumb critics before they start to
talk about it and they probably already
have
