[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday June 18th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today senior
reporter at Geno media anna merlin on
the republic of Lies american conspiracy
theorists and their surprising rise to
power also on the program today Trump
claims ice planning to round up millions
of undocumented immigrants
meanwhile US to send at least a thousand
more troops to the Middle East for
defensive purposes meanwhile our Acting
Secretary of Defense is being
investigated by the FBI for corporate
corruption SCOTUS declines to change
double jeopardy laws and speaking of
Paul Manafort
the DOJ just craned him out of Riker's
worth that all Rikers inmates were so
lucky chalk one up or I should say chalk
two up for governor Nixon driver's
licenses for undocumented in New Yorkers
is for reals and the New York Green Deal
is on the brink of happening Nevada sues
opioid corporate conspirators
and emails prove that the Republican
operative ho feller talked with Commerce
Department officials in census gates and
the number of federal workplace safety
inspectors has dropped like a lead
balloon or a lead anvil on your foot and
Justice Democrats behind a serious
challenge to new york congressman eliot
engel all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen we will we
will dig into that over the coming days
and weeks the challenge to Eliot angle
this is very excited about that I mean
it's not would not only be an upgrade a
major upgrade in terms of getting a
genuine progressive in that seat but it
is very much one of those races that
ends up creating a narrative or
extending a narrative if justice
Democrats if the progressive wing of the
Democratic Party can oust another
established power very powerful Democrat
one who has been in many respects fairly
regressive
this is going to have far greater
implications than just this race and
certainly I would imagine both sides
understand this so this is gonna be
there's gonna be a lot of resources that
go into that race far out sized
resources then one would expect on that
welcome to the program ladies and
gentlemen it is uh mid-june
we've got graduations happening I will
not be here on Friday I have an
interview for you though on Thursday
because I will not be here because my
daughter is graduating middle school if
you can believe it if you were listening
this show since its inception
she and the show are almost the same age
and not this iteration of the show but
just sort of I guess my radio career
just to give you a heads up also a
reinder you can support this program by
becoming a member at join the majority
report com join the majority report
dot-com alright let's get to this sound
we are sending 1,000 troops
ostensibly to protect us interests which
of course is a an incredibly broad term
we mentioned this yesterday in our
discussion in the wake of Tom cotton
calling for a military strike on Iran
having defined just about everything in
the world as a US national security
interest and we have now been told that
the Trump administration will be sending
another thousand troops the Pentagon
will be via the acting secretary of
defense who is not quite the Secretary
of Defense because his hearing has been
put off because of an FBI investigation
into possible corruption he's had with
some corporate defense suppliers just to
you know put a cherry on top of this
story
supposedly Donald Trump has told you
know who said today that the attack on
the tankers near the Strait of Hormuz
was minor because he's now trying to
downplay it there is a fascinating
battle that is going on in the Trump
administration between the people that
Donald Trump appointed to this is the
political appointees right like like I
feel like there has been a precedent
within American history certainly of
career and military officials being more
belligerent perhaps than the political
appointees and politicians there's a
certainly a narrative about this with
JFK regarding the Soviet Union histories
differ but but this is a situation where
Trump's own appointees seem to be trying
to push for war well seem they are
trying to push for war with Iran by
putting our putting us in such close
proximity to basically nurture a mistake
that leads everybody to war or over
aggressive responses by either side that
leads us to war and then you have people
like Tom cotton who are literally out
there beating a drum for war and then
you have other people I don't know how
to really where is trish regan in this
someone is trying to talk to Donald
Trump through trish regan which leads me
to believe that maybe it's murdoch
whoever it is knows that trump watches
trish regan on fox business and here she
is she's gonna talk slowly and she's
going to talk rather insane
but with a potentially good result which
is she is going to try and convince
Donald Trump not to go to war because
the Democrats want him to here it is
there may actually be a whole lot of
Americans whispering to the Iranians
right now that they just need Trump out
of the White House and then the
Democrats can reinstate that deal while
waiting for a new White House is just
kind of dumb on Iran's part anyway
because number one despite recent
polling I suspect Trump just might get
reelected number two even if he doesn't
get reelected if the Iranian sit down at
the table with the president now and
negotiate something new the Democrats
aren't gonna tear it up of course that
reelection thing is predicated upon a
strong economy and peace in other words
people like Americans like that strong
economy in peace meaning no World War
three or no prolonged military conflict
with Iran you know but again there are
remember politically motivated
self-interested people everywhere
including in America and there are
people in America that would like
nothing more they just see us engaged in
a war with Iran because they know war
could very well spell the end of Trump
2020 I don't know I mean I love great up
where this message lands I would have
done a slightly different delivery one
the other you tend it's wrong but I
don't speak Trump but this is
fascinating I mean I I just I I just
don't know that there is a precedent
there may be some product like you know
there may have been like I don't know
Lippman maybe you know would write
things that maybe the president would
read and it would give a sense of like
where certain people's for history but
that ultros walter Lippmann I mean I
don't know I'm trying to think of like
but also is the fact that attic drift
you know
john bolton came from fox i mean it's
not like these people are not seeing
each other at the commissary as it were
it's very strange but i would say to
trump listen to trish regan we should
all have a trish regan in our lives who
are telling us that Mike Pompeo and John
Bolton are not to be trusted you know
what I'll take it definitely if it works
Trish I don't want to break your head
hey folks do you love the thrill of an
escape room looking for clues solving
puzzles introducing Hunter Killer it's a
monthly subscription game where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery this is nuts
it's crazy it's great each month you'll
receive crime scene photos evidence
motive and suspect information that
you'll need to use to solve a crime it's
so interactive and convincing that it
looks and feels real you'll be racking
your brain to solve the mystery and
anxiously awaiting the next box of clues
it's a perfect to play solo during date
night or with friends or for a game
night so you can swap theories folks all
the data shows the best way to expend
your cash is on experiences this is
something you anticipate the Box coming
you work it out starting slowly into
great milah into this a little bit just
to get her involved in something that
actually makes her think she's already
like a big law-and-order fan it's very
strange
yeah you got to take what you look you
got to take it where you're gonna go
with the flow with you know I just have
to say I mean I I don't a law and order
is incredibly popular across every
single demographic imaginable well might
what I'm saying it's like wow
the point is anticipating the clues is
almost as much fun as getting the clues
the actual gettin of it so this the
enjoyment lasts it carries I'm telling
you this leg has sold me on the whole
notion of
experiential things versus just material
you know getting I don't know I knew
whatever yeah
millennial Sam now experience right now
just for our listeners you can go to
hunter-killer dot-com slash majority for
twenty percent off your first box you
only accept two hundred members per day
so Hari to take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer dot-com slash
majority for twenty percent off your
first box hunter-killer dot-com slash
majority and now with that said Saul is
getting a new present because it's very
difficult Saul uses those spin brushes
and they're not terribly effective but
he wanted to have a an electric
toothbrush like daddy has and now he can
quit it's one of the first electric
toothbrushes accepted by the American
Dental Association quip can help pave
the way to a healthier mouth in mind in
just two minutes twice a day now as you
know I have given quip as a present to
multiple people in my lives my sister
completely unsolicited text me I don't
know a couple months ago just got back
from the dentist the dentist is
extremely pleased with me so thank you
with quip brush heads are delivered on a
dentist recommended schedule of every
three months for just five bucks
quit provides a friendly reminder to
stay committed to your oral health I've
told you guys this a million times the
whole key to an electric toothbrush is
to use it and quit because of the way
it's designed because of it's because
it's portable because it's doesn't need
to be recharged except for every three
months essentially easy to do and now
the whole family can get refreshed with
quip thanks to the new kids quip which
has the same two minute timer and
guiding pulses as their original version
there are no childish gimmicks just
kid-friendly features like a small brush
head watermelon anti cavity toothpaste
and rubber grip handles in colors little
ones will love I am so psyched about
this cuz Saul has always wanted a
toothbrush like mine but the head is
just too big for a kid that size now
boom for all these reasons or more
that's why I love quip and with over 1
million happy healthy mouths do as well
quip starts at just 25 bucks and if you
go to get quip comm slash majority right
now you can get your first refill packed
for free
that's your first refill pack for free
at get quip comm slash majority also
lastly now the weather is warmer it
might be time to switch up your sheets
and duvets to something a little
breezier from Brooklyn's newest linen
collection these beautiful Airy linen
pieces that give you give you and your
bedroom a sort of a chic relaxed feel
while providing you with the ultimate
comfort and they're available in 12
beautiful patterns and colors Brooklyn
and have been my sheets of choice now
for like three years I have multiple
sets because my estranged living
situation and the wake of we nest we
nest so I've got Brooklyn in sheets at
two different locations it's almost the
only thing that me and the ex could
agree on
we're Brooklyn and sheets now of course
I like the big crisper classic I think
it's called percale cotton she likes the
more sort of like luxurious version but
but that said we both agree on Brooklyn
it it's in their name so you know
Brooklyn's newest linen collection is
amazing
like I said I couldn't recommend their
products more great for graduates
newlyweds friends family treat yourself
to the bedroom upgrade you deserve and
now Brooklyn and calm is giving my
listeners an exclusive offer get
10% off and free shipping when you use
promo code majority at Brooklyn in.com
Brooklyn and so confident in their
product all their sheets comforters and
towels come with a lifetime warranty the
only way to get 10% off and free
shipping is to use promo code majority
at Brooklyn and calm that's BR oh okay
Li n en dot-com promo code majority
Brooklyn these are the best sheets ever
all right got to take quick break when
we come back we're gonna be talking to
Anna Marilyn about the Republic of Lies
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone pleasure to welcome to the program
senior reporter at G o media that's
formerly Gizmodo Anna Marlin author of
Republic of Lies American conspiracy
theorists and their surprising rise to
power welcome to the program Anna thanks
for having me so rise the power you
don't say yeah just a little bit I mean
I suppose we could start with the with
the president who was one of the chief
purveyors it seems to me of the birther
conspiracy about about Barack Obama but
I mean I don't know I mean I think
people are probably familiar with his
trajectory well but let's talk about I
mean the I mean and and I want to cover
I mean obviously we've talked on this
program about pizza gate about seth rich
and and and certainly in terms of what
what you call russia gate but let's
let's start with that just overall
perspective on conspiracies i mean this
isn't the conspiracy theories I mean the
the existence of conspiracy theories you
write is nothing new what rain what
makes it different now so I think
pointing out that Donald Trump's sort of
rise to actual political prominence
started with birtherism is important
because we saw the ways that he realized
that using conspiracy theories was a way
to create a base to appeal to the
right-wing it was a way for him to you
know create some measure of attention
for himself so what we've seen over the
last few years is the idea this
resurgence of the idea that promoting
conspiracy theories can sort of tie all
these pretty strange disparate groups
together and can give them some actual
political influence in the mainstream so
I mean it in and I guess it's good time
to address like whether to what
and it's relevant the the propagators or
the amplifiers of these conspiracy
theories actually believe in them right
yeah that comes up a lot you know when I
talk to people about folks like Alex
Jones and I would argue that it doesn't
really matter you know or this comes up
a lot with Donald Trump specifically it
does he really believed those or is he
just making this claim you know for
attention and for political gain and
what matters is that he's making it what
matters is that he and Alex Jones and
other people are trying to promote these
ideas and in some cases have spent a
really really long time doing it or
someone like Roger stone you know who is
a known sort of troll you know a
self-described dirty tricks artist it's
unclear what Roger stone or Donald Trump
or Alex Jones believed in their heart of
hearts but we know what they spend their
time doing and trying to promote so but
what is different about this era in
terms of of the salience of this I mean
I mean obviously you know conspiracy
theories like we say go back a long time
and they're not you know even pre social
media right they were there i I
distinctly recall being in Gary Busey's
house it's a long story but he had a
series of VHS tapes that were all about
changelings in Mount Shasta and he
claimed that if we watch these we would
have to go into the witness protection
program now and we're still
shrink-wrapped he had not opened them
themselves but but they you know who's
out there like David Icke II and that
whole crew like what what is it
yeah Ike what is what's the difference
now that's more self-control than I
would have given Gary Busey good for him
that was the best is he got believe it
so I we know that conspiracy theories
are an element especially of American
society and around the world but we also
know that conspiracy theories are
strongest typically among people who are
disempowered or disenfranchised to give
people a way to explain systems that are
not working well forces that they feel
arrayed against them systems in the
United States like the healthcare
industry of the financial industry that
feel
um exploitative or you know when
people's favorite political party is not
empower they tend to turn to conspiracy
theories what we're seeing right now is
a resurgence of conspiracy thinking used
by the hands of powerful people and the
powerless alike the other thing that
we're obviously seeing is the rise of
social media and the way that social
media allows the spread of conspiracy
theories and also though I think this
can be over discussed to a degree but
organized troll organizations like the
internet research agency and Russia or
bots who can aid in the spread of
conspiracy theories so we're seeing this
mixture of political influences and also
sort of organic and inorganic means to
spread conspiracy theories across social
media so we're seeing this really unholy
confluence of stuff that is leading to
the prominence and power and force of
conspiracy theories in a way that we
haven't seen for a really long time
there's a lot to unpack there but how
much of the I mean you talk about the
the data shows that you know people who
are just broadly powerless I guess that
can mean economically powerless
politically powerless or even I think
you know sort of in some type of
asymmetrical information dynamic as it
were I mean at some level it strikes me
as these things are are like religions
in some way right like the people's
ability to deal with modernity is is
just overwhelmed and they turn to these
things that are basically neat neatly
describe what's going on
well yes I think religion there are a
lot of studies to show that the deeper
somebody gets into conspiracy thinking
the more it sort of resembles religious
faith it actually a lot of conspiracy
theories though don't make things
particularly neat or particularly tidy
you know like the the archetypal
conspiracy image besides the tinfoil hat
is that guy from It's Always Sunny in
Philadelphia standing in front of a
bulletin board filled with photos you
know tied together with red string like
a very chaotic image you know and so a
lot of times conspiracy theories don't
make a neat explanation but what they do
is they point really clearly at who to
blame who to be mad at and that in a way
is just as important for people as
having a tidy narrative a lot of
conspiracy theories you know give people
purpose and meaning to direct and
direction to their lives but they do it
by creating a common enemy that's
interesting I mean I guess the that
though it occurs to me though that
though that is not neat with the
different sort of like pictures there is
a sense that there is a neat explanation
out there right it's just like it's a
question of it's out there and we just
gotta find it and which is also I guess
sort of very much a religious exercise
but you also talk about there are there
seemed to be sort of I guess of various
levels of I mean so much of this cuts
like in multiple different planes but
there seems to be sort of like various
levels of I don't know if justification
or legitimacy for pursuing conspiracy
theories but but in the african-american
community there's there's a burning or
has always been a market for conspiracy
theories largely because of some almost
unbelievable things that have been done
to that community it would discuss that
part of it yeah I mean that's about
conspiracy theories among black
Americans and the reason why they are
unique is because they tend to tie
really directly to actual things that
happen to black people over the course
of this country's history so one thing
that I talk about in a lot of detail is
the idea that during Hurricane Katrina
the levees were bombed on purpose to
drown black neighborhoods on purpose and
drive people out and rebuild the city
you know in a way more amenable to
wealthy white people and so while we
don't have any evidence that that
happened and there's a lot more evidence
that the levees just failed we do know
that the levees just outside the city
were purposely bombed during the great
flood in the 1920s and so the idea there
is that a lot of conspiracy theories in
the black
munity tie in directly to something that
really did happen you know another
really good example is that there's a
lot of medical conspiracy theories and a
lot of distrust it's very hard to get
people in the black community to
participate in medical trials for new
drugs and that is because of things like
the Tuskegee Experiment where black
veterans were who had syphilis were
allowed to remain infected with syphilis
for a very long time long after the
government knew what cured syphilis
because the government wanted to you
know track the progression of the
disease and see how it worked and so
there are all these examples of things
that you know um some number of black
Americans have come to believe because
it is not that crazy to believe it so
this is really different than something
like say cumin or pizza gate where it it
has sort of less emotional and
historical legitimacy an appeal I mean
so let's let's talk about like what
queue and on and pizza gate and and and
where that where those come from because
it's so I mean these are people
theoretically in power on some level
right right right yeah I mean I think
it's really really important to sort of
recognize that you know both Pizza Gate
and Kieran are fundamentally well so
pizza gate arose during the 2016
elections and it was promoted by people
who wanted who had a political reason to
say that Democrats were part of a child
sex trafficking ring happening in the
basement of the pizza parlor and pizza
gate was effective and it was part of a
number of strategies to you know try to
create distrust and division and sort of
smears and then qa9 fundamentally is a
conspiracy theory that Donald Trump is
secretly doing a really good job you
know and that his supporters
you know only need to wait and soon he
will you know arrest all the evildoers
finally put Hillary Clinton in jail so
at their core they are an idea that
there is this sort of secret powerful
group of sexual predators
that Donald Trump and people connected
to Donald Trump are fighting them in
secret I mean this is this is where
where Joe Alex Jones was - I mean it was
it was it was a certain amount of of of
pretzeling that had to happen it's the
only me right because Alex Jones is like
you know the globalists will never let
Donald Trump take office which yeah it
was a great thing to say when you were
like everyone else
assuming that Donald Trump is not going
to win yeah when he wins it completely
undercuts the fact that there's this
all-powerful cabal at the the head of
the world essentially because how could
they possibly not be able to pick the
American president what's the plan yeah
that's where the deep state comes in
that's where the idea the deep state
comes in that they you know tried
mightily to prevent Donald Trump from
winning but when they couldn't prevent
it they then set themselves out to you
know work for his destruction for his
whole presidency right but also you'll
notice that Alex Jones so I had
something in my book that we ultimately
took out but the day before Trump was
inaugurated Alex Jones recorded like a
special episode of it Infowars it
sounded like he was on an airplane and
he's sort of like whispering hoarsely
into his audio recorder and he's having
a meltdown and he's saying I know and
that the inauguration is not gonna
happen
you know they're not gonna let it happen
it's not gonna take place I wish I could
tell you what I know and then of course
it's just never mentioned again you know
that he's claiming to have evidence of
this plot but yeah it's very confusing
for people at some level who
fundamentally believe themselves to be
fighting this all-powerful system from
the outside and to realize oh wait no I
suddenly have a much larger degree of
power than I thought I did do we have
any sense of what of how you know the
the I guess the followers of an Alex
Jones to what extent they would take him
seriously and to the extent that they
did like how do they deal with that I
mean I know like you know I've seen
research on melanistic cults where you
know the world is gonna end on Tuesday
and then Tuesday comes and the cult
leader says you know why it didn't is
because
wore shoes and you're not supposed to
wear shoes and so the new date is you
know within three years that type of
thing right right I mean I think that
you know most people I've talked to and
I've been to a lot of conspiracy related
events most people tell me specifically
that they take Alex Jones with a grain
of salt you know and that they do their
own research and that they find their
own facts but I think also it's really
hard to underestimate the power of
people to just sort of create new
narratives as soon as the old one
doesn't work out you know a lot of those
doomsday cults that you reference they
don't disband the day after the world
doesn't end right but some of them hang
on for years you know I mean it's very
hard to talk yourself out of an idea
once that idea is in your head and it's
far easier to just sort of slightly
rework it to make it more or less jibe
with reality as you now see it right
because none of this is really so much
about idea of these specific ideas
themselves it really has more to do with
I mean are there do we have any data or
I mean how do we understand who is
susceptible to conspiracy theories or is
that really a wrong question so most
people in the United States specifically
believe in at least one conspiracy
theory 50% of us one and three most of
us um so with the type of conspiracy
theory that you believe really has a lot
to do with what your political and
social and economic persuasions are and
also like in my experience sort of how
the systems of power in this country
have treated you personally like you and
I are people who have some degree of of
power of legitimacy I don't think either
of us have been particularly badly
treated by the institutions in this
country so we have less need for
conspiracy thinking and that's a useful
way to think about it is what a
conspiracy theories do for people what
do they provide in the face of their
particular life circumstances and in the
case of like you know sort of white
supremacist they are also developing
theories to explain a way like why
they're not actually supreme
yeah I mean I think again this is where
the idea of a deep state or a global
cabal comes in right this idea that like
they would be supreme genetically their
supreme but you know because of these
secret rulers of the world they can't
get ahead the Jews oh you know you mean
the Jews a lot a lot of stuff about the
Jews in there it's amazing how often the
Jews come up and I do not just say this
because I am Jewish and perhaps somewhat
attuned to it but really you know um
Kelly wheel at The Daily Beast writes a
lot about Flat Earth or ism and she
noted something to me recently that I
had also been seeing which is that even
flat earth communities eventually turn
into like Holocaust denial you know like
there are so many conspiracy communities
where the terminal' stop on the train is
some form of anti-semitism in ways that
is really surprising at one point we
have to wonder like is that a
coincidence
or is there something - it is very
useful to have a group of evil outsiders
who we blame for a myriad of world
events and when all else fails we have
the Jews for that right you know like it
is one of the oldest and deepest sort of
conspiratorial ideas so it's just
fundamentally it's still around because
it's useful we Jews end up being like
the deus ex machina of all of these of
all these things when you've run out of
being able to make any type of logical
steps the Jews step into basically
short-circuit these guys and they're
always guys that I ended up talking to
who are white supremacist you know you
think about the Jews way more than I do
you know like this is something that
occupies you more far more than it
occupies me but that's because you know
it has a purpose for them
where does UFOs fit into this hmm
so um belief in UFOs is one of the sort
of oldest and widest spread subcultures
in the United States like certainly I
believe in UFOs I believe in the
existence of aliens and that's a that's
an okay thing for me to say right you
know that's one of the conspiracy
theories that I can
hop to believing that won't immediately
have you hanging up the phone or will
prevent me from getting jobs right but
at the same time you know belief that
the government is hiding what they know
about aliens or UFOs or alien visitation
again is pretty common because we know
that the government has in the past
covered up UFO research right we found
that out at the end of 2017 that there
was a secret Department of Defense
program that was studying UFO research
and we know that in the past things
unexplained things have turned out to be
research that the government was doing
at area 51 you know
so again belief in UFOs is fundamentally
hooked into some level of government
distrust I want to also jump back a
little bit to in terms of another theme
that seems to be the run throughout a
lot of this and that's pedophilia yeah
certainly I mean and look you know I I
don't know if you're familiar that I've
had a personal experience with Mike
Tsarevich yeah who is who you know was
one of the promoters of pizza gate as
you know and there there is a there
seems to be and I and I wish I could say
that it was just just on the right but I
remem remember the the Ganon gut kurt
conspiracy theory during the Bush years
which I don't know I don't know oh well
that is the one where there was a
reporter I used that in quotes named
Jeff Gannon who was I and I can't
remember by the name of the press guy
but it turned out that they found that
that Gannon had no real press
credentials he just worked as an escort
at one point I think it was do you get
into a military outfit and was a male
escort then suddenly he ends up with a
website and having access to the
President to ask questions and then
there became this huge thing that his
name was not really Jeff Gannon
it was gukor t' and he had been
kidnapped and had been like in the attic
of the white house since the first Bush
administration as a as a child you know
basically trafficked kid you know a part
of a pedophile ring right and it didn't
get the prominence that you know
something like pizza gate would because
maybe there wasn't social media in the
same way but right but what what is that
so a couple things again it does
actually tie back to anti-semitism the
idea of the blood libel right it's
literally medieval idea which is that
Jews were meeting in secret to ritually
abuse Christian children and then kill
them right to use their blood for matzah
and so the idea that your political
enemies or opponents are not just evil
but are child abusers and are meeting in
secret to abuse children ritually is
very old it's a medieval idea and it
also now does a couple things it
justifies any kind of action against
your perceived enemy right because if
they're abusing children what could be
worse than that and so it kind of
justifies anything that you might want
to call for you know I hear a lot of
people you know all but all by calling
for someone to be murdered when they're
accusing them of being a pedophile a
secret ritual abuser because you know
that that type of language is is
considered to be acceptable when we're
talking about those people
um but it also is something that a lot
of folks are able to do because there is
so much actual predation and rape and
sexual abuse in the world you know I
write about this a little bit in the
book but you know um I cover sexual
violence quite a bit I write frequently
for Gizmodo media's feminist website
Jezebel and one thing that happened is
that the pizza gate folks were very
excited when the mewtwo movement started
because for them harvey weinstein being
a secret extremely prolific rapist was
proof it was proof that there is this
incredibly powerful cabal that does
richly abused people i mean a dud there
does seem to be some type of crossover
like you know that I think was corey
feldman was you know in the news for a
while for for basically revealing that
he had been abused right and i know i
don't know how that you know to what
extent that was substantiated but i mean
some of this you know i guess you get
that story of are kelly and and and all
of a sudden a lot of this sounds like
it's all very possibly true yeah and
again actually allegations like that
that are specifically against like
famous people are people in Hollywood
get trotted out over and over by the
sort of queuing on and pizza gate crowds
because again it's seen as proof that
extremely wealthy people are able to
cover up horrifying abuse which actually
you know is true like we know that
that's true you only have to read the
details of the sweetheart deal that
Jeffrey Epstein got to know that people
who are actual you know abusers of
children do occasionally get away with
it if they have enough money and power
an influence so yeah you know I mean
that's sort of the tricky thing about a
lot of conspiracy theories is that the
ways that they hook into actual reality
can be incredibly complicated and it
makes it really hard to dismiss a lot of
things outright let's talk about the
deep state and Russia gate all right
what what is your your your your sense
of how that breaks down right so
essentially my argument was you know
Russia gate was a group of people on the
left but not just on the left you know
who funds them whom fundamentally became
not just never Trump errs but people who
decided that Donald Trump was actually a
Manchurian Candidate right that he had
been installed by his boss Putin and
that he was sort of knowingly subverting
American democracy and what was so
interesting to me about that is that
that accusation very much mirrored
accusations that conservatives made
about President Obama during his
presidency so the idea that the office
of the presidency has been subverted by
a foreign enemy you know and has been
taken over from within is not like
uncommon it's not a new accusation but
the ways that it sort of manifests
in Russia gate were a little bit
different because we had people like
Louise Munsch you know making these
extremely sort of colourful claims about
exactly who was doing the colluding or
the subverting and again it was
something that hooked into actual
reality we know that elements of the
Russian government did try to influence
the u.s. elections and they did offer
help to the Trump campaign so again this
wasn't something that was completely out
of nowhere and then the deep state
conspiracy theories almost rose a rose
like in opposition to that where the the
narrative on the right was no there is
no Russia gate there is no conspiracy
there is no collusion instead there is
this powerful group of anti-trump forces
working within the government for his
destruction these unelected you know
holdovers was one more what mild word
they used
you know these unelected people working
in the government for his destruction
and again there was an unprecedented
number of leaks from the Trump White
House and there was somebody who we
still don't know who who wrote an op-ed
in the New York Times saying I work for
the Trump administration and I'm trying
to prevent him from carrying out his
worst impulses so both of those things
had elements of truth within them and
they built up this sort of it's like a
pearl
you know there's this tiny little gritty
dirty core of truth and this giant much
more politically useful thing accretes
around it in a way that people can use
and spread and share that makes
political and social sense to them so I
mean what is the what's the when we when
we what ends up being what what do we do
about this I mean is there I mean is
that even the right question to ask I
guess I mean because it seems like
there's always going to be conspiracies
in certain right that there always has
been conspiracies there's always going
to be these deficits of power well not
necessarily these deficits of power but
there's always going to be some deficit
it seems to me of information right you
know even to the extent of like the
reason why Louie's mint was able to
create a sort of fantastical version of
of to the extent of what we know went
down between the Russians and the Trump
campaign the fantastical version existed
because the results of the investigation
was not back yet
right exactly and there that shouldn't
have happened any other way
frankly in terms of but what what do we
do about this and what's the sort of I
guess the danger I mean I have a couple
answers I have the sort of more
optimistic one and then I have my actual
feeling the optimistic one is that
uh-huh
this is one for the book tour and then
the optimistic version is that if we
build a more just and transparent
society conspiracy theories sort of take
care of themselves they're always gonna
exist they're always gonna be there
that's fine like we have a vibrant free
open discourse and that's great and that
means that we're always gonna have guys
at conventions selling Bigfoot
literature or you know stuff about the
JFK assassination like that's just a
thing that's always gonna happen but we
know that societies where there is a
higher degree of transparency where
there's less economic inequality where
there's more trust in the press and the
media we see less sort of damaging
conspiracy theorizing that kind of
divides people and makes it hard to
agree on any sort of concrete tangible
truths right and so my less optimistic
response is that I think that if we were
gonna do any of that we needed to do it
about 30 or 40 years ago you know and so
now we have an American populace
specifically who knows that the
government particularly the CIA and the
FBI have engaged in horrifying human
rights abuses in the past are probably
capable of doing it again in the future
and we have an incredibly efficient
social media machine that allows for the
spread of conspiracy theories and
hateful ideas at a volume that has
really never been seen before in human
history we have a conveyor belt and so
even these sort of delayed responses
trying to get it under control are
probably not enough so my actual answer
is I don't know
it's really possible to pull us back so
speaking to the less optimistic you the
the idea was that technology has moved
too far too far ahead of our of where we
were positioned to basically deal with
it in other words the we needed to fix
this stuff before I guess we needed to
fix the brakes before we got on the on
the on the hill or going down I wonder
also to what extent a corporate
malfeasance also adds to this because
right I mean I I spend a decent amount
of time going to to plaintiff attorney
conferences and when you hear what
corporations are knowingly doing what
individuals in these corporations are
knowingly doing the choices that they
knowingly make that are on yes even
though the lawyers have seen this in
black and white in the you know via
Discovery through emails or through
reports it it makes you think that
anything is anything horrible is
possible
yeah and this comes up a lot especially
in the environmental movement right as
there are so many examples of incredibly
poor regulation of companies you know
dumping massive amounts of pollutants
into the water and giving people cancer
and then denying it for years and years
and years so yeah there is there's a lot
of very real sort of knowledge that
corporations can't be trusted to police
themselves that they were dual do really
evil things for as long as they get away
with it and that our government has you
know utterly failed to address that
problem
so that comes up a lot for me when I'm
talking to people in the anti-vaccine
movement right that's what was being
said exactly yeah so I was just at an
anti vaccine conference that I got
thrown out of unsurprisingly um you know
and but people always say the same thing
to me which is they say how can you
trust
Monsanto how can you trust Merck and I
say well I don't have to trust them to
trust the science of vaccines which is
much broader than just the claims that
those companies make but again this is
another place where
our sort of knowledge of American
history and the sort of tilted wheel of
how corporations work visa vie the
government really damages public trust
right I mean there's a lot of examples
sadly of you know of the FDA allowing
stuff that is not healthy yeah or they
don't even have the they're not in a
position to make that determination yeah
and yeah and and and then the
transparency of course in the context of
the anti-vaxxer
you know their the the vaccination
courts that exist that I think most
people aren't aware of they make sense
but when people find out about them
they're like wait what yeah and the
interesting thing about the vaccine
injury compensation system in this
country is that it exists because there
were so many lawsuits especially
following the controversy over DTaP that
the government recognized that they had
to come up with a way to to redress and
reimburse parents who's whose children
did suffer an actual adverse vaccine
reaction they had to do it in a way that
drug companies wouldn't stop making
vaccines because that's where we were
heading is that drug companies were
getting so frightened of these lawsuits
that they were just going to pull out of
the vaccine market because drink drug
companies are value neutral and they
don't care about whether or not people
get measles or pertussis they care about
making money
um but yeah the existence of the vaccine
injury court system and the fact that
it's a no-fault system the fact that
it's a system that doesn't require drug
companies to admit wrongdoing is again
something that makes people crazy and
make it gives people a cause for so much
suspicion so again there's so many
things about the way that this country
is set up that feeds these things in
people's brains rightly or wrongly it
seems to me it would make a lot more
sense if we were making our own vaccines
right a government and yeah well I mean
certainly you know we're we have control
over the the you know the the quality of
the vaccinations I was talking to
somebody in April about you know cancer
medication that had been tainted by jet
flu
right in China but but where the
American government to make vaccinations
to be the actual producer of these
things it would change the dynamic
dramatically it seems to make sure but
it wouldn't necessarily change the
conspiracy theorizing because then it
would be you know whatever goes in the
vaccines is going in there to make us
docile as a population right like but
that's different that's different from
what the the construct of the
anti-vaxxers is today right in the the
the anti-vaxxers today they're construct
it seems to me is the companies stand to
lose too much money to change the
formulations and whatever they use
additives in there that keep it fresh or
saying that you know end up creating a
problem I mean in the early aughts the
idea that the marisol could have been a
additive that was causing this seem to
be still scientifically credible the
problem raised that's right they're
coming to come to get you they're coming
to get you yeah the marisol was taken
out of the vast majority of these
vaccinations I think I was around Oh
three and we saw no discernible impact
on things like autism rates right no I
mean that the the government and the
United States have a really robust
oversight of vaccines it is not in
anybody's interest for vaccines to make
people sick and even thimerosal which
what is a preservative and it was not
proven to have any ill health effects at
all was taken out of childhood vaccines
most childhood vaccines other than some
multi batch flu vaccines because the
government didn't want people to stop
vaccinating this is another place where
paranoia and suspicions fed into
government action because the idea was
we have to do whatever we can to keep
people vaccinating because that's the
most important thing to public health
but yeah I mean it is um it is really
really difficult at this point to figure
out what would sort of
the anti-vaccine movement in particular
to slow down and I think we're seeing
you know recently that it is really it
is working the uptick in measles cases
across the world is evidence that it is
working right working in not a good way
right yeah Anna Marilyn the book is
Republic of Lies American conspiracy
theorists and they're surprising rise to
power thanks so much for your time today
I really appreciate it thank you for
having me
all right folks time to head to the fun
half number there six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty as you know
just a reminder this program this is no
conspiracy relies on your support for
its existence there's many dark forces
out there trying to come after us and
your support provides us the top
security that we need obviously and the
the counter countermeasures that we need
to take I'm not gonna say anymore
obviously why would I
we are in an info war totally impromptu
you can become a member by going to join
the majority report calm
also don't forget just coffee co-op
frere Fairtrade coffee tea chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off you
can buy the majority report blend check
it out in the well I guess we're a
couple of weeks away from making a new
exciting announcement so we'll wait and
we won't do it
reminder next week the Wednesday and
Thursday nights we will be doing live
coverage of the democratic debate and
so join us live we will be doing that
the meantime today is what's that Daddy
is not available well debate a debate
night
exactly Michael tonight is Tuesday Ness
indeed so we will be focusing on the
role that vaccines played and brexit how
they've damaged our cognitive capacity
what the industry does not want you to
know no we're not good yeah it's
possible
well tonight on TM BS we are gonna be
doing a lot of things probably with a
pretty heavy emphasis on what's going on
with Iran and a little not huge but
we're gonna be experimenting with a
little bit of a different format tonight
because you know we have crew of about
probably a little over a dozen great
people say Milton al-ahmadi or Richard
Wolffe or Anna Kasparian but tonight
Anna Ilona minkovski who's a regular on
crew is actually gonna be a semi
recurring co-host of t MBS and weed
segment as an example so I'm looking
forward to that
which would you like that that amused
you yeah Wow did the Wow did okay
so fair enough I'm glad you're enjoying
yourself so that's tonight looking
forward to that with Ilona
live at 7:00 charge that one was better
we're gonna be at a live at I actually
used that one I feel like I like that
one we're gonna be live 7:00 p.m.
NYC time Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel and then this weekend we're
gonna be doing actually a deep dive on
the history of the Democratic Party I'm
a little bit of a different angle we're
gonna loop it back specifically with the
rainbow panel Sam cedar
[Laughter]
with Ryan grim patreon.com slash T MBS
subscribe on the Michael Brooks show on
YouTube as well we're about to hit our
first 52 thousand subscribers
[Music]
[Applause]
correlating that with getting back to
Sam cedar only one king that was your
subscribers thing on YouTube Jamie go
ahead this week on the anti Fattah
we have Sophie Weiner night editor of
Splinter news and displaced poster
that's right she's a refugee from the
posting wars who had to move to
Australia after getting ratio just
kidding she was back in town for a bit
so we talked about Australia we checked
in on our favorite media power couple
Barry and Bill Weiss Marv and mostly we
talked about a very cool socialist
techno zine that Sophie started with her
friend Zoe berry and just like the
Liberatore potential of of underground
culture and how we can maybe create some
kind of opening to make the world better
by having a lot of fun on the weekend
literary hangover coming up this
Saturday recording on Thursday night
Blithedale romance by Nathaniel
Hawthorne it's about the utopian
socialists and and we talked about
Hawthorne as an anti-communist writer
alright six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty is the number see you
in the fun half
let's try that one more time Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
they're buggy I am NOT your employee I'm
sorry
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some ability Ria's out there
take whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to know
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly it's almost impossible to
imagine we will get to that in just a
moment ladies and gentlemen welcome it
is the fun half as you know as you
should know by now that is what's
happening here we will be taking your
IMS via the app at majority app comm for
both iOS and Android we got to do a an
update so we're having it's a little bit
Winky dinky but working for the vast
majority of you thousands of you and you
can I am the show of course with that
app just get on there and it's just I am
the show and that's the way that we
sometimes communicate with some of you
let's go to the phones which is the
other way in which we communicate with
you this is a 406 number who is this
where are you calling from hello hello
hi this is Brennan from Montana Brennan
from Montana what's on your mind
Wow awesome huge fan by the way
Lula Libre leave no Michaels back in so
that might make him happy mm-hm let's
get to it I guess I wanted to talk to
you a bit about um and sorry if you hear
anything my daughter's home 6 today with
me unacceptable
I know I know so on Friday June 14th a
guy called in about how semi-automatic
handguns are used
more often and crimes shootings things
like that I thought that this guy was a
little bit of a schmuck okay I mean I I
understood his point that he was making
and I live in like I said Montana I
don't know if you're familiar but it's a
pretty gun saturated State
I would imagine I mean most kids I know
would rather go hunting and play
basketball or football here and so you
can imagine like the things that I hear
when trying to talk about any form of
gun reform but uh and you kind of
alluded to it when you were talking to
that guy maybe in a joking manner but he
he wanted uh he was okay with some form
of regulation and you said that you
wanted to make it just extremely
difficult to obtain any of those weapons
and that's actually kind of where I
stand right well what he was talking
about like making semi-automatic
handguns the same making it just as
accessible as say a hand grenade because
you don't see in the news that somebody
you know threw a hand grenade into a
school every week right
um the the reason for that is because
you need what he didn't know I'm
assuming is and it's called an SSL
license in order to obtain those weapons
you go through extensive background
checks both federally and locally to get
that and a lot of people have issue with
that until you know it comes to getting
their big bad grenades and rocket
launchers and stuff so yeah I was just
calling to see what you thought about
that may be putting all semi-automatic
rifles extended magazines that that's
exactly what I suggested like I mean I
you know I mean I listen I understand I
have been around
hunting culture a decent amount both on
the East Coast to a certain extent and
you know in the Michigan area done my
share of skeet shooting and spent a
decent amount of time around houses with
a lot of dead animals on the wall and I
and also I also know folks who who you
know take one deer year and that's their
the meat that they have fro you know for
over the course of years so I think you
know in terms of weapons that are you
know fairly standard hunting weapons
okay but yes for for things that are
like semi-automatic or quasi assault
rifles or assault rifles things that
have you know cartridges or magazines
that are over a certain amount of
bullets I don't know what it is I
wouldn't mind over let's say for as it
were but you know you need a special
license you need to go through some
major hoops yeah I am I'm all for that
and but you know we'll see I don't know
if that's going to happen but yeah you
do think that that's sort of a viable
option rather than AB and then is maybe
just making things so hard to get to
that that's a question of the the
Supreme Court and as the Supreme Court
is constructed now I don't know if
that's a viable option because as it was
only about ten years ago maybe a little
bit less actually when the court case
and I the name escapes me at the moment
determined that the Second Amendment was
actually an individual right and because
that's a constitutional right as per
this Supreme Court the abridgement of
that right needs to be very much in the
state interest and it needs to be it's
subject to specific reviews
that are you know scrutinize it in a
certain way so I don't know I don't know
how the Supreme Court would rule on that
but I I like that idea
I appreciate the call I hope your
daughter is feeling better okay I
mentioned at the beginning of the show
that we were sending a thousand troops
to the Middle East as announced by
Patrick Shanahan who is the acting
defense secretary when I also made that
announcement I also noted that this guy
was still the Acting Secretary of
Defense because he could not be
confirmed yet by the Senate because his
confirmation hearings had been delayed
because the FBI was investigating him
for corporate corruption specifically
with some military defense contractors
and it appears that the acting defense
secretary a Patrick Shanahan is no
longer acting as the acting secretary
but rather he will be stepping down now
apparently one of the issues that could
be holding up the FBI investigation
according to Axios is his complicated
divorce apparently there was an
allegation that Shannon hit her during a
violent confrontation in 2010 certainly
wouldn't be out of character for the
Trump administration to to be having
someone like that in their
administration frankly nor the
corruption would be inconsistent with
the Trump administration so it's unclear
I imagine there's also another element
to this and it could be it really could
go one way or the other
one it could be that Trump thought good
time to have no acted Acting Secretary
of Defense because that way Bolton and
Pompeyo couldn't possibly launch a war
and he gives us an excuse to back off or
Pompeo and Bolton and folks in that camp
told Donald Trump you want to get rid of
this guy he is potentially problematic
for your administration and they don't
want someone who is in that position who
might be saying hey bad idea
starting a war with Iran so either
explanation seems to me to be completely
viable it's hard to believe that what's
going on with Bolton and Pompeyo in Iran
and Iran did not factor into this in
some fashion right I mean it just
doesn't happen that way
but for life me I can come up with two
different scenarios they're 180 degrees
from each other and both could be
possible but you should be aware that
there is very strange things happening
in the administration we can see you
know like many of the stories that we
talk about in this program and I've been
saying for years we see the shadows of
this stuff we don't see the actual
activity we just see you know the light
refracting off of it or the lack of
light that it caddish in the shadow that
it casts and so when trish regan has
some weird soliloquy about how war with
iran is being orchestrated by Nancy
Pelosi Nancy Pelosi Mike Pompeo and the
Ayatollah all to stop him from getting
reelected because they're jealous of
what a terrific economy it is maybe in
Mulvaney for coffee I mean it that's
just it's so weird you got to speak in a
diluted paranoid
idiots term I understand but it's not
even so much the way that she's speaking
because I understand that that's the way
that she's got to construct this story
because that's the only one that's gonna
motivate Trump but the idea that trish
regan who's you know like i don't think
the trish regan was sitting at home with
all due respect to her as a as a
journalist and broadcaster i don't think
that trish regan was sitting at home
going like i really it's up to me to
stop this engagement with Iran I'm going
to stop this war and I'm so I'm
freelancing here that's that to me super
confident that that's not what's
happening I am very confident that's
unlikely and so someone is using trish
regan to get a message to the president
use trish to get to be this is the
actual battle against the deep state
this is cueing on for real I just Rupert
Murdoch looked at his stock portfolio
and realized a new massive
destabilization in Middle East was a bad
idea so he dropped a line to trish regan
through a executive producer on her show
to backdoor an idiot diluted message to
donald trump that only he could
understand so in the middle of berating
baron for being too tall he could pass
on info to the generals to stop Pompeyo
and bolton Nancy Pelosi and the
Ayatollah from watching a war to
undermine this terrific economic record
and reelect do you think it's possible
that your Aegon at she literally just
like pulled you know like something like
ripped off and it was like in a full
like a bodysuit and then scaled down the
side of the building on quite a roll to
have one of those happens like one of
the dumbest anchors on television for
six years real god I can't believe hard
ideas tend to be the Avengers
next I have to go meet with Ironman
Archer
so speaking of talking points you know
how for years there has been this
massive concern with all of the
immigrants that are pouring into this
country from Africa at the southern
border right we've been talking about
this for years but it's obviously been
extremely hush turn terms because within
the course of a day
we have clips now from like what three
or four different shows on Fox that if
all of a sudden discovered that not just
folks from Latin America come into the
states through the southern border the
other day we reported on a
seven-year-old girl from India who died
in the desert around the area where
Scott Warren I think his name is who's
on trial for leaving water for people
like that around that area
Donald Trump is launching his campaign
tonight and not coincidentally he
announced that there's going to be a
massive roundup of undocumented
immigrants in the millions of course it
won't be in the millions it will be in
the thousands and because it's in the
thousands and not the millions everyone
will sigh a sigh of relief as opposed to
just the outrage and disgust that should
be involved in this type of
terrorization in the first place but
commence
with the launching the official launch
of the Trump 2020 campaign we have a new
group of people who are not white
obviously to be worried about
according to Tucker Carlson as he talks
to Andrew Arthur of the Center for
Immigration Studies and I put that in
quotes because their ultimate goal is to
come to the United States and live and
work here permanently and this is
something that I saw when I was an
immigration judge with Somalis it's just
simply become a new group of nationals
from Central Africa now who have heard
about how open the American borders are
and who want to come and exploit them
the population growth in that part of
the world particularly on the continent
of Africa suggests that I mean this this
flood could become a torrent no
absolutely and there's a you know
without the support of our southern
neighbors in the absence of support from
the United States Congress
we truly would just be overwhelmed with
individuals you know from poor countries
who have literally sold everything that
they had to make the journey to the
United States in fact I think the New
York Times reported one woman said she
didn't have one dollar to her name by
the time that she arrived in the United
States but they do it because they know
that they're going to come here and you
know we've been looking at a u.s. wage
every day it's a smart economic decision
to make till Congress acts it's just
going to continue right I posit it is he
talking about all of our
great-grandparents in this room will
come to America with not with barely a
penny in their pocket because the
streets are paved with gold oh no he's
not he's talking about Africans it's
just gonna continue right I would I
would do the same I don't I don't judge
them I judge our leaders are good this
is it's gonna overwhelm our country and
change it completely in front yes can
you imagine just how dramatically
different this country would be
if we had a lot of black people here can
you imagine from Africa of all places
one could only imagine it would be
definitely like something we haven't had
as a country in fact no not the real
country not the real country well I
think that's one of the things though
that really does trigger the right in
this country is like if you go across
the world you know you can and again
this is not a justification for any like
particular policy obviously but like you
can sort of roughly you can say like
look Ghana is an African country France
is a European country and they want to
be able to say the United States is a
European country but it's not I mean
United States is by definition a
outgrowth of first of all the people
that was genocided that lived here first
and then it is in fact a part of Africa
and certainly in the sense of diaspora
it's a part of Europe obviously I mean
the fact that it literally cannot even
be put into that lineage really freaks
these people out just as a historical
matter of fact and the other thing
that's so disgusting by the way if
Tucker wants to say that he blames the
leaders then do 50 segments a day on
debt relief for Africa and stop you know
supporting us and corporate exploitation
of the continent and deal with those
issues if you want to blame the leaders
and not people fleeing conditions and
the way that they we've talked about the
you know the thing that will be
happening I'm pretty confident that
won't be happening I'm just offering a
door here their use of the phrase west
points to that envy about like they wish
they were west like Frances West yes
America's not like that guys and West is
not West either right of kardea talked
about that but particularly America mean
America is literally not a European
country it is a everything country which
should in fact be to our advantage
well it's textbook that camp of the
saints right where the these
immigrants were portrayed as these like
brown invading hordes who just bred like
animals coming to destroy the West which
was already an apocryphal idea
in France in the 1970s from the book was
written and is it spotlights how
apocryphal that is that they're talking
the same way about the US well they were
abolitionists who had racist reasons for
being abolitionists in America they
thought they're bringing too many
Africans here so we just played a clip
of Tucker Carlson can I just also had
that guy used to be an immigration judge
that should be a great and I'm sorry I
know I know I just wanted people to not
gloss over that another great indictment
of our system how much you wanna bet how
much you want to bet I could guess who
appointed him I am sure you could guess
who I would say the name of the
president ended with a B or with D
Tucker Carlson we just watched the clip
of Tucker Carlson warning all of us but
the new flood of immigration that is
coming from Africa and how the idea of a
torrent of people from Africa will
change the country in a way that would
be almost unrecognizable goes from a
flood to a torrent flood to a torrent
and just the idea of of this many people
from Africa would just change the nature
of America which has no connection
whatsoever to Africa and never has well
maybe this is just a one-off
I mean Tucker Carlson I don't know that
it ever spoken about this before but it
couldn't be that someone is launching
their campaign tonight and really wants
to scare Americans in some way or play
on perhaps some bigoted goodness or
prejudice towards certain group of
people no that can't be because if it
was we would tune into Laura Ingraham
after Tucker and all of a sudden she'd
be play
oh this is like the Congo and other
African countries are being basically
they're repopulating Portland Maine with
a huge contingent of these immigrants
these migrants and it's it's
overwhelming the Maine authorities I
mean they're pretty liberal up there
they're like we can't take any more
people were full up but they're there
they're hoping to go there there you go
because it isn't this is the same you
know you could note one thing whenever
they're talking about the immigrants
they pause like they're trying to search
for a word and dehumanizing language
it's almost as if like that pause
communicates to their listeners like you
know what I really want to say right but
I'm on TV got to say immigrants or
migrants that's precisely we'll do who
talks about a group of people like a
contingent of people like what are you
talking and I just want to say I mean
what's so like just to draw like a
really tight line cuz she mentioned
Maine so actually before I went to base
it actually had cooled down a bit before
I went there and I would and I would
assume with some recent things that
happened after I was there it got worse
again but there is a very big Somali and
I think some Sudanese refugee community
in Lewiston and in fact like yeah if you
want to talk about it on economic terms
Lewiston is a classic like decimated
mill town that has one ultra privileged
college that has nothing to do with the
rest of the town and yeah these refugees
came in and they did generate some new
economic activity in the town that's
literally how this discoveries right now
this was a Mecca Mecca a mecca excuse me
of plan activity before you know like in
early aughts this was like a major thing
and they used precisely the same
rhetoric she's using now to talk about
exactly the same dynamics that she's
talking about so it's just like manat
it's even a direct line it's just a
replication of something that was
thought of as like look at this
horrifying oddity it was even covered as
like you know look at the college kids
teaming up with the immigrant community
and good local people fighting against
this and now it's talk you know
talking points on America's main cable
network yeah and you can also draw a
direct line to the great replacement
panic in manifestos of multiple white
supremacist murderers like in the recent
past so this stuff has real-world
consequence at all right that's the only
part that's have yet do you think
anyone's ever been in a flood and then
it's like oh crap this flood has become
a torrent now what's written was just a
flood but I can feel what a flood but a
torrent so Stuart Varney was on Fox &
Friends and he was singing the praises
of Bernie Sanders initiative to force
Amazon to pay a $15 minimum wage oh wait
a second have I got that wrong oh no
wait a second that's not it he's going
after AOC for pointing out that Amazon
only recently did that well there you've
got a OC ramping up her fight against
Amazon accusing Jeff Bezos of becoming
the world's richest man by paying his
workers starvation wages as she said he
reacts to Advani hosts of Varney a
company on the Fox Business Network you
want my reaction oh I just did a little
research okay okay Amazon pays $15 an
hour to all full-time part-time
temporary and seasonal workers all has
it full-time
how long has that been the case do we
know has it been three months six months
it was shortly after Bernie Sanders
basically threatened to bring up
legislation October 2018 now I would
imagine Jeff Bezos has made an extra
billion dollars between October of 2018
and now it's conceivable but he was the
world's richest man at that point and it
may be correct that ALC is being a
little bit limited he also made his
became the world's richest
by skirting around state taxes for many
many years having a competitive edge in
that he didn't pay he skirted taxes and
didn't pay people living wages and
forced people to stay locked in
warehouses without taking pee breaks
bootstrap the postal service yep here we
go let's hear what Stuart Varney though
but you know is Varney gonna give credit
where credit's due
for those raises that the Amazon workers
got hmm
I don't think all full-time workers get
medical coverage a 401 K company paid
life insurance short-term and long-term
disability insurance
maternity and parental leave I hardly
think that is starvation wages they
detailed a lot of deaths that they said
they say that our Staten Island facility
people there earn between 1730 an hour
and 23 dollars an hour yeah and the
company that they when Amazon wanted to
come to New York City at AOC said no a
25,000 25,000 jobs would do which paid
an average of $100,000 a year that's not
starvation wages what what a OC is doing
here is trying to go up against Trump's
prosperity the Democrats are trying to
run against Trump's successful economy
so they have to criticize it and say
okay it's it's just not fair you got
billionaires we don't have billions you
got it
I want it we're gonna take it that's
what they're saying it's jealousy
they're running on emotion not fact
they're stealing from people who have
really worked hard Jeff Bezos worked
really hard to start this company a
company that we all depend on now and
they wanted to move here to New York and
this is the this is the congresswoman
who said no look it's classic socialist
propaganda cause if we won something
like can we do the math on this can we
do the math how many billions times more
did Jeff Bezos work harder than the rest
of us
right I mean if he's how many billions
does he have do we know many is it is he
have hundreds is he so he's worked I
don't even have 154 billion okay so I
don't I don't want to talk about is like
half a billion dollar I expect Jeff
Bezos to fund a lifestyle and remotely
less him as much is is what has worked a
hundred billion times harder than me
yeah yeah he works like 50 are weak and
and a junior and a junior high junior
congresswoman who still has more power
than him that's how it works he came to
New York and there wasn't a massive
grassroots uprising against the
corporate giveaway to Amazon she just
was like I'm sorry no no I'm tweeting it
this is you're not coming so no thank
you
it's why billionaires always talk about
how they work like 80 hour work weeks
and what they really mean is they check
email in the uber Bezos is like checking
it and like like on his helipad while he
like tries to like cut his wife know
like divorce settlement those tax breaks
were stolen from him by us okay
he earned those tax breaks by working a
hundred billion times harder than the
rest of oh my gosh he's such a kook and
actually buying into this I want it
we're gonna take it that's what they say
it's yes that's true they're running on
emotion not fact I heard someone say
it's stealing they're stealing from
people who have really worked really
hard to start this company a company
that we all depend on now and they
wanted to move here to New York and this
is the this is the congresswoman who
said no look it's classic socialist
propaganda drumming up an emotional
response to prosperity but what does she
know I'm gonna take a self-care day so I
don't really even have time for this but
I just want to say up top first of all
Jeff Bezos
no no I don't feel good
finally the Democrats are running on
what the American people want is which
is to be against prosperity and to be
gamer's that's right that's the American
people are just crying out for an
opposition to luxury property all rely
on Jeff Bezos now and the idea that he
might just stop it if we take some of
his billions of dollars he could just
stop and then where would we be they
really can't decide how they feel about
Jeff Bezos because I feel like a few
months ago he was being smeared as a
liberal right hey easy on the Bezos
defense now they have to defend him
against the newly elected socialist
dictator queen of New York Trump Trump's
tweeting no I stopped the deal I stopped
it because it was very unfair that's
actually the good instincts that Trump
has that's what's dead sand well is that
he would recognize that actually you
want to be on the right side of lying
about that
what's going on with Fox by the way
what's going on there let's play this so
Sepp Korca on his radio show you know I
I don't know how many people listen to
Sepp Gorka on Facebook Linked basically
us I think this is like at the point
where the only people consuming it or
those that are so invested in making fun
of him evil prank phone
he's completely irrelevant I once
received a phone call from a right
winger when I was on terrestrial radio
telling me that our enemies were
laughing at us because Dick Durbin wore
a pink tie on the Senate floor
wait they did they actually it was that
their version of a prank call nope okay
no I'm willing to accept that they're
laughing at us because of dick Durbin
period the era of the pajama boy is over
well and how do we know the era the
pajama boy is over well because Sepp
Gorka has a radio show ladies and
gentlemen and he's still learning the
ropes still trying to figure out how to
deal with some of his more contentious
callers and here he is trying to defend
the president let's go to line four Jane
in Atlanta what
to manifest oh yes mr. burka I was just
calling to touch basis with you about
how come I don't like Trump and I just
don't particularly care for Trump
because he likes to grope women by the
vagina while he's Mary Jane can you tell
me how do you know that he's actually
done j-jane but it doesn't mean he did
it talking or we drop the line Jane you
got to stop talking and let me ask you a
question how do you know he actually did
that and remember he said that when he
was a Democrat so let's not forget that
how do you know he did answer the
question the question man to the
question of Jane you don't want to
answer the question do you closer but no
can we take that as a sound drop you are
a semantics man could apply she was
talking over one of the ways that you
could know that he did that would be to
look at the allegations by over a dozen
women who made such allegations in fact
I think it was number was closer like 17
when he was a Democrat doesn't count so
those were he was that was a democratic
let's go to have a brat hand that was
doing that grabbing by your logic Gorka
what if he did only just say it is that
the type of type of thing you want to
say when you're a married man there you
go
but it was a Democrat mouth that said
those words
it was Democrat at that time he makes a
mistake you never throw something out
that they can have easier to respond to
and he tries to make her respond to the
original question what's that it's what
do you like you know yeah he said the
thing about by the way he was a Democrat
which is much easy to respond to it
because it's just clearly something you
shouldn't say like obviously that's not
a real defense that's not a defense but
it's it's a disease and if you can get
rid of the disease then you would
never grab another one again here's Tom
cotton who literally they should give
him a drum because he is so desperate to
start this war with Iran he is stepping
into the void that John McCain left from
being the greatest war monger in the
Senate this is a guy who you should be
very concerned about because if Donald
Trump loses in 2020 Tom cotton is sure
to be running for president in 2024 in
fact if Donald Trump wins in 2020 Tom
cotton is sure to be running for
president in 2024 and
he may sound like a lunatic but also
know this guy not only served in the
military but also went to Harvard so
he's a well educated lunatic and those
are very scary indeed here he is on Fox
News basically saying the opposite of
what Trish Regan said on Fox Business
News listen through gosh tagged listen
to Trish Trish Regan was telling the
president don't listen to Nancy Pelosi
who wants you to go to war with Iran
because she wants to win in 2020 Tom
cotton it's on a slightly different page
and you know in flames the u.s. Iran
issue why what is the what is the
purpose
I'm not going to accuse anybody of
instigating anything but for not having
a policy that would smooth the waters so
to speak I think he probably knows
there's no appetite for war among the
American people I imagine you know that
when she says he she's talking about the
president United States and she's saying
that they
basically he inflamed the situation by
tearing apart the Obama nuclear deal and
I have to say I'm surprised and a little
disappointed that Nancy Pelosi sounds
like she's siding with the Ayatollah
it's just a few days after they attacked
commercial vessels in the open seas of
the Gulf of Oman there you go
I mean yes after that whole story has
already been pretty thoroughly debunked
within hours of a taking place including
by the Japanese head of the companies
vessels were attacked and also I think
you know looping back on this to me you
know I've heard some more analysis on
this and like there's there's one like
limited case of Iran saying look we're
gonna start you know basically punishing
the United States for recklessly tearing
up this deal it still doesn't make sense
why they would attack a Japanese and
Norwegian vessel what makes a lot of
sense is that the Emiratis and the
Saudis were hell-bent on this would be
pushing for this every step of the way
and also in the context of the Japanese
Prime Minister being in Iran trying to
restart a diplomatic process that was
why he was there wasn't just a normal
bilateral meeting and also involved this
stuff Tom Kha wants his war Tom cotton
is a menace in every respect to this
country and also Tom cotton was the
organizer believe with the letter that
undermined the Obama and negotiations to
begin with and like a just like shocking
disregard of any do you remember that
yeah where they basically said we will
overturn this deal yes yes let's hope
that he doesn't have the trumpian
quality where you can say whatever you
want and a certain group of people will
believe you I think Republicans are like
I don't know if that's a trumpian
quality as much as it is a Republican
quality I think yeah I think it's a
Republican quality but I think it's
quite safe to say that whatever bizarre
charisma Trump does have Tom cotton is
not endowed with
that rich now speaking of which the
calls for impeachment are becoming
stronger saw polling that the idea of an
impeachment inquiry is now growing Fox
News did a poll the other day that
showed the majority of people want an
impeachment inquiry maybe a plurality
wants an impeachment inquiry where he is
booted and gone but then there are
others who just want an impeachment
inquiry it is gaining popularity I do
not buy the theory that you hear from
some people that Nancy Pelosi is just
being strategic about doing this again I
call your attention to her appearance on
Jimmy Kimmel where she claimed that
impeaching him and then having it go to
the Senate where he would not be
convicted would make it impossible to
prosecute him criminally after the fact
that's absurd
maybe she misspoke but that's a very
specific thing to misspeak I think she
definitely does not want impeachment but
it does feel like sometimes the ship
sails regardless of whether you're on it
or not and one of the people who's
helping push that ship from the docks
I bring you one of the one of the like
one of the rock stars from the new
incoming congressional class of
Democrats definitely in fact I would say
like an indie group that is building
more and more underground momentum Katey
Porter of California here she is on a
video she posted to Twitter the other
night hi I'm congresswoman Katie Porter
today I wanted to speak directly to the
people of California's 45th district
there's been a lot of noise in DC and in
the press about impeachment so I wanted
to share my thoughts with you
I've spent hours reading and analyzing
the Constitution articles written by
leading scholars and the 200 year
history of our democracy and its system
of checks and balances
after weeks of study deliberation and
conversations with Orange County
families I've decided to support an
impeachment investigation of the
president I have not come to this easily
I come to this decision after much
deliberation and I know deeply what this
means for our democracy I didn't come to
Congress to impeach the president
I ran to use my decades of consumer
advocacy to help Orange County families
I ran to fight back against big pharma
and outrageous prescription drug pricing
to help families with the crushing costs
of child care and to take on the
affordable housing crisis hurting our
community and I will continue to do
those things and much more but when
faced with a crisis of this magnitude I
cannot with a clean conscience ignore my
duty to defend the Constitution I can't
claim to be committed to rooting out
corruption and putting people over
politics and then not apply those same
principles and standards in all of the
work I do I've reached a point of
clarity in my decision Congress must
continue the work of Special Counsel
Miller
in his report and public remarks
director Muller emphasized that under
current law he did not have the option
to indict the president but despite the
limits of his authority the special
counsel was clear that he could not
exonerate the president and he presented
extensive evidence of obstruction of
justice that requires continued
investigation by Congress the
administration has refused to respect
the rule of law they have ignored
multiple subpoenas they've directed
current and former high ranking
officials to disregard summons to
testify and the president has continued
his efforts to spread mistrust of our
law enforcement contempt for our
journalists and false information about
the law director Mueller's findings and
basic uncontested facts the question is
not whether a crisis is in our
but rather whether we choose to fight
against it I've been a congresswoman for
five months now and serving you and my
country is one of the greatest honors of
my life but I came to this position as
an attorney and a law professor a mom to
three amazing kids and as a patriot and
I will continue to draw on that and on
our love of this country and its
principles as we navigate this trying
time
I mean it's she you know there's there's
literally I think like two or three
freshmen Congress women who have been in
Congress for five months who I think
could could walk into the presidential
race and maybe win I mean I think she's
one of them I think she could
theoretically anybody else would be
demonized over I mean it's like how do
you I'll tell you who you'll never see
on Fox News his day Bono they will never
ever play Katey Porter on Fox News
because they would they need a lot of
time before they figure out what the
angle is here um cuz she looks like I
think like their mom or their daughter I
mean the you know on that you know
everybody who watched said I mean she
looks like she just came out of you know
like suburban home in Ohio or something
and then just says like I you know this
is the most reasonable path to follow
and and look she's right there's a
multitude of things that you could bring
up in impeachment hearings regarding
Donald Trump everything from obstruction
out of the Muller investigation I
actually think that there is enough
evidence to
make an indictment of some form of
collusion with the in regards to the
election
one could argue soliciting a foreign
government for help that they knowingly
knew could happen is a violation of of
election love nevertheless certainly
stuff with the census question there was
new reports out today
they found emails that showed collusion
between a Republican operative and
members of the Commerce Department
specifically about the census and the
Commerce Department has argued in court
that they had no contact whatsoever with
this guy so there's there's a myriad of
things that can be brought up and I
think Nancy Pelosi someone in the
Democratic leadership needs to start
introducing the idea that it is
Congress's job to look at impeachment it
is the Senate's job to convict and if
they don't convict and they don't even
look at the question they are shirking
their responsibilities you impeach
Donald Trump because you must hold them
accountable because you must fill the
vacuum that would exist over the next 12
months and you impeach Donald Trump
because it's really an impeachment of
the Republican Party and you use their
refusal to even address the question
which is exactly what they will do they
will refuse to address the question they
will pretend it's not happening and the
way you define this is before you even
start the impeachment inquiry you set
this up we have our job they have their
job you set it up so before the thing
becomes highly politicized
because it will be before the
Republicans in the Senate say this is
the Democrats doing this you set up the
dynamic you've got to set up these pins
before you knock them down and that's
the biggest failure that Nancy Pelosi
has she should be setting up like the
this dynamic of I know people feel it's
the houses job and certainly it's the
houses job but if it was the house where
to do this it would be the sentence job
to convict and they can choose yes or no
because Mitch McConnell will not have a
day's worth of hearings on this because
he knows if he did it would be a problem
so they should be setting it up right
now that it's within the Senate's rights
to look at this and not convict because
they won't even do that and that failure
is where you get your political
advantage from in my estimation let's go
to the IMS train boy shame on us for
kidnapping over 5,000 children holding
them for ransom and concentration camps
sometimes until they die abolish ice
prosecute its officials and give
restitution and amnesty to their victims
now agreed mid middie doctors please
remind everyone on YouTube to hit the
like button also in the UK we're
experiencing one party vibe as Boris
Johnson is coordinated leader via
us-style the TV debates as though
contrary public opinion doesn't exist
frankly we're coming apart at the seams
that said I believe we've reached peak
brexit ER and sanity is slowly washing
back into the discourse hit the like
button hit the like button folks erin
fremont from ontario great interview
today it's insane how pizza gators will
shoot up a pizza joint looking for an
underground child sex rings but not a
peep from them when it comes to actual
document to proof of the sexual and
physical abuse of migrant children at
the border
do they think migrant children aren't
human or is it just brain worms I
imagine it's not an either/or question
water boat from Kashmir better campaign
slogan for Sam it doesn't work that way
and Michael doing Sam's voice please it
doesn't work that way I love Sarah Palin
hey Sam I just want to correct an
ignorant comment Matt made yesterday
about you bi at administrative costs
okay if you bi was passed we would save
money on administrative costs by using
blockchain technology to administer them
Sam on the impeachment thing we have to
be a little strategic we have to delay
impeachment until we need it people want
to impeach him in the first few months
of the emoluments thing nothing is wrong
with having a slow drip of negative
information come out about an unpopular
president with a capped upside we should
save impeachment for after we expose all
his corruption or when we need it if
it's like a Supreme Court justice
retires
I think Clinton's impeachment took over
a little over a month and we may need
that month during the race that is a I
just cautioned that a lot of people
reacted to the way the Cavanaugh thing
went down because it looked like it was
just about political expedience and not
the actual allegations about him so I
don't know about that well Nancy Pelosi
maybe maybe that's Nancy Pelosi's you
know 37 dimensional chess Eve from Texas
I read a study that there's more likely
correlation with autism as a
complication of a sperm contributor
being older than 40 but no one is doing
huge info campaigns and legislation
about that that's what I've read as well
people would prefer to blame government
etc than to have a serious thoughtful
discussion with their doctor and partner
zero-sum Sam hi mr crew today a YouGov
poll revealed the lunacy of 10,000
conservative members that will elect the
UK prime minister 63 hundred thousand
sixty-three percent prefer to have
brexit even if Scotland leaves the UK
sixty-one percent
furtive brexit even if the UK economy
takes a significant damage 59% prefer
that breaks it even if northern I own
leaves UK 54% want brexit even if it
destroys the Conservative Party and now
the kicker 51% would prefer brexit not
to happen if it meant that Jem Jeremy
Corbyn became the next prime minister
sociopaths conservatives are sociopaths
yeah that's a little bit weird liberal
communist my fellow Wobblies and
syndicalists syndicalists out there well
know that there is a surprising lack of
syndicalists or IWW patches out there
could a fellow worker get on that well
you get the socialist convention coming
up right now right the conference right
don't worry keen observer hey Sam just
wanted to let you know that even with
all those relatable young people in the
studio I'm 25 I think you're really cool
dude with great style and friendly charm
thank you I also do not mind at all when
you pause video clip two to three
seconds in it's just your swagger thank
you
sending love and appreciation from
Olympia Washington thank you you are
indeed a keen observer let's go to the
phones call them from a 5-1 7 area code
who's this where you come from this the
least annoyed you're gonna ever be
playback oh we could review our
performance this would play oh wow hey
yeah yeah sorry about that yeah we had
to wait a long time for you to catch up
whoa who is this where you come from
sorry there's a yeah this is Sam from
Michigan oh well in that case hello Sam
yeah so I've been trying to get through
for a couple days my point was actually
about the debate lineups okay uh yeah so
the way that I see it the debate lineups
aren't so much good for Biden as bad for
or necessarily bad for Bernie as they
are bad for Warren that like she's sort
of out of the title fight and they see a
good chance that tulsi gabbard being
sort of self-serving and self-interested
will see it as a chance to go after her
on foreign policy should she should be I
want these self-interested of tulsi
gabbard at all she should attack Warren
on foreign war is bad should be but and
I'm I guess where I'm coming there is
more that I know Tulsi might be willing
to go further than Bernie would maybe
maybe self self-interested isn't the
right phrase well I mean she has a
different set of incentives what
pollution yes she has a different set of
incentives and I don't think that III
would be surprised to see Bernie I mean
frankly I'll be surprised to see Bernie
go after Biden directly to to be honest
with you I mean it's possible he might
but I would be surprised to see him do
that I you know i I've I've tried to
gain this out in my head quite a bit in
terms of Warren but I think it's going
to be helpful to her because she is
going to be seen as for one night on
Thursday or Wednesday night she's going
to be seen as the the front-runner right
because she's gonna be seen in that
context and that is a health
place to be I have from my perspective I
would rather seen her on the stage with
Biden because I think she would have
gone after Biden directly I don't think
she's gonna do that as much in this in
this context I bet if I was her advisers
I would be telling her you don't go
after anybody cuz you are the
front-runner in this debate and you let
everybody come at you or if you're gonna
go after anybody just go after Biden
anyways frankly righty but keep it
focused on there's no you don't know I'm
saying you make your large macro points
about what you're trying to do and if
you want to hit anybody you could hit by
didn't even know he's not there I I
think that uh I mean yeah I think that
Warren should be hit very strongly on
foreign and military policy for whoever
does it but I I think Bernie you're
gonna see Bernie hit Biden on trade I
actually am pretty confident that will
happen and I think that the other
dynamic is that that random collection
of like loser candidates are all gonna
pile up on Bernie with like hacky
democratic socialism talking points and
that'll be the other day don't talk that
way about Mary Ann I don't know Mary Ann
will be cool I like Mary Ann I like her
vibe
Sam appreciate the cot was sort of we
shall see tune in we'll see if you are
right to be cool if marianne williamson
like put a voodoo curse on somebody but
she's not cool like that
calling from 8:06 area code who's this
where he come from hey this is uh Ben
from West Texas Ben from West Texas
what's on your mind you guys saw the I
guess the big controversy from yesterday
on The Daily wire type people's radar
with this Kyle Kossuth kid having his
admission to Harvard rescinded for his
yeah let me just catch people up yes he
is he was one of the students involved
in parkland shooting he came out of it
and is conservative he
was basically saying that you know was
was advocating no gun control in the
wake of this he was admitted to Harvard
and apparently in the past couple of
days it has been released and I think
with some help of Mike Serna vich and
Jacob wall although it's an unclear
photos of a whatsapp chat or some other
chat device from two years ago where
he's using the n-word and spewing some
racist bile as my understanding here is
an example of it and he subsequently
posted a an apology that he sent to
Harvard I don't know if maybe an apology
is not the right word but it's he
doesn't say the words I'm sorry in it I
can actually read it you know what why
don't you put this up because it's a
here it is I have recently been made
aware of screenshots circulating that
include offensive comments former
classmates and I made a few years ago
long before the shooting I want to
address this with honesty and
transparency we were 16 year olds making
idiotic comments using callous and
inflammatory language in an effort to be
as extreme and shocking as possible I'm
embarrassed by it but I want to be clear
that the comments I made were not
indicative of Who I am or what I've
become in the years since how many years
could that have possibly been well two
years the exactly two years they the the
past year has forced me to mature and
grow an incredibly drastic way my world
like everyone else's in parkland it was
turned upside down on February 14th when
your classmates your teachers and your
neighbors are killed it transforms you
as a human being I see the world through
different eyes and embarrassed by the
petty flippant kid represented in those
screenshots I believe I've gotten those
I've gotten to know since then and know
that I'm a better person than that I can
and will do better moving forward and
then Harvard rescinded its admission to
him so everybody's caught up what what
your thoughts oh I just I was amused by
the I don't know there seem to be a big
a big deal yesterday a lot of people
think and this is a huge misstep from
Harvard a lot of people on the right as
you clarify he's missed up from Harvard
and saying that it's uh I know I think
Michael Tracy had some thoughts on this
below but he just was saying
not Michael Tracy but just in general
bit like the idea you would hold high
school kids accountable for something
they said when they were 16 when they're
applying for college the idea that a
college would hold over your head
something you did when you were 16
during your high school career as a
factor in your admission I just thought
that was a little silly to say the least
and also uh then Shapiro I think at one
point he did a segment on it and he was
talking about how you know these were
silly things being said and you know
like you know what 16 girls do they do
this because they're dumb 16 year olds
are dumb and I would just like to make
the point that there are a lot of dumb
16 year olds and a lot of dozen 16 year
olds don't get into Harvard Ryan's you
know the way it works there right you're
not guarant like yeah that's the thing
is that you're not guaranteed a spot in
Harvard and had this guy put it on his
application hey I said this stuff he
probably would have been rejected
my feeling is this I frankly if the if I
thought this letter that he wrote them
was better I as an admissions person at
Harvard could see myself making the
decision to let them in because because
look I mean this is all subjective stuff
right where you you you admit a student
and frankly you know like the fact that
the words I'm sorry aren't written in
that letter lead me to believe that this
is not the guy this guy
does not have the emotional maturity or
awareness of the implications of of this
thing in such a way I mean so I don't
think this should automatically
disqualify him but I don't think that
his I don't know if I would call an
apology nice a quick note on callous
comments the thing is these are not
callous comments callous comments are
like I don't care that that kid fell
down the stairs he was a he was a jerk
and I'm glad the guy is in a wheelchair
that's that's a callous comment these
comments are racist comments that were
used you know maybe he wanted they were
trying to be offensive but the the
letter that the the quick note that he
sent apparently to Harvard I don't know
if he sent it to who he sent it to but I
imagine he sent it to Harvard it's not
sufficient and it's really basically
based on that that I would rescind the
guy's application because more
information
I mean look here's the bottom line you
could get into Harvard and if you skip
the second half of your uh your school
year ah they can say you know what
you've failed out we're not gonna let
you in now and or hey we found out that
your essay was not accurate or whatever
it is it's within their purview to do
this and I just think that he his
apology to the extent that he even make
an apology I don't even know if he would
characterize it was not a key
contribution to public fora but he
didn't even he didn't even he didn't
even characterize as an apology Twitter
he said here's a quick note I'd like the
distinction no I I like I agree with you
100% because I just I don't want us to
be like the you know no redemption
skulls so I'm always interested in what
the second play is like it not like oh
well that thing happened in
that's it I don't want to have that
position but I agree with you it's it's
in what he wrote today and it clearly
was not you know I don't buy it
if I buy it it would be a different
position I really like I think he's
being perfectly honest but I think that
frankly he doesn't get it
well sure whatever way you want to
whatever way you want to say it I just
think that's a very valuable distinction
to make like in the whatever the second
act is you know and and I don't yeah I
don't think he gets it I don't think you
know whatever way we want to frame it
the car program that I would like to see
there might be for him to acknowledge
that his comments were racist right and
he does know starting point of any
actual Junius is wow that was obscenely
racist here here is the kid went on to
Fox News
apparently expecting a bit of a softball
from host Edie Henry and apparently Edie
Henry was deciding that hmm I might not
be going to the company picnic this year
here at Harvard for people who don't
know Harvard was founded in 1636 by
slave owners it has a long history of
racism sexism misogyny but I think that
people can grow and people can change
right and and I don't I don't hold that
standard Tarver and I think that people
can make mistakes and I don't think that
mistakes make you irredeemable as
Harvard showed for me as arborist I'm
gonna give you a time out there so
you're imagining they had slave owners
in the 1600s uh-huh
you using the n-word was what a year
year and a half ago do you go two years
ago a little more recent okay
but nevertheless I mean I think his
point is is is okay but again when I
read his quick note he doesn't call them
he just said he didn't say that Harvard
was callous back in the day
bad slave owners now he called them
racist and they they were we had a
racist society like not to say that we
don't now but one that was far more at
least institutional and a lot more
full-throated
and he doesn't refer to his comments as
racist in that note and I think he'd get
one second swing at the bed hit the ball
there and you missed so what is it what
is it that Tom Cruise says at the end of
at the oh it's that damn movie no no
gosh risky business that was Jack
Nicklaus Illinois State I think that's
when he basically said at the all right
there you go grandpa just had it's a
 yeah it it's like Illinois
State can't believe talking about risky
business I have seen that movie it
reminds me okay you know remember when
he said Illinois State I guess it didn't
make a huge impression I mean when the
guy shows up at the house who's going to
like give him the admissions interview
to wherever it was to some Ivy League
school and it looks like it's not
working and he doesn't care he's in the
middle of the party and he just it's
sort of like all right maybe I'll have
to rewatch it call him from a 5:04 area
code who's this where are you calling
from
did you see risky business no i'm i did
not see risky business
click goodbye i am robert in new orleans
all right
that was a good 90 minutes i was on hold
closer to 72 minutes but go ahead
i know you got to be getting short
um i know you always complain when
people call in and disagree with you
about your practice or whatnot
but we're not those people I'm not those
people and we always tell them why don't
you do your own thing we actually
started a radio show and socialist
podcast well I want to give a shout out
to Jamie for retweet nuts on a tweet
here in New Orleans as bunch of the SI
members and we do our thing I actually
do have a real question it's not just
the shame what's the name of your
podcast
it is good morning comrade we do two
days a week and we go live on Tuesday
mornings on a radio show radio station
net ring a fire is actually syndicated
on sweet so we've been around for less
than a month and we're already caught up
with you well you think about that is so
 yeah maybe y'all sit down and
think about that next time you watch
risky business oh yeah well his
EHR Rob yeah good morning because you're
like a concierge for Sam right ten years
ago could we have gotten him like this I
guess cedar is slipping let me just tell
you he's going on yogurt for himself Rob
I want you to look at your computer if
you have one when you come to the King
Your Honor that's not miss buddy but
they just got it it's my real questions
oh I do actually I'm question two it's
two questions and I'll let you go you
got to begin through it
yeah um one the NCNR see you're coming
up how do we how do we get on radio row
because I was googling and I can't find
like what they want for oh I'm sorry are
you asking how you get a radio row you
know I don't know yet you got a mail it
in you get them I mean I like if I
remember what we did last time I just
went on their website but it was late I
mean it there was it was I was not it
was not six months out I don't think to
get
credentialed I think it was a little bit
so I mean what I would do where I you is
figure out where you're gonna stay I
don't know where the DIA where the RNC
is I in fact in fact I don't know how
the RNC works I know how the DNC works
and that was I remember we said I
submitted I submitted something online
find out where the RNC is the DNC is
gonna be in Milwaukee and I would the
first thing I would do now is reserve
you know if you're gonna Airbnb if
you're gonna stay with friends whatever
it is lock that in now because you can
always can side that and go for the
credentials if if I have any other
information I will let you know you know
tweet at me and just remind me but I
don't know I don't know how they give
out credentials I don't know what their
baselines gonna be you know the idea
that it's you know like four years ago I
would go with ring of fire because radio
is what gets you credentialed and but I
would imagine now podcasts are are also
gonna be credentialed I just don't think
they're gonna have every podcast you
know I mean but radio is yeah you read
Milo because that's what I thought
because we're actually on like a legit
radio station so I'm like I'll be honest
with you that I have contemplated you
know we have contemplated taking ring of
fire off a terrestrial radio and one of
basically we decided like let's postpone
this contemplation until after the
conventions or two after the election
because for that very reason second part
real quick
being a convinced and Rob I'll tell you
something if I see you on radio row
hear me out Oh coming up in Austin what
do you know that you want to go what is
gonna boost the libertarian convinced
oh I do want to go but I don't know when
is it they let us jump on that grenade
for you daddy feeder we'll be more than
happy the guard here
well he really is like a lot you know
you know that like but you do you're
doing salat so in reverse order because
so lots of waited to hit the dawn after
the deal fell through
first you're bragging about hitting the
operation and now you have like a favor
and a deal proposal yeah I get news for
you chief
when you're sitting on radio row if you
get on there watch out for that is DN
line because those things come loose all
right if you know what I mean a bike
thanks Sam
appreciate it but the horses had seen
hey you know problems happen things
happen sometimes when you're on radio
row you think you have an internet
connection and then all of a sudden wait
who cut this ethernet cord call them
from a four seven eight who's this where
you calling from
have you seen risky business Sam I have
seen risky businesses feed quite a long
time I do like to see where he runs
about in his underwear that stupid I
personally you enjoy this is your for
Georgia Jeff from Georgia how are you
sir I made it I'm doing great cuz right
I'm tough I gotta let you about mr.
Joseph serious yeah I beat it today a
state of any sort of it sting or thirty
individual uh solace to my better half
my wife whose birthday is today
well I'm sorry happy she was born it's
pretty awesome
I'm really glad she's this in loves me
[Music]
Jeff from George's Vegas let her have
this was doubt carries your birthday
present sweetheart the promise
real quick because we were talking about
immigration earlier you know it's a bit
sticking in my craw because you know
every time we talk about immigration or
deportation issues seems like and I
always this question comes up what you
ought to do still damn leftist right
which wants opening borders wait no what
would impress Swiss Colette everybody
come over that's last there are foolish
so foolish and and kind of what I tried
to do to approach this issue is just
look at history broadly speaking of how
immigration laws changed post-award at
fit a little book for about a hundred
years and when you do that and you sit
down with the chief attorney steven
robbins also noticed wrong regularly
you'll discover that there are a lot of
mechanisms very obvious right what looks
happy
we're like the the supply of immigrant
labor has just got sufficient to make
our society function people talk a lot
about like how our economy can't get by
without this labor and I hate
that either that's kind of true again
what it really is those that like the
world that we live in the world that we
existed down has these people in it you
know this is a system that we've
designed is very obviously dot desire to
work properly at all there is so much
little hanging fruit that you could fix
that even somebody who's not a lawyer
can understand about ficks law
immigration like this is called a 3/8 a
to your bar right where if you could
live in a document of the essays for six
books or less you got a leave for three
years
oh if it's four to six books you got to
leave for ten years before you could
basically seek any kind of relief or
less it's more complicated of that but
that's just one example I I really get
sick people who just they'll console
what a pretend
so this issue isn't like all the other
words you know back here for all it's
also kind of an incrementalist thing
well when you say L from the leftist
point of view I'd rather see something
like an NHS right so but we can't even
get to that yet
you start with a low-hanging fruit
low-hanging fruit is National Health
Insurance Program right is saying with
immigration so I just want to make that
poor it real quick because it's
something I haven't heard a lot of
people talk about I got a tip okay right
I mean there hasn't been I don't think
there's been really a leader on this
Center left left who has articulated a a
particularly specific immigration plan
or even like the broad concept of a plan
it's usually like you know it's it's
usually very piecemeal it seems to me
and a certain amount of like pre
compromised and predigested and I and I
and I think look one of the things in
that book identity crisis became clear
is that a lot of issues they've got
caught up in the polarization of the era
and fortunately people on the center
sent to left have moved left on the
immigration issue then they had you know
even 5-10 years ago even you know four
years ago and I think that's good I
think I think we're going to see
something soon I mean I think if we get
a democratic a Democrat elected if it's
like a war nor Sanders or I would
imagine even like a Booker or Harris
we're gonna hear a sort of very specific
moving in the right direction for lack
of a better term immigration policy
articulated I just want to add and
Reagan as my lead on this I just think
that that's why it's so important to
really deploy
and deploy the rhetoric of
demilitarization instead of getting
sidetracked on this open borders thing
which I again I I agree it's a beautiful
horizon goal but I think in terms of
actual translation in terms of like
actual policy and really stopping and
getting specific because even abolish
ice we need to be super specific I don't
want to renamed ice essentially doing
the same thing demilitarization and
having a norms conforming process which
would mean basically countries including
us living up to our obligations under
refugee treaties and other protocols
would be a way of making it very
specific and very humane you also don't
want I just have state and local
officers doing that kind of work which
has happened in this country in the past
in the 30s during the event called the
great repatriation week we send back
millions of people to Mexico 60% of whom
were actually United States citizens
based on this but their race and it was
the State Department was on board with
it but but a lot of the grunt work done
by sheriffs private and State Patrol
things like this this one you know I'm
also all board with the policy guys but
you know there's gonna be a little bit
more to it as there alright my name's
Darwin Thames Darwin says that the let
the this New Orleans callers gonna go
into Matt's DMS and say Michael was hot
from idea wasn't he on the Godfather tip
that was funny
called from a nine one four area code
who's this where you come from you very
well may be the last color of the day
hello Sam it's me Grimlock in Putnam
County
Grimlock in Putnam County how are you
thank you I'm good
a couple things putnam county new york
eyes first of all yeah up in the experts
first of all someone needs to tell
Sebastian Gorka that he's really late
for Operation Paperclip late for
Operation Paperclip okay
but soon we brought in all those Nazi
scientists at the end of the war right
now I know oh my god yes it's very
honest it wasn't a great joke but it was
a good effort yes good start right it's
done that's fine um so this is something
that was sort of uh lost on the
conspiracy theory thing was that uh you
know George Bush was the one who said
and inaugurated the New World Order
right so there's a fundamental
disconnect and responsibility there I
guess I'm not sure I understand well
that the white says that the left is the
ones creating the new world order but
the new world order was the hegemony of
American power right I yeah I guess I
mean I I don't know I think you know
taking you know conservative critique
and saying they're being hypocritical I
I just that this just doesn't interest
me
oh I know I know yeah I know it's funny
anyway I mean to Suttles IIIi don't know
that it's funny I mean winkle to your
eyes it's amusing it's a more of like a
1:35 p.m. amusing thing rather than like
a 2:30 amusing thing but you've been on
hold for a long time that's why it's
okay I would but keep going
thank you what else you got when what
are you talking so so the real the real
meat of what I wanted to get is that
between the drumbeat of war with Iran
and now fully starting up the final
solution and turning ice into the
Einsatzgruppen it seems like we have
these events that could lead to what
just happened this weekend and in Brazil
where we had millions of people on
general strike because there would be
good we could only hope to have millions
of people in general strike solidarity
with Brazil but the question oh the
question to me is I mean it would be
kind of funny wanted that yes sorry I
mean just just the actual thinking
through how that would actually
transpire and transpire for a long
period of time part of that would
require sort of freegan efforts of
getting you know recently expired food
and keeping people you know alive it's
hard to have a Frank cause I really hope
so data Franco how do we really get
people feel comfortable with throwing
into neighboring businesses and telling
people so we're not working anywhere
taking the time off a Samba that well
here tomorrow I said hey I you guys you
feel comfortable now I mean I I think I
don't think people having the courage
well I I think what it honestly I'm
gonna give you the short answer is you
see other people doing it and it
suddenly becomes within the realm of
possibility that's the way these things
start and so it doesn't it doesn't have
to be everybody at 9:00 a.m. walks in
and tells their boss like look I I'm
gonna tell you like I'm not coming into
work but it would be kind of funny
though but but but more than likely
something like that happens is you see
small actions you see somebody do it and
then from there you take I got it so no
he's got he's got a girl's guy gotta go
you gotta go
no Eva antiphon listen to the anti fada
and swamp side chest
there you go I'm sure
go to plug all right stop stop all right
Grimlock thank you for the call though I
mean I think look I think the way this
is gonna happen the way this is gonna
happen is the way every other sort of
generalist right I think in this country
you're gonna have to have some type of
like large wildcat strike that is not
going to be as comprehensive as the
strike that will follow a week later
that's the way that something like that
happens you know
more or less all right folks that's it
for phone calls of the day and house
sounds the tactics and we're gonna do an
anion Silva in this swamp dater of bad
Jews kind of sad that the least
believable aspect of all the the
all-encompassing queuing on conspiracy
theory is that Trump is secretly
competent a foreign agent on the subject
of conspiracy theories has Michael done
a reading about the 1986 assassination a
Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme and if
so have you formed any opinion of what
really happened it's still an open case
an investigation has pursued thousands
of tips and leads so we actually are
thinking about doing an illicit history
on that which is interesting timing I I
think probably it had to do I'm probably
African or intelligence services because
of his connections the antsy and being
really militant against apartheid but
there's a lot to unravel there Seb eg
new product idea jimmy doors lava gelato
Kentucky Fried comrade great interview
today was reminded during the interview
about the Sun some stuff that chapo is
said said about the need for the left to
re resuscitate a common class enemy in
capital when trying to build a broader
political coalition when a prank Craig
Sam you botched the pronunciation of the
NDP leaders name yesterday it's
pronounced jug meat sind
jag meat Singh bro he's just proposed a
Canadian wealth tax like Warren's an
increase in corporate tax rates top
marginal tax rates increases to capital
against this would go towards massive
expansion of health care coverage
Canadian green new
50,000 and non-market housing units per
year a basic income pilot 1 billion
dollars towards childcare and pushing
for free transit and post-secondary
education they're calling it a New Deal
the New Deal for people you should
really dive into the plan it's a game
change it looks pretty good
I think but it is not a bug but rather a
feature when I mispronounce anyone's
name Adam James big fan of the show but
my favorite segments are the Dennis
Miller segments I like how he manages to
kill the buzz of everyone who invites
them on their show my question is where
is the Kindler miller content we all
desperately need in this device of time
secret identity politics I was thumbing
through my Bible last night and all the
verses about caring for the poor and
hungry had an adaptation at the bottom
of the page with a URL linking me to
Dave Rubin interviewing Andrew yang
weird also a shout out to Hasan
absolutely bullied larry elder in a
joint interview recently he was cynical
and slick and was very satisfying his
son texted me that interview and he was
like I think you'll enjoy this and I
watched I would like to see Kohli is the
only word it's pretty beautiful
Larry is very well done is high off air
and had some comment when we first met
him where he's like you know leave it on
the gate on the field and I was like
what do you mean leave it on the field
and then I could realize I'm like wait
is this a game for you like if this was
in the you know is in the wake of the
Iraq war they were killing 100 you know
like you take a bite serious I was just
shocked idea you sure Nick from
Minnesota can you comment on a recent
story from the Washington Examiner
saying ALC has a low approval rating in
her own district I would be very
surprised if someone has paid for an
actual study of that to be honest with
you at this point like I mean who who is
it that is expending that kind of money
I don't know but but it's conceivable I
guess but I don't know I'd be very
surprised
legends of Han do you think Rogan is
intimidated by your important high
ideas you need to be invited on because
you speak his regional language Pakman
didn't seem like he had a chance of
penetrating Rogen's logic bubble I've
gotten word to Joe that I am mean able
to coming on I don't know that he's
interested
dirty five-thirty after a long Father's
Day chat I'm to understand my dad wants
all bicycle owners of all ages to
register and pay taxes the same as cars
do his words paraphrased and sanitized
by me even if they own cars and pay
taxes on roads that way they are not
paying taxes when they're on their bikes
I counted with 800 military I mean I I
don't know if that's a bad idea if you
want to make it like if you actually
want to do the cost-benefit analysis I
mean if you want to do it like really
prorate it I'd be ok with that it would
probably be I don't know I'm gonna have
to do but the kids are being murdered in
Yemen answer on that one the Crisler
Paco how much do you think people should
worry about Donald Trump coming around
millions of immigrants next week do you
think he's just full of crap or is it
about that would get real I think he's
gonna do I think there's gonna be
thousands I think we've seen something
like this before and this is you know
for public consumption but I think that
all serious it's all terrorism from last
week's game attorney Andrew Eric Falwell
actually said we don't need a crime bill
we need a hope bill here some more one
of these is real as president I'm going
to give you a tax cuts not weird
haircuts I consider us Democrats to be
part of the Avengers the Republicans
2016 that was the Hunger Games I'll be
raising wages at McDonald's not eating
filet of fishes and McDonald's Bernie's
all about revolution but I just want to
evolution to evolve past our differences
how well let's just say I won't just
reach across the aisle I'll reach around
the aisle
oof I don't know normal constraints Sam
I think gun controls losing issue for
leftist and impediment to building rural
support for leftist movements I'm also
hesitant to give up my firearms at this
time of resurgent white supremacy and
fascism however the idea of taking away
handguns red-faced suburban boomers will
always make me smile for route Milky Way
caught the show yesterday Kansai over
her caught the show yesterday I have a
family member on SSID SDI they received
about 1,300 a month in addition to being
rolled in early Medicare seems to be a
significantly better benefit than Yang's
proposal also the Social Security
disability insurance approval process
takes years
Yang's people would say well you get the
choice but the problem is is that once
people get the choice the payroll taxes
that go to Social Security if this
becomes less of a universal program in a
universal benefit the funding source is
politically this undercuts it now yang
himself made this point with Dave Rubin
after while slowly the programs have
less people in them and then it becomes
politically easier to end them and then
all you have is one benefit that goes to
everybody and somebody says hey why
should a wealthy person have this
benefit they shouldn't
so let's means-test it and then all of a
sudden you've been able to drop the
money down and you've destroyed the
social safety net and so this is this is
not a new critique that I have come up
with based on the existence of of yang
this is a critique that we were talking
about years ago about the the ubi why I
thought about ubi were well before and
and and it just so happens that yang
just conforms in every way shape and
form to all of the worst versions of it
so I'd come in a mile away right word
gone wrong isn't trish regan the
terrorist first jab a fist jab lady she
may have been and the final IM of the
day
[Applause]
[Music]
Jiji palin hey Sam I was browsing
through the history of Ottoman Empire
the other day looking for trends of
anti-semitic sentiment throughout Europe
in the Middle East and I found some
reference to Jews being blamed for the
spread of the plague among in the Middle
Ages among others maybe this is already
given credence by historians as racist
rhetoric of the time but it sounds like
an attempt that historically based
conspiracy referencing Jewish migration
throughout the world since biblical
times considering the religious
dominance throughout everyday life the
geographical transients of Judaism seems
to have been used as a cudgel by
Christians and Muslims who clung or
clung to a central power structure of
the religious nation-states to form
cultural identities it's just crazy to
see these already the baseless
criticisms continue to morph and change
through the modern day into people
blindly hating George Soros for instance
I will tell you this that in that what
book was the roots of racism the guy had
mentioned being able to measure not only
what you just referred to the spread of
the plague in the Middle Ages but where
the plague hit the hardest were the most
anti-semitic in the Third Reich that's
historical materialism for yes see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
takes you
[Music]
