[Music]
there it is alright let's round out this
right-wing Stooges speaking of which
there's still some people who are trying
to weaponize homophobia not just
transgenderism and that's these three or
four schlubs now wait a second is the
guy I can't figure out there's the guy
who's got Santa Claus and he's got his
own selfie stick then there's the other
dude who's got the oversized suit and
then there's the other guy who's got the
oversized belly and then there's like a
security guard I guess next to him but
they all did they all shaved their heads
for this or what this is a pre straight
pride march in Boston you know I mean
it's just these guys trying to be funny
on some level but also just trying to
professionally troll this got a
tremendous amount of attention and news
across the country I mean we heard about
this months and months ago and it turns
out they did this the day after they had
the parade 200 people showed up 200
people and there were 600 protestors
like how bad of an idea do you have to
have that only 200 people show up when
you get this amount of press right I
mean that's stunning but when you hear
these guys talk you realize like
incompetent here we go weren't straight
you wouldn't be here buddy
Joan a little background on you sir
pause it for one second now I hate to be
a pendant but there are there are
instances where gay people have had
straight sex and had children in fact
yeah I bet
welcome to the wild sab CFO Oscar Wilde
or what yeah but here is a I don't know
where this reporter is from who is it do
we know who this guy is is asking these
dolts is asking some hard-hitting
question yes some questions and it's
pretty good actually they weren't quite
prepared for this John a little
background on you sir thanks Ana John a
little background on you you worked for
Eddie to dungeon convicted felon for 35
years are you gonna say that you knew
nothing of in the Feres activity sir no
I asked you if you knew anything about
his nefarious activities in the 35 years
you work for but you've spoken in
support of him the past sir I always
treated me well okay people you might
have a depressing effect on on the
parade we have hundreds of people that
are registered and they're coming from
all over the world and all over the
United States so positive I just want to
reiterate that's not something you brag
about we've got hundreds of people
registered from all over the world in
the entire world of homophobia and
trolling we got a couple hundred Brian
Richie oh it looks like this is the
camera Oh Brian Richie okay is the
camera right and all over the United
States so that's what we know so far
it's our first parade so who knows all
right if it was just me and Mark we said
we're gonna March let's play the
expectations game yeah they go doesn't
matter we have a point to make
we think we think it's okay to be
straight that's all and there's nothing
wrong with that it doesn't make you a
hater
and if people are saying that it's just
bizarre what that heck's wrong with
being straight we think it's great to be
straight you say don't hate the straight
we have to say that the taxpayers are
upset that city resources are going to
be wasted because you twee guys can't
get laid Philadelphia your girlfriend
what's your name we're going to
Philadelphia your girlfriend's because
what's the name what I'm sorry what sir
om what you said media sir I love when
the Santa guy tries to let go after his
girlfriend everyone says just let it go
you're not winning this right exactly
well you know what I'll tell you
something why I like this is because
it's so petty that comments so petty but
for guys like this like I grew up with
guys like this for them that's like that
cuts that is like oh no that's exactly I
mean honestly it cuts so much especially
the guy who's kind of good-natured the
guy who's actually the guy Navy aters is
laughing well I feel for him she wants
it again yeah
the straight we have to say that the
taxpayers were upset that city resources
are going to be wasted because you three
guys can't get laid Philadelphia
girlfriend what's your name again
Philadelphia your girlfriend's what's
the name what Sam what Santa it's not
gonna happen from Philadelphia Santa you
know is feeling very sensitive you know
what happened is I had some apple on
whoever that reporter was and he was
trying to say like we know where your
girlfriend's from buddy don't think
that's what he's doing there your
girlfriend hate Billy and then it is
like you want to try something like that
in the gut you're blowing the oppo buddy
yeah yeah exactly
wow that's wasting taxpayer dollars
because you can't get wait oh my god
yeah that's pretty good
enjoy it I have feeling Kent County Ken
probably very excited about these guys
will see not if they got faced like that
can't be associated with that you could
take the stench of loser I was there
with the spirit but they didn't
represent it well
