[Music]
let's turn it to Fox and they're
freaking out about Rasheeda Talib ubi
proposal because they're concerned that
if a ubi is implemented that it will be
an excuse in a leverage to undermine
other programs that we have that our
economic stabilizers and prevent other
things like Medicare for all and whatnot
I mean no I'm sorry that's not true
they're just freaking out and they're
confused as to why they're freaking out
they're sort of saying two things
simultaneously that are at odds with
each other her her proposal three
thousand dollars a year to individuals
making less than fifty thousand per year
six thousand to families making less
than 100k per year this is like
basically an expansion of the Earned
Income Tax Credit is what it comes down
to which is a Republican idea
aye aye well let's listen to the clip
first and that person who wrote that
column joins us now Jacob director
research fellow at the Heartland
Institute Justin Haskins Justin so
between if you are a individual and your
working class or poor three thousand
bucks if you have a family six thousand
bucks
what's wrong with that well what's the
reason to work if the government is
going to hand you cash positon it's
three thousand or six thousand can
anybody come up with a reason why you
would still work if you receive three
thousand dollars a year or even six
thousand dollars a year can anyone come
up cuz hold on hold on hold on can I go
first yes please go ahead more cash I
was just I was gonna say because you're
passionate about your job all right
well what's the reason to work if the
government's just going to hand you cash
and and and how is canning everybody
three thousand dollars or six thousand
dollars actually going to improve
people's lives positive people just
so people are gonna stop working because
they're getting all this cash but how
could it possibly improve their lives
you know what people are really stupid
they both are gonna quit working for
something that's not in any way gonna
help them it's like that's like the
Trump Jeff Sessions and pressures is
look $3,000 double quit my job
$3,000 worth nothing gosh darn it I
thought I was gonna get Bubba do come on
bro how rich do you have to be but you
don't realize that three thousand
dollars annually is and you're talking
about like a 10% increase on most of
these peoples but more than that but
good dollars or $6,000 actually going to
improve people's lives if people just
all of a sudden have 3,000 or 6,000
dollars in their pockets the price of
everything is going to go up so this
isn't going to help me that's also not
true because everyone isn't under this
proposal and frankly if you're concerned
about that then you should really be
concerned about so few people having so
much ability to pay so much more for
things that things go up going to help
anyone this is all about increasing the
power and control of government it's
about making people more dependent on
government
Rashidah to leaves a Democratic
Socialist so she's perfectly fine with
that
right this is out too so to be clear
it's not gonna help people but even
though it's not gonna help people people
are gonna quit their jobs because
they're making now three thousand
dollars a year so and it will give
government control over them because
even though it has no value it has so
much no value that it gives government
coercive strings over them and then you
know what governs gonna make them do
probably take another fifteen hundred
dollars down the road Rashidah to leaves
a Democratic Socialist so she's
perfectly fine with that right this is
about destroying capitalism not
improving people's lives oh I get it
well you eat leave lives by destroying
capital yeah I was gonna say the one
does follow from the other but wait a
second if this according to him if
raises prices on things clearly the
capitalism is still functioning well now
that's the Rashida to live moment just
like the poor person on the other end
she's like god damn it I thought this is
destroy capitalism I thought a slight
micro adjustment somewhere in between
Earned Income Tax Credit and like a
pilot program for UB I would literally
in the entire thing but it
didn't god damn it and I'm not even
supposed to swear cuz I'm a Muslim wow
that is just it is amazing that that's
their expert well how much I think
you're a guy that is like there you know
what we really should have somebody
should get into the nitty-gritty not
like you know a former wrestler who's
known for pasted from a posting for Chen
memes that social beat no no the heart
of the Heartland guy the Heartland
Institute that's kind of like I don't
know double-a ball yeah exactly they're
there they got a lot of industry money a
lot of Industry money
