let's play this last clip the other
story of course in the the news is the
Republican Party's insistence and it's
not even just the Republican Party
actually put up this this DHS thing the
this is pretty stunning the Department
of Homeland Security tweets out here
let's see the the separate ones here
first what the do they do is Department
of Homeland Security Tyler Holton tweets
citizens of countries outside of Central
America including countries in the
Middle East Africa South Asia and
elsewhere are currently traveling
through Mexico toward the US and that is
presumably right like that that almost
sounds like they're coming in that
Caravan coming through Mexico to come to
the u.s. people from the Middle East
Africa South Asia
very dangerous spots and Sarah Sanders
Huckabee the press are as secretary
amplifies this message Department
Homeland Security says people from the
Middle East Africa South Asia and
elsewhere are currently traveling
through Mexico toward the US needless to
say this wouldn't be happening if the
Democrats for once did their jobs and
join Republicans to fully fund the wall
I don't even if there was a wall guess
what these people would be doing they'd
be doing the exact same thing and it
wouldn't prohibit people from joining
them but put that aside the point is
she's just doing this to emphasize that
the Department of Homeland scare this is
not political folks the Department of
Homeland Security is telling you that
these outsiders are traveling ostensibly
through this Caravan well and then
reporter Jennifer pain asked if this
tweet applied to people in the caravan a
DHS official said quote the tweet speaks
for itself but we cannot release the
data due to law enforcement
sensitivities yeah
gotta make a favorite sensitivity gotta
be careful like and that tweet
specifically does not say there are
people in this Caravan it simply says
that there are people who are not in who
are not Mexican who are probably
travelling toward the u.s. in Mexico
which would be anybody in Mexico
traveling north would be traveling
toward the u.s. not necessarily heading
there as a destination but the idea that
there are people in Mexico who are not
Mexican seems fairly self-evident and
the idea that over the course of a day
they might face north and take a step
also seems to be unworthy of alarm
ladies and gentlemen pretty amazing the
extent in which they'll use the US
official security apparatus as a
low-rent political operation world war
two inheritance there you go
domestically - except for guess what
we're not at war with Mexico not yet
yeah
we're not at war with Mexico Sam I like
to do charlie kirk move that's a good
one all right lastly before you are
aware of that Eric's death it is nice to
see at least one individual who is sort
of trying to say reality check here on
cable news and CNN seems to need a
decent amount of this and what's
fascinating about this is you're going
to see what the problem with with with
cable news and with just news more
broadly when dealing with this type of
just complete lie and this complete
hijacking of US official apparatus in
terms of the way they speak to the
public because this isn't even like this
isn't the
almost isn't even propaganda right like
if there's you know you can say in World
War two we put propaganda our own people
and we certainly propaganda is our own
people in many ways but it but never has
such an enormous effort made to
propagandize the American public for
such a small goal right like it's one
thing to say like we're gonna
propagandize you because the the greater
mission of capitalism and national
security and etc etc this is much much
more petty that they're using this
apparatus for I mean talk about lowering
the bar but but here is a CNN pundit
speaking out pretty it's a thousand
miles away a thousand miles go back go
back a little bit we need to just hear a
little bit how they're trying to build
this up before he comes in okay wait a
second mile yeah the president there in
the Oval Office such a different sense
of urgency and certainty to him than
when I heard him last night at that
Houston rally when he was you know
essentially saying they were knocking on
the door of the border
that's not true okay wait a second miles
and miles and miles away and the reality
here is one second Jeffrey the reality
that the president is you know trying to
galvanize Republicans and I think it's
working it worked in 2016 and
immigration is a hot-button issue and so
that's what he is trying to do not that
it's not a serious problem needs to be
solved but it's not an urgent problem
like he says it is go ahead Jeffrey it's
a thousand miles away a thousand miles
you know how long it takes to walk a
thousand miles I mean this whole thing
is absurd
it is a completely manufactured you know
appeal to the ugliest sentiments of
trumps coalition the idea that we are
under threat from these poor desperate
people is just absurd and you know the
lies that he keeps telling about who's
in this group with no proof at all I
mean it is just the bottom of the barrel
politics
that he's engaged and then frankly you
know I wonder about our complicity in
just talking about this as if this is
some kind of close to immediate threat
but he is the President of the United
States you can't ignore what the
president United States says III
understand that but you know we can
focus on some things more than others
and and I think you know this
transparent attempt to create a crisis
where none exists I mean yes it is good
that we're calling it out and this is a
struggle that we've had with covering
Donald Trump from the very beginning do
you cover every tweet do you cover you
know every lie I you know I don't have
the answer to that but this one on the
eve of the election is so grotesque that
it's just there's something that's
that's even worse about this when you're
talking about it at all but then adding
the lies is just done believe you know
okay so all right do what's fascinating
about this is first off I can tell you
that the one thing that you don't do on
cable news if you want to keep your job
is question the premise of the segment
right like that's not like you can
there's no there may be like hiring
decisions that are based on ideology I
don't know I honestly don't know about
that but the only thing I do know is
that they get upset about is like when
you say like what are we doing here why
are we talking about this that's what
everybody then gets really bummed out
that's when they generally is like oh
damn it no you're not supposed to you're
not supposed to do that and and I had a
moment like that on a show that I was
never invited back on we were just
talking about it today actually and it
was actually very similar thing was over
the Ebola stuff I was on the al Sharpton
show and Ebola was supposed to be one
question of like five and the question
was going to be why Sam are the
Republicans so focused on Ebola and
literally before he goes to me on the
screen they show a helicopter view of
the nurse who had Ebola being
transported in an ambulance to the
hospital to the air
and Sharpton was like why's why are they
covering e-boat why the Republicans keep
talking about Ebola and I'm like well
it's on the screen right now and that's
what you you can't do but the bottom
line is why can't we ignore what the
president says I mean obviously you
can't completely ignore it but once it's
been established that what the president
is saying is completely fabricated and
completely irrelevant you simply say the
president is talking about some caravan
that has nothing to do with American
security today meanwhile blankety-blank
is happening right I mean the media has
to figure this out because it cannot
exclusively be a basically a vehicle for
propaganda that they know is propaganda
and lies know just why is the president
focusing on this it's there the polling
data that suggests that the Republican
Party is driven by racial animus there's
there's a sec there's multiple ways of
sort of covering this by covering
another angle that is more interesting I
mean we're doing that now in terms of
media critique but at the end of the day
I don't care what Donald Trump is saying
other than it speaks about who the
Republican Party is so they're like
Roenick Lee the guy is giving it to you
I mean the Republican on the panel is
basically saying that's good for the
midterm that's a reporter well that's a
reporter that's a reporter
okay well the reporter is
unintentionally I think showing the
story they're exactly right but really
what you should have is like a couple
other people who are on on like you know
let's talk about demagoguery let's talk
about the the polling that shows how
races these people are let's talk about
this lady in Minneapolis who thinks that
her lake house is going to be occupied
by people who are thousands of miles
away and charging at her
on foot with a four-year-old on their
shoulders well it's the LBJ make the
son-of-a-bitch deny it thing because you
basically force the media to use their
finite resources of time to even if
they're debunking it they're still
talking about it
yeah but debunking as we were saying is
a hell of a step up and then all wolf
has is he said it he said it he's the
president when you do it it's the
president you have to say it this is one
problem though with these ostensibly
neutral platforms in the mainstream
media which you know aren't totally
neutral but like they do feel an
obligation to try and show both sides
right but like what do you do when one
side is unprintable conspiracy theory
racist garbage I mean that's the thing
it's like how do you how is how do you
prove beyond saying like they're a
thousand miles away
they're a caravan of families who are
afraid that's why they're a caravan so
like how do you prove it beyond having
proved it that's the that is the dilemma
and found they got it and then they got
a move on
in if they need to talk about it then
you talk about it like a you know the
why is it happening why is he lie they
might call that bias what we might call
analysis but there's like well there's
no such thing as a neutral news outlet
anyway so maybe they need to own that a
little more because like real talk the
people that they are trying to cover
like they did that profile of identity
Europa the other night like they don't
believe in liberal values like freedom
of speech or news that checks the facts
and they use liberal platforms in
liberal societies to take over and
impose like I don't want to call them
fascists per se but definitely some
fascism like qualities and it's it's
really scary it is
