[Music]
he's on Fox and Friends Sheriff Grady
Judd where - uh well sheriff Grady Judd
come from do we know from Florida right
and look ladies and gentlemen you're not
gonna believe this down in Florida a 12
year old brought pot gummies gym class
now listen that is a sign of a bad
parent but I will tell you that's the
sign of a cool kid who knows how to
relax his muscles after a hard work I
can tell you that in my daughter's
middle school which is attached to a
high school somebody brought in one of
those pre-mixed like rum drinks or
something
so other cool kids yes in other high
schools you can find people who get who
bring in Jules those uh you know vaping
cigarettes they're cool with teens for
some reasons they're slightly less
they're all flavored than the rum
because they're awfully I think they
banned the flavors they're going to I
think are they I want it's gonna be up
on your cotton candy Jules everybody
there you go and also there are kids who
bring in weapons into school and all
those cool races material I mean
everything under the Sun can be brought
in there and but here is uh here's
sheriff Grady Judd to tell us how we're
gonna take care of this no one talks
about this TC is addicting people that I
know so many people they say they were
told one thing and they need to get
addicted to it and that's an addicting
substance there there is a a price to
pay for pot there absolutely is a price
to pay for pot you know I spent my
entire adult life in law enforcement and
a lot of it investigating traffickers of
drugs and it's not aligned now now this
promise can cut a couple of different
ways I've dedicated my whole life to a
project that seems to have actually been
for absolutely no reason whatsoever
because the fact on top of it actually
probably extremely detrimental to the
health of society so I am NOT back in
down off of this I'm gonna deny deny
deny and continue to exclaim in such a
way that makes me feel like my life's
work has meant something otherwise what
am I gonna do that's not what's gonna
you're about to hear but just go back
and listen to us in law enforcement and
a lot of it investigating traffickers of
drugs and it's not a minor nonviolent
felony it's ruining families and killing
people every day across the United
States and we stand here in denial
thinking that it's not a gateway drug
the drugs don't start on cocaine you
probably start with marijuana and it
leads to other things right that's
absolutely right and still today we have
a meth problem across this state and
country if someone's in possession of
meth you're in possession of marijuana
because it kind of cuts the edge of the
map and then they use the marijuana and
the meth and they go out and kill
themselves or overdose or kill someone
else right well nonetheless these
particular gummies and the edibles are
legal in other states but you know
obviously in the state of Florida it is
not can there you go I think I saw a
documentary on what he was talking about
I think it's called reefer madness yeah
exactly
I love to smoke some meth and then
follow that with a little bit of weed
and then go out and I hope you know what
I do is first the Beth gets you really
aggressive fire that you note it down a
little bit so you could focus with the
week on the death and either what's good
for myself or others what is the word on
that huge uptick in Colorado now that we
have a data over the past couple years
on the enormous surge in meth murders do
we have that look of marijuana I think
there L is keeping those yes been
suppressed suppressed information I mean
this is where it's just like they they
might as well just also put under the
the crawl like everyone who watches Fox
News is over the age of 65 should know
about pot I mean imagine the I mean the
the effect it would have on you as a
human being now if you locked if you
spent like 20 years just locking people
up for the
 and then you realize like turns out
that actually this was the wrong thing
well that mean that does their bunny
review of that clip though is it's like
yes marijuana has ruined plenty of
people's life because of the law you're
poor and you get caught by this idiot it
could ruin your life I mean literally
even also just be clear that Grady Judd
is the host of the Polk County Sheriff
podcast entitled not in my County no and
we got a place um you got it we got to
get some clips of that 40 mb/s post game
last tomorrow night not in Polk County
not in my County with sheriff Grady Judd
and for instance this week let's see
I'll tell you what's on on not in my
County Sheriff Grady judge speaks with
the greatest investigative mind in the
United States WJ Martin America sheriff
answers your questions and tells the
tales of a woman shoplifting Poligrip
and glasses now remember it's brought to
you by Bart out Ford and paying
air-conditioning and hearing oh yeah oh
yeah go to you by narcs who don't want
you to have fun I mean you think about
how many families have been sort of like
have struggled with like hey the parent
is very afraid of a kid doing drugs not
because of the drug but because of the
effect of the you know the criminal
justice system on yeah absolutely the
prospect of being murdered by the police
like alienating parents from kids for
like and that's the lightest you know
problem oh yeah that's the most gentle
problem Grady Judd so yeah marijuana can
definitely get you in trouble because of
Grady Judd and Grady Judd like things
don't mix it with meth uh he misses it
with math you'll are gonna kill people
yeah we'll play the I will go label a
strong tomorrow I will I will be stuffy
for a second ago I methods probably not
healthy for you though it should not be
crazy
