[Music]
is daniele placa on Meet the Press on
MSNBC talking about this major climate
report 13 agencies in the US government
the fourth one they've ever put out in
the past 18 years last one was in 2014
says that we are facing dire
consequences we need to act on it
quickly and resolutely and here's the
American Enterprise Institute problem
again is that I think there's a
perception among those for whom Donald
Trump speaks and let's admit that Donald
Trump does actually speak for some
people that big 46% is a number that
seems to be the number for people
wondering and at least and that's a
pretty substantial bunch of people the
problem for many is that they perceive
this as an agenda that is much more
about corporate and much more about law
and much more about the kind of
governance that America has and much
less about climate so from the
standpoint of those who have doubts
about this and I don't think we can have
any doubts that there is climate change
whether it's entered for genic I don't
know I'm not a scientist I look at this
as a citizen cause I see it I don't
understand this talking point I'm not a
scientist which means that I don't have
to listen to the vast majority of
scientists who have weighed in on this
that's a very ineffective talking point
right like if you like how do you
undermine the claims of a field by
saying you're not part of the field I
die I have to unless you're trying to
say that scientists are like analogous
to I don't know what palm reader went to
I went to an eye doctor with Saul to get
his eyes checked out I told the guy look
I am NOT an eye doctor so I'm not going
to believe what you say and Saul just
squints his way through the day now
continue so I understand it on the other
hand we need to also recognize that we
just had two of the coldest years the
biggest drop in global temperatures that
we
had since the 1980s the biggest in the
last hundred years we don't talk about
that because it's not part of the agenda
the United States has been dropping in
co2 emissions since we pulled out of
Paris there are actually good things
that are happening we are not using
dirty coal anymore it's the Europeans
who are using dirty coal there actually
is some corporate leadership on this yes
we need to deal with these problems yes
we need to mitigate the things we see
but we shouldn't be hysterical you know
this lady is such an unmitigated liar
fabulist I'm not a scientist so I'm not
gonna listen to the overwhelming number
of scientists in the in the world
telling us that this is man-made problem
and there are man-made solutions however
I will pull out one fun fact that it's
we've had extreme cold over the past two
years that nobody talks about yeah but
anybody who's taking a science elective
could dispatch and and on top of that
I'm also not going to mention the fact
that the only reason why our cafe
standards and we're putting out less co2
is a function of California basically
saying we're not going to go along what
the federal government is saying and I
if I if I am not mistaken the federal
government is attempting to sue
California into lowering their emission
standards and all of the car companies
don't want to do it because they don't
want to go back and forth because they
realize that we're headed to a disaster
and they know that anybody coming in
who's reasonably sane and the leadership
of our government is gonna require them
to cut back so they figure why don't we
just do the obvious responsible thing
she happens to be the vice president for
foreign and defense policy for AEI so
they couldn't get anybody else in there
that morning we need to send somebody
well guess I'll do it I'm not a
scientist but I mean that's like
particularly funny because the Pentagon
is pretty far out ahead on this as well
I'm not a Pentagon official I'm not a
Pentagon official but I think that they
should make absolutely unnecessary oil
runs which put their track like their
troops and unnecessary harm's way when
there's an alternative
why you ask well cuz I'm not politically
correct I don't fly a bomber but I do
think that we could drop a couple on
Iran I mean come on it's just funny
though it's like the reason we don't do
anything is because of power right
because of these industries this is just
a projection about governance and this
yes and this is the best they've got
I mean maybe like several years ago I
was like hey let's fund some scientists
to do some like alternative graphs that
look really impressive and now we could
just put some idiot out on TV well the
bottom line is they know that look the
the we're just paying for this like that
we're paying for we're paying for the
lawmakers we don't really have to spend
too too much time so I get to the public
that way
that's that why that woman who when in
the preamble to that clip she's talking
about the 46 percent or whatever people
Trump represents that and just need to
be heard about their their feelings
about climate change right like which is
a way to round up because even Trump
fans are like there's more people who
believe in climate change than like our
anti Trump I think right yeah it's
definitely it's like about seventy two
percent I think are people who say when
they're polled that they accept that
climate has changed because of human
action right which is the simplest bare
minimum way it's pulled so her taking
Trump's highest approval ratings to say
like all of these people and also want
to know what's in a fusee of this
climate change is also not dissimilar
from Meg Whitman when she was not is it
Meg Whitman she was a former EPA I just
recall some Saturday morning sitting
next to her I'm one of those type of
shows saying well part of the reason is
that the Lib the liberal left is just so
in-your-face about this that it forces
the Conservatives to say climate change
is not real
