let's do actually I just want to talk
about this briefly because he's just so
bad so bad
pee poo to judge is the worst person on
the Democratic field and I say that it
is somebody like I you know I think I'm
pretty transparent I think everybody
besides Bernie is a distraction and
sucks I have no interest in like making
my and and also and this is the other
group off I will support any of them
over Trump and in the primary its Bernie
because I have a serious agenda it's
simple it's really simple I would vote
for yang Biden Gabbard give me a name
Chloe show Khloe Shar yeah
I vote for Delaney over Trump I was
dying
whoa I would look Tim Ryan I would love
Tim right like oh my god Tim I thought
you meditated why he looks so nervous I
was actually the only thing that's funny
about the idea of anybody besides Bernie
getting the nomination is watching Trump
just bully and handle them would be
extremely entertaining so that being
said there's one candidate that I find
to be by far the worst and most
off-putting and that is people to judge
I think between the staffing story with
Mark Zuckerberg yeah
the horrifying biography which you can
read about in current affairs Nathan
Robinson did a very good treatment to
the fact that just synthesized this okay
like he's for all intents and purposes
like the mayor of Amherst Massachusetts
right like it's a nice town there's
colleges in it and there's problems
there's even as everywhere there's even
been like policing problems but it's
also at the end of the day like I don't
think anybody has died and or been
killed in Massachusetts by and amorous
by anybody in a while or even when it
happens it's pretty rare occurrence like
that's like huge news this guy runs
the equivalent of that town and presides
over police department that sounds like
it's something like out of New York or
Oakland right so you're synthesizing
like and I'm not a experienced person I
don't care but it would be of the he's
like the only person running where you
could actually be like really dude
you're like 36 years old you're mayor of
a little town you really think you
should be President and Bill DeBlasio by
the way not taken serious old wazoo
nothing seriously and you know I don't
he's also I mean the the city that he is
a mayor of criticisms aside is larger
than amy klobuchar his entire district
so you synthesize that with like okay I
guess college town and also there was I
he totally disappeared there was
actually a mayor from Florida that was
there was a lot of political dynamics
and I don't remember I don't like
anything about that I just know he had
the best position on ice for a second
and it was the same thing I was like
look if people who judge is somehow
serious why tells that guy not serious
right I mean he could have made a case
I'd note sorry I didn't Rob but please
for decentralization he could have said
like this is you know how we fight Trump
right now is through cities but
unfortunately people just doesn't have
that record he is not how we fight Trump
is through cities anyway here's how I
got rid of the black police chief and
here's why we have source civil rights
cases per capita like he is fusing
together I guess
college town made a run for president
with Jesus Christ you presided over an
incredibly racist police force and then
of course he's an arch gentrify ER so I
don't know if people are getting the
message on people to judge but I do just
want to say he said yesterday and he's
quickly reversed himself but he did say
this let's actually start by do we know
what his great innovation for the
supreme court was gonna be do we like
this brilliant idea it's so dumb it was
like a court packing type thing right
with yeah he's gonna pack the court with
moderation exactly that's exactly what
we need to balance that Court
right now I mean even mainstream
journalists during the debate we're
criticizing this like you're not really
unpopular port packing for idiots
no he's literally said we should have 15
people on the Supreme Court I'm quoting
now from the hill 15 justices including
five nonpartisan Justice says who could
only be seated if the other ten agreed
this plan would incorporate justices who
think for themselves like Justice
Kennedy or just this David Souter not
what zip knives are a political people
right exactly like what is a non what
would you define a non partisan justice
an intercept reporter like I mean
seriously there's no non partisan is
 we need to end that I think
would be boo to judge and look to be
fair he like the only positive aspect of
his candidacy is he's the first like
legitimate like openly gay man running
for president that's obviously
historical progress and look judge
Kennedy ruled it the right way on some
very important LGBTQ civil rights cases
now that was so in isolation from the
rest of his record like he didn't even
establish like a steady civil liberty
streak to the point where my speculation
would be this man just literally had
somebody close to him in his life it
humanized him on that issue because on
every not dynamic decision making on
civil liberties or race or policing or
the death penalty and then a pure
corporatist including like a major
proponent of citizens united so we all
know it nonpartisan means it means I'm
not a social monster like I understand
that transgender people exist and it
doesn't make me have a meltdown and then
besides that yeah I think pretty much if
you know if CBS wants to recreate a form
of indentured servitude I think we can
do that it's basically like Ellen
DeGeneres's dinner table it is that's a
that's it so and there isn't really much
more to say I mean Bernie got his burn
on saying I'd perform more like shot
tomorrow I'll rig is Berg which will
still get him no credit with the type of
people who you know put posters up of
Ginsberg
in there right houses but I mean I
understand the generic appeal and I even
understand there's people in the
Democratic Party who were sent to write
in their politics but if you have any
pretension of progressive governance and
you care about people having health care
and you care about the Supreme Court and
you care about the future of digital and
you also even find it a little bit weird
that a guy who's served in like Army
Intelligence is occasionally being like
there's a lot of problems domestically
you know I'd like to apply my experience
in the intelligence apparatus to our
domestic problems and McKenzie and
McKenzie maybe that should disturb you a
little bit he never talks about McKenzie
odd guy you know the other thing to keep
in mind also with this is take it like a
layer below right of course we're gonna
be outraged on the left but he needs
that outrage to raise from centrists he
wants the centrist mad at the left
because he raises money and he's
signaling to the LGBTQI community to
continue to support him financially
because he needs to take it to Iowa he
needs to take it to and pull from from
Biden support and whoever else he might
be I don't know what his formulas but
Biden
despite Biden and Warren Biden because
of the polit political laine and Warren
because of all of the professional class
in the general election he's not gonna
win it was like that's okay I mean it's
got the same politics as Hillary
he's I guess maybe a slightly better
candidate than her just because he
doesn't have as much baggage but he's
definitely a worse candidate than
warrant or Biden in terms of getting
people to vote in the general I think
we're overestimating the concept of some
voters voting on policy first they might
grass policy but they may not like
people who are like supporting Hillary
because they wanted a woman supporting
it and then they addressed policy oh
well we would have we would have liked
her to be a little bit more progressive
on certain issues and that's why we're
with Warren now because she's a woman
and she's more progressive and that
addresses you know more of my Upper West
Side like New York Times reading
audience that's that's that crew but
with Pete it's you know they're not
looking at him from the same lens that
we're looking at it from and I think
that that's a problem on the Left we
keep thinking like even the centrist
Democrats still care about
don't care about policy oh I completely
agree with you I actually am saying with
regards to P is and again this is the
classic fusion of one thing that's
horrible and one thing that that I think
it's politically true so one is I think
homophobia in a general election is a
problem and I would totally be willing
to confront that for the right candidate
and do that push regardless he's not the
right candidate for all the other
reasons we talked about but that's gonna
be a real thing in the general election
and then the other thing is I don't
think I think his particular brand of
charisma is for a very narrow subset of
people and I think that once you are out
I think the problem is I agree I think
the left does this but I think a lot of
Democrats across the board do this to
where they either spend the one tendency
is everybody else they're terrible
they're all horrible they're all
deplorable we don't need to understand
them or think strategically right and
then the other tendency is I is just you
just project outwards
what you like onto everybody else so Amy
I do think pound for pound Sanders is
the best person to go up against Trump
absolutely and yes I totally think the
socialism word might be a problem for
certain people I totally think age might
be a problem with like those are real
things factoring in my analysis what I
see some people do and they do it very
heavily with Pete Budaj
and Elizabeth Warren is they never
anticipate they just basically sit
because you can drill them down you said
quit well the poll numbers don't bear
this out they're like and then there's
the real problems like homophobia right
and then it'll just like well I just
think when you put them out there
they're just so likable I mean that's
literally all you hear and it's like
well actually first of all for a lot of
people no they're not and that is I mean
I hate to sound use this phrase but that
is like very much not an argument your
intuitive feeling that someone else you
might that you have no la bubble yeah is
gonna have the same emotional reaction
to somebody that you do I don't I have
an emotional reaction to Bernie and I
think he's a great like awesome uncle
guy yeah and I have a specific set of
experiences that make me think that
there is a ton of people we're gonna
have no reference point for him like
that I'm not projecting like oh you know
what no you just get burning out there
people just
liking him there's an argument that
involves poll numbers and involves
geography it involves where things fit
involves how you make an argument and
all of the Buddha judge worn arguments
are just like I mean they're just so
likable well and concern with with Pete
is I actually see his his strategy very
similar to Obama's strategy and 2008
when they were in a crowded field yeah
um it's like Obama without the Obama
he's exactly and but he has a lot of
their staff to like let's keep it that
such a fantastic point Obama I mean go
back to you but just Obama was a
world-class charisma right and people
keep doing these plans
they did a plan for Hillary they did the
same Obama plan with Hillary saket
there's one thing missing a world-class
charisma is missing this could be a 1992
situation you know even though Obama was
Obama world-class charisma relatable was
an anti-war activist in the beginning
you know all of the he also was running
against John McCain who at one point was
leading in the polls until the economy
collapsed in 2008 and this is also when
George W Bush was at his lowest the
lowest popularity of any president so
you had a scenario where Democrats they
had to pick the best person on the
planet and in that scenario that was the
only way they could win if they had had
a mediocre candidate even though all
these other things were happening I
don't know if Democrats would have won
because we don't take care of our party
we don't invest we don't work on our
message we're never unified in message
and it's all over the place we have to
wait for the Republicans to up for
us to actually win elections right
totally that's the only way they know
how to win they either they either have
a world-class charismatic candidate who
wins at the top of the ticket like Bill
Clinton or Barack Obama who do nothing
to build a party or else they are like
well you know what we lost Congress
again but let me tell you something
after a couple of pedophilia scandals
and a massive recession I think we might
take back the house by 10 seats right so
just wait for it there so much right now
too with all of the gerrymandering it's
only getting worse the more Republicans
take over state governments all of the
all of the just depression people who
just don't come out to vote because they
don't think it's gonna do anything for
their lives some small proportion of
working-class swing voters who somehow
think that Trump is more populist
whatever whatever we're gonna have to
radically radically change the electoral
map in order to win and in order to
overcome all these things and you can't
do it with the same politics that lost
in 2016
certainly not with an uncommon ly
charismatic front person on them
you need a even Bernie might not be able
to do it but I think he is the only one
who could and he should be running on
that I mean one thing and I hate to go
back to the DNC but being on the Reform
Commission a big battle we had like the
battle that really got nasty behind the
scenes was was about whether or not we
wanted to you know decentralize the DNC
and invest you know truly invest in
state party is truly invested in local
parties again because it's a consultant
you know money-making machine at the DNC
and the D Triple C and the DSCC right
now and so we wouldn't be fighting these
gerrymandering wars if the Democratic
Party Barack Obama's Democratic Party
stopped just like you know providing the
eighth and ninth homes to like 5s
consultants you know it is they do send
money powerful emails though they said
oh those are powerful once me and Felix
where it was like the Republican emails
are awesome they're just like tor just
look Barack Obama tried to end the white
race we stopped that however my friend
you're still a little bit more to do
then the Democrats are just always like
Michael is Barack Obama freak it out oh
my god the anybody who's running
for office Chuck Schumer the Fox News
poll I closed I don't care about Fox
News Paul you could be a great candidate
great candidates are using these emails
by the way right now not gotta end it we
gotta do art we really have very little
time left
