[Music]
well you know we should do is we should
probably take this time right now to of
course
listen to Sepp Korca who apparently has
sub Gorka apparently still has a radio
show and he is still trying to deal with
hostel collars
oh look it is par for the course it's
just it's it should go without saying
that when you do a radio show when you
do any type of presentation you're going
to get you know sometimes hostile calls
you got to learn to be able to handle it
not have it not have yourself completely
break down if you handle them read you
can turn them into YouTube content and
make more money on top of them it's true
there's no reason to be so to get so
upset about these things which Seb Gorka
just can't seem to do not have a
meltdown let's play this thing three
three four six seven five two best part
of the show is you Jason Idaho line
three hey mister Gorka thank you for
taking my call excited and loved your
love your voice on the radio the radio
is meant for you sir that's very kind
you've got some pipes itself oh that
tonight be nothing compared to you I
feel like if you're having a debate with
some liberal you could just start
talking and they'd start shaking in
their boots yeah they usually end up as
little puddles on the floor but thanks
for calling Jason well it's a
you've got 60 seconds share your wisdom
well I I my favorite magazine just did a
little feature on you saying you were
the top journalist of this year and I
was really excited and I wasn't sure if
you were aware of that yet
what is this that you are talking of
it's called that magazine oh
you're one of those this is the
definition of a coward I love it how
they lie
I'll talk to Jason offline this is
Sebastian Walker
oh he's dropped off what does that mean
what does that mean Jason that you
dropped off dunno I think it does mean
your little girl you're a sad little
coward but you know what it's a great
metric when they actually spend their
time listening to this fro what does it
mean aren't you
I love it I love it so much you know
I'll tell you something I don't know if
the caller was in fact the little girl
but I can tell you that if my daughter
was to do something like that the pride
I would feel would be inexplicable
skills would be incredible little girl
should be completely modulate her voice
like that she's lazy she sounded like it
like a like a like a like a like a like
an I don't know a 30 year old man yeah I
would love in the sketch version though
like nothing bothers you in fact of
course if some idiot calls up and says
like we're going to debate the idea of
having a water treatment facilities
you're like great let's take 45 minutes
and talk about this nonsense but if
somebody called up they're just like Sam
you were rated best progressive talker
by a magazine I read like oh really
Brandi did you know about this yeah
 magazine you go I'll you
[Laughter]
face you coward coward you a coward I
can say it was not in fact
a girl that was a pranking Gorka that's
that's it was actually Chris James a
Canadian comedian and host of not even a
show which is currently my favorite
YouTube show mutters a mom keeps nailing
Gorka over and over and Gorica wants the
opportunity to to keep him on the line
so he can threaten him you know that's
what it is totally yes and what I mean I
frankly keeping him on the line and in
hearing what Gorka would say would also
be worth while it seems to me yeah well
last time if you remember he did the
thing where he talked about how he had
this liberal sister that that gorgeous
that looked like he had bad breath and
like was a bootlicker
and you remember though you know it
would be really funny actually I can't
go into the whole do you remember when
your Kickstarter sucks guys they did
this whole elaborate prank where they
had a fake Facebook post where they said
that their cousin owns a restaurant and
their cousin hated Trump voters so what
they were doing is that when Trump
voters came in and ordered a meal they
were putting the chicken or whatever
like the the meat on the floor before
they cooked it it was like the most
nonsensical like it but of course it was
written as if like so hey I got an uncle
that works for this restaurant right he
was telling me about this thing they do
to Trump voters where they put the
chicken on the floor before they say
right and reverse like Trump voters who
read this not considering like how would
the restaurant know you mean you put it
on the floor like what are you talking
about but instead they called and they
got these enraged phone calls that I
remember the best one was this guy's
like I'm gonna report you to like you
know to some Health Authority and the
guy's like oh yeah that that would be
super unhelpful if you did that because
I mean we're trying to run a restaurant
here actually it would be funny if they
did that with Gorka Chris James has some
relation to the York exert sucks guys
they are twitch together I think on the
go off kings I might be getting at home
but I think I'll correlation well good
stuff
