[Music]
what happened yesterday there was a
hearing House Intelligence Committee
there was one in the Senate as well in
the Intelligence Committee however it
was only four it was closed-door and
Joseph McGuire the Acting Director of
National Intelligence brought to the
committee to explain and this was they
ultimately before he came in they
released the mock-up of the transcript
of the phone call we know we know it's
not the actual phone call because we
know what happened to the actual
transcript of the phone call it was
locked away in one of the highest
security computer vaults essentially
that the American government has even
though this of course had very little to
do with national security but they did
so because they knew what the president
was doing was highly illicit Joseph
Maguire received this whistleblower
complaint which we now know was from a
someone working within the CIA who had
heard in the context of multi-agency
discussions all of these things which
pointed to the president United States
leveraging his power to receive from a
foreign government a contribution in
kind as we call it this would be a free
gift as to manufactured dirt on someone
he anticipated might be his political
opponent Maguire is being asked by Adam
Schiff why didn't you bring us the
complaint and McGuire had two answers
one is well I didn't think it was urgent
and that's a statutory obligation to
bring it to Congress if it was urgent
within seven days and he didn't think it
was urgent fair enough but then he
decided unilaterally well there may be
executive privilege issues so even
though this is a complaint against the
White House
I'm gonna see if the White House thinks
it's appropriate for me to give it to
you
did he we went to the White House first
to determine to ask okay that's all I
wanted to as per knowledge so you went
to the White House first so you went to
the subject of the complaint for advice
first about whether you should provide
the complaint to Congress there were
issues within this a couple of things
one it did appear that it has executive
privilege if it does have executive
privilege it is the White House that
determines that posit now I should say
throughout this entire a situation
McGuire says like I'm not a lawyer he
can apparently the only thing that this
guy knows about the law is that it
appeared to have executive privilege it
is the White House that determines that
I cannot determine that as the Director
of National Intelligence but in this
case the the White House the president
is the subject of the complaint he's the
subject of the wrongdoing were you aware
when you went to the White House for
advice about whether evidence of
wrongdoing by the White House should be
provided to the Congress were you aware
that the White House Counsel has taken
the unprecedented position that the
privilege applies to communications
involving the president when he was
present involving the president when he
wasn't president involving people who
never served in the administration
involving people who never served in the
ministration even when they're not even
talking to the president were you aware
that that is the what happened something
froze well he goes on to basically he's
making the argument here just pop it
back up and continue to play here he's
making the argument to McGuire like when
you brought this over there were you
aware of the fact that they have deemed
that just about everything exact
executive privilege even when he was not
the chief executive even when he was
just a private citizen president obeying
the president when he was present
involving the president when he wasn't
president involving people who never
served in the administration involve
people who never served in the
ministration even when they're not even
talking to the president were you aware
that that is the the unprecedented
position of the White House the White
House you went to for advice about
whether you should turn over a complaint
involving the White House mr. chairman
as I said in my opening statement I
believe that everything here in this
matter is totally unprecedented and that
is why my former directors of national
intelligence forwarded them to you
whether and not admit urgent concern or
whether it was serious this was
different and to me it just seemed
prudent to be able to check and ensure
as a member of the executive branch
before I sent it forward all right
my sense after watching all of this is
that Joseph McGuire is a guy deeply
deeply in over his head
and he didn't know what to do
now this is a guy who has a has had if
you're into that type of thing a stellar
career in the military and special ops
over many many years who I think has a
sincere belief in public service in the
way that he has gone about it I think he
has integrity in that respect but here's
a guy who was a deer in the headlights
when he got hold of this and if anything
what this speaks to is a problem in our
culture because if your first thinks
think when you're panicking when you get
the whistleblower complaint about the
president adage is to think I've got to
give the president the United States an
opportunity to protect himself and
involved with executive privilege here
as opposed to I should give this to
Congress because this is the Inspector
General who I respect and think has done
their job in a fair and competent way
says this is red alert
then you go with the process I mean he
spent a lot of time saying I took eleven
oaths to the office under the
Constitution well in this instance then
you go with the process you don't
freelance and say hey I'm not qualified
to
any decision other than the White House
might want to call this executive
privilege
now maybe had they done that he would
have leaked it in some other way or what
I don't know but working through this on
those hearings is exactly what we should
see day in day out over the coming
months I don't know that we will and I
have a feeling that Mehdi might have
something to say about that in a moment
