[Music]
now I didn't get into it too much with
our libertarian friend because I didn't
want to blow his mind too much with MMT
but here is a bench Pierrot last night I
guess it was last night here yesterday
I'm not quite exactly sure Bernie
Sanders had written greed is the
religion of the billionaire class I mean
that's a little more poetic than I would
put it but okay and a nation based on
greed but I mean I think it's
indisputable right I mean how do you
attain that type of money without making
different decisions at any given point
that money is more important than I
don't know being with the kids that one
day or you know not hurting that
person's feelings or paying that person
what they're worth I mean it's almost
definitional it seems like in a nation
based on greed Bernie rights will not
survive morally economically or
politically I mean if you read any of
the literature on the collapse of
countries it is more or less all based
around that same theme whether it's that
a ruling elite literally and
figuratively puts themselves behind in a
gated community that there is extreme
wealth inequality destabilizes countries
I mean this is this is how countries die
and Bernie goes on to say that's why we
fight to take power back from the
billionaires and put it in the hands of
people where it belongs this seems
rather uncontroversial I think I mean
but bench bureau wants to jump in the
game and he says greed is literally your
religion now I I just my son saw has
been saying literally a lot and he uses
it correctly he actually does like
like I don't know a cup is empty because
that cup is literally empty now Ben
Shapiro must know that's your son that
that Bernie Sanders is talking
figuratively Bernie Sanders does not
think there is actually a religion of
greed they made it secret temples
kissing they worship our greed that's a
problem I mean and you could use
religion loosely I guess but I think
he's basically saying it's their credo
and so he just says greed is the
religion of the billionaire class and
then Shapiro responds with greed is
literally your religion now Bernie
Sanders literal religion is socialism
well I don't know if he has a literal
religion in the in the literal sense he
made it sound a lot like his religion as
socialism when he answered that question
well he's Jewish and I don't know if he
recognizes himself as a Jew in a
religious sense but greed is literally a
religion like I don't think there is a
religion that he's called greed but he
wanted to make it seem like it's
actually yours but he read that and it
didn't sound as good and then he goes
you want to steal other people's money
and distribute it as you see fit now
stealing other people's money and
distributing it as you see fit is not
necessarily greed no it's closer to envy
or power mmm right he called Robin Hood
greedy right I mean is Robin Hood greedy
but we should say that Bernie Sanders is
talking about taxation and so I wanted
to know does ben shapiro think that
taxation is stealing because stealing
has a definition just like literal it
has a literal definition and in the
merriam-webster dictionary
just the first one that comes up here to
take the property of another wrongfully
especially as a habitual regular
practice so wrongfully right it's a it
is a crime to take something it's a
crime and so I said area man thinks
taxes are illegal and apparently he
wanted to have the last word so he said
nope I think can fix it Kotori taxes
designed for redistribution are immoral
now what's interesting is is that
immoral is not the same as illegal a be
all taxes are designed for
redistribution there are no taxes that
do not redistribute
sometimes they do redistribute up we're
gonna give you know we're gonna provide
I don't know benefits the people are
starting a small business so let's say
or I don't know or sometimes they
redistributed down but they're always
redistributed because you're taking not
stealing because if I was stealing you
would say wait a second I'm gonna call
the cops
not darn it those taxes Joe I hate
paying taxes it's immoral so he had to
back off the stealing thing cuz he was a
little bit too glib and apparently
doesn't know how taxes are designed and
so I thought you know I've been maybe
you're not gonna get the last word and
I've put in that case err a man doesn't
know what steel means nor the function
of taxes and then I think he decided it
was time for him to step off the Twitter
for a while but the bottom line is is
that they I'm struck by two things in
this either ben shapiro gets away
without being challenged at all i mean
this is the guy who's considered to be
the most intellectual guy on the right i
mean we saw what happened when we went
on the BBC right he doesn't expect to be
challenged at all
you can't deal with it and how is there
nobody else saying that this guy's out
there stealing you know confusing what
taxation is I mean the this guy has a
huge platform
he should be interrogated by people not
literally like you were a police officer
and finding out but his uh or black site
or something like that but it is his
like ridiculous assertions but she's got
two million people following him on
Twitter he's only following 228 if your
whole brand is being a pedantic little
prick you better come correct when
somebody corrects you exactly it's
pretty shocking but there it is bench
bureau
