[Music]
on Wednesday night earth was it
Wednesday night on Wednesday night when
we left this building at I think I was
here quite late frankly with the idea it
was my supposition that we were going to
have a narrative amongst the media who
followed this stuff and maybe even more
insiders within the sort of like you
know political junkies and activists and
whatnot that the narrative would be Joe
Biden's looking a little shaky and there
was definitely some evidence of that we
have done a focused group based upon one
person Matt's mom where apparently that
did not necessarily get widely
disseminated which I'm not terribly
surprised about I think your casual
observers probably aren't getting that
message yet like I say if he stumbles
again in the next debate that's the only
thing you're gonna hear and it does
appear that there's a 50/50 chance we're
gonna have a single debate next time
that we're only gonna have ten people in
the race by September based upon
criteria that must be met by about three
and a half weeks from now
August 28th involving number of donors
and involving breaking certain
thresholds in polls I think you've got a
break like a 2% threshold which i think
is reasonable I mean I appreciate the
idea that the Democratic Party wants to
be as democratic small D as possible or
Big D I should say small D one of the DS
and but I think I think saying that you
need more than 1.3 percent in the polls
or 1.8 percent in the polls to qualify
for the third debate it seems fair to me
otherwise we'll have John Delaney in
this thing for the rest of eternity
because he's a millionaire and he can
pay for himself to go through it so the
other things that seemed to be sort of
like coming out of this and we haven't
seen any I haven't seen any polling yet
have you seen any polling coming out of
the debates that a program this weekend
and but there is a a sense that the
media really hates to give Bernie
Sanders any credit at all that's just I
think the fact they're more willing to
do so with Warren and in some ways I
think you know certainly the feeling
that night was that they both did great
and they were doing it it seemed like
they were you know it was Butch Cassidy
Sundance Kid type of situation
I'm not saying one was butch one was
Sundance I don't know you everybody has
their own favorite and I'm saying in the
middle part of the movie yeah for our
younger viewers not I think in college
in high school still what what is this
Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid
well it's Paul Newman a Robert Redford
and they they were they were and they
were actors and they were going around
and having fun robbing banks and whatnot
and but they were good they were always
very polite about it now of course the
end of the movie didn't work out so well
cuz they went down to Bolivia and they
ended up getting well whatever but but
nevertheless it's about foreshadowing
right well but for that one moment they
were reminiscent of that and but in the
in the wake of this I mean I think like
you get the notion that there will be no
bigger supporter of Bernie Sanders if he
wins the nomination than Elizabeth
Warren and you get no and you get the
same sense that there'll be no bigger
supporter of Elizabeth Warren if she
wins the nomination than Bernie Sanders
and in the meantime I think this is this
is great because they're both building
and they have distinct coalition's we
talked about this the other day they
have distinct
coalition different age cohorts the
biggest difference is that Bernie
Sanders has 61% of Bernie Sanders
supporters have less than a college
degree it is almost exactly the flip for
Elizabeth Warren 57% of her supporters
are college-educated there's also an age
disparity Bernie Sanders 64% of his
support comes from people under the age
of 45 with Elizabeth Warren 60% of her
support comes from people over the age
of 45 and so Sanders does 62 22% of his
support comes from black people and 17%
come from Hispanic wear as compared to
Warren where it's only 10% black people
and 9% Hispanic and then men and women
Bernie Sanders is exactly 50/50 with men
and women which is interesting and
Warren is got 60% women 40% men so the
they have they don't have it there's I
would imagine there's obviously there's
some overlap but there is definitely
room for some migration there and
appealing to some people now the only
thing that that's sort of like you know
makes me a little bit nervous is I look
at like Joe Biden 56% of his support
comes from women he's number two to
Warren in terms of support from women so
anyways the the long and short of this
is basically to say that we could be
looking in the next month we'll know by
the
this month at a debate that happens in
September that is going to be with ten
people and the those ten people will
obviously include Joe Biden Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren Kamala Harris
Cory Booker then I think it's none clear
there's I think one or two others that
have already sort of passed the
threshold I think bad oh and I'm not
sure who else but we'll see but
nevertheless the big the big percentage
people are gonna be Biden Harris excuse
me Biden Warren Sanders maybe Harris you
know she didn't have a great night could
be Cory Booker who you know people are
saying we'll find out when the polls
come out but let's watch this clip of
Elizabeth Warren I know I have to say
that like the big knock on Warren from
people three months ago was that there
was not a huge confidence that she had
the ability to beat Donald Trump and I
think part of that was a function of a
lot of things I think people were
concerned about the whole the way that
her campaign handled the whole Indian
heritage Native American heritage thing
and I think there was also just sort of
a sense of like she didn't seem I don't
know that glib or nobody could you know
when I would talk to people about it and
I felt some of the same and it was very
hard to articulate what what exactly it
was about her presentation that didn't
seem to be I don't know like glib or
practiced in some way or confident or I
don't know what it was because I as I
say those adjectives I don't think
that's those adjectives capture it
really but there's been clips that have
come out particularly in the wake of the
debates but particularly in wake of this
debate which I think have been really
impressive and she has changed her
rhetoric she has changed her rhetoric to
appeal to Sanders people and you can see
it in things like structural the the
economy needs a structural change and
you can hear it in the context of
talking about movements and grassroots
more and it's it's very adept I don't
know how much of it is legit or not but
it's very adept here's this is a little
bit long but watch this because it's
it's it's certainly worthwhile this is
on CNN and this comes in the wake I
don't know if we played this the one
with Chris Matthews we did the other day
where Chris Matthews was insisting that
she just say the words taxes will go up
with Medicare and for all and she would
not say that because because she wanted
to frame it as costs to individuals
because at the end of the day it is the
case that people don't just look at
taxes and say you know like ever every
dollar I pay in taxes is worth two
dollars that I pay in health care no
that's just not the way that people do
their budgets and she was relentless she
didn't waver at all and and I have to
say Chris Matthews was steamin which I
took a little bit of enjoyment from but
here is Elizabeth Warren with a crew of
CNN and it is there's like six to eight
people and listen to this this is uh
this is good stuff here's the national
election Donald Trump has already made
it basically has one sentence and
that is anything in your life that's bad
like you haven't gotten to raise you
know you're worried about sending your
kids from whatever it is blame them
people who aren't the same color as you
people who aren't born where you were
born
people who don't worship like you people
who don't sound like blame them
that is his message my message is you
got things that are broken in your life
I'll tell you exactly why it's because
giant corporations billionaires have
seized our government and for decades
now they have been making that
government work for a thinner and
thinner slice at the top and they do it
mostly out of the headlines just a
little tilt here just a little shift
there just a little exception until over
time they've gotten richer and richer
and richer and richer and everybody else
is left eating dirt then that is the
message and that's what we need to get
out there and talk about and then not
enough just to say it's wrong to say we
actually have a plan to fix it we go
after the corruption head on posi for
one second now
Alex Breen welcome to the program we got
him on mic yep okay there you just heard
that that half will get weighed another
half of this but I mean you can almost
tick off the and III think it's
consistent with her plans in her
proposal but you can almost tick off the
different things that she is is adopting
from the Bernie Sanders critique things
like billionaire's yeah things like a
thin slice at the top I mean that's just
a sort of a less granular version of you
know Bernie Sanders one percent ninety
you know percent differentials it's not
enough just to have plans
you've actually got to have a plan to do
it I mean this is very adept she's she's
taking these things from Bernie and
Bernie's never gonna get out there and
say don't don't say that's a thing right
exactly yeah he's in he's not gonna he's
not gonna go out there and be like
you're a phony you're stealing from me
he's going to say I welcome her critique
I what's notable doing is that with
Warren I think she has in her usual
political style a lot of specificity and
what is interesting about this is that
there it's very general which is that is
what I feel like is being borrowed from
Bernie like usually she's very specific
about the industries and the people and
company she's talking about and now
she's speaking much more generally about
the system right about a system and
she's talking about structural reform
and she's saying stuff like and he's
stuck with dirt
yeah yes right I mean I feel like
everybody in the room when that came up
was just like whoa yeah like um she's
saying this on TV to people yeah but
let's continue sure this economy and a
couple of basic ways make it easier to
join a union get workers some power pass
a wealth tax and protect our democracy
that needs to be a part of what we talk
about that we never talked about tonight
we need to make the economy and the
democracy you make but honey are just
for everyone but for and not just for
those at the top of me but it's a lot of
it's a lot of power and influence you
say it won't be corrupt power and
influence but it's still a lot of power
and influence in Washington what
convinces you that people especially in
some of these states that are let's just
say to the right of Massachusetts are
not ready to support that look I think
when we talk with people for example
about the tax on billionaires they are
ready to support it when they talk about
cutting their kids didn't loan debt man
they're in talk to people about what
it's like today on child care how many
mama's can't finish their education
can't take a job how many daddies are
saying I can't do this we simply cannot
get to it I like about it so I like
about you you make me feel like help is
on the way
you make me feel like something good
could happen in America I just did you
make me feel good you make me feel like
like with it's hard out here and what
positive for one second so Van Jones do
you like step in and make it about him
right that's nice let me get on camera
for a second right exactly you know what
I like about you I'm gonna say something
so that we make this about what it does
for me and but it's oh gosh I don't know
if he can help himself but can take this
is what optimism is all about optimism
is about knowing what's broken laying
out a plan to fix it and then building a
movement to make it happen it means we
have the power just final questions I
know you got to go for people who are
trying to choose between you and and
former Vice President Biden why are you
a better candidate what I'm not here to
diss any other Democrat just get
somebody else for that job that's not me
I've laid out my vision of what I
believe we can do as a country why then
is just fix all right and I would just
say in the last part that she's not I
hope she's saying specifically she's not
there in that moment
yeah-ha in that seat to diss another
Democrat but I hope that when we see
hopefully her on stage with Joe Biden
that we do see some of that yeah I hope
so too
desperate I mean everyone wants the I
really actually the way the way the last
debate draft worked out I thought was
sort of beneficial for everyone because
they don't like they don't necessarily
at this stage like Saint Warren doesn't
want to be seen as an attack dog yet I
feel like but letting I feel like
letting Booker and Harris do that is
what they want so far absolutely I think
you're absolutely right about that and
you don't want to you want a hopefully a
weakened Biden going in to September
frankly and I don't know that he's gonna
be much weakened but I do think that
they sort of like undergirding of the
idea that he is the strongest candidate
it seems to me and I just I mentioned
this before you came in it seems to me
that's that's happening
