[Music]
look I had people who really took
exception to playing a clip of Andrew
yang when he was on Dave Rubin show when
he told Dave Rubin that one of the great
things about the ubi that he's proposing
actually isn't it's arguable as to
whether it's a ubi the ubi that he's
proposing will eventually make things
like food stamps Social Security I don't
know if he said specifically these
things but like the welfare programs
that he accepted dave rubin saying
they're complete boondoggles go away and
part of the problem as we've noted and
noted years before I had ever heard the
name Andrew yang with the ubi is that
the reason why someone like Milton
Friedman and the libertarians subscribed
to a ubi is so that they can dismantle
the welfare state and then it becomes
much easier to just sort of manipulate
we're just gonna drop down we're gonna
go decrease the growth the
cost-of-living adjustments on the ubi I
think it would be great if everybody
gets a ubi but understand that there
what you're doing is it's not just a
question of giving people cash what
you're doing is giving people buying
power and if you make someone who is
receiving Social Security Disability
because they cannot work choose between
the buying power that you're offering to
everybody or the buying power that they
get because they because they can't work
they still may get more money when they
can't work but now everybody has more
buying power so there
relative buying power basically stays
the same and same with food stamps when
everybody gets that one or two or three
thousand dollars that you're gonna get
handout all those people are gonna go to
the store and they're gonna start buying
food you're gonna buy commodities it may
very well create some upward pressure
maybe it happens with rent whatever it
is and if you make people choose between
their food stamps and they have to
expend that one or two or three thousand
dollars for absolute necessities whereas
their neighbor doesn't then you're
really not really sort of defeating the
purpose of it the whole point of the ubi
is to give people some breathing room
that's not like I say the only problem I
have with the ubi I said this three
years ago when we talked about it on
this program I can't remember exactly
who we had on to discuss it is that it
has to be in addition to the welfare
state and the problem is from a
political standpoint it's too easy for
it to function as a Trojan horse and
then Andrew yang goes on Dave Rubin and
basically says well he doesn't call it a
Trojan horse
he just says eventually what it will do
is get rid of the welfare state not a
first bit by bit and it'll be the choice
of the people maybe here he is on pod
save America they're a thoughtful
logical rational human being thanks man
right trying to apply those principles
to a party that has lost its mind I mean
they're likely to call this like the
death panel dividend right like they did
with Obamacare Mitch McConnell
prioritized defeating Barack Obama in
the reelection above saving the economy
giving people oh yeah yeah that's where
my cynicism
comes from is like I I just wonder how
we will get Republicans to change their
mind or if you thought through like what
it would take politically to try to
bring people over well one thing I found
is that cash is hard to demonize it's
like like if you say hey I'm gonna
change your health care but like Oh
death panels doctors like it's gonna
screw it up
but it's like hey the Asian man wants to
give you money it's a little trickier to
be like oh the money's gonna kill you
it's like like Cruz has been demonized
right and stigmatized they have been and
that's one reason why the dividends so
powerful is because the food stamps it's
like it's like something for other
people like you go to folks in very
sparse the country to go oh they're
getting something they're pulling one
over on you this time it's like everyone
gets it chill out it's gonna be great
and I'm already getting people from you
know the like the conservative end of
the spectrum and libertarians and
independence folks in Iowa and Ohio have
said to me that they actually hoped they
were getting someone like me when they
voted for Donald Trump which I take is
like a very mixed bag there's a part of
me it's like oh no but that part of me
was like oh well you gotta vote for me I
guess that's a win
well first off it'll be pretty easy to
demonize the idea you're gonna give
money to people for free that's gonna be
the easy
write them in that'll be quite easy
Universal programs definitely more
popular which is why it's even more
problematic that you would chip away at
and further stigmatize and isolate
people who are on Social Security
disability or who are getting food
stamps food stamps are a program that
kicks in with economic stabilizers this
is what this means when you have
inevitable downturns in economy more
people lose their jobs they have less
money they fall below the threshold that
allows them to get food stamps if you
eliminate the food stamp program because
maybe you're giving out the ubi payments
at a time where the economy is doing
well how do you deal with those people
when the economy goes south
at a time where everybody's suffering
politically speaking there's a reason
why they call them automatic is because
as we have learned in this country that
when things get tight people don't say
well we've got to provide more money for
food stamps no it kicks in automatically
this is the thing that people don't seem
to understand and that's just the
problem with it and I'm sorry if that
upsets you sorry if you think that straw
Manning Andrew yang I don't care about
Andrew yang I've been saying this about
the ubi
for years it's true I want to know what
the proposal is the economy has a
downturn you no longer have food stamps
as an automatic stabilizer because it's
you've been able to wean everybody off
it what replaces it when the economy
goes south you should steal men our
arguments I've because I've been and I
think Sam now is wealthy and Matt just
the endless straw Manning of our
critiques of Andrew yang is really off
here's a challenge for yang fans because
I've argued with a lot of Neill man
defend the opt-in without referencing
like your notion of political reality
and how you get Republicans to work with
you in a bipartisan way there's no
reason that people with a disability
insurance or food stamps or housing
assistance should be excluded just give
it to him but but they always mentioned
like some BS debt concern or
bipartisanship it's not a real like they
it's never real I mean just deal I just
want to say two other things really
briefly explain why a v80 which would
fall disproportionately by definition on
lower income people and consumers but
somehow would also be a way to tax
companies like Amazon is desirable A or
B politically possible because yang says
the reason you can't have a wealth tax
he told many his son and why you can't
take on the monopoly powers of these
companies is because that would be
politically impossible because of their
power so why would even if the VA
did what he says it does which I don't
see how it does
how would why would that be politically
possible versus just taxing at the point
be the point being if that is a
detrimental to all these powerful
Panisse precisely why why is that
anything because you said the other
things would be impossible so why would
that be possible I just want to say
really briefly I know that yang I'm
unclear what his position on Medicare
for all is to me it sounds like and I am
trying to steal man this like he
supports some kind of public option so
I'm not gonna give him that he supports
Medicare for all because I'm not clear
on that but I don't think he supports
scrapping Medicare and Medicaid so I'll
give him that but that being said I mean
there was a book written by charles
murray several years ago was one of the
most odious grotesque people in our
politics and i'll just read the the
pitch of it imagine that the united
states were to scrap all of its welfare
programs for all of its income transfer
programs including Social Security
Medicare and all other forms of welfare
which is what yang was pointing to in
the Rubin clip and every American age 21
and older got 10,000 a year for life
this is the plan and you know it's
different than what yang is proposing
but it's on the same continuum and I
trust everybody could see how
unbelievably regressive that would end
up being
