[Music]
let's just I want to play this clip too
before we go because people should be
aware of this and this is and I want to
make this clear this report from NBC is
is about the use of solitary confinement
by ice for people who are I mean this is
just I mean this sounds just it's
unbelievable but it's basically for
people who are mentally ill or disabled
or some instances because they're
transgender or gay or because they have
reported abuse from guards or other
detainees they are put into solitary
confinement remember that most
psychologists will say solitary
confinement is a form of torture and for
folks with mental illness it's even
worse this is a practice apparently that
has been going on with ice for at least
since 2012
these records document solitary
confinement cases from 2012 to 2017 they
were obtained under the Freedom of
Information Act by the international
consortium of investigative journalists
they were shared with NBC and apparently
other news organizations so this
predates Trump in nearly one-third of
the cases one-third of the cases of
people put in solitary confinement were
determined by ice itself to have a
mental illness
only half the cases of where people are
put into solitary confinement according
to Isis own documents only half the
cases involved punishment for rule
violations the other reasons were just
because I guess theoretically to protect
them from themselves or other people and
which is not to say that there should be
anybody going to solitary confinement
but even according to their own records
ice only put only half the people they
put in solitary confinement would done
so because it was being punished here is
a here is a part of that report from NBC
we have created and continue to support
a system that involves widespread abuse
of human beings
Alan Gallagher works in the office of
the inspector general at the Department
of Homeland Security in 2014 she was
with a different DHS office where she
reviewed civil rights complaints and it
was troubled by what she saw in ices own
files hundreds of immigrant detainees
being put in solitary confinement every
week most troubling for her cases
involving the mentally ill a
schizophrenic detainee sentenced to 390
days in solitary for throwing human
waste at a guard another mentally ill
detainee got 15 days because he had a
green pepper in his sock the notes
specifically said he had hidden the
green pepper green a half a green pepper
Isis policy states that detainee should
be segregated only after a careful
consideration of alternatives solitary
confinement was being used as the first
resort not the last resort and sometimes
it was the only approach in a statement
to NBC News a spokesperson says ice is
firmly committed to the safety and
welfare of all those in its custody the
use of restrictive housing and ice
detention facilities is exceedingly rare
but at times necessary to ensure the
safety of staff and individuals in a
facility between 2014 and 2018 Gallagher
said
detailing her concerns up the chain how
would you characterize the overall
response to the concerns you raised
muted why are you speaking up now
because if I didn't speak up I don't
think I could live with myself an NBC
News review of ice data found more than
8,000 cases of immigrants held in
solitary confinement in local private
and federal facilities under both the
Obama in Trump administrations a third
of them involved the mentally ill
including one put in isolation for
nearly two years at least seven have
committed suicide while in solitary
Dulce Rivera an immigrant from Honduras
tried to hang herself while in solitary
in New Mexico I mean imagine if that
report the everything word-for-word was
done about I don't know China or any
other country for that matter Russia
we've invaded countries for way less
than that
I mean views as a pretense just just
imagine that that is just presented in
you know the all the participants in
there just we're speaking a different
language and we were just reading
subtitles it would the outcry would be
amazing I mean this is you know when
they talk about abolishing ice which
apparently has not been you know it's
sort of like you know left the
consciousness for the moment this is why
this is a perfect example of an agency
that is simply out of control and is so
decrepit and corrupt at its core that
it's incapable of being reformed
this is I imagine also a part of you
know the privatization because the
controls over who administer this stuff
is just you know much more I guess
relaxed I mean it's really seen
absolute scene we're doing a lot of bad
news today
