so Chauncey we were talking in the last
segment that there's you know increasing
evidence and I think at this point we've
had multiple multiple studies that
indicate that to the extent that Donald
Trump was able to win the election in in
2016 and he wanted in so far as you know
this is when you're talking about
seventy thousand votes over the course
of three states in an election where 220
million people participate it is in some
ways a coin toss but of course the past
two coin tosses have gone to the
Republican Party when you include 2000
that the the data shows that much of
Donald Trump's vote was a vote against
was a was a vote that was inspired by
race was inspired by or I should say
racist beliefs it was inspired by a
misogyny Hillary Clinton came out and
made her had to in many respects talk
about race more than Barack Obama did
and of course I think and I have a
theory and I want to get your take on
this that from the perspective of a
racist and a misogynist those aren't two
different things that they look at
Hillary Clinton running for president
and they say wait a second we gave them
one non-normal president we're not gonna
have two non normal presidents in a row
we need to revert back to the mean which
is the white guy here's my question to
you has people who are interested in
Donald Trump not winning again how do we
take that information does that
implicate our decision as to who we
think should be the nominee for the
Democratic Party I mean I've been going
back and forth on this and I'll stake my
flag on this one I'm a Joe Biden
supporter I think in this context never
mind the fact that Hillary won by
millions of votes never mind it was
stolen never mind the electoral college
we go down the list and I say that
because the Democrats are making a huge
mistake
and a lot of folks who again are not
looking at Donald Trump as a cultural
problem Trump is not just a president
cultural problem right so Trump is
literally the embodiment never mind a
kleptocracy and plutocracy of racism
white supremacy misogyny and bigotry and
until you understand the Trump leave the
political cults the Democrats are going
to make poor decisions in terms of how
to fight him all right so I say in this
context to neutralize a lot of the hambo
he's already gonna have lying around I
think Joe Biden is probably the most
practical candidate I actually think
he's probably going to be the one with
the highest chance of winning because in
this context need a white man to take
out another white man and going back to
the cultural point I mean there's some
other really really important
information new research that should've
been all over the news so there's some
findings out there new research articles
sociology journal which highlight how
white Americans and the sample size in
terms of the research when you actually
prompt them with information about
America's changing racial and ethnic
demographics and không có Browning of
America whatever you think about it that
they are less supportive of democracy if
they are made to feel or believe or
showing data that shows that white folks
may not be the majority group so
literally we have millions of white
Americans Trump supporters and others
who say damn democracy if my groups not
in charge and that's what the Democrats
are up against now if the the theory is
that that that that trumpism not just
Trump should be defeated what what
happens to a Joe Biden in the primary
when people look back on his record when
we're talking about his record in in the
Senate he had a fairly poor record when
it came to race back in the day this is
a guy who entered in into the into the
Senate bragging that you know he was
wanted you know perceived himself to be
a conservative he had there's going to
be a lot of women in the Democratic
Party who remember that the reason why I
need a hill was the only person to
testify against Clarence Thomas was
because Joe Biden prevented three women
who had
had some degrees of stories that were
similar to Anita Hills Joe Biden's gonna
have or let me out let me rephrase that
do you think Joe Biden's going to have a
problem that he needs to prove to the
Democratic primary voters that those
were that he doesn't have a problem in
in regards to women or in to in regards
to a race I mean it's one thing you know
you could serve with a vice president
who's who's black you can have a friend
who is black but I mean if you're out
there talking about busing back in the
day you don't necessarily have a long
term record on these issues
he was Biden you know was talking about
Barack Obama was a was a special
candidate because he was so articulate
and phrased it in a way that a lot of
people found to be a little bit dicey
what do you say in terms of Biden in his
ability to get through the Democratic
primary without addressing those things
in a way that may trigger the same type
of response that a Hillary Clinton did
well I mean you're spot on there
especially Biden's comments about
reparations so certainly like any other
candidate he's going to have a ton of
baggage on these issues so he's going to
need to speak plainly and clearly but
here's the old puzzle right in terms of
thinking about elections so you're going
to have your primary voters who are
going to be keyed and they're
politically aware right there by
definition more invested in politics
they have higher levels of political
knowledge they're going to respond to
one set of issues right so you have to
pass that bar but we need to have a
candidate for the Democrats who can win
the general election and here's another
complicating factor in terms of thinking
about how do the Democrats position
themselves against Donald Trump he's a
cultural force number one and number two
well the political parties are pretty
well sorted now in terms of racial
animus you alluded to it earlier the
Republican Party for the last 50 years
at this point
conservatives and racism are fully one
in the same thing from the Southern
Strategy to Trump and we actually have a
lot of good empirical data that shows
that racially resentful and outright
racist white voters well they're fully
sorted into the Republican Party right
we're not going to get them don't worry
about trying to get these white
working-class voters
so the issue becomes how do we mobilize
the base to have the turnout because
again Hillary won by three million how
do we secure our voting and electoral
system but I do think again in the final
analysis the average voter the general
election they're really not going to
care about these issues in the same way
that primary voters are when you look at
like say Wisconsin right in Michigan and
you had a depressed african-american
turnout because they saw someone like
Hillary Clinton and they did not feel
that she would address their issues and
when you have Joe Biden and if you know
I don't know if Donald Trump has this
type of savvy but if he wants to go out
there and start saying the you know Joe
Biden is the one who brought you the
bankruptcy bill and I love bankruptcies
and I think people should have the same
rights I mean if he starts talking about
you know Joe Biden senator from you know
credit card companies and talks about
Joe Biden's you know in attempts to
depress Joe Biden's turnout in the same
way that maybe you know the
super-predator comments by Hillary
Clinton depressed that turnout among
people of color are you what happens in
that is scenario well I mean the polling
data again shows us and we know tons of
empirical evidence to date on this
african-americans as a group are
remarkably politically sophisticated so
I would not be too concerned about that
here's what the Democrats got to do
Trump is the issue you run on Trump you
go to black and brown folks and say this
man hates you use that language this man
wants to deport your family this man
wants to put you in prison this man says
neo-nazis and white supremacists are
very fine people right so you run on
those issues you run on his very own
words right so Trump in a lot of ways
he's an existential threat to this
country but on the record saying to this
country's democracy and he's just
version one I'm more concerned about
version 2.0 a version 3.0 right once you
get some polish on this monster right
he's the floor model
right think you can use Trump his
language his rhetoric and frame it to
black and brown folks who already know
this we know this this man is an
existential threat to this country to
this democracy into our safety and
security and well that's going to be the
mobilizing factor
Jhansi to Vega thanks for your time
today I hope that works better this time
around than it did the last time around
2017 or 2016 thanks so much your time
today really pre
