[Music]
we're gonna just play this briefly I do
want to talk about this because I did do
this interview and I wasn't gonna play a
clip of it on this show because you can
you know watch it on the other one but
there was a kind of stunning thing that
did happen yesterday in Brazil a couple
hours after this interview went up and
the reason this matters even if you
don't have the same level of investment
okay I I think that Lula as neun Chomsky
said is the most important political
prisoner in the world today earlier this
morning I talked with Samuel Moines who
has an a book out called not enough
human rights in the age of inequality
and he teaches a law at Yale University
brilliant and his critique is that
modern human rights ran in tandem with
neoliberalism so that structural
economic questions were obscured because
organizations went with the flow with
global capitalism and focused on the
most limited set of unacceptable and
needs to stop atrocities at the expense
of broader conversations that also need
to happen on inequality on food on human
flourishing and we talked about this
corruption narrative as a similar thing
and in his language he said
anti-corruption narratives are used by
elites to undermine democratically
elected leaders and he said unless
you're talking about ballot fraud about
stealing elections this stuff is not the
main focus it should not be your main
focus if you have a Social Democratic
concern unless it's a you know pure
rampant like you're stealing diverting
money from poor people to give to the
rich which is what formal policy and
most of the industrialized in the
developing world just is and he talked
about how you know fascists have you've
used this effectively the
anti-corruption probes of the 1990s in
Italy led to the rise of Silvio
Berlusconi you put that on top of the
fact that in Brazil so in Brazil okay
talk about corruption if you want to the
case against Lula is beyond flimsy we're
gonna play the clip of this interview
with his lawyer in a second but any
conversation about him is going to
also have to involve if you have a
perspective of the world where you care
about poverty you care about healthcare
you care about dignity the fact that
this man led 30 to 40 million people out
of poverty that he expanded labor rights
he expended indigenous peoples rights he
did work on afro-brazilian rights
broader representation deepening
democracy recalibrated brazil's role in
the world in a way that was more
democratic autonomous and dignified this
is an incredible record in many respects
and the dismantling the law fair against
the law the coup against Dilma is the
context of which the corruption and the
austerity of the last two years in
Brazil and now this bowls a narrow
government which even some liberals are
concerned about because yes it is part
of the global pattern of fascism and it
will have a sustained result on the
Constitution on gay lesbian and
transgender people on afro-brazilians as
well as the agenda of austerity so the
case against Lula is the context for
understanding this broader coup and a
broader process of which threatens all
of us in the Trump age yesterday and I'm
quoting now from Brazil why well let me
actually I'll get to in a second I want
to play this clip because Valeska
martins was on my show on tuesday go
please watch the full interview at the
michael brooks show on youtube but she
talked about how the media could feed
stories in the public media could sort
of generate rumour mills which could
then turn into legal investigations
without a sound basis and that's also
pretty relevant in light not only in
terms of what i'm gonna get to what
happened yesterday in a second but i
guess also bear in mind of what our a
dim-witted
enemy dave rubin was saying earlier
about how left-wing the brazilian
presses
was it not playing sorry guys I don't
know what happened it's one second Matt
you need a sec all right get to that in
one second you just need to okay well
let me up here then we'll loop back to
that in a second okay you got it all
right let's go house hoods in such house
reports by the mainstream media in
Brazil and these furs and these stories
actually became legal procedures became
criminal criminal investigations but it
all was a actually game cost to these
they actually violated the presumption
of innocence by President Lula creating
this dim person that was demonized
demonized by the media and therefore
could be investigated by anything that
actually the population would not be
able to process anymore what the
evidences were what the real hard
evidence the evidences were of
corruption or of money laundering in his
case then he was illegally he was taken
to an airport in March of 2016 where he
had to give a deposition basically on on
his entire two mandates with no no
evidence whatsoever that would entitle
them to to investigate him and from
there on it became a matter of
investigations and judicial proceedings
with frivolous absolutely frivolous that
every day would come out in the media so
that's how that process of seating
worked and this is really dangerous
again because while the judiciary has
acted in a political and vindictive and
double-standard way against him
this gradual unwinding of the judicial
legitimacy also helps facilitate the
next phase of what could potentially
we happen there which is a return of a
more formal military dictatorship and
rule which reminder was only ended in
the mid-1980s this is a very young
democracy and yesterday what happened
was the following and I'm a quote now
briefly from Brazil wire which everybody
should be reading on the story army High
Command meets Lula stays in jail who's
running Brazil's the name of the piece
on December 19th Brazil went into a
frenzy at the news that Supreme Court
Judge Marcel Marseilles Marcio Aurelio
had accepted a petition from the
Brazilian Communist Party from a
communist party Brazil the cause for the
called for the freeing of prisoners
jailed while their appeal processes were
still underway Lula was jailed before
his appeals were exhausted
this meant that former president Lula da
Silva recognized internationally as a
political prisoner would go free lawyers
and legal scholars applauded the
decision so on there's quotes supporting
the decision they go on to note that
Lula's 73 and is being held in solitary
confinement follow and then what ended
up happening was another judge on the
Supreme Court just sort of intervened
and was able to supersede that decision
basically if one member of the Supreme
Court objects the process can stop and
this other judge Toffoli basically
essentially said this isn't legal this
isn't necessarily constitutional but we
need to figure out a way to make it so
so we're gonna delay a decision until
the new year just to keep Lula in prison
and they note that at the same time that
the high command of the Brazilian
military held an emergency meeting to
discuss the impact of a potential
decision to release Lula and then they
go on to say I'll quote one more time
the Armed Forces intervened in previous
Supreme Court rulings to deny the former
president habeas corpus and it's unclear
if the army meeting influenced two
Foley's latest move but he was consulted
by president-elect balsan ro on the
appointment of General Fernando as a
video as defense minister who had
previously served
as an advisor to Toffoli prior to the
election so that's just to say again the
broader context of understanding the
misuse and lack of sophistication of
anti-corruption politics in a broader
pattern of the rise of fascism fascism
drain the swamp or bun ran vigorous
anti-corruption campaigns silvio
berlusconi's whole political rise was
predicated on 1990s Italian corruption
investigations of which Sergio Moro
claimed that he based the carwash
investigations off of then there's the
immense importance and treatment of Lula
as a political prisoner and the law fair
against him I think pretty clearly with
the support of the Department of Justice
because of anger over a lack of
privatization in the oil industry
I believe that interpretation and then
third there's the way in which this
gradual corruption of institutions and
breakdown an election of a literal
neo-fascist candidate can see in this
case not only a resurgence of far-right
politics but potentially even military
dictatorship in the largest
