[Music]
on the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
back to the program climatologist from
Penn State University author of the
hockey stick and climate Wars and the
madhouse effect is his most recent he's
also the 2019
Tyler prize for environmental
achievement Award winner Michael Mann
Michael welcome back to the program
thanks Sam always great to talk with you
congrats on this Tyler prize I gotta be
honest with you I had not I had not
heard of the Tyler prize before but as I
read up on it this thing is like winning
like this is like winning like the nobel
prize for environmental a bid for
environmental protection I guess yeah
well you know they bill it as sort of
the nobel prize for environmental
science and i am you know truly honored
and humbled to receive the award but the
real honor for me was that i shared the
award this year with a personal hero of
mine a Warren Washington who is one of
the the first scientists decades ago to
develop the the source of climate models
that we now use you know frequently to
look at future projections of climate
change to answer all sorts of questions
about human caused climate change and
Warren Washington was really at the very
forefront of that the whole development
of that science he's also the second
African American recipient of a PhD in
the country in atmospheric science and
so he's a real hero of mine and it was
an honor to share the prize with him
this year ok well let's let's let's talk
about the I guess the sort of the some
of the reasons why you you got that
award and and sort of the the work you
know as I as I read into you know we I
think I've interviewed at least multiple
times and I did not realize how long you
have been under assault and I know this
came up during the hockey stick and
climate Wars but maybe I just forgot
about it but they have been there has
been like a full frontal attack on you
for an extended period of time like 20
years it feels like yeah absolutely and
sometimes I'd like to think maybe they
picked on the wrong guy you know I think
the intent was to get me to shut up to
get me to back off to get me to
disappear from sort of the public space
and it's a result of this you know
iconic graph that my co-authors and I
published literally two decades ago the
so-called hockey stick graph that shows
how unprecedented recent warming is it
shows it's unprecedented as far back as
we can go which was a thousand years at
that time and it became sort of an icon
in the climate change debate and it
became a lightning rod for sort of
industry-funded climate change deniers
fossil fuel lobbyists and front groups
whose sole you know aim is to try to
discredit the science of human-caused
climate change because it represents an
obvious threat to their bottom line it
means we can't continue to burn fossil
fuels and of course that that you know
the fossil fuel industry benefits from
our continued addiction to fossil fuels
so you know they've decided that they
had to try to bring down the you know
the scientific evidence for climate
change and the easy way to do that was
to go after one iconic curve and one you
know what they assumed was a vulnerable
young scientist I was just a
postdoctoral researcher at the time but
I chose to fight back and ultimately not
just to defend my research and to defend
the science of climate change but
because there's such larger stakes here
we really are talking about the future
of the planet for children and
grandchildren so and after and then
there was there was lawsuits as they
were attempting to get your your emails
and largely it's it strikes me as it was
just simply a way to keep you busy on
some well the end of vexatious lawsuits
you know putting me in the hot seat at
congressional hearings
I was vilified in the you know by Fox
News The Wall Street Journal and the
right-wing media there were pressure
groups that tried to get me fired from
my job I was at the receiving end of
death threats and threats against my
family so yeah pretty much seen it all
at this point well so let me ask you
this because you know we just I just
played a clip that had occurred to me as
I was reading a piece you wrote about
the the big freeze we just had that huge
you know three-quarters of the nation
was was subject to super cold
temperatures and so I read your piece on
it reminded me of of something that I
did when I filled in with Olbermann
about eight years ago which was
basically just talking about whenever
you get this type of cold weather or
snow you start getting this idiocy
forgive my bluntness about your being
kind yeah yeah I mean yeah that that
assumes actually like good intent I
guess but this attempt to say that well
this proves there's no climate change I
want you to address that specific claim
in a minute but has things I mean what
has changed you know from ten years ago
in terms of a our our collective
awareness and assessment of the problem
and be our the the political will to
actually do something about yeah great
question I think there are a couple of
threads that are coming together
favorable threads in sort of a you know
perfect storm if you'll forgive the
expression of potential for climate
action and and one of those is just the
fact that people are seeing the impacts
of climate change firsthand now they're
no longer subtle we see them play out in
real time on our television screens and
our newspaper headlines unprecedented
super storms heat waves droughts floods
wildfires everything we saw play out
last summer writ large around an entire
Northern Hemisphere and meanwhile the
the summer in the southern hemisphere
Australia is experiencing the the worst
heat that they've ever had and
scented floods that is the face now of
climate change and people are getting it
and scientists like myself are doing our
best to connect the dots for the people
for the media for you know the public
for our elected representatives or
policymakers and I think people are
connecting the dots I think it's grown
extremely difficult for climate change
deniers to deny that something is
happening much as you know despite the
fact that you continue to try and Donald
Trump in his Twitter feed of course
continues to be a purveyor of sort of
climate change denial talking points and
myths but I think the people get it and
so that's it we understand climate
change isn't this distant far-off threat
it's about people losing their lives in
unprecedented super storms Maria and and
Puerto Rico the California wildfires and
something else is happening salmon I
think you probably you know have a sense
of this as well
it's sort of the the way young folks are
reasserting themselves in our public
discourse in our and our and our social
discourse in our political dialogue
we're hearing the voice of younger
people weigh in on the on the matters
that are important to them whether it be
gun control or now climate change and
you've got these kids around the world
now who are engaged in these school
strikes to draw attention to climate
change and they just speak with such
clarity and moral authority that only
the most hardened cynic can can cannot
be willing to listen to what they're
saying and I think that's a game changer
I think it's changing the conversation I
think all these things are coming
together and of course with Democrats
now taking back the House of
Representatives there's an opportunity
now politically for us to actually see
climate legislation it may not be able
to pass the the Senate now who knows two
years from now but we're gonna see the
groundwork laid now by Democrats in the
house and maybe some Republicans who are
willing to work with them to get climate
change back on the political agenda I
mean I definitely have I mean I think we
could definitely track the that the
center of the Republican Party first and
and and and the reason why I focused so
much on the Republican Party in this is
that I think they're the only major
political part
in the world that denies that has a
climate change denial as like a campaign
plank and part of their platform yeah
absolutely and it seems that they have
moved at least from total denial of it
as a phenomena but are you know still
sort of dancing around with the idea
that it's not it's not man-made and then
to the extent that it is there's nothing
we can do about it right right the only
consistency and the various arguments
that they put forward is that they're an
excuse for inaction right there's
otherwise no intellectual consistency
you know it's like there's not happening
- it's happening but it's not us all
right maybe it's us but it's happening
but it's not bad
and then finally sort of the ultimate
stage in our book of madhouse effect Tom
tolls Washington Post cartoonist as a
beautiful cartoon we talk about the
ladder of climate change denial as they
sort of go down the rungs from it's not
happening - it's happening but it's not
us and eventually you get to well well
you know what there's nothing we can do
about it and and that's not true either
all right well let's talk about I guess
let's talk just a little bit about some
of the problem then we'll move on to
what we can do about it because there is
there is a like you say the the the the
youth ultimately and it's starting to
bring you know sort of suggestions to
the for but I just want to talk about
two things one let's talk about the that
that a polar item not sure what you call
it but we had three-quarters of the
country with temperatures that were
either at records or near record lows
for a couple of days it was it was
bizarre and then within like two days in
New York it was sixty degrees which is
also a strange thing to experience in
the middle of February yeah right we got
weather whiplash right extremes on both
sides and here's the thing it felt like
record cold to us and you know I think
you and I probably have similar sort of
the
you know I grew up I remember these
really cold snowy winters in the early
70s in New England where you up blizzard
or 78
I was out of school yeah three weeks
there you are well I mean and you know
of course when I was a little kid I mean
the snow would come up to my you know to
my head and and part of that is just I
was shorter but no we had these really
cold snowy winters and you know I call
that old-fashioned cold
old-fashioned only in the sense that you
have to go back to our youth to see it
and you know Millennials and folks who
are younger than that just haven't seen
it they've grown up in a world that just
did not see those sorts of old-fashioned
winters so then when you're confronted
with something like this cold air
outbreak the Arctic the polar vortex
break down in these very cold conditions
we saw a few weeks ago it feels like
it's unprecedented cold only because
it's unprecedented in a few decades
right how profound climate change is
that sort of cold has become so rare
that we think it's record cold when in
fact it isn't and Donald Trump of course
exploited that by claiming we were
breaking cold records here's the thing
that week there were actually two
locations in the world both of them I
think in Minnesota or Wisconsin two
small towns or no maybe she maybe
Illinois there were two towns that said
all-time lows in the entire world there
were two towns that actually said
all-time lows Chicago none of the major
cities did and in that same month the
first month in this year when we saw
those two record lows we saw 35 record
highs elsewhere in the world where you
know the southern hemisphere Australia
South America baking through a record
warm summer for them and so no we're not
seeing an increase in record cold we're
just seeing some of this old fashioned
cold and here's the kicker there may
even be a climate change connection
there as you know because one of the
things were increasingly convinced that
the fact that the Arctic is warming
faster than the rest of the planet is
actually it because it decreases the
contrast and how cold it gets when you
go from the equator to the polar regions
it's that temperature contrast that
drives the jet stream and the
or vortex so when you warm the Arctic
more than the rest of the planet you
actually slow down this jet stream and
you slow down the the polar vortex and
you allow for these sort of polar vortex
breakdown events where the cold air
that's normally bottled up in the Arctic
can escape down into you know the United
States or Europe which is what we're
seeing it's not giving us record cold
but it's giving us some of that
old-fashioned cold how much how much
like new dynamics do we find as as time
goes on in other words like I like
everything else I guess I mean it was
just a report that a couple of days ago
that we are headed to a mass extinction
of insects for the most part címon
couple are doing better because of
what's going on and that it's not all a
function of climate change climate
change seems to be one factor another
factor seems to be these new forms of of
pesticides and herbicides but you see
but we're talking about we don't it's
very hard to predict right like if the
number of a certain type of grasshopper
drops below a certain critical mass we
don't necessarily know all the potential
implications for our egos fears and
whatnot right and I imagine that's the
same thing with climate change how many
new sort of dynamics are we observing
you know because it seems like every six
months we're like wow the rate of the
the warming of the oceans is actually
goes beyond what our models predicted
how many of those sort of crop up along
the way yeah yeah and yeah with the
ecosystems you know animal populations
and plants we say that these
relationships are nonlinear it means
that there's a very complex
interrelationship between the different
sort of species in our ecosystem and
that makes it very difficult to predict
when you lose one species it can have
reverberations through the entire
ecosystem through the entire food chain
and and so that's a real worry that we
can have these impacts now global scale
impacts on our environment where you
know the potential implications are
extremely difficult to predict
accurately even with our best models and
so you know the lesson there is that
uncertainty is not our friend
you often hear uncertainty cited by the
critics as if it's reason for inaction
well there's uncertainty in the science
well if anything as we learn more and as
you're alluding to as we learn more
about the science we're finding that the
uncertainty is sort of not breaking in
our favor it's breaking against us we're
finding that things can happen faster
and and and and and there are things
that can happen that we didn't envision
happening and we're seeing that with the
melting of the ice sheets which is
happening faster than we expected
meaning it's contributing to sea-level
rise faster than we expected and that
has to do with some of the physics of
ice sheets behavior it just wasn't in
our previous models and when you put
them into the model suddenly you find
that hey you know the West Antarctic Ice
Sheet can collapse much more quickly
than we thought
and that can lead to sea-level rise much
more quickly than we thought and that's
true for example for the relationship
between climate change and extreme
weather and some of my own research
deals with that connection and we're
finding that there's some subtle ways
you know we just alluded to if you
change temperatures you can change the
Jetstream you can change the Jetstream
in a way where you get these very large
weather systems that remain stuck in
place like we saw last summer with this
you know very hot air drought high
pressure over California giving them
unprecedented wildfire we're back east
we had an unprecedented sort of low
pressure system which gave us the the
wettest summer on record and so you know
that's difficult to predict the models
didn't see that coming these changes in
the behavior of the Jetstream may be
leading to even more extreme persistent
weather events than our models were able
to predict you know just a few years ago
let's let's sort of pivot towards
solutions but one before we get there
there was just a report that came out
from NASA which I imagine you might be
aware of but the the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory confirmed that the oil and
gas industry is responsible the largest
share of the world's rising methane
emissions I guess this was somewhat of a
mess
three and I'm not quite sure how NASA
necessarily goes about determining that
but you know NASA is one of those
outfits apparently that gets paid
regardless of what they find out about
methane leaks and so they're not
necessarily it's not necessarily a
motivated finding yeah what I mean
as we there what is the low-hanging
fruit is there a low-hanging fruit when
we start to talk about solutions or at
least mitigation of the impact of
climate change because it feels like
there is all the fruit seems to be
frankly fairly high up the tree and
we're gonna have to do something drastic
yeah so you know and I'm glad you
mentioned NASA because you know you talk
about it what's an unimpeachable source
of scientific information in our nation
and still the people even even the most
hardened contrarians and and
conservatives tend to respect you know
the space program and NASA and it's
played this is amazingly important role
in the history of Science and Technology
in this country and so people listen
when that says something in a way that
they might not listen to other sources
and and NASA just you know doesn't have
an agenda they're just looking at the
numbers they they are able to make
interesting measurements because they
use what's known as a remote sensing
satellite based observations and this
has become increasingly important in
observing the Earth's system so you can
use these satellite observations to
actually look at you know emissions of
carbon and and and so that's the
connection here that you know even NASA
is saying that hey we're seeing an
uptick in these methane levels we think
that's coming from natural gas fracking
hydraulic fracturing when you try to get
at that natural gas they inject fluids
into the bedrock that breaks it up and
some of that gas escapes through holes
in the surface and we called fugitive
methane emissions like it's trying to
escape and well that's what it's doing
come and the methane escapes into the
atmosphere and it's a very potent
greenhouse gas so that's adding to the
warming so we think that natural
you know the the advocates used to say
well you know you produce less co2 when
you burn natural gas for power versus
coal and that's true but you also some
of that natural gas escapes into the
atmosphere some of the methane escapes
into the atmosphere so low-hanging fruit
well you know some of it is just common
sense regulations too you know to make
sure that you know that that natural gas
recovery is done in a way that attempts
to prevent the release of methane and
under the Obama administration we had
executive policies the EPA had policies
now to try to limit those methane
emissions from natural gas of course one
of the thing first things that the Trump
administration did was to try to
eliminate those basic protections so the
low-hanging fruit the easiest thing is
keep keep the protections that were
already in place there and we have an
administration right now that's trying
to undo all of the environmental
protections of the last half century
but on top of that sort of you know
there's a lot there are a lot of things
that we can do in our everyday lives
that you know save us money they make us
feel better they you know they're
healthier and they reduce our carbon
emissions
you know bicycling rather than driving
using more fuel-efficient vehicles or
public transportation or you know more
efficient appliances changing your diet
and in a way that's carbon friendly
there's so many things that we can do
that are good for us and they reduce our
carbon emissions that's the low-hanging
fruit we call it no regrets a it it has
a negative cost it's a benefit just to
do it and we ought to be doing it
anyways but to get sorts of carbon
emission reductions we need to avert
catastrophic warming we're going to have
to you know go further than that and
that's going to require that there be a
price on carbon that we've got and
incentives for renewable energy we've
got to level the playing field so that
forms of energy that aren't destroying
the planet renewable energy can compete
fairly against fossil fuel energy which
currently you know under the current
administration is getting all sorts of
subsidies you know it's interesting that
conservatives often complain about you
know the government picking winners and
losers
they often they did that when the Obama
administration was trying to push us in
the direction we need to go with
renewable energy well here we've got the
Trump administration trying to prop up
the failing coal industry and yeah well
I mean look from my perspective there is
no there's no such thing as a government
that does not pick winners and losers
it's really just I mean that's just the
nature of society frankly and the
question is just like who who's going to
decide who those winners and losers are
and and what's that decision you're
gonna be and the the sort of the the
personal responsibilities part of it
aside that's not you know I think that's
going to make people feel good but at
the end of the day we need a robust
government societal and frankly
international but response to this and
in in leveling the playing field I'm not
even sure will get us there either right
I mean we need to sort of aggressively
in the same way that we said let's build
an interstate highway system like you
know let's let's let's let's subsidize
corn so that we can basically set up
factory farms you know as we did 40 50
years ago right we need to have or or
for that matter you know like the our
response to World War two you know
mobilization yeah yeah let's convert our
capacity to build weapons obviously I'm
not advocating a war of that sort but
metaphorically speaking you know we did
that we made a massive shift in the
entire economy or in a matter of months
it's really like we need to do that well
that's the you know impetus behind the
you know the now well-known green new
deal right
that AOC is favoring along with some of
our co-sponsors and supporters in the
Senate at Markey of Massachusetts and a
number of others you know that that is
the principle at work here we need the
equivalent of you know an Apollo project
focused on transitioning our energy
system away from
fossil fuels to renewable energy and so
you're absolutely right you know I would
say that those mechanisms aren't
incompatible if we put a price on carbon
if we introduce explicit incentives for
renewable energy we're going to
accelerate this natural transition
that's already taking place
I mean solar and wind soon enough just
left of their own accord are going to
become cheaper more efficient than
renewable energy it's inevitable what we
need to do is speed up that transition
so it's fast enough to avert
catastrophic warming of the planet and
to do that you know there are market
mechanisms that you can you know use to
do that and that's you know incentive
you know subsidies for renewable energy
or a price on carbon and that's where
that comes in but then there are all
these other things that you can do to
try to help transition you know society
along in the direction we need to go and
and so it requires a major mobilization
and I think that the green new deal you
know whether or not you know something
that looks like it gets passed it's a
wonderful starting point and it gets
climate change right at the center of
our agenda going into this next
legislative term what what from a policy
perspective I mean and this may be
somewhat outside your portfolio right I
mean you can it's you can tell us it's
gonna rain but you not necessarily
choose your umbrella I guess right like
I mean I can't even tell you if it's
gonna rain well but I'm saying I'm
saying just you're indicating that we
have a problem and the solution it seems
like is once you get past the the amount
of carbon that needs to be essentially
prevented from entering the atmosphere
how you go about that is it seems to me
or from your perspective is it strictly
a political decision like are there yeah
like do we it seems to me we have like a
fairly wide array of technical or
technological responses to this problem
it's just a political decision as to
which one we choose exactly I mean we we
have the technology necessary to solve
this problem but you know
we don't need a miracle as people like
Bill Gates like to say we don't need a
miracle the miracles already happened
it's called renewable energy it's wind
it's solar everything else we've got the
technology to do this it's simply a
matter of how much in incentives we
provide to to move us in that direction
and to scale that up rapidly and so
that's a matter for legitimate political
debate you know what how do you do it do
you do it with explicit subsidies for
renewable energy do you do it with a
price on carbon or both of those things
and if it's a price on carbon there's a
tradable emissions you know
cap-and-trade or is it a carbon tax and
if it's a carbon taxes there's a revenue
neutral carbon tax that some
conservatives have actually gotten
behind that's a worthy political debate
to have that's the debate we ought to
have been having we should have been
having you know over the last two years
when Republicans controlled the House of
Representatives and we haven't been
having that I think that is the
discussion we're having now and there
have already been a couple hearings one
that happened today in the House of
Representatives on climate change in
climate policy and the tenor of the
discussion it's refreshing it's so
different from you know when I testified
back in 2017 to Lamar Smith a house
science committee chair he held a
hearing to try to you know discredit the
science of climate change and he's the
chair of the house Science Committee
today we've got a house science
committee in the House of
Representatives that is pro science and
that wants to have the meaningful
conversation that we're talking about
here so I think we're going to see that
happen
over the next couple years again we
might not be at a point where we can see
legislation passed the Senate but you
know with you know with some small
changes in the makeup of the Senate we
could potentially be see an environment
where we could actually have climate
legislation emerge out of our out of
Congress in the relatively near future I
don't think we can rule that out this
may be a sort of a silly question to ask
and one may be that you can't answer or
but I know that there is sort of a broad
consensus in the scientific community at
least that is
I guess related to laypeople about how
little time we have to act on yeah when
you're sitting around at these
conferences or when you go to a
conference or when you're with your
colleagues are you guys basically thrown
out another number that is actually
worse I mean that my like they like how
does it get you know how dark does it
get when you talk to your colleagues
yeah you know no I would say that we're
pretty good if you look at the report
the National Climate Assessment report
that was put out this fall which the
Trump administration tried to bury on
Black Friday and then end up commanding
even more attention for it ironically
that we should do this just so that
people know what this report is that's
like what like almost a dozen US
government agencies that obviously
they're not making their boss happy
right they are tasked with putting out
this information and so that's a broad
assessment of the US government right
and the president's congressionally
required to to put out the report and so
but is so they try to put it out on day
they thought it would help bury it and
and that didn't happen and I think
because the message was so clear and and
and and the IPCC report the special
report about what it would take to you
know limit warming below dangerous
levels one and a half degrees Celsius or
two degrees Celsius that's three and a
half Fahrenheit warming of the planet
and a pretty sobering report and it
actually is the basis of this talking
point this the this sort of assertion
that we've heard a lot about lately
including you know aoc made this
statement that we only have 12 years
left
you know before basically we commit
ourselves to disastrous climate change
and and and it's true so that that's a
pretty alarming talking point right
that's a pretty alarming statement and
it you know even though it sort of came
out of the mouth of a OC and she was
vilified by her conservative critics for
for it it turns out that that's
essentially what the IPCC said they said
we've got 12 years in order to
bring our carbon emissions down rapidly
enough to avoid crossing that those
dangerous thresholds of two degrees
Celsius three and a half Fahrenheit
warming a plant of the planet where we
see the worst impacts of climate change
so no I don't think the scientists are
holding back and if you read the
National Climate Assessment Report it
really uses some pretty striking
language in describing the devastating
impact not that climate change will have
in the future that climate change is
having already so I don't think the
scientific community in general is
holding back what is happening is
there's still some inability for us to
get our message out through the
mainstream media and we should say
there's no going backwards right there's
no there's no we hit a certain
temperature and then o we get smart
enough about this and we can we can we
can we can go backwards we know that's
right once we start to melt the great
ice sheets the Greenland ice sheet and
the West Antarctic Ice Sheet there's no
going back and we could try to dial the
co2 back down dial the warming back down
that doesn't stop that continues and so
that's that's that's what's so
terrifying frankly about the prospect of
climate and action is that we commit to
long-term changes that are irreversible
on human timescales and societal
timescales in a matter of years now if
we don't act right that is one of like I
guess the the key flaws in human
imagination is that we're making
decisions we made decisions 20 years ago
that sort of sealed the deal for at
least certain problems that we have now
right and right we don't necessarily
have the ability we it takes a certain
amount of I guess maturity on some level
to sort of view the future but right not
what we have in the White House right
now no not even close Michael man
congratulations again on the on the
Tyler prize and thank you so much for
joining us we will put links to your
books at majority report radio.com
thanks again
