[Music]
so Joe Biden has a strategy and this
strategy I think if you've been a
regular listener to the program makes
total total sense at least based upon my
theory as to why Joe Biden will
ultimately falter now he may not I have
I have conceded every time I've talked
about this this may be a product of
motivated reasoning as they call it may
be aspirational on my part but I'm
convinced by the fall deep into the fall
Joe Biden will be maybe third in the
polling instead of first and the reason
might my theory is based on the idea
that people right now who are supportive
of Joe Biden largely are doing so
because they perceive him as Uncle Joe
and as the as Obama's vice president and
they do not have a recollection of Joe
Biden the man Joe Biden who ran
unsuccessfully for president in 1988 and
ran unsuccessfully for president in 2008
and was horrible in the Anita Hill
hearings and was horrible on things like
protecting credit card businesses
interests over human beings interests in
the writing of the bankruptcy bill and
horrible on race in other areas I mean
just on and on and I am convinced that
over the course of the you know when
people start paying attention to the
primary people gonna are gonna see that
some of them are gonna get turned off
then all of a sudden his electoral
invincibility is going to be less which
has also been a key selling point for
him so what do you do if you believe
that - and your Joe Biden I'll tell you
what you do very little the Washington
Post is reporting that Joe Biden is is
decided to run a quote campaign of
limited eggs
oh sure how effective of a strategy
could that could that be well Craig I
don't think this is gonna serve Joe
Biden well in the long run because the
people like candidates have to be have
to expose themselves to the people they
have to you know show who they truly are
to voters and show their personality and
I think when you have staff potentially
siphoning siphoning them off and not
allowing them to you know press the
flesh as we say in politics on the
campaign trail and really get to know
folks by Quarantine them off I think
that can be a dangerous trajectory
especially in this field of 24
candidates and we all know I mean Ally's
on the ground and Iowa right now we all
know that Iowa voters I mean they flirt
with a lot of candidates it's almost
like dating they go on a lot of dates
with candidates and then they ultimately
decided who they want to support but
they want to meet everybody they want to
have real conversations and I think of
Joe Biden's team is somehow sectioning
him off from that ability then that's
gonna hurt him in the long run yeah I
don't agree with that I think that's
gonna help him in the long run because
people have an idea of Hinnom in in
their mind and there's nothing worse
than having an ideal of someone in their
mind and then actually dealing with the
real person so Joe Biden is smart to
hide the problem may end up being when
people say like maybe this isn't an
energy thing I mean maybe it's Joe Biden
making it sound like we're gonna play
the incumbent game where the incumbent
usually stays in the White House and
doesn't come out and that type of thing
but maybe what's really going on is Joe
Biden just can't handle the campaign
trail looks like you know the low-energy
guy could be I don't that still is
probably the best strategy for him and
this Hillary lady was so stuck on
personalities like people know his
personality
lots of people like his personality the
thing that they really don't want people
to see is his policies and his record I
don't know if people even know his
personality in the same way they might
they might but like Obama's curmudgeonly
lovable old friend sidekick guy the Joe
Biden from the onion
yes but the problem is is that when he
gets up on stage with other people like
how is he gonna react and again this is
gonna come down to how lucky is Joe
Biden it's gonna be a coin toss on some
level if he's up there particularly with
Elizabeth Warren I think that's
extremely could have extremely
detrimental outcome for Joe Biden I mean
you know he'll get critique from other
people and other people are situated but
Elizabeth Warren practically entered
politics on some level because of Joe
Biden and she's going to go directly at
him because she's going to have to and
she's not gonna be as afraid to alienate
his voters as I think all the other
candidates might be and Joe Biden's
condescending sort of dismissive
qualities are not gonna look so good
when he's saying that - you know the the
nice lady from the Midwest I don't know
we still live in such a sexist country
though like it comes down to whether
people are gonna be choosing based on
policy or based on their general vibe
because I think if you go based on
general vibe Joe Biden beats Elizabeth
Warren people think he's cool for some
reason I like I say I what I am banking
on is that that's gonna change when
they're sitting on a stage together but
you may be right or they could just hear
her being like this shrill whiny woman
like we need to protect consumers blah
blah blah and he's like Oh forgive me
Father haha
I totally consume honey happened - we're
gonna see that's why that's why we're
gonna do complete coverage of the
debates in June and July and August and
September October November
whenever the debates are that's why we
will be doing all of that hours and
hours of debates
