Hey also we even forgot to mention
there's a credible report that Donald
Trump raped somebody from a victim her
name is Jean Carroll famous author and
the most compelling part of her charge
seems to me is that and apparently this
happened I think in the early 90s was it
she had told people contemporaneously
what happened and this is really one of
the biggest tests where they where where
law enforcement uses to assess the
validity of a charge of something that
happened prior to the the charge being
levied and that is contemporaneously did
the alleged victim tell other people
about it and apparently she told two
other people and the story matches up
the story she tells was she was in a
some type of department store probably
some high-end one I don't know Bergdorf
Goodman or something like that I don't
know what it is and she ran into Donald
Trump there he recognized her as a
famous author she recognized him as a
prominent New York business you know
billionaire they started talking he said
I could use your help I'm trying to buy
something for a girl she helped him he
tried to get her to try something on
pushed her into a dressing room
according to her penetrated him her with
his penis it's rape she calls it a
sexual assault for some reason I guess
CNN does too because that's the language
that she's using but her story which was
published
she called a friend and the friend said
you were just raped and I think it's
that friend who who people have spoken
to but here she is talking about this
story that has gotten very little
attention in the press because of course
she's the 16th or 17th woman to accuse
Donald Trump of sexual assault but she's
the first who is describing a rape rape
has no statute of limitations the real
question is will she go to the New York
police and make a report but we shall
see motivated now I'm barely political
I'm barely I can't name you the
candidates who are running right now I
just know I am NOT left I am NOT
organized is the last thing all I want
to do well I'm just fed up I'm just fed
up with what's been going on with the
women and the sexual we have I can't
believe that he is in the White House
and it makes me sick what else can I do
but just tell my story there she is
explaining why she's telling people well
the other thing that she could do like I
say is go to the police at this point
like I understand why women would not
tell their story because I would bet
everything I own the that she's getting
death threats now that her life is being
made miserable by by who knows who hosts
the people but at that point go to the
police I wish there was I hope there's
somebody advising her go to the police
let them start an investigation they
can't start one without her making a
complaint is my understanding
