[Music]
final story well let's just do this one
we can play the trump one-two with 19
seconds but uh this is the most I think
Felix Peterman said this is the most
Advan Jellicle thing he's ever seen in
his life Rick Scott went to the went to
the wall of Western Wall in Jerusalem
and he prayed for an end to Nicolas
Maduro as evil regime and genocide and
hashtag Venezuela there is another group
of people who are infinitely more
oppressed than anybody in Venezuela who
live pretty close to that wall that you
could have broke in a prayer out for
buddy I know you don't want to talk
about the Palestinians but at the very
least you don't have to be so tasteless
to overhype a crisis across the world I
will say incidentally to a Twitter just
took down in Nicolas maduro's Twitter
account I just took it down without any
explanation explains just took down a
head of states Twitter account Trump
next if you're gonna be yeah we're doing
that doing that yes Roz worked
yeah rick scott scott had the in the
inside right the jack dorsey there is
like a nice ravage difficult about the
angle to would need to go to jack doofy
and those will be taken up i think if
you go to the welling wall you should at
least be giving a nice generalized
prayer for peace security and safety of
everybody in the Middle East but that's
just my thought all right well
