[Music]
come from a seven one nine area code
who's this where he come from ah hi this
is Steven from Colorado Steven from
Colorado what is on your mind well I've
had some interesting conversations with
some people from the right and I guess
when when we talk about people like on
the right from like Fox News which we
say is like the Republican propaganda
wing of the Trump administration or for
instance Dave Rubin who has been
classified as like the lazy propagandist
because this mind is filled with so many
wonderful ideas I guess how is it that
we can put that critical eye on the
right and said that the propagandists
can we also look at the left and say are
we engaging in propaganda as well
because the definition of propaganda is
pretty broad yeah and I I mean I could
tell you that I have very many people
don't do propagandas him I don't get
into this argument again but I have
certainly claimed to be a propagandist
in the past now there are some people
have told me that definitionally
left-wing people can't do propaganda but
yeah by propaganda to me is a value
neutral term and it is a form of of
informing people with a specific
ideological bent it is one which is
intended to promote that ideology and
that's what I do and to the extent that
what I am saying at any given time is
sound as well sourced is had some type
of integrity or authenticity people have
a responsibility on some level to to
make that assessment on their own but I
certainly
see part of my job is to also undercut
or to undercut any misconceptions people
would have of other people's
authenticity when I think I have some
evidence that they're being inauthentic
or unsound or lacking integrity I mean
that's the way I perceive it so do you
think that the term propaganda is not
actually a derogatory term it's only
derogatory when a person is factually or
intentionally misrepresenting or
misleading their point of view or their
point with bad evidence or bad facts
things like you know Fox News saying the
situation at the border is an absolute
crisis because such and such and such
that's what we would say that's just
propaganda for the right but when the
left talks about it not being a crisis
and it not being a well is a crisis now
but at the time it wasn't a crisis that
would be propaganda for the left but
because factually you are right then
that removes the derogatory implication
of propaganda I mean look the the
definite like you say the definition is
pretty broad it is propaganda is
perceived I mean in it's sort of more
classical definition is basically just
like a trying to blast out information
and I think there is certainly more
colloquially and and and perhaps not
totally definitionally but some people's
definition of propaganda is that the
information is particularly biased or
misleading and I mean I'm pretty pretty
straightforward about my bias and so I
my intention is not to mislead and
people have to make that assessment but
it is but I am definitely using
information to promote a a political
cause so I don't it's not so much that
I'm concerned that
Fox is propaganda I do think it's a
problem to be propagandists for power
right and particularly for government
power and not even you know I mean
government but I mean by specific
administration power I think that that
can be a little bit problematic almost
definitionally but you know it's a
semantic issue so I don't you know I'm
not too worried about it but like I say
I have no problem if someone says that
I'm a propagandist I I don't really have
a huge argument with that I would just
simply argue that yes but I I do not
mislead and I tried to endeavor to make
sure that my arguments are sound and my
information is correct that's good to
hear because I've definitely been called
out for having any kind of bias
whatsoever you know when I am in
arguments with people onin they say well
you have a bias towards this thing and I
go are you arguing with are you arguing
with robots who've been programmed by
other robots by other robots and those
robots because if you're arguing with
human beings
I get news for you they also have a bias
by the way the and the robots will to
rather watch the numbers of meltable
scrub ship I mean there's any and yeah I
mean the most dangerous
I actually I think saying that there is
no bias is maybe the most propagandistic
statement anybody could make ever
because it's funny most ingenuously I
mean completely it's on there completely
diluted or totally disingenuous if they
say that I don't think they're saying
that they don't have that there is no
bias but that we should engage with the
news specifically without a bias it's
impossible that's like I mean possibly
good luck
which news do you pick to engage with
basketball without like shooting baskets
you can't go to Utah you can't pick
which news you're going to engage with
without ideological decision making
anybody who's telling you that they're
engaging in any
activity that involves like news
political news societal news I mean any
activity which it requires the
development of an opinion or an
assessment whether it's in business or
whatever it is or in academics I don't
care if it's you know political science
or sociology or if it's if it's fashion
they're coming in with a bias and when
they tell you they're not coming in for
with a bias what they're trying to do is
get the upper hand in that conversation
by saying like your perspective is
tainted your perspective is unsound
because you are involved in motivated
reasoning I am not I'm above that but
sure and it's coming to Italy the
conversation I get is like well you
listen to Sam sooner or is Backman
conical just et OIT you're in a
confirmation bias loop I'm outside that
loop so therefore I am looking at it
more critically than you are
well alright yes okay ask for their
media sources then in that case because
I'd be curious what they cite I listen
to I listen to a broad spectrum of both
Ann Coulter and and Bret Baier think
you're a little bias on this I'm
watching Ben Shapiro who uses logic
logic and he doesn't care about your
feelings I appreciate the call thank you
