let's get to the you know but this is
this is actually interesting that you
brought up the Sean Spicer thing because
I mean actually it was disturbing
I didn't dismiss that when that first
happened because that was an example of
Oh like of course they're gonna lie and
of course they're gonna be right-wing
and of course they're gonna be horrific
but as trivial as it was that was an
absolute Nazi style big loss yeah like
that was a literally don't believe
you're lying eyes believe a weird
flustered verge of heart attack press
secretary and then just completely
made-up nonsense to appease a very
disturbed person's ego and by disturbed
person's ego of course I'm talking about
the president but that dynamic has shown
up yesterday and over this past week in
regard to something much more serious
and of course I'm talking about the
terrorist attack at the synagogue in
Pittsburgh which where several Jewish
people were murdered in a horrific
anti-semitic attack and a lot of people
in the community did not want Donald
Trump to be there they understand that
his administration feeds off of hate
division and lies and hain't division
and lies feed anti-semitism in every
other form of bigotry they didn't want
him there and we played yesterday and we
will play again what the actual
reception to Trump was in Pittsburgh
Trump tweeted this out this morning
milani and I were treated very nicely
yesterday in Pittsburgh the offices the
president was shown great respect and a
very sad and solemn day we were treated
so warmly small protests was not seen by
us stays far away the fake news stories
were just the opposite disgraceful now
of course CNN and other outlets actually
aggressively covered a massive protest
for a suburban mellow Pittsburgh
neighborhood of normal people saying get
the out and let us mourn and even
the head of the synagogue's reception of
Trump was something to the effect of I'm
not going to say no to the president
States it wasn't we really want you here
and everybody else most emphatically did
not want him in his disgusting family
there this is the clip that Trump put
out from the administration to represent
what happened yesterday and this at the
exclusion of the protests is profound
dishonesty
[Music]
so obviously if you're listening it's
essentially just a montage of um read
more to the tweets sorry okay now let's
it's just a montage of people looking
somber and welcoming and Trump and
Melania and Jared and Ivanka at the
first responders in there though yeah
greeting people and it's all sort of
appropriate laid out it actually looks
even that is insulting it of itself it
looks far more like a campaign ad then
an actual remembrance of victims of an
anti-semitic atrocity and it was like
literally two scenes it was literally
two scenes and whether or not they
managed to keep this guy from seeing
this stuff because of course he would
have a massive tantrum if he saw it this
was what was actually happening in
response to Trump and these people being
in Pittsburgh let's listen for a minute
to this mass a huge amount of people
singing I don't know I don't know the
words unfortunately but they are these
are peaceful protesters walking along
grieving grieving around the tragic
death of eleven of their neighbors in a
synagogue on Saturday and protesting the
presence of Donald Trump the president
in their community today
pulling sciencists say stop hate no hate
no guns no Trump is this the Democrats
closing message Betsy Bertram certainly
seems like one that is a highly tacky as
 transition there from MSNBC maybe
we can mute them and just play out a
little bit more of the village' the
visuals beautiful so maybe we could do
that that was Nicole Wallace for anyone
Wallace I'm sorry that that happened
please watch this this is beautiful
it's an beautiful collection of people
coming
the community anti-fur yeah yeah their
auntie fire community united you know
what that means y'all know that George
Soros it's George Sarris you know these
cirrhosis yeah that old lady - don't
threaten Gavin McGinnis on Twitter
totally unfair I hope most people can
understand this in terms other than the
horse race I mean look there's no
contradiction between we always say
about the elections but that goes far
beyond a horse race as you say
absolutely
