[Music]
here is Donald Trump her husband he is
signing a or I should say after a
signing of an executive order that would
that would deal with the crisis that we
have on our campuses Thank You Weinstein
both of dissin invitation invitations to
right-wing speakers and of course I'm
being facetious there is every reason to
believe that this is not a real crisis
that it almost decidedly could not be a
crisis almost definitionally but it just
so happens that 2018
was one of the lowest years of disinvite
ations over like in a decade but be that
as it may
here's Donald Trump and I wonder I don't
think this executive order is even
constitutional you talk about protecting
free speech this seems to be
fundamentally a an assault on free
speech here is a Donald Trump clip
number three
hey we're delivering a clear message to
the professor's and power structures
trying to suppress dissent and keep
young Americans and all Americans not
just young Americans like Ellen and
Caitlin and Polly from challenging rigid
far-left ideology people who are
confident in their beliefs do not censor
others we don't want to censor others
they welcome free fair and open debate
and that's what we're demanding under
the policy I am announcing today federal
agencies will use their authority under
various grant-making programs to ensure
that public universities protect cherish
protect the First Amendment and First
Amendment rights of their students or
risk losing billions and billions of
dollars of federal taxpayer
every year the federal government
provides educational institutions with
more than 35 billion dollars in research
funding all of that money is now at
stake that's a lot of money
they are gonna not have to like your
views a lot right we will not stand idly
by and allow public institutions to
violate their students constitutional
rights if a college or university does
it allow you to speak we will not give
them money it's very simple now and I
want to take this seriously for a month
because what what in what possible
instance is there a college where they
say you cannot speak like what I'm
trying to even think of like what would
constitute that type of violation its I
how I interpret it it's it's it's
usually when some college conservative
group invites a Nazi to come speak right
answer or something which as far as I
know I has any college actually ever you
know administration ever actually
stopped Richard Spencer from speaking I
you know I don't I don't I I don't know
that you can stop him from speaking you
can say like hey we're not gonna make
available to you
the you know the the Blandin hall and
you're not gonna have we're not gonna
provide AV services for you we're not
going to pay you money to come and speak
it's conceivable that certain in certain
instances like hey we can't provide
security for this so we don't want it to
have happen on campus but these are not
anyway first of all these are not their
students a right like other speakers but
every single day in the social
activities council they're saying we're
not gonna book Todd Barry I want to book
Tom Rhodes like I could could Tom berry
like Todd berry I could could you know
Jello Biafra
sue all these people because I haven't
you know he hasn't gotten a booking and
you know at certain college like I don't
understand
and what is what is the free speech
principle here like how are these people
preventing any speech yeah yeah well I
mean there's no to my knowledge there's
no college that has you know with the
built into its rules regulations some
line that says by the way here's the
views you can't express yeah it's very
strange the this this calculation of
free speech that that good I mean I I I
think you can't discriminate you know on
channels that are open to everyone right
like if you have like you couldn't like
deny maybe certain groups from being
there unless that they were considered
like it may be full-on hate speech or
could be inciting in their presence but
I I'm not quite sure I understand even
the dynamic but what it does is it lays
down some type of fake predicate right
like this is going to be cited as a way
of pulling funds and really now what
we're gonna see is the government is
going to use its funds to force speech
on on schools and we already know in the
Supreme Court
they've already ruled like missile the
whole Janis case is about you cannot
force you know you cannot use your power
to force speech and that is what
supposedly was the basis of the Janis
case you can't take money to a Union
where money is fungible even if it's
paying for for their lawyers because
that frees up other money for them to go
out and engage in political speech well
I just looked it up and colleges have
canceled appearances by Richard Spencer
in particular usually due to safety
safety concerns like I just looked up at
the University of Florida cancelled his
appearance due to safety concerns no I
would have a specific policy yeah so
what this order would do basically is to
say screw your safety concerns you're
gonna have to have this event anyway
regardless of the potential violence
that ensues or else you're gonna lose
your funding well I'm I'm less concerned
about that to be honest
and the broader implications that it
might lead into because I'm I remember
when David Horowitz was going around
college campuses when I was an
undergraduate he was a madman crazy
person with it basically his parents
were Stalinists and his whole life was
reacting against them and getting funded
by right-wing sugar daddies and he had a
thing called the student it was
something like the academic Bill of
Rights and essentially it was it was in
it it was a demand on what professors
could not say or express in class so I
think way bigger than like who comes on
campus or doesn't is the implications of
this for people who might hold Walt
Wankel I was just up for a position a
tenured position and anyways yeah that
was at Yale and it was I don't know if
it was a pact specifically but it was
certainly those type of folks who
basically after he had already been I
think off we had a job forced the school
to roll back their offer to him and so I
mean this is an Horowitz was sued just
to be clear like it was super specific
like I wouldn't go anywhere like but my
friend Ben Burgess is an example right
he makes a point is like I teach logic I
don't necessarily express my politics in
class but would hora which you know
whatever give or take doesn't matter I
think anybody should be able to express
their political preferences when they
teach I think that's fine maybe
certainly made learning from people more
interesting but the stuff Horowitz was
trying to get to was like literally like
teaching that Ameri objective facts like
a like the Constitution was an
objectively pro-slavery document until
it was changed that's an abduction
leftist opinion right versus an
objective historical and legal reality
so the game here is that and it's gonna
be serious for public educators at
universities in the all-powerful
humanities departments which as we all
know dominate modern higher education
meanwhile Donald Trump also expressed
his real concern about the student debt
crisis
this country as you know Donald Trump
intimately aware of this this issue of
student loan debt well not so much
student loan debt more like debt and so
far debt has been pretty good to this
guy that's listening today's action is
just the beginning of our efforts to
protect free speech and advance our
students rights agenda what I've been
witnessing over the last long period of
time long before I became president what
I've been witnessing is outrageous this
order will also empower students with
vital information about the value of the
programs they take on and having to do
with that student loan debt I'm going to
work to fix it because it's outrageous
what's happening you're not given that
fair start
you're too far down it's not right and
we're gonna work very very hard to get
it fixed but we're gonna start with 43
million people in the United States are
currently working to pay off student
loans and we'll be talking about that
very soon we're gonna work on that very
soon I've always been very good with
loans and I love loans I love other
people's money well as a victim of
student loans I find that both extremely
funny and terrifying because I know the
when they look at it they're gonna find
a way of making people and mine in much
worse situations sometimes even much
more difficult we're gonna double how
profitable these executive there's a lot
of it because they're getting hosed by
these private companies but there's so
much being left on the table in terms of
interest we got a new plan here's the
plan we're gonna have your loan we're
gonna have your your interest but all
the money's gonna go to my family
it's called the Trump that Trump try use
you believe it's counted Trump
University and bring that back and learn
tonight I sort of feel like he's
insincere on his agenda to tackle the
student loan issue it's the first I'm
hearing about it
III feel like it's probably an insincere
he's gonna need to wheel out some fake
populism issues that he can pretend in
2020 on after you know totally lying
obviously about Medicare and Social
Security all right
