we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 3rd 2018
my name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Wednesday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
Meghan day staff writer for the Jacobin
magazine we will talk about Brett
Kavanaugh the banality of the work of
the ruling class debunking the
meritocracy myth and austerity through
paperwork with the ever brilliant Meghan
day dozens of potential sources of
information say they have not been
contacted by the FBI and the Cavanaugh
investigation dr. Ford dr. Blasi Ford
has demanded an interview in the FBI
probe herself and Donald Trump has
finally gone all in on a grotesque and
savage attack of Christine blaze ephors
I'm a counter-puncher I'm a counter
puncher that's what I do when I do a
fetishistic rally and attack and rape it
could this correlate with new
revelations from new york times on
essentially his allegations that his
family's taxes are just a giant
basically criminal scheme or the
prototype future of all republican tax
policy remember he only got a small loan
of a million dollars even the lie that
made him look privileged was a total lie
and i paid it back i get back right only
time you've ever done that right my dad
you have to pay it back that's your dad
and michael bloomberg has just given
twenty million dollars to senate
democrats cash those checks and what the
hell feed those twenty twenty delusions
i don't care
pentagon walks back a plan to withhold
cash from defense contractors after
pressure from lawmakers that sounds
about right
new moves in the House of
Representatives to cut off funding from
the United States for the mass murder in
Yemen conducted with the US UK Saudi and
the United Arab Emirates junior bowls
and arrow Brazilian fascist candidate is
surging in the polls as reports of
extortion by bosses over workers double
speak on one hand the business lobby is
hearing that the Brazilian Constitution
will be rewritten to destroy unions and
workers on what saps are getting
messages saying of course he's not anti
worker an anti-union
classic fascist doublespeak we won't
leave anybody in the streets for that
okay exactly and a court deals a major
blow to a controversial Appalachian
pipeline momentarily halting
construction even as the Trump
administration is moving forward with
relaxing restrictions on radiation we
talked about mercury yesterday and a new
tax package which will further decrease
your wages is in the Congress all that
and much more on today's majority
reports Sam I think he's arrived I was
gonna say I'm going on a plane I don't
know if I'll be back again
but I think he's already in Vegas it's
already in Vegas that the I was gonna
make a bless you I was gonna make a
Brock invention joke but he's at the
torts conference he's gone to his happy
place he's gone to his happy wonder if
there's any mass torts revolving around
bras right until you say that it's bad
for their backs scandal tell you what
Sam I've been a lawyer for 25 years it
would be like Tennessee yeah like just
sounds like yeah normal guy we said we
started up a practice down in a Macomb
County we got into the diamond you
couldn't believe what we saw complete
was it the woman's entire back was
thrown out when snap and her just back
didn't work man I thought okay any
fair-minded person was maybe ones just a
malfunction I'll tell you what we found
documents 3,000 with me seriously oh my
god these brothers brought snap off at
200 miles an hour these bras will snap
of two thousand miles or that is the
velocity of a just just for point of
comparison here that is the velocity of
a Serena Williams a serve velocity of
the Serena Williams ship and this is
happening to women's backs across the
country well exactly Sam I think you
pretty much put the nail on the head
right there I actually think that bit
might have legs broad class action
towards Sam interviews or should we say
clasp action whoo oh now I don't know
how we transition from that funny
material I've actually I have been a
little bit surprised that Trump hasn't
gone all in disgusting before on
Christine Blasi Ford but he did just
that he was at a rally yesterday in
Southaven Mississippi
that right and here he is viciously
mocking doctor for it and you know bear
in mind the Republicans on the Judiciary
Committee who are pushing through the
confirmation of Cavanaugh who lied
continuously where I believe as much as
I can
I believe doctor for most people do
they're claiming that they believe her
but it's some type of confused memory or
something and as Eric Levitz pointed out
at this point even if an FBI plural
clear judge Cavanaugh of these charges
or and you know even if he was cleared
he's clearly displayed that he has no
judicial temperament and is a whiny hack
reactionary who had a meltdown on
national television and went on about he
he literally talked about these charges
in the context of a Clinton conspiracy
theory that's Newsmax
editorial stuff which again shows you
that that's what the Republican Party is
it's all a Newsmax editorial but they
are in the contradictory position of
feigning compassion and concern about
these issues while pushing it through
Trump is gonna go the full disgusting
route by just attacking her and really
expose them even more because this is
what they're doing they just don't want
to own it like Trump is doing but this
what Trump is doing here this is what
the Republican Party is doing even if
they feign concern and respect what he's
going through thirty six years ago this
happened I had one beer right I had one
beer well you think it was it nope there
was one beer oh good how did you get
home I don't remember how'd you get
there don't remember where is the place
I don't remember how many years ago was
it I don't know
I don't know I don't know what
neighborhood was it and I don't know
where's the house I don't know upstairs
downstairs where was I don't know but I
had one beer that's the only thing I
remember and a man's life is in tatters
a man's life is shattered his wife has
shattered his daughters who are
beautiful incredible young kids they
destroy people they want to destroy
people these are really evil people that
was what Lindsey Graham's thing was and
people should recognize that this is
again this is the Republican Party
message even if and the Republican Party
strategy and the Republican Party
commitment even if other members of the
committee are simultaneously speaking
out of both or well they're speaking out
of both sides in the mouth and they're
voting and they're muscling and they're
moving politically in one way which is
to completely railroad this process
because they don't care and as with
pretty much everything else with the
Republican Party from oligarchy to
corruption to racism to xenophobia to
misogyny Trump is the one who speaks it
clearly so believe him because he's the
essence of this whole thing and this
works on his base because I mean most
people don't understand the psychology
of trauma and you know raised before it
explained it and but most people
probably didn't get it so when you hear
him say that like it makes sense to
people so his people like they're very
ready to believe it there's a Quinnipiac
poll that came out yesterday about
non-college educated white men 65
percent support confirming Cavanaugh 66
believe Cavanaugh over Ford it's
basically two thirds of uneducated white
non-college educated white men believe
Cavanaugh and that's what Trump is
playing to and it is a terrifying number
I do sort of wonder if this would if it
would be like you know 80% if we were in
like even the 90s but I don't
who knows who knows what progress and
it's 99b sorry no like though the women
who support Trump yeah they didn't care
about grab them by the and they
don't care about this women were
cheering just as much as the men in that
okay folks no elegant way of
transitioning Sam likes ads let's Sam
read you an ad and then we will be
returning with Megan day from Jacobin
magazine hey folks it's Sam here and
support for today's show comes from
Brooklyn named the winner of the best
online bedding category by Good
Housekeeping Brooklyn is the fastest
growing bedding brand in the world with
over 20,000 five-star reviews and I will
tell you this one of them is mine their
mission to bring five-star hotel quality
sheets to everyday life offering luxury
sheets without the luxury makeup
their method eliminating the middleman
to keep things personal from design to
manufacturing a custom service and
beyond okay I have as you know multiple
sets of Brooklyn and sheets I don't want
to get too detailed here but the way
that we do it with our separation is we
we the parents switch back and forth so
I have them in my outside place wait
Jimmy are you making a face I could I
not be talking about this or is it
something totally different
okay so I've got in two different
locations sets of Brooklyn and sheets
and I love them both I finally get to
choose the classic I think they call it
per cane I'm not sure what they call it
but it's the classic cooler cotton and
my daughter now has demanded a set of
Brooklyn and sheets for her as well
because she loves my sheets they're so
comfortable and they look like I
actually know what I'm doing when it
comes to like something to do with style
which is believe me a huge uphill battle
my Brooklyn and sheets are the best
they're the most comfortable sheets I've
ever slept on Brooke
dot-com is giving an exclusive offer for
just my listeners get 20 bucks off and
free shipping when you use the promo
code majority at Brooklyn and calm
Brooklyn is so sure you're gonna love
your new sheets they offer a risk-free
60 night satisfaction guarantee and a
lifetime warranty on all their sheets
and comforters the only way to get 20
bucks off and free shipping is to use
the promo code majority at Brooklyn
ENCOM that's Brooke linen dot-com promo
code majority Brooklyn and these really
are the best sheets ever ever I got to
learn I have to learn from the master
right there
Casper I like beds okay everybody we are
gonna be right back with Meghan day on
the majority report
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Meghan day she is a staff writer at
Jackman magazine Meghan thanks so much
for being here thanks for having me
Meghan you wrote a great piece called
the banality of Brett Kavanaugh I want
to quote from it briefly the Brett
Kavanaugh hearing was asked Elida scope
of family and God and prestigious
clerkships spliced with poofing ralphing
and brewskis it was a thorough
dressing-down and the end one was left
at the impression of an unremarkable guy
who was born on a conveyor belt to power
without much obligation to distinguish
himself from his peers on the contrary
his success was relatively guaranteed on
the condition that he didn't distinguish
himself from them that he's simply
playing nice with the fellas and not
necessarily nice with women from prep
school to the Ivy League to the White
House and beyond said I think I mean you
captured it but but break that down for
us in terms of what you saw about how
non remarkable this guy was and what
that says about how we conceive of
elites in general great so I watched the
Brett Kavanaugh hearing like everyone
else I was chatting with friends while
watching it I think everyone was just
stunned that what we're seeing I've
never seen anything like that I don't
typically tune into congressional
proceedings I think they're usually
pretty boring this one was far from
boring and afterward I I was you know I
got a call from my editor and he was
like so what do you have to say about
this and I just I honestly couldn't
think of anything to say if there was
there was there so much that made me
angry there's so much that boiled my
blood so much that seemed unfair so much
that seemed anti-democratic or counter
Democratic about the whole process and
the thing that finally out in that
conversation with my editor really ended
up rising to the top for me is that the
way that Brett Kavanaugh responded to
questions about his prior bad behavior
alleged bad behavior by talking about
how how how much he'd earned essentially
how much he'd earned the right to be on
the Supreme Court because he'd gone to
the very best schools and had the very
best appointments and knew the very best
people you could hear it happened maybe
it happened maybe seven or eight times
but that was how he responded to a
specific question about his past
behavior and so that got me thinking a
little bit about this guy as a sort of
ambassador for meritocracy certainly not
the only one in fact the vast majority
of people who constitute our political
elite all went to the same schools they
went to Harvard Yale Stanford and Brett
coughs Brett Kavanaugh is is among them
but I also was thinking about the way
that everyone watching this could sort
of the mat the mask of power slips a
little bit in this moment and you
realize that this is just an ordinary
extremely greeting not particularly
insightful dude you got as I wrote in
the piece born on a conveyor belt to
power you know he was sort of on the
condition that he didn't you know that
he moved with the pack and then he
looked out for for his buddies and you
know and clung tight stayed close that
he would more or less end up in a
position of power whether that was in
politics or whether that was in real
estate or finance or as I mentioned
later the peace military weapons
manufacturing you know it could have
been anything but he was he was going to
make it and I think of the thing that we
that for us to realize in this moment
and the thing I think many of my peers
because I'm 29 and I think that you know
as I write in the piece new generations
have to be exposed to the collapse of
the illusion of meritocracy over and
over again meritocracy being of course
ruled by the most excellent the idea
that the people at the top have some
special innate excellence this seemed
like a moment when that really crumbled
just watching this extremely
unremarkable die and wondering
how in the hell he got there and
starting to put the pieces together for
yourself right and you talked about I
mean other you described you said yeah
look
juvenile sexist you know emotionally
reactive and I think that's a really but
that that specific point is really
important and it comes up again and
again again this idea that people like
that he would have really need to have
radically gone out of his way to not be
a success and one of the things that
which of course then makes the whole
idea of success or not success and much
more muddy concept than we like to talk
about it usually right like if if he
would have needed to sort of bend over
backwards to not be quote unquote
successful then what exactly does that
mean and in addition to that you know it
struck me that obviously he lied well I
mean in my view obviously he lied quite
a bit during the proceedings about
things both you know large and
incredibly serious and maybe things that
are relatively trivial one of the areas
though that he got dinged on was they
reported the day after when he said you
know I got into Yale law of my own merit
and of course it was revealed I think
was his grandfather was an alumni of
Yale Law and people went and you know
it's a totally fair interpretation
there's another Brett Kavanaugh a lie
mine was I don't think he's lying about
that I think it his self
conceptualization that that isn't even
an added bonus he wouldn't have been
there without his merits maybe grandpa
went there but that's totally incidental
so we're also it's like we saw how non
remarkable they are but we also saw an
element of the the psychosis of this
particular type of elite in terms of how
they conceived of themselves
I completely agree with that I mean
anything part of it has to do with
exposure people from this particular
class stratum and the kind of insular
world that people like Brett Kavanaugh
inhabit their entire lives are not
necessarily exposed to lots of people
who work significantly hard
may have ever worked and don't end up
you know on the Supreme Court deciding
important matters for the entire nation
so I think that to some extent it's just
like a matter of a matter of lack of
exposure but it's it's also the case
that they're living in this fantasy as
well all of us are it's it's not just
that the people at the bottom the rest
of us the 99% whatever you want to call
us are living with the fantasy that the
people at the top have some special
wiring some sort of like special
hardwiring that's like actually superior
to the rest of us that gives them
superior insight they have superior
talents they work harder and so on and
so forth they actually believe this as
well it's sort of self justifying its
what keeps them going and you know if I
could speak a little bit on my own like
journey through through meritocracy
first of all it's an important
ideological component of capitalism
because it is the justification for
inequality in the United States the idea
that if you are at the top it's because
you worked hard and you had what it
takes to get to the top and that of
course contains in it a secondary or
corollary logic which is that if you're
at the bottom it's because you didn't
have what it takes you or you didn't
work hard enough to make it to the top
and anybody can make it from the bottom
to the top that is that is a rough
description of what meritocracy is as
you can see it obviously functions
extraordinarily well and it dovetails
very well with capitalism it's sort of
ideological mechanism of capitalism if
you will for me personally I think that
despite you know being you know roughly
a progressive or a left liberal for a
long time I think I had still a latent
understanding that that there was
something superior about the people at
the top for a long time specifically
until the 2016 election and with the
2016 election was the moment when it was
my big sort of Emperor wears no clothes
moment in particular Iowa
extremely increasingly frustrated by the
fact that the Democratic Party
frequently refused to stand firmly
consistently full-throated ly on the
side of working people but I figured
that there was probably some reason why
that was the case besides just like
Shearer thick-skulled
in attention to the masses you know
maybe the people in charge know how to
win they're in charge of battling
Republicans because they know how to win
that's why they got that job they got
the job of this critical critical job of
defeating the right because they're the
people who are good at that sort of
thing right and and we know they're good
because they're in charge right do you
see how meritocracy is a sort of
tautology right yeah this completely
fell apart for me during the 2016
election I was like these people do not
know what the hell they're doing and in
fact they're really screwing it up for
all of us and in fact that's exactly
what happened every sort of all of the
resistance of the Democratic Party to
embracing the the passion the left
energy of its own base and instead
trying to strike some sort of pose that
careful it was carefully calibrated to
both siphon off a little bit of that
progressive energy from the base but
also make the donors happy and also make
the moderates happy and so on and so
forth it just was a recipe for disaster
and it's a Porsche Hillary Clinton won
the popular vote but you realize the
Democratic Party lost control of both
houses and you know but this is a
decade's long problem with that we're
now about to lose control the Supreme
Court obviously so so for me that voice
a little voice in my head that was
always telling me the people at the top
are there because they are there they're
better at solving these problems
it's fell permanently quiet for me in
2016 it made it easier for me to see
that something similar was happening in
the Brett Kavanaugh hearing I think
there are plenty of people watching that
who assume that people on the Supreme
Court people who are nominee to get to
the point where they're nominated to be
on the Supreme Court must have superior
judgment these are the highest judges in
the land in fact what you see is that
there
just at the top because there at the top
because that is where they were born
that is all of the structures were in
place to float them to the top
specifically on wings of respectable
pedigree and impressive social
connections and and they don't better
judgment than me can do and they don't
have a superior insights or talents and
here's the most important thing they
would absolutely hate for us to realize
this because they don't have
irreplaceable qualities or insights that
would oblige us to put up with their
 right I mean these people make
decisions that devastate the lives of
millions of people and we give them a
path because we assume that they're best
suited for the task when we realize that
they aren't necessarily I think that
inspires a lot of popular political
confidence yeah I think that's exactly
right and actually there was a piece I
think Eric Levitz wrote about how John
Roberts is actually this is something
he's been very worried about in terms of
the branding of the Supreme Court
because under his you know under his
leadership this has already been even
with that you know quasi I mean Kennedy
was as you know I mean Kennedy was kind
of a swing vote on important but social
issues basically he was not at the end
of the day when it came to corporate
Union and certainly voting in civil
rights not to mention you know corporate
money influence in politics he was a
hard right vote with the other four so
but Roberts and part of the reason that
Roberts you know voted against the
repeal of Obamacare or though you know
allowing states to opt out of the
Medicaid expansion which was obviously
the most successful part of Obamacare
he's been really trying to cultivate you
know while they quietly basically just
implements a very extreme right
ideological agenda with regards to
voting rights and unions and so on
through the court he's wanted to kind of
hold the brands of the court as still
some type of noble transcendent
institution and
this definitely I mean you're talking
about in a much deeper and broader sense
than just the court really just the
whole concept of the leadership class
meritocracy and who we put on a pedestal
and why but that brand was shot by you
know a red-faced guy talking about beer
mm-hmm totally it absolutely was this is
just another another sort of like I say
in the piece that I wrote the this is
another data point in the collapse of
meritocracy and the data points are
cluster and closer together this is the
courts time to experience a crisis of
legitimacy caused by the crumbling
illusion of meritocracy but the
important thing to note is that the
court is far from alone and in fact the
greatest threat to this illusion and all
American history is in the White House
right now Donald Trump um it's it's like
I like I say there's no it's not a
coincidence that popular politics are
gaining a new dynamism under his
presidency and that includes something
we would consider positive the swelling
ranks of the Socialist Left but also the
leading a flash of youthful alt-right
energy on the right you know I think
that the reason we're seeing that is
because Trump is like as I write and the
piece of grenade tossed into the
fortress of meritocracy like Obama was
so competent and he just had this this
kind of Ivy League cool and that that
actually kind of it wrapped it wrapped
it all up in fo the sides yet you know
the idea that people got to the top
because they were meant to be there and
where they are as proof of where they
were always meant to be they have a
special gene that you don't have Obama
seemed like proof too many people that
that was the case and I would argue even
for people who disagreed with his
politics but Trump completely blows a
hole in that entire thing um he succeeds
he's transparently a jackass pardon my
french
he's an egregious bully and worst of all
of course he's unprofessional and that
and that and that just causes the and
it's you know and it causes the entire
house of cards to fall a little bit you
realize that there is not actually a
pyramid that you ascend because you know
you are the best and the best of the
best of the best get to the very top of
the pyramid and get to be president this
guy is the worst of the worst and I
would argue even for people who agree
with his politics and quite like him
that's actually what a lot of people
find very attractive about him is that
they've already felt that the myth of
meritocracy is wearing thin a little bit
may have a kind of nihilistic to drive
about it I think so yeah that's true no
I know I'm just reflecting on that
because I think it's always like how do
you tease out like what was the smalls
in my view very very small but not an
insignificant group of people who are
really desperate that were taken in by
his his con of populism what's the vast
majority people who voted for him who
are just Republicans and Republicans are
this far-right white identity politics
party in Trump's the perfect candidate
of that but that's another interesting
third equation what's the element of
people who are just like it yes - I
think there's I think there's a little
bit of it especially in the first
in the first group the people who have
probably I would say in my experience
talking to and I wrote a book where
prior to the toy 16 election I I spent a
lot of time interviewing working-class
white people in rural America and found
that there's a sort of like this is not
necessarily a negative thing I think it
can be a positive spigot there's a sort
of incoherence to their political
ideology it's not crystallized as it is
for people with you know lots of
educational opportunities people on a
coast people who spend a lot of time in
the discourse or whatever people these
folks are a little more a little more
flexible I would say and there's a
degree to which their justice they know
there's something sort of rotten about
the whole myth that they're being sold
of meritocracy because you know what the
myth of meritocracy says about that they
are worthless
they are absolute failures right and
they they I mean there's a certain
degree of an element of pride and
blowing that to smithereens by rejecting
the polished and professional candidate
who comes from the world of the elites
the world of people who graduated with
the best degrees from the best schools
and know all the best people and instead
choosing someone who appears to be an
outsider though of course the problem in
the United States is that we have a lack
of class consciousness and so people
don't realize that he is in fact an
insider of the capitalist class they see
him as a political outsider and I think
that that's attractive to people who are
extremely resentful about the effects of
the myth of meritocracy on their own
senses of self-worth I think ya know I
think that's true and it's also very
funny to to kind of even go with the
campaign frame of like you know well we
might be able to rescue your kids
because they might not suck as much as
you do like even that extraordinary
message like on those lines like well
your kids should have opportunities you
obviously are yeah you it up they
might be able to get into a good college
and be somewhat respectable but
obviously you're trash
I mean and I think it's also interesting
too because cuz Trump it's like right
the the the correct read and what isn't
because we as you say because we don't
have class politics is like this guy's
the ultimate you know trust fund baby
the ultimate product of you know
unlimited access and privilege and
nobody with any different you know class
race gender background could live I mean
literally could just live the life he
did in terms of things handed to him for
him to have the career he's had let
alone get away with everything that he's
gotten away with let alone walk into the
presidency and then conversely what I do
think people like about him is I think
it's like he's also there is a certain
small part of him and in a really
grotesque way that he is in on the joke
like I get it this is all this is all
nonsense
and if you kinda there was that part of
him that's like see isn't this all a con
and I'm like the ultimate con and I'm
sort of winking while I do it
and I think it kind of works it works in
both ways for that dynamic you're
talking about because it it really
exposes the whole thing even even in
some ways as you say by him doing it
like whatever all these other people
said all the right things they did this
and they did that I just woke up and was
ready to go on TV and have a rally and
Jeb Bush looks Low Energy
sorry exactly I think what's important
to note is that Trump didn't cause what
we're talking about that it collapses
meritocracy by the way I'm not quite
certain that this is Deena the last grab
the last gasp of meritocracy I'm not
saying that it's collapsing and we'll
never see it we'll never see it again
I definitely think is a crisis of
legitimacy of cement of meritocracy
right now Trump didn't cause it the
important thing I mean the able cause in
large part probably I mean it started to
be caused and you know I think in the
1970s with the turn toward the old
liberalism and I think that it was
significantly accelerated by the 2008
financial crisis but the problem is that
the collapse of meritocracy creates it
sort of tears a hole in the fabric of
our national mythology and there are a
couple of different ways that somebody
can ride in and take advantage of that
crisis of legitimacy
you could have Bernie Sanders talking
about how you know screw this
meritocracy stuff screw this whole like
you know learn to code and if you don't
learn to code then go you know die in
some small town in the Midwest like you
deserve it so he'll actually code or die
though coder dies yeah
so Bernie Sanders says you know screw
coder die we're gonna we're going to
build if we're gonna build an America
that works for the people who create the
wealth every every last cent of wealth
in this country is created by workers
it's not created by bosses you create
the wealth the boss skims off the top he
takes it for himself we're going to take
it back from him we're going to give it
to ourselves the people who created it
and we're going to have a better world
for all we can
that it's possible all it requires is
the political will that's one way to
come in and take advantage of crumbling
meritocracy the sort of bipartisan
neoliberal consensus whereby you know
you know people with the best degrees
get to make all the paternalistic
decisions for everybody else the other
way to take advantage of it is to be an
absolute abject troll like Donald Trump
and to ride in and say isn't this fun
let's blow it up let's blow the whole
thing up and I you know unfortunately
the latter is ascendant but it might be
a temporary I mean we don't know I have
some optimism I think maybe this is I
think it's possible that this is the
sort of immature are as a as a culture
we are immature in dealing with the
collapse of meritocracy but that
collapse is a good thing right now we've
made the wrong you know we've we've we
started off on the wrong foot but it's
possible that we could see a progressive
surge we could see a left-wing surge we
could see the other rise of democratic
socialism kicking up a little bit of
space and the vacuum that's created by
the collapse of meritocracy right and
the quit yeah so the question yeah it's
a it's an evolved or devolve moment for
sure
mmm yeah with a few minutes left I just
want to touch on this because in some
ways I think this actually this fits in
another way with the this sort of the
inverse of of meritocracy and people who
deserve to be terrorized essentially
even another piece called austerity by
paperwork we talked about this not an
example you used
I don't think specifically but last
night on Michael Brooks show we talked
about how ten years into a program to
forgive certain forms of student loans
for people who did jobs in the public
sector different forms of like teaching
or public contribution they set up a
program where you could you know get
discharge of your student loans the
first crop of people who have applied
for it that could apply for it and they
rejected I believe 99% of Deepak's right
and accepted literally want 1% which I
think translated to I think I think
under a thousand people so
is a whole other arena and one other
example to put in for all of his you
know Bill DeBlasio is not you know he's
not the great helmsman of our future but
one really small but significant program
programmatic difference in New York City
was you know under de Blasio there's a
lot of investment in public awareness
campaigns for what working and poor
people have access to in terms of public
programs under Bloomberg there was never
an ad on the subway for you know the
type of SNAP program you might be
eligible for as an example so there's
this whole other set of people um
getting blocked from access and you know
defunding things that actually haven't
even been cut and are even still
available simply through the sort of
paperwork and and framing of those
programs and this was a really good
piece as well so maybe we could just
touch on that yeah absolutely the reason
that I took the opportunity to write
this piece after reading about what
happened in Arcis Arkansas which is that
you know the Trump administration has
been encouraging states to implement
work requirements for Medicaid
recipients never mind that the vast
majority of people on Medicaid work and
that of the others who don't work a
plurality if then are either ill or
disabled or they perform unpaid but
necessary care work in families where
somebody else is the breadwinner so they
take care of children or elderly
relatives because of course they don't
we can't pay for hospice care nursing
home and they don't have universal child
care right so these things are necessary
if they go to work things are going to
really really fall apart so so Arkansas
decided to take debate and they
implemented these work requirements for
Medicaid and they said you have to
report you know this many times and tell
us that you're working here that you're
looking for a job and then you can keep
your benefits and if you don't then you
don't get to keep your benefits the
problem was it's not just that it's
cruel on the face of it for like I said
there are lots of reasons why people who
don't work don't work and another reason
of course is that there aren't always
jobs to be found especially if you have
a criminal
I think it's over 25% unemployment for
people with criminal records so telling
people go find a job it's not going to
be given to your else you lose your
health care I mean this is extremely
cruel but it's also there's another
problem which is that people did not
know that these they didn't they didn't
know that the program was being
implemented at all and xx people who do
work actually and are currently
recipients of Medicaid in Arkansas
thousands of them just got booted off of
Medicaid and thousands more are coming
simply because it's too complicated they
say not only that oh well first of all
there was a lack of awareness about the
program to begin with and second of all
it's extremely complicated to figure out
how to actually report
and like poor people a long time for
that you know what I mean like people
are busy trying to stay afloat and they
don't have they don't they can't
necessarily and also you know like
apparently all of it is online I just
learned this after writing the piece and
people don't have rural people don't
necessarily have access to computers or
to doll up and you know and there's
there are some like literacy questions
and you know digital literacy and all
this stuff so anyway this is the point
of the piece is to say that this is not
an accident the point of any more
restrictive eligibility requirement of
any kind on any social program
always and forever is just in the roles
it's to kick people off to make it less
expensive and when I say less expensive
there's a caveat there obviously the
costs are going to crop up somewhere
else in society whether that's because
people now are experiencing substance
abuse problems and they're on the
streets and the cops are being called on
them you know like whether that whether
it's that or something else the costs
come back it but this makes the
program's themselves less expensive
which is always number one on the GOP
wish list and the reason that it's
number one on their wish list aside from
that they're gremlins which they are is
that they are also engaged in a decade's
long process of giving tax breaks to the
wealthiest people in their state to
industry and to the
richest you know 1 or 10% and so they
need to find that money somewhere in
order to keep that program going without
the ship capsizing and a good example is
that last month I mean literally just a
couple weeks ago governor are a sahaja
none of Arkansas revealed a plan to
reduce the state's top marginal tax rate
giving away a hundred and forty four
million dollars to the state's richest
residents I mean that bad money's got to
come from somewhere is it a coincidence
that thousands and thousands of people
are being kicked who do by the way who
do work for a living are being kicked
off the Medicaid rolls because they're
not meeting their work requirements I
don't think that's a coincidence at all
so the point that I was trying to make
is that complicated programs are
actually one of the most clever
instruments of austerity and of the
right wing economic agenda and then you
know if I could add on to that which I
didn't say in the piece but which I
firmly believe the answer is universal
programs not only do you not as when you
said you know ads on the subway for what
people are you know what people are
eligible for I think that's I think
that's great
when you have complicated programs you
really need to get the word out right
but but you could just not have
complicated programs you could just have
Universal programs you know we could
just have single-payer health care and
then everybody has it and everybody gets
it no matter what that was all that
problem and then nobody has to waste any
time with any of it whether fiddling
around on a website or subway ads or
anything we just have you know obvious
reality somebody told me a story the
other day of seeing a guy on the street
they weren't really paying attention he
was staggering a little bit he was drunk
you know probably a little drunk he
falls on a curb and basically just like
smacks his face that are you know pretty
hard on the ground and you know they
went up to him they and one other person
and when he sort of came to his big his
his primary response with like blood on
his face was do not call an ambulance
for me yeah yeah yeah yeah you hear
these stories
a lot it's actually really heartbreaking
and it kind of drives home for you the
reality of all of this austerity I mean
we should be outraged when we look at
the numbers the 144 million given to the
richest Arkansas funds and then the you
know and then the thousand thousands of
people kicked off the rolls but the the
reality is that those are people who
when they experience medical emergencies
they're not going to want to have an
ambulance call to them they're gonna
risk death because the threat of medical
debt or bankruptcy is it's too much for
them to bear absolutely
and you're right Universal programs
democratic socialism that's it I mean
mm-hmm
I wish socialism or barbarism was just
like a fun thing to say to provoke
people but it's kind of stressful ii
true so that's what it is and we have a
shot as you say Meg and a staff writer
for Jacqueline magazine really
appreciate your time as always
yeah thanks so much thank you all right
folks
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become a
member
tomorrow Sam joins us from Vegas where
he takes on the weird wonderful world of
torts and actually we always know I mean
those conversations are actually pretty
fascinating so that's it was a torte
week that I started here actually I
remember that that was funny
remember is the Teflon stuff the Teflon
stuff yeah documentary coming out about
that yeah and then we would be sort of
like you know talking off mic a bit and
then all of a sudden you just hear like
oh this is before you but it was I think
I was gonna say I think it happens I
mean it will happen over though it's
gonna days yeah I mean it so it happens
always yeah yeah yeah I was on my best
behavior the first time but I feel right
you were your that was extremely Mauser
faceted you guys pay attention guys this
is a Thursday there are exploding
sneakers you hear about these Remington
rifles you hear both these for next time
you were like you know I would remember
the first time I slid out of Dixon tape
I thought I do I speed this up and then
I was like really and then all of a
sudden saying oh yeah a rite of passage
right it is a rite of passage that all
the the Vegas initiation become remember
the majority report today majority dot F
M / become a member you can find links
on YouTube and the podcast page to sign
up pennies a day for a 5 day a week left
show independent unbossed on unbought
unbossed left show like us on itunes
write a review subscribe to the youtube
channel and you can follow all of us on
twitter as well as at majority dot F M
on Twitter last night's Michael Brooks
show Daniel bessner came by he wrote
this piece in The New York Times two
weeks ago on a left foreign-policy we
talked about why the concept of national
security is fictitious what left foreign
policy actually means from a foreign
from a policymaking perspective it was
fascinating wealth and climate Gulag
segment amazing work by union organizers
against well to try to persuade joe
manchin to vote the right way i don't
think he is I'm Brett Kavanaugh
but they did incredible work plus a very
in-depth postgame as always this weekend
elicit history on the super elite with
in fact Meghan day and I just banked one
with Milton al-ahmadi
our one of our Africa analysts on
history of the DRC Congo and the Great
Lakes Civil War and how it relates to
what makes your iPhone possible
patreon.com slash TMDs patreon.com slash
TMDs michael brooks show on youtube tons
of new clips up including a very about
20 minutes of Matt Taibbi an eye on Tom
Freeman that just went up and that was
in fact very fun aunty Fatih what's up
so this week's auntie Fatih is dropping
tomorrow we have artists journalists all
around awesome person Molly crabapple
talking about mutual aid in Puerto Rico
and all of the different ways people
have been resisting austerity there both
before and after Hurricane Maria we also
have unlocked our first in a series
called history as a weapon where Shawn
explains historical materialism so
that's now free to listen to whether or
not you remember we also did a fun
little bonus
you've heard of real tanki ours this one
was a real Maoist ours and we did a
reading of this this document I don't
know if it's real
maybe it's real maybe it's not the fact
that I can't tell doesn't reflect that
well on the modern Maoist movement but
we we did a dramatic reading of this
this document called towards a
protracted People's War in the Florida
Everglades it was supposedly leaked from
a Maoist group in Florida news today so
that'll be out soon too that actually
sounds pretty fun I feel like that is
the type of thing that will be like a
major use of resources by the FBI in the
Department of Homeland Security what
false flag in Mahwah stuff no like they
like yes seriously investigating that
while they ignore like white supremacy I
mean I thought about it from the SIOP
perspective right like you infiltrate
and do these fake Maoist groups to try
to confuse the left but from a left
perspective it might be useful to like
make these fake groups that the FBI has
to investigate it's very confused yeah
yeah like I feel I know that I always
piss people off with like their little
political projects they're not always
but at time so I'd say like Maoism in
particular is a fairy like 1930s
agrarian Chinese like land based
Vanguard is communism for 2018 United
States interesting they've updated an
interesting national Arda of today they
got a snake a car I do like that you
like the music I will give them that did
you guys use this you better use this
for real Matt which is what we use for
malice Bernie sunflower seeds grows like
the peasants will they are going to play
music like this to propagandize and
radicalize the Florida swamp people it's
gonna work it's gonna work this is going
to be at the Florida State Seminoles
game like they they have like a
grounding in history because there was a
protracted peoples war in the Florida I
don't know if it was in the Everglades
but the Seminoles and they the Seminole
Indians this was a seven year long
Indian War that's what drain the swamp
originally referred to I think I think
that's right really yeah we should look
it was either that or slave catching is
what it had one of those two summers
well it was it was involved it was
associated with slave catching because
they took in a lot of runaway slaves and
actually intermarried and created a
group of people called the Black
Seminoles and they were really badass
and this war lasted seven years before
the government finally finally defeated
them so there is a historical precedent
for this that's pre Maoist though well
yes don't-don't-don't because don't
attempt to colonize native history with
your fantasy based maoism guys but i
look forward to hearing that Matt
literary hangover yeah we zoomed past
1000 subs on YouTube 1015 now so nice me
and my friend Chris are going to record
a bit on Cory Robins a reactionary mind
I've been going through that one thing
that reminded me of that we're talking
about early as the way Trump's like
Brett Cavanaugh's life has been
destroyed his life has been destroyed
totally this is something conservatives
do focus on the individual
right this is Edmund Burke talking about
isn't it horrible what happened to Marie
Antoinette mm-hmm and that is not what's
important right now sure it's bad that a
family gets hurt but as we'll see like
with this Sokoloff sound what's going on
with Isis is destroying a lot more
families in a lot more severe ways than
what's happening to Cavanaugh what's
important is the Supreme Court and right
and like that's that's far more
important than what happens to an
individual's life so anyway that's that
that pattern has been there the
Conservatives always want you to feel
wouldn't you feel bad if you were
falsely accused after you were about as
just as you were about to achieve a
Supreme Court see that's how
conservatives get the sort of populist
victimhood thing and it's gross but so
that's coming out this weekend and also
for patrons I am reading hope Leslie one
of the early forgotten stories novels by
a woman in America sweet all right
everybody I am Zeron see you in the
funny
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
[Music]
yes all right take break I want to take
a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
that's good stuff welcome to the fun
half you let's take a call you're going
like nine five four area code who are
you where you calling from
hello oh wait I'm sorry I hung up call
back and they'll call back nine five for
a callback you're calling from a three
four seven area code who are you where
you calling from oh yeah my name is
Freddy I'm from the Bronx hey Freddy
what's going on hey not much I just want
to ask you guys a couple well I actually
had two questions but um the first thing
I wanted to ask was uh I mean I know
Sam's not here but uh you guys had a
segment the other last week about Jimmy
Dore going after Andrea
Acacio Cortes you know and I wanted to
know exactly what is like I mean you
guys were very critical of him and I can
understand why his perspective is a
little too too extreme so what is the
difference with that perspective and
what the Democratic socialists of
America in New York City are putting
forward and what's going on with the
Working Families Party in regards to
them being even like
necessarily having their arm twist to
try to endorse Cuomo well I'll speak to
first just the the the Working Families
Party the Working Families Party as far
as I understand it it's important that
people in New York City actually vote in
the general election for the working
family party line I don't know who's
gonna be on that line it might still be
Cynthia Nixon because they need to get
at least 50,000 votes to keep that line
so that's how I'm gonna be voting in the
New York general election so I don't I
mean I I'm sure that so that the Working
Families Party has that specific
interest as for DSA what's the
difference between DSA and Jimmy door
Jimmy Jamie well are you referring to
the statement that the steering
committee put out did you read that
yeah the statement that was put forward
by the DSA of New York City basically
it's kind of through Acacio under the
bus in regards to her endorsement of
Cuomo and Democrats for the upcoming
primary I don't know that it threw her
under the bus like we're still working
with her she's been coming to our
meetings but just because we support
someone doesn't mean that we have to
agree with them on every single thing
and we can say where we disagree all
right so then what's the difference
between that position and Jimmy doors
the difference is that he's ready to
just call her you know garbage and
useless because she did this one thing
that he doesn't like yeah I mean Jimmy
door is not doing politics I mean he's
just doing I mean I don't have much time
isn't is is does what Jamie just said
that he makes sense because I don't have
anything to add to that I mean I I mean
I don't know if I agree I mean honestly
I'm gonna say right like I disagree with
Jimmy doors position and the DSA's
position on that and by the way we did
since then to say that she did not
endorse Cuomo let um wait what we you
disagree with who's who and who both DSA
and Jimmy doors I mean I'm not I'm not
possible antagonist in regards to like
well the ecology or stuff like my my
whole concern is like I mean I mean
I agree with you in regards to wanting
to vote on the Working Families Party
line but if they are endorsing Nixon and
I think there's a like there's a bit of
an issue in New York City electoral like
left in thinking that a color that
Cynthia Nixon was a very good candidate
I don't think she was a very good
candidate
she lost the the demographics in New
York City pretty heavy handedly were or
Ocasio one in her districts in the Bronx
and queens and I mean Jumanji jimana
Williams did a way better job than her
in the in the annual election itself the
primary well yeah I don't I don't think
there's any real disagreement with that
I mean I think look I think again I
think it's a little ungenerous to
Cynthia Nixon I think Cynthia Nixon was
an enormous asset in terms of destroying
as we always say she helped destroy the
IDC which is big nobody knew about that
before she put that front and center
that wasn't a big issue I mean she did
well I have to disagree I have to
disagree because I mean if you found the
Biaggi campaign for example where Biaggi
won the same district there were clouds
eo1 and it was very clear handed so that
that district was completely heavily
handedly won by Omo as well I was
talking about but I'm not talking one
can vote for Cuomo and still see that
she moved Cuomo I mean I mean it's not
and it's not a coincidence that he
changed his views on voting rights on
marijuana and the IDC Association if she
didn't run he wouldn't have done those
things and also like I mean I don't know
how much we got it like yeah Cynthia
Nixon is not the most amazing candidate
ever Andrew Cuomo is a really really bad
governor who has been a proponent of
every single oligarchic interest that
New York has I mean I guess though I
mean to loop back to you though I think
I think you know DSA is engaging in
politics and trying to have a really
smart
inside outside strategy and Jimmy doors
just selling a boring repeat brand on
YouTube I that's what I thought
differences yeah
well said yeah and all right sure I mean
I have a bit of disagreements but it's
alright I just had a second point the
the document that Jeannie was referring
to at the end that's a clearly a fake
document like it's there's no plenty of
those documents that go out of line
they're usually kind of like documents
that are meant to purposely be be like
fishing for people to do stupid are
you a Maoist sir what that are you a
Maoist sir that that sorry are you a
Maoist sir no I mean I I've read into
that tradition I mean there's there's a
clear historian I just read what you mad
about like the sort of like the dot the
dynamic of that tradition being
completely useless I mean the Black
Panther Party the young Lords
all these groups came out of that
tradition the new the whole era of the
late 60s and 70s has certain respective
relationship to that for sure
you know not all Maoists and I realized
the thing is probably fake but it's
still funny so we read it yeah okay I
was just making sure that you understand
like yeah that's there's a lot of fake
ass out there but um take care guys
Thank You Freddy Freddy was there is a
lot of fake ash the point about Cuomo
winning district that agency ranan is
why I didn't give a that she didn't
pick that unnecessary fight with him
over that question about voting for him
however right if Jimmy doors a segment
was about how AOC should have said hey
you should vote for Cynthia Nixon
because of some minor Working Families
Party thing I would have thought it was
her picking an unnecessary fight that
maybe couldn't help her out that much
but it would have made sense it would
have made sense to me what Jimmy Dore is
saying is that a o'seas project is
doomed because she's destined to be
co-opted yeah Jimmy Dore needs for these
people to fail and
for his business to work he likes tulsi
gabbard that's his person tulsi gabbard
i understand why she's appealing to some
like i get it she's you know she's young
she's smart she says some very cool
things she votes in some very good ways
she endorsed Bernie she also has voted
obscenely on refugees she has a position
on Syria which again I you know I don't
know how many times you have to repeat
the obvious if you can be non
interventionist without trying to clean
up after Assad and she's also connected
to the Hindu far-right and nothing that
anybody has said to defend her has ever
cleared any of those issues up so and
also who even knows because as far as I
understand I didn't watch it but when
she was on Jimmy door show she didn't
agree to go third party so you know I
don't know maybe that will set him off
too and maybe he will be cut but it's
all about specific people and specific
positions and their moral posture and
how he relates to it it's actually in a
a totally reactionary way of looking at
politics that it's all simply about
people in the positions they hold and
whether or not they're you know being in
integrity or not it has nothing to do
with institutions movements power and
dynamics and I would also I mean save
the save the static for AOC for actual
 you know I don't know it's just
weird to me yeah I don't you know I
don't I I mean if everybody's gonna have
a meltdown every time she says like you
know rest in peace John McCain or I'm
voting for Andrew Cuomo then yeah you're
not gonna do anything I need to adjust
our scheduling right basically exactly
the statement was fine and you know we
are still figuring out how to engage in
targeted electoral campaigns many of
whom are gonna be Democrats probably
most of them while at the same time may
making it clear where we stand and
clarifying the need for class
independence and the fact that like aoc
said in her camp in her own campaign not
all democrats are the same no no we're
we're still figuring it out we're doing
our best I would like to see the
statements focus primarily on policy
like I thought the statement from the
burrito a socialist caucus was very very
good on Palestine and I don't know if
they've actually heard back from her
about it yet but um you can read it it's
it's good but um yeah policy is always
more important let's actually let's go
to Brazil just a couple of things before
we play this video to bear in mind one
further news this past week that really
laid bare how obvious what's happening
with Lula is okay so Lula has been in
prison for several months now they
haven't allowed him to run for president
even though he is the lead candidate and
a massively successful politician they
put him in jail on the flimsiest of
evidence and they haven't allowed him to
speak to the press this is a country
where the guy who stabbed bolson ro was
granted an interview I think within a
week of stabbing him and leaders of drug
cartels regularly conduct interviews
from prison they've blocked his ability
to speak to the press consistently last
week one Supreme Court justice granted
him a right to have a newspaper
interview and another one actually
revoked it again just proving again and
again and again the reality of this
being a judicial coup and this is also
coinciding with the Brazilian elite
realizing that the traditional
center-right austerity politics is not
going to win and they're throwing their
support behind jerub-baal son ro and the
fascist in his fascist candidacy the
brazil's most influential farm lobby has
endorsed him
and he is now getting solid support
across the Brazilian business sector and
there's reports that workers are both
being threatened about voting for a PT
Workers Party and also illegal bribes
and other things to sort of patronize
you know workers votes as well as a lot
of doublespeak on what bowls and arrows
regime would mean in terms of workers
rights now we know that he's advised by
chicago school economists including
someone who was involved in advising
Pinochet we know that there's work to
rewrite the Brazilian Constitution which
the Brazilian Constitution in the 1980
is actually quite Pro labor and a big
mission would be to gut labor in that
Constitution and also that the far-right
Ave angelical z-- are saying that the PT
r Satan worshipers and they're freaked
out about the vice presidential
candidate Manuela who is the head of the
Communist Party and would be the vice
president under Fernando Haddad this
video with Danny Glover and mark rice
brought summarizes again not only the
judicial coup against Dilma and the
absurd imprisonment of Lula something
that has Noam Chomsky said does make him
I mean I think it's indisputable the
most sort of prominent political
prisoner in the world today but also the
real stakes of a guy like Jared ball
scenario who's advocating even more
police and military judicial murders and
plays in favelas as an example in a
country that's already overrun with
small arms from the United States and a
huge amount of murder and violence on
the periphery implemented by state
security apparatus is city councilor
Mariela Franco was assassinated several
months ago her killers have still not of
course been brought to justice let's
watch this video
Brazil has an election on October 7th
and this is a very big election for a
number of reasons this one is a really
unusual election because first of all
the most popular candidate the former
president Lula da Silva is in jail and
he would have won the election by all
the polls if he had been allowed to run
in the particular country century
through poverty they had a violent
economy they extended the relationship
with other countries in Latin America
the Orcas party was first elected to the
presidency with Lula in 2002 and then he
was reelected and then he could only
serve two consecutive terms and so in
2010 one of his ministers Dilma Rousseff
ran and she won and then she won again
in 2014
now that period was a very successful
period for social and economic progress
in Brazil and then in 2015 there was a
recession and the right-wing opposition
parties to Dilma who was in office took
advantage of that and they impeached her
they didn't really have a crime they
accused her of a kind of an accounting
manipulation which all previous
presidents have done in governance - it
was a power grab but then they still had
the problem that Lula could run for
president so with a very politicized
judiciary it went after Lula and he was
convicted of taking a bribe which was in
the form of repairs to an apartment
basically and they never showed that he
owned or stayed in the apartment or
rented it or that it was his in any
legal way they didn't have any material
evidence either we have to do something
about this but way at the same time
understand that this is not only just
happening Brazil it's being undermined
in other countries in the region as well
the question about what has happened to
all these
in the region who introduced policies
that were more friendly to poor people
and friendly to indigenous people what
is happening to those particular
countries and certainly those leaders
who initiated those really progressive
changes the leading candidate is this
congressman's idea of also narrow in the
press they compared him the trumpet to
be honest that's actually unfair to
Trump because he is so extremist and so
openly racist and misogynist that's the
nightmare basically what he represented
someone is the same type of ideology of
Donald Trump he's extremely to the right
he certainly is it attacked by the only
African religions is also called for
intervention of the military as well you
have to remember this country is a
relatively new democracy it's only
30-something years since the
dictatorship progressives have to be
concerned not only what is happening
here in the United States but also
concerned about those who are
progressive in other countries in Latin
America as well and certainly Brazil is
one those progressive forces so that's
all true and also you know the forces
are aligning the elite in Brazil that
might have wanted to brand itself as not
engaging in coup activities not
repressing the Workers Party not having
just a pure class resentment driven
vicious austerity regime but still
wanted to say no of course we're not
actually embracing of the overtly
fetishistic policy politics of a
jerub-baal Sandero they're lining up
behind him as the Workers Party has
consolidated behind Fernando Haddad and
even the financial press like Bloomberg
depicts Haddad and Workers Party is
somehow sort of outside of the
macroeconomic mainstream that course the
great irony is that the Workers Party is
a social democratic party governed in an
incredibly moderate macroeconomic way
while still lifting upwards of 40
million people out of poverty so that's
a very very big election and if you're
concerned about this sort of global
fascist path
Trump Modi or bun you should be very
concerned about ball scenario in Brazil
there's a lot of people's lives on the
line
Asha Reid's whole see the spot like
worked this year she refused her
invitation to the world Hindi Congress I
don't know what the world Hindi Congress
is but I'm assuming that that's related
to the far right connections let's see
four four four
by no means do I want to defend jimmy
dore i agree with all of your criticisms
made of him and it's one of the reasons
I stopped being a TYT subscriber but the
way you talk about the working family
parties and voting party lines your
ballot is completely foreign concept
those of us in California where ballots
aren't organized by parties just
individual with their party preference
and occupation the ballots here aren't
party focused at all okay I don't I
don't get that so turn your ears off
California yeah when we talk about
working families party yes
turn off the feed yes California uber al
is reading a SAM voice a bras like
coffee three cups a one-to-many midnight
pizza can you guys have a guest
discussing the importance of repairing
and expanding public transport
I work in transportation division for a
market research firm in NYC and the
biggest takeaway from all the data I've
come into contact with is that people
like the concept of public transit just
not how it's been executed left is best
Jimmy doors a I saw a good sign in
the subway the other day there was a you
know one of the signs that tells you
like your train is not gonna run when
you want it to run and somebody wrote
right dump Andi underneath it I guess
they were referring to Cuomo and no that
was pretty good it is a little too late
it's see it's a very unifying anger the
public transit anger that we feel in New
York I would say that's the truth they
played this clip on uh
Wendy zhesan Mara were still on Vice it
was that's like it was actually terrible
looks like some very troubled young man
was standing in the subway tracks
saying that he wanted a train to run him
over and these guys are like brawl kill
youself somewhere else we gotta get to
work one of those like you know what New
York can never be completely sanitized
even if it's like an older car explai
ground you're calling from an 808 area
code who are you where you calling from
hello hello 808 are you there uh hello
can you hear me yep I guess not oh
you're on you're on hello oh okay uh
that's this is Sebastian from white um
hey just calling to make more on that
Mall point earlier um so basically some
other protected people at war sorry what
thank you stuff about mal Oh mal okay
yeah all right go ahead yeah so so when
it comes to protracted people's war it's
actually applicable not just outside of
like a brilliant societies and such it's
basically establishing the hegemony or
counter hegemony against the society
that you that you're in so it's kind of
like with that previous caller said when
they mention the Black Panthers it's
building a base of support and also when
you mention that it's kind of a vanguard
essentially they're the I guess you
could say the evolution of what now is
inverses Marcus Leninism is where it is
in a vanguard movement but it's um it's
called math line where they they send
out you know well-educated or very
enthusiastic revolutionaries amongst the
people to teach and also learn from and
then they do the party line to set the
needs of the people so yeah I mean I
know I'm aware I know I'm aware of that
but I still I mean in practice that's
still a little bit of like a rhetorical
game like there is a vanguard estelle
iment to it now and I think by the way
like
I don't think some form of Vanguard ISM
is ever completely avoidable the other
thing I have to say what now and we're
gonna have to also click get in the
Stalin category here to like the other
awkward part about ignoring mouths
record is like killing millions of
people like and occupy other countries
and Lloyd sorry I mean I'm a different
landlords that's alright I like you I do
think that he no I know I think he would
be great yes this I do there's no
responsible scholarship that suggests
otherwise
like I've read people who you know have
like a very committed reading of Mao and
I'm not saying even that it was like
pernicious or intentional but there's no
doubt that the Great Leap Forward and
those policies killed millions of people
and there's also no doubt that and one
doesn't need to have an idealized
version of Tibet and think that Tibet
was some enlightened meditation Kingdom
to think this of course it wasn't but
they did invade and occupy and actually
viciously wipe out a lot of people in
Tibet
so like the record is not great and the
Cultural Revolution not great I mean
really interesting fascinating to read
about huge human toll like a variable no
I mean not even to brush that aside the
thing is there was that a lot of people
like they sear these words that you know
Marxist Leninist
Mao is and they they assume that the
people who read these tendencies worship
those peoples whose names are attached
to it no I don't worry I don't I don't I
don't assume that yeah I think the thing
is like all all the people who've come
before us that they're the shoulders
that were standing on where the kickers
that we can learn from to see them
mistakes but also the successes that
could build a better communes in for the
21st century and I mean I'm sure that
there is something that we can learn
from Mao I'll admit I haven't read much
mouth I'm not
educated on it as you are and I also
agree that we should not be tethering
ourselves to the historical tendencies
of the past for the very reason that you
just said right like none of them have
they've all got they've all got problems
and we do need to build a better version
of communism and socialism whatever for
the future and that's why I hesitate to
even call myself well I call myself a
lot of things as a shorthand but like we
almost need a new name for whatever it
is that we are because we're not the
Maoist Ambani kratz go yourselves
I had a bough expansion in Vermont but
also and also my you think ideas I'm not
in sir I'm just asking because the other
thing like I don't know if I don't know
if differ if like three world theory and
third world ism holds up particularly
well like I I don't know I just I'm not
yeah I don't think so let is now I can't
seek for all mouth no mouth yeah
unethical like donut they don't even
uphold any of that like oh I don't
even don't even don't even bring that
nonsense stuff yes yeah let's stay with
us yeah go ahead I didn't mean to throw
all people who identify as malice under
the bus in any way shape or form there's
certainly a stream of dum dum left
people who certainly identify that way
but like you know not all MAOIs we had
on Bret from revolutionary left radio on
the anti fought oh not that long ago
he's he's a mouse and he is amazing and
I love him we didn't really get into
maoism on the episode but maybe next
time because I would like to learn more
honestly smart guy yes got a lot of good
content on on all the tendencies on that
show so I definitely can edit for
everyone to listen to do you consider
yourself a meltdown uh I don't really
know I mean I guess I'd say I'm just pan
left
I mean I'm pretty much I grew up as an
anarchic communist but like I just
I guess I fell away from the anarchist
part but like I just I see that there's
a lot of value in all traditions but I
like the practice and like you know I'm
gonna you know go out on the streets as
that like the anarchist you buy like the
more kind of like concrete organizing
that like other communist tendencies
that I've seen have done and I guess
some also just kind of like kind of
reliving what my family kind of run away
from because they kind of basically
escaped communist Poland but like I
asked them better start with the story
mask like my family and I like that that
entire facade of like the anti-communist
ship that they raised me on as kind of
like crumbled away mm-hmm and I just see
like they like yeah sucked
it was a poor country that was bombed
into oblivion but they had a stuff like
their insists like the societal shaking
at that we in 2018 America or like our
generation like crying for and that's
what they had as a bare minimum and like
instead of running away from our
problems they like they should have
challenged the system like you guys in
their Constitution state that we have
basic human rights we need to push you
on that and that's kind of for me that's
like kind of like the same argument like
I would have voted for Hillary if I
lived in a Reno uh swing state because I
understand that didn't accept that we
are playing within the system that you
have right but the fact that like my
parents they had a system that really
they addressed all human needs as a bare
minimum yes there's deprivation and then
no but then there's things you also have
to attack them like include with them in
sanctions and all the other but
it's so I talked with Doug Layne about
this recently and I don't remember
whether it was on or off air but we were
saying how I mean like obviously you
need to study
Nazism and fascism for a variety of
reasons but but the kind of core
difference like you study like the
Soviet Union to figure out how could
something that particularly like even
just a revolutionary moment of 1917 was
so positive and such an on
believably like just emancipatory moment
for humans how does that turn into
something that's so horrible I mean
obviously in the height of you know
Stalin just wiping out and list them and
right down to like a bureaucratic
dictatorship how does something that's
so great and still does curry and we
could say this with Mao right even in
China there's no doubt that there was
enormous advances and women's rights as
an example right but how do these things
that the figuring out why things that
are good but turn bad is more
complicated and more important than
figuring out things that were always you
know a poison pill from the beginning
like knots ism with this grotesque thing
because it was but not I mean but people
trying to reclaim their lives from
futile lists and oligarchs and and and
govern themselves and their livelihoods
is like that's an it that's the one of
the most noble human impulses imaginable
so how does that change and we and we
don't know I mean well I mean the thing
that comes up with a lot of these
discussions that I hear is that they
ignore like nineteen seventeen like
immediately after Russia was invaded by
fourteen other countries and the white
army which was literally like if if the
white army would have won the word that
we use of fascism would have been in
Russia definitely like those are the
kinds of people they were up against yes
and the fact that the Bolshevik like
they have a book like that the
Mensheviks the rest metrics and like
another group those people basically at
time of revolution we're basically
trying to undermine it all and around
that time that's when Lenin was like
haters and there's no more party
opposition because we are literally
fighting a multi-front war against like
all these imperialist powers you got to
get done and the thing is like you
know she brought about like a lot of
there's positive reforms that there's a
lot of negative but like the thing
is all that is and all things in
history it's why we call ourselves
materialists that all ideas and all
situations are
now the context they become from
obviously so what will you who's so an
inclusion shut up mom I was kidding yeah
thanks for the call man
I think I think Jamie's got a day off on
I love you back I'm gonna let you go but
I know you had go ahead
oh no I just thought that was a very
thoughtful summation of things that I
also believed so keep up the good work
everyone
Sebastian did a good girl we do in a
second we're gonna take just one more
call and then we'll go to that you're
calling from a nine because I'm as
always we're not gonna get to all calls
today you're calling from a nine seven
Oh area code who are you where he
calling from can we not talk about Jimmy
door I mean it's just a request but hey
I have this idea for the show maybe get
like a fish tank so that way when you go
to breaks you gonna be like put it on
you know like the fish tanks and then I
had a question for for music oh okay no
yes so that way you could name like a
little fancier goldfish you're an angel
fish all right and the question is and
what brother first of all what's your
name and where are you calling from
oh uh I'm sorry I'm calling from Fort
Collins Colorado and my name is Adam hey
Adam what's the question you have
Congrats Rockies yeah it was regarding
uh also the love of God I did this last
time I called you know and I'm just
gonna hang up on myself because I don't
remember thanks for taking my call or
never call back thanks everybody
Thanks so I have to do this to you Adam
that was admirable restraint no that was
good that's it that's how you pull the
what is it what's the thing in the
cockpit when you eject eject yeah he
ejected it well abort mission abort
water boat safety water boat the car
alright you're calling from a 407 area
code who are you where you calling from
hello this means yeah this is you 407
yep yep hi Jesse hey what's going on
Rodrigo what's on your minds
hey I managed to listen to your TPMS
without Patrick Almeida and he made a
very a comment that I actually know
quite a lot about when he said that
Brazilian economist for some reason
backed Bulls on auto and his uh and his
economy planning mm-hmm so just has a
little background full disclosure I did
two and a half years of economy in
Brazil during college and so these are
circles that I kind of know and Brandon
right and the reason why economists in
general are for going further and
further to the right is because
primarily when our new currency system
was was set up by federalism it was kind
of just taken that whatever he said the
economy should go and should be should
be the way we do things and when we look
him along he followed a lot of
fraternities own plans that he never got
to implement either because he started
believing more and more austerity of a
third way that that Clinton started
bringing to the world or because it just
didn't find the time to do it so but
what happened was the benefited bit
which is Finley he Key's party sir
trying to move further and further to
the right to oppose the the Workers
Party the PT and what happened is the
neoliberal view of the economy instead
of the King to do that for Nonie he was
a spouse certainly to become the
mainstream with an economist and so now
the more off state the more austerity
was implemented see economy the more
Brazilian economists believe in this and
there's a saying that goes on in the
economy where the right now which is
we're not really economists anymore
we're GDP engineers and that's exactly
why we didn't see a lot of Brazilian
economists come out and say well bull
Sanada will be better for us or those
they would have said I actually would be
better for us and be exact and we
actually had an example of this doing
worse for us when Jilla appoint the
jockeying livvie to them
Straight But the Treasury immediately
our economy that worse because he he
took out our Keynesian way of managing
the economy in regards the dollar our
inflation without but our exchange Ali
went down and that's why and that's why
we shouldn't listen to the mainstream
economists academic around Brazil
because they're basically just following
chasing point what austerity is trying
to talk with you I watched an interview
from in preparation for one of these
elicit histories with Lula in 2016 and
obviously he was you know very concerned
and backing Dilma very strong and
talking about the dynamics and there was
also a lot it I mean the Pietschmann of
her was also very gendered and even in a
progressive way how she carried her
presidency she called herself and I
won't butcher it in Portuguese when my
understanding was that she also called
herself presidenta in like specifically
sort of identified her role in that way
but where Lula I noticed in this
interview was you know gently critical
of her was like and again in this very
Kenzie and moderate way he was like you
know people are not doing good and you
need to circulate money in the
working-class and in small businesses
like immediately and that needs to be
the priority you need to get that money
moving for people and obviously anytime
I mean that's a major reason that all
these social democratic parties are
collapsed across Europe I mean you you
can't weather and you could be you know
more thoroughly radical or even just
like a legit solid for real Social
Democrat like Jeremy Corbyn but you need
to get the money and resources where it
belongs there's only so long that you
can move against your base and not be
mobilized with it and that was actually
another example unfortunately when Dilma
campaigned against austerity and went
into austerity after 2014 that obviously
helped you know these dangerous
right-wing forces thanks for the call
man thank you we were playing with this
last night on the TMDs post game because
Jordan Peterson actually said recently
that this was a this was really amazing
yeah piece of work oh actually we should
maybe play that yeah let's just play
that why not let's just give them the
full the full entree here a little bit
of double dips today but this stuff is
too good to not do so let's play
Jordan Peterson talking to a very dumb
steven crowder yeah Jordan Peterson can
set up this video clip for us actually
Jordan Peters exactly gig
hey dr. Peterson the original reason we
were going to have you on we didn't know
we were going to have Lindsey on was you
had seen also the Alexa video and had
some strong opinions and reached out and
that sort of caught fire with this
controversy first off it was meant to be
sort of artificial intelligence a
discussion on that when we brought the
video out right now Kay Jared and then
it became about a conspiracy about
faking an Alexa video which people ran
with which mean it was a blur of time to
do yeah we had no time it was verifiably
from Kelly's what was that
so I know you reach down you you've you
this is something you've kind of talked
about for a while what's what's your
take on this beware of what aren't kind
of unconscious you build into your
artificial intelligence yeah so it's an
important one and why it's really and
we're really going to be key already
thought that your video was a kind of
watershed moment in some sense you know
because it's the first example I've seen
of a like a human robot interaction of
that sort that produced that kind of
politically charged statement okay so
this is pretty heady stuff from a person
that has been identified as the most
important public intellectual in the
Western world let's go back into the
time tunnel worthy let's go back in time
we went back to this watershed moments
go back to this watershed moment and not
only broadcast history but actually the
relationship between the human
subconscious and technology Alexa what
is communism
communism an economic or political
system based on the sharing of all
working property by the whole community
Alexa what is socialism socialism the
Marxist Leninist economic system I
that's not right at all
no there are social song there's
socialism that predated Marx and their
social isms that emerged independent of
it yeah don't you know anything Alexa
yeah that is a lot of what is Marxism
relations and Society of conflict using
a materialist interpretation of
historical development and a dialectical
view of social transformation pauses I
was gonna say that
Alexa nailed that one that is a textbook
she just spat knowledge I might curb
that one yeah it probably helps that she
has instant access to Google yeah
exactly that's well that's there's gonna
be a little bit of a theme about what
Google may or may not be doing here and
how these guys may or may not understand
the most basic side only really of
technology but literally the algorithms
upon which their whole silly business
even rests on social transformation this
basically just said communism is
socialism socialism is the incorporation
of Marxism and then Marxism was so it
effectively concedes concede that they
are all the same things and thing well
no apparently Wow okay sure Alexa what
is fascism fascism is a form of radical
authoritarian nationalism characterized
by dictatorial power forcible
suppression of opposition and control of
Industry and Commerce that came to
prominence in early 20th century Europe
seems that there's a much more negative
view of fascism than communism stronger
opinions there seems years of help I
only say what I know
communism is beautiful in theory it just
hasn't been implemented correctly yet
she's a little commie Alexa who was
Joseph Stalin
Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin was a
Georgian born Soviet revolutionary and
political leader posit I will say that
is a pretty chill read on Stalin I'm
gonna have to give him at least the tip
of the hat there she's not wrong she's
not wrong
but that might not be what you lead with
she kind of skipped over the part where
yeah a lot of people Alexa well also I
mean on the flip she also skipped over
the part where he was instrumental in
defeating Nazis in winning World War two
like she basically I'm down for
including both of them yeah I'm down for
Lake let's include that he was a
absolutely vicious mass murderer
probably even potentially even in his
own personal life and that without his
Soviet army and his cunning after
previously forming a fascist alliance
with Hitler we would not have defeated
Nazism and an endless amount of Russians
died in that effort and they never get
any credit it's totally unfair Alexa how
many people did Joseph Stalin kill
Joseph Stalin is a killer at 41 million
five hundred thousand people seems like
you would leave with that it seems like
that should be included Alexa who were
the Nazis historically Nazis were those
who followed the far-right ideology of
Adolf Hitler with political beliefs
involving the superiority of the Aryan
race cruder what eyebrows go up when
they say far-right right what what do
these morons want see this is where
they're these guys are so stupid
because what they want apparently is
there can be no complexity or reality in
a discussion of socialism or Marxism
that just has to be all it is is Stalin
killed a lot of people there's no
intellectual tradition there's no Fabian
socialism no Christian socialism and to
be fair I'm sure that steven crowder has
no idea what any of those things I just
mentioned are he's a dumb guy but so but
I at least I understand what they're
whining and beefing
about with the socialism and Marxism
thing because why are you describing
other things it should just be the body
counts okay that's what they're saying
it should just be the black book of
communism which had some methodological
problems by the ways a book but what do
they want the complication around
fascism to be do they want it to be that
like Nazism was a cool idea about
Germans feeling better about themselves
and hiking in the Alps but unfortunately
some bad things happened they built some
good interstates and pioneered some
missile technologies so is he doing that
or is he doing the ultimate dinesh
d'souza Don jr. Jonah Goldberg chestnut
which is that the Nazis were also
leftists is that what we're going okay
historically Nazis we're those who
followed the far-right ideology of Adolf
Hitler with political beliefs involving
the superiority of the Aryan race the
right of German territorial expansion
and the exclusion and eventual
extermination of unfit peoples from the
population in modern times
neo Nazi ideology still advocates hyper
nationalism and racial purity Alexa what
does Nazi stand for Alexa what does Nazi
stand for look so what does not see you
mean Nazi has a few different meanings
as an adjective 1 relating to or
consistent with our typical of the
ideology and practice of Nazism or the
Nazis Alexa who was the nationalist
Socialist Workers Party here's something
I found on Wikipedia the National
Socialist German Workers Party commonly
referred to in English as the Nazi Party
there we go thank you
Alexa no more
haha Alexa she owned him okay now this
is just the last one that I think I
think this is maybe the most revealing
what question they ask and the way their
reactions are to it here we go okay
though what is black lives matter
God black lives matter is an
international activist movement
originating in the african-american
community that campaigns against
violence and systemic racism towards
black people posit Alexa is kind of
she's pretty historically informed and
got a woke lives matter is an
international activist movement
originating in the african-american
community that campaigns against
violence and systemic racism towards
black people Alexa how many black lives
matter activists have stolen you it's
cuz they wiped your memory mmm god
that's so racist not to state the
obvious but like god I feel like that is
actually the laughs for that it's
amazing to me that they are so assured
that everyone's gonna have that reaction
to that answer about black lives matter
right like you believe they say they're
against police violence why you mean a
standard definition about people working
so that their children brothers and
sisters and fathers and husbands aren't
murdered in the streets as we see almost
literally every day it's ridiculous I've
got a clip here
what about George Soros funded
ultra-nationalist anti white plot to
kill white people like you're doing in
South Africa Alexa well this is why
comedy is so contingent upon the society
in which it's produced the people the
place like because I don't know fifty
years ago the majority of people would
have thought that his joke was funny and
now
the majority of people understand that
that joke is racist and only racists
think that that joke is funny that
meaning is socially constructed I have a
clip here from Volker Eric's Hitler
ascent 1889 1939 this talks about his
relationship to Marxism tell me more
Wow I think you just literally is the
Social Democrats and the Communists but
because the moderate Hamburg SPD which
cooperated with bourgeois liberals was
not a suitable target for attack Hitler
concentrated his bile on the KPD who was
leader and
Talman came from the northern German
port city Hitler deliberately called
upon the fears of his audience which
included leading Hamburg merchants of
the Communists coming to power
if communism were to triumph today two
million people would be making their way
to the gallows he prophesied but there
was a way of smashing and eradicating
the Marxist worldview which was the aim
of his own movement the NSDAP
Hitler proclaimed knew that toxins could
only be combated with antitoxins and the
party would not rest until the last
Marxist has either been converted or
eliminated the initially reserved
audience greeted these words with
frenetic applause and at the end of the
speech when Hitler proclaimed his vision
of a Germany of freedom and power he was
showered with ovations and shouts of hi
oh there's your leftist Nazis steven
crowder you idiot oh but so who was that
Alexa who is being quoted yeah Matt but
do you remember what Nazis stand for I
don't know socialism but guess that does
mean that no Volcker Earl Ehrlich or
Ulrich addressed that but that is a
pretty Volker Ehrlich was he Metallica
it's textbook fascist to take words
that people like and appropriate them
and a concepts that people like like
that's what they're doing now with
liberal jr. balsa narrows party
that he is running on is called the
social Liberal Party and he's literally
a fascist who's called for you know
who's said that the military
dictatorship didn't torture and murder
enough people when it ran Brazil now
again I have no doubt that steven
crowder does not know who gyroball
Sandero is because
as a dumb person yet steven crowder is a
very stupid guy so I'm trying to be fair
here so maybe unless you know the Koch
brothers or whoever else sent him an
email and said you need to know who
terrible sparrows you dumb little print
because that's how we're gonna install
in Brazil the torch indigenous people he
has no idea who he is otherwise because
he's a stupid uninformed person he might
know I'm not even clear that steven
crowder knows what Brazil is certainly
not that it's Portuguese speaking but
that is another good illustration of
just because you put something in your
name does not mean that you are that
thing McDonald's could name itself the
joy house for a nice vegetarian food but
it's not because they sort of Big Macs
right you idiot it is
encouraging though it seems like Alexa
has some potential as a robotic
babysitter for slow-witted children yeah
yeah if those guys hung out with Alexa
all day they might improve I mean that's
maybe the best political education those
two lads have gotten in as long as they
like those definitions of Marxism and
black lives matter like yes
yeah those weren't bad you know what if
if AI robots can evolve to have such a
woke political consciousness maybe we
shouldn't be so scared of them maybe
that's why you on musk is scared of them
yeah Elon is like I I can tell a AI is
just gonna turn everyone into communists
Alexa is really I mean Alex maybe
Alexa wants to tax me an exorbitant rate
and take away my swords those days
comrade
Alexa what Alexis said that why should I
have money to build a flamethrower when
kids don't have asthma medication and I
thought we really have to worry about
this joke and I have pretend to take a
hit of a blunt now so I get your
approval which I desperately seek Jacob
Soboroff did this report on the and
basically just the on for morning Joe
just fully against spelling out the
Trump administration z' family
separation policy and I'm not going to
introduce it too much this is just
something obviously that's it's it's
ongoing and we need to keep abreast of
but this Department of Homeland Security
Office of Inspector General report the
first one basically says the
administration was not prepared for this
family separation policy and sort of the
practices that they put into place made
this policy far worse we heard a lot
about kids not being in cages well the
report says not only were kids in cages
but they were in these cages for longer
than the 72 hour period that anybody is
supposed to be kept in these Border
Patrol holding cells we were told in
this report that the computer database
that the administration said was
supposed to be there in order to reunite
these children and keep tracking them
never actually existed in the first
place and we were told as well that the
idea that people were being turned away
from ports of entry and then going and
crossing illegally because of
administration policy wasn't true well
it turns out that also was true so with
all these lines that we got fed from the
administration over the summer this
report basically tears apart and then
just quickly I want to talk about this
other report that also came out on the
same day about the nation's largest
private immigration detention facility
is called Adelanto and it's here in
Southern California just really
sickening stuff have also been inside
that facility probably the worst detail
of that one is nooses were found inside
detainees cells and we know that
separated fathers many separated fathers
were actually held inside this facility
inadequate medical care
inadequate detention facilities and
increasing segregation isolation for
these people were looking some of those
News's there so again I mean you know we
already know what this policy is we knew
it and more and more horrifying reports
are going to continue to come out and
Spell not only the ways obviously that
all the administration administration
lies about this vicious and grotesque
attack on human beings as part of a
larger strategy to
technically cleanse America and engineer
Republican electorate but we've also
known again this is another area where
the idea of pretending that they can
ever have the benefit of the doubt or
that this is anything like a legitimate
policy disagreement is out the window
this is a vicious attack on people which
they continue in many different ways and
they will continue to lie about and you
know and this is one of those things
where look obviously you absolutely need
to vote for Democrats in November period
at every single level and the
infrastructure and this is the key
distinction the dumb what about ISM and
that is it that is Jimmy Dore
well Obama can't this Obama bah-bah-bah
and all of a sudden we're not talking
about the Trump Republican war on human
beings now that's what about ISM in a
distraction from now conversely yes if
you just limit it to the latest most
extreme manifestation and it's and it's
different under Trump because it is a
elect it is it is literally demographic
engineering and ethnic cleansing which
is different than violating human rights
in a foolish attempts to triangulate to
get a deal on immigration which is what
Obama was doing those are fundamentally
different things they're both wrong
things but they're fundamentally
different categories but the third point
mean absolutely the apparatus of things
like ice which can and should be
abolished and I see this is somebody I
don't just you know throw a Bala around
for everything I think sometimes
institutions have resiliency for reasons
sometimes you need to think in terms of
intelligently and structurally
democratizing and reforming them that's
not something you just throw out for
everything Isis a modern creation that
has been used by both Republicans and
Democrats to engineer bureaucracy and
also all the other interconnected
systems of private surveillance business
bounty hunters detention centers
this whole profitable cabal of human
abuse that goes back to the 90s this is
this needs to be fundamentally
dismantled and that absolutely is
something that people on the actual left
and with a serious commitment are of
course going to be confronting all sorts
of Democrats about because the emergency
is trumped the emergency is this
Republican ethnic cleansing this
Republican torture of children and the
broader structure is is a is a system
that was bipartisan and designed to
benefit campaign contributors and set up
a bureaucracy that allows for where
we're at now I'm still stuck on the
nooses yeah what is going on with that
that's very disturbing I don't know I
don't know I mean I all I can say is
like we know that there's gonna be more
and more horrifying disclosures we know
that and we've already seen it child
abuse
physical assaults and they're gonna lie
about every single thing so you know
that's just the state of play it's
fascism it's fashion that is absolutely
fascist we have it here folks
it's barbarism it's fascism there's no
humanity there's nothing that can be
reconciled or negotiated with it's a
pure assault on anything that any
anybody with any decency whatsoever
would hold as valuable and there's no
Third Way on it Amazon announced we
talked about this yesterday the
effective work of Bernie Sanders and
bringing this about it's a tiny step and
what needs to be a nationalized company
immediately taken over by the government
and run and operated by its workers but
at the same time we don't allow the
perfect to be the enemy of the good and
we actually recognize that the momentum
of the good is what will allow for the
possibility of the quote unquote perfect
and this is a real example of it this is
workers responding to the Amazon wage
increase of $15 an hour facilitated by
robust activism and Bernie Sanders
leadership
[Applause]
I also gotta give a shout out to all of
the union activists mainly in Europe who
were engaging in strikes in a few
different countries as well as
organizing boycotts
of like Amazon Prime day that was a
little while ago when we were encouraged
not to buy anything during that stupid
week the Amazon had so like obviously
Bernie played an important role here but
it's also all of the people all of the
workers who've been organizing together
oh it's definitely Bernie wouldn't have
the opportunity to have the role he
played without all of that yeah and I
want to make up cuz i retweeted a few
things that maybe some people felt we're
taking shots at Bernie like like Matt
Stoller saying hey you know I feel a
little bit we're on him Henry Ford yeah
we played that yesterday yeah and and
i'm i'm not actually upset that much
with bernie saying those things but i do
feel compelled to like speak against
them because I think what Bernie's doing
is playing the game right and that's our
job exactly right our job is this is
nothing you nationalize Amazon
right his job is one of negotiation yes
everybody's got to play their role yeah
Jeremy Corbyn had a good tweet though he
said Amazon didn't gift this workers
organized for it the fight goes on to
improve working conditions and get this
company to pay its fair share of taxes
join a union today 140 has a link that's
great
Joe any union well Jeremy Corbyn totally
on point you're calling from a seven
eight one area code who are you where
you're calling from can you hear me yep
okay I'm Mike from Massachusetts hey
Mike was there I want to ask it's gonna
sound like I don't think when tells the
right word but I'm in Massachusetts
there's I think it's question one and it
didn't seem to have like very obvious
partisan lines and I wanted to know if
anyone from the show had thoughts on
Justin one is I don't know what it is oh
sorry um it's about setting like a
patient limit on nurses
what is it I don't I just don't know
enough about this at all I'm sorry does
anybody know anything about this
can you explain it a little more I think
the idea is that it sets like it
basically I'm guessing the point of it
is that nurses are overworked it's going
to be my guess and that they want to set
like a patient limit so that the
patients that are under the care of
nurses can be cared for I would defer to
them two nurses union yeah right
whatever the nurses union says I'd vote
for that's exactly what I do okay yeah I
so I'd find out what they're saying
right I hope I vote for that okay
the second thing I wanted to say is I
noticed the term dumb-dumb left coming
up a lot and I get why it's used but
Michael drill helps it to you like yes
sorry what and Michael Brooks trademark
no I'm just kidding joking go ahead what
sorry yes that's right so say it free um
well I I just my only worry is I feel
like it's I don't insult to the left
would be the right way frame it but like
I feel like a lot to let it yet it's not
the left sorry yeah don't take it
personally
no I I don't take it personally at all
it's more I think that in terms of
messaging I almost want to wonder if
maybe like fake left would be a better
term or I don't know I don't know how
much it just sort of mat it just kind of
came to me in 2016 I don't know man it
describes a certain thing I actually
kind of agree with you I I don't I think
especially like the stuff coming out of
that ecosystem now I don't think it's
left I think it's kind of aimless
democratic process obsessed rage gasm
defeat addiction its defeat addiction
its non-structural yeah definitely dumb
I mean I don't know yeah Jimmy Dore I
used to just imagine he was a member of
the far left because of what little I
knew of him and then I realized he's way
more incoherent than that but
are certainly bad leftist out there
right like we have to own that there are
some bad ones just like I mean there are
people who want to say that Stalin
wasn't really a communist because Stalin
was bad but like actually he was a
communist
well we gotta own the bad ones thanks
for the coffee
fair enough okay so the nurses in
question one no it was the saying vote
yes let me know what some years they've
been fighting for what the what is now
called the Patient Safety Act which
voters will decide in November it would
set a standard ratio for in hospitals of
the maximum number of patients to be
assigned to any registered nurse so vote
YES on one in Massachusetts you're
calling from a 608 area code who are you
where you're calling from
let me take your speakerphone hi this is
Shane calling from Wisconsin hey Shane
what's going on what's on your minds I'm
calling because I think I had an
experience that kids kind of a look into
this whole preppy treadmill that
Cavanaugh went on mm-hmm
when I went now I went to the public
public school my whole life but one
summer I went to a prestigious week-long
boys-only summer camp called badger boy
state and so everyone told me this was
really prestigious this will look great
on your College resume and when I went
the whole thing was about setting up it
was basically getting us all prepared
for learning how the government works
and preparing us for a future life and
government right but when we actually
went to the dorms to get settled in the
local guy there who was looking over our
floor just sat us down and basically I
forgot the exact wording but basically
the way the speech went was okay guys
well I want you to understand this is
badger Boise State Boise State
that means for an entire week there's
going to be no girls anywhere the only
girls you're going to see are these
waitresses that are in the
a cafeteria we call them the milkmaids
they're going to be serving you milk
long milk me those the only Christ yes
the only girls you're gonna see okay so
and and so that speech was done and
basically as you would expect what a
bunch of teenage boys that you wind up
like that
we went absolutely berserk so for the
rest of the week like well you have
these fake elections to get into State
House and every single person the their
their campaign message was better boys
needs girls and this wasn't in terms of
like oh we need to have a more
egalitarian thing right right right yeah
I didn't think so
yours like saying better boys needs beer
right and so yeah right and but just
everyone was everyone was going nuts and
then when it was all over went back to
my co-ed public high school and I look
back at that week I said wow that was
weird
ya know it was kind of a it was kind of
a formative moment for me because that
was when I first started to think about
propaganda and how it can warm its way
into your mind even if you're like this
big iconoclast I thought it was as a
teenager right so now I'm looking at
Cavanaugh now and looking back on that
with an adult's perspective it wasn't
only weird I'm like were they
intentionally trying to induct me into
the patriarchy like because it did not
help the educational purpose of that
camp at all I don't remember any of the
government stuff they taught us it was
all just bad your boys meets girls and
then I wonder Cavanaugh was in private
all-boys school for his whole life
how weird did it get from people in that
environment really have agenda throwing
him into this 50 year old list hilarious
50 year old bro that he is today yeah
anyway just a thought no that's good I
appreciate that
thanks for the call the ruling class
forms its bonds young by doing some sick
 in the woods
yeah the ruling class replicates itself
I think we said this off-mike before the
show started but basically
Brett Kavanaugh stuff we talk about eyes
wide shut and basically how the entire
American elite is basically Bohemian
Grove stuff yeah that's like it's that
then it's a great example of why all
that conspiracy theory it's
actually it's awful that they there
probably is a worthwhile literature and
conversation on things like Bohemian
Grove as sort of like social bonding and
reification of class structure it's just
that was literalized by the prep by the
conspiracy stuff or they just or they
just view it from a distance and it
seems more mystical than and less like
tawdry and lame like yeah right yeah my
friend Sophie actually used to work at
Bohemian Grove and wrote a very good
essay about it for Gawker
oh sure is that available stuff yeah
yeah Sophie Weiner um it's just Google I
guess Sophie Weiner Bohemian Grove
Gawker there was a listener that asked
me if I'd be interested in going to
Bohemian Grove if he could get me in and
I haven't heard anything from him since
then gotta go you're the tallest guy
here so you probably have the best
chance of blending in you think that
they're all taller yeah this is like to
jurors like five sees an exception he's
an outlier you
I mean he's he's waspey so that should
help Kissinger no Matt Oh Matt yes I'm
waspey now you quit pass come on
no he's from the farms yeah calling yeah
he's not he's not like if you put him in
the right outfit he'll look very waspy
trust me nope you are calling from a
five one eight area code with the final
call of the day who are you where you
calling from hello hello five one eight
hello you're okay yep yes it's totally
for me live hello oh my second hello
hello you're on go ahead it's a formula
hey Odie what's going on yeah I can hear
you what's on your minds five yeah I
just want
the call about the bitter warning about
the hashtag resistant people okay
this is what screwed up the Israeli
politics very badly because we had a
hashtag resistance movement after baby's
first election and people outraged and
they were talking about trial division
being interviewed by the police 20 times
now and still Prime Minister right and
this crap keep falling in line every
time and voting with Billy and joining
the coalition and everything every time
they they disappoint and what happened
is that real people just very interested
with the old got demoralized and stopped
basically doing anything critical right
there's a we'll need to create a
political movement that's going to be a
four for the long run right right
absolutely no that's not exactly right
yeah that's and that's the difference
inside the sort of yeah the division and
how to deal with Trump do we get to the
fundamentals and deal with that picture
or do we just fixate on him and that is
the hashtag resistance I and it's
interesting to see I I I think I know
what you're talking about a bit from
following Israel that makes sense thank
you for the call man um that makes a lot
of sense okay and yeah I just want to
touch on this briefly an NBC News
reports that over a dozen dozen
potential sources of information have
not been contacted by the FBI and the
Cavanaugh investigation more than 40
people with potential information for
the investigation sexual misconduct
allegations against Supreme Court
nominee Brett Kavanaugh have not been
contacted for an interview by the FBI of
course there's supposedly a week long
investigation going on right now the
bureau is expected to wrap up its
expanded background investigation as
early as Wednesday into two allegations
against Cavanaugh one from Christine
Blasi Ford and this other from Debra
Ramirez but sources close to the
investigation as well as a number of
other people those involved say the FBI
has not contacted dozens of potential
co-operators or character witnesses this
is the political reason why they wanted
to rush this through because the reality
is that my understanding is that for the
FBI to actually conduct something like
this and actually do a real
investigation would take several months
this isn't something that they could do
in an incredibly truncated piece of time
you know they can't do all this in a
week they have a lot of people need to
talk to new people they want to talk to
me multiple times and by definition if
they did an actual clean for real legit
investigation into this it would hold
Cavanaugh's nomination until after the
midterms and obviously that's the
Republican you know that is the that's
the narrow politics part of this
Republican a calculation they could care
less about these allegations they care
about getting somebody on the court who
will appease the far-right base on
choice on rights for women and continue
out the rest of the anti labor oligarch
agenda that's already being muscled
through the Roberts Court and they don't
want an actual investigation so I mean
this story doesn't look good but it's
also and not to defend the FBI I don't
know what they're doing and I don't know
anything about what is entailed to do an
FBI investigation I do know that
everybody who's come forward on this it
was any experience of this says that to
determine something like this and
produce a credible report in a week is a
not realistic thing in terms of the
information they need to gather and
people they need to talk to so James
Comey would argue different right if it
involves you me Lincoln trapping some
Chechen kid into a fake terrorist plot
you could do that pretty quickly you do
that yeah you do that by the end of the
day hey you know I blow up Sears Tower
yeah we be my friend
yep another terrorist plot foiled we
tricked some poor bastard over Instagram
message and singing what broke up Sears
Tower and America's safe
Melissa demeanor hey dudes just emailed
you some fan art left his best Jimmy
doors stupid idiot and I'm still
traumatized by Sam's bride yesterday
those are all fair points left his
trucker interesting interview a friend
teaches at a charter school and she was
telling me they use cultural pedagogical
essentially to disprove the met the myth
of pedagogy and focus on the cultural
relevance particularly among preteens in
the inner city it's interesting Vespa
hey Michael very much enjoyed the TPMS
segment on Friedman I read the world's
flat in high school and inspired me to
to deal I mean it had an impact on my
life but a reflection I'll have 10 years
later I would say I can see the book the
flaws in the book but I still regret
nothing left as best jay-z is the best
 out of here
Morris thoughts on the Thomas Thomas
game Morris thoughts on Ecuador and
Bolivia i Lenin Moreno portrayed I mean
I need to get into that but I think
there's some dim similar dynamics in
some ways to Brazil in Ecuador and I
don't know enough about what's happening
in Bolivia right now the psychedelic
Quaker a lot of Apple products in the
office do you all support right to
repair tech legislation Apple uses US
Customs to prevent people from repairing
their iPhones and products with
refurbished parts well obviously it's
yeah you other evil ridiculous think
about Apple any screws you can turn on
any of these companies we support but I
have Android right my next phone will be
an Android
I'm suggest it's not really that much
better oh we just got the first
presidential alert this is a test of the
national wireless emergency alert system
No
is needed oh my god that's did not write
these though oh this is this is even
worse than when Apple put a u2 album in
my phone that I couldn't get rid of that
was really annoying yeah I know
Jesus Christ the bar is high already
and it was still it was still like
embarrassing even though it wasn't done
by us secular Satanists where are the
anti Fatih back patches or any mr
patches for the jackets we're working on
it working on we will have an anti
Fattah ass flap I promise people have to
understand and people who listen to a
lot of podcasts who have tentatively
looked at merch probably know this but
merch is hard it's yeah lift actually
yeah it's not just something uh you have
to you have to have the price is fairly
high to make it start paying to be the
amount of work that you have to do it
and all of a sudden you're like a minor
Amazon warehouse right yeah we're
working on it my friend actually who
designed the logo for anti Fattah is
also a t-shirt designer so that will
probably help dope I have similar
conversations but it's yet it's a lot
all right let's see it's fine a good
final email of the day if you make your
own though we will retweet that I mean
you if you want to make literary
hangover stuff I'm never going to sue
you for for copyright these other guys
sue everybody
brett long I really enjoyed your
interview with Meghan the Jacobin a
meritocracy Peter coffin made a really
good video on this recently and I want
to direct everybody to that on YouTube
Peter coffin yes
YouTube is a Peter coffin is a very
smart guy the fan of his work J tingle
Alex Jones snuck into Bohemian Grove and
he's hardly tall it's in Jon Ronson's
them that's very funny
and Alex Jones also sneaked into
Bohemian Grove through like woods while
Jon Ronson just walked in so let's add
that to the record that was really yeah
I watched Jon Ronson had a fight he was
like he was they had this whole like
staking he I remember he was saying that
they were like doing this whole like
stakeout of how to get in and they
talked to this local lawyer who was
basically just like go to Eddie Bauer
and just like put on a shirt and walk in
and so that's what they did what Alex
Jones did like this kind of like you
know basically a stereotypical like Fae
accent it was just like nano Tech's like
the big thing that's good it was pretty
funny John what happened to John Roos
Jon Ronson still do stuff you're still
right he's still out there still
following me on Twitter really yes your
favorite celebrity follow you I've DM
that's close I think
wait that's interested every who's
everybody's favorite celebrity follow
that's what I'm gonna be tough person
actually yeah we can't say that I think
we all have to say Ted leo
oh yeah it's true okay Louis from Texas
okay wait
sorry thank you and the final I am of
the day goes to
[Applause]
[Music]
Roarke Arkansas's Republican cruelty
continues after imposing draconian work
requirements for receiving Medicaid the
state required recipients to work to
report work hours online arkansas is
49th and internet connectivity with vast
rural areas with no internet access or
extremely limited access the states
reporting website also had restricted
hours that's right
the website poor Arkansas Arkansas ins
had to sign into an order to report
their monthly hours to keep their health
insurance is bugging and closed at 9:00
p.m. the GOP made reporting the website
turned off the GOP made reporting
website that turned off at 9:00 p.m. the
meanness is so naked the cruelty so
clear now 403 4300 Arkansans have lost
their health coverage a website that has
a closing time a website that has a
closing time
this strategy goes back to the Clinton
administration also sought to limit
access to these kinds of benefits so
this this goes way back but it's clearly
intensified and let's see the final I am
day sorry that we did not get to all
Iams see Kentucky Fried comrade nurses
unions are easily some of the best
organizations active in American
politics listen to your local nurses
unions we're here tomorrow everybody Sam
is in Vegas in that
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
well the option where you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
