[Music]
hitting all of the the stuff that most
boring stuff it's not most well it's a
little bit dryer but I mean this stuff
is is hugely relevant and it people
can't get this information anywhere else
the only way they could do is read your
tumblr and my understanding is that's
going away because of the cournot thing
so I will not use eggplant emojis
what's happened what tumblr has a new
rule about getting rid of adult content
and basically all the stuff remaining on
tumblr right exactly
and David Dan's basically home for his
Clearinghouse of his of his of his
reported piece side links well II know I
mean they've been tumblr has been
flagging things like you know Taylor
Swift sitting on a chair like we don't
know we don't know this rice could
violate our exam there was a flag on the
postal report you're into that right all
right yeah all right well let's so let's
talk about the postal report and then
we'll get to what's going on Michigan in
Wisconsin and a little bit I also want
to talk about what's happening in the
house but the postal report came out who
commissioned the report what would the
purpose this was a trump executive order
so Trump put an executive order to start
a task force on the future of the US
Postal Service which has been losing
money for a variety of different reasons
we'll go into you mention one of them
that's the biggest one is refunding
reason yes I mean what but for that they
would they would be still you know on
the road to profitability if not
profitable but you know I mean you know
email has degradability
postal service to continue so this was a
task force to determine and now a lot of
people saw it in the context of Trump
going after Amazon saying they were
cheating the postal service that they
were under paying for package delivery
through the Parcel Post program and so
this was a task force designed to create
recommendations for the
Postal Service's was seen at the time as
sort of a stalking horse for
privatization which we've seen around
the world at several postal services
they've privatized their their agencies
I would say in the u.s. the Postal
Service is a partially privatized agency
it does not get any money from the US
government outside of very some very
miniscule things for government postage
it is it has a board that's appointed by
the President and confirmed by the
Senate but they kind of have
independence with some some statutory
restrictions but they're kind of
independent government governments and
so in question don't get tax payer money
zero dollars it's all and so the
question was you know was this taskforce
gonna recommend privatization completely
and it didn't actually recommend
privatization but it recommended
something I think much worse really and
that is the degrading of the universal
service obligation now what is the
universal service obligation that means
neither sleet nor snow and they're dead
of night will keep us from reporting it
rounds it means that everyone in the
country every residence every business
no matter where you are no matter how
much it costs to get there gets mail the
the farthest reaches of Alaska the most
rural area in South Dakota or wherever
you're gonna get your mail and you're
gonna get it six times a week and you're
gonna get a standard rate for letters
from any part of the country to another
standard rate for four packages and
things like that that's the universal
service obligation and what the report
said is that we need to redefine the
universal service obligation they would
be my favorite universes which don't
include all of the universe they're much
easier to manage yes that's right and
they're you know there's some
contradictions in the report because the
report says that the
one thing we don't want to do is hurt
rural Americans who rely on the postal
service especially because the digital
divide is still right pretty large but
in practice all of the things that it
wants to do which is they they want to
sort of define essential services so
like person-to-person correspondence
bill paying government mail transport of
pharmaceuticals for some reasons in
there those things would be essential
services that would still be universal
everything else like commercial packages
like from Amazon would be in essential
and then subject to increased rates and
also potentially subject to
discontinuance of delivery the the term
they use is exiting the business line so
they could certain packages are like I'm
not going to middle of Alaska with that
packet you can't do it in the postal
service so that would be and and who
would that fall on right it would fall
on rural of course because it's going to
be most expensive to go to a rural
customers and this is really fun
competition would start yes exactly
competition would start kicking in and
they would then you would see just
already buy more people not goat already
UPS and FedEx don't deliver to certain
places there's FedEx has a thing called
a delivery eros area surcharge where if
it's a hard to get area they add money
to to deliver to that particular
locality so that's what you would see a
two tiered system basically and it's a
that is that I mean that is among other
issues that is one of the fundamental
problems with privatization of the
Postal Service is that it is simply not
profitable to do and and I don't know if
you've seen any numbers to this effect
but there is probably 10 to 15 percent
maybe more of what the post office does
that almost cannot be profitable well
you cannot have delivery service to the
far gist regions of the the country and
make it profitable and when you're
thinking about that you have to think in
terms of what is the Postal Service for
is it for making
money for itself and for the United
States or is it - as it says in the
statute bind the nation together write
it the the whole point is to you know
give everybody the ability to acquire
information conduct commerce no matter
where you live no matter who you are no
discrimination against any member of
society you can use the post service now
you know in the 1800s it was much more
you know much more vital part of
communication this is why you know
magazines and and and and newspapers
have a reduced rate of delivery relative
to the other other parts of packages and
and mail but you know even today
particularly in these rural areas it's
it's incredibly important to have
reliable mail service and if you're
saying to an area particularly because
they don't have the same broad band
that's what the internet because now all
of a sudden this sort of the the the
digital divide adds to if you were to
diminish postal service the the the
divide that exists in terms of
information because of the digital
divide becomes that much even steeper
like in in disparate so while this
didn't call for privatization it
embraces the logic of private right the
logic of we have to turn a profit we
have to cover our costs on everything
that we do every little business line
that we that we engage if a Democratic
president ever called for a report like
this I mean a report like this was
produced during a democratic
administration first off I would be
upset because it's fundamentally
contrary to some of the the points of
having a Democrat in office but the New
York Times would be writing about how
the coastal elites
think that the Heartland people in rural
people are not worth expending any money
on this would be this would be a huge
huge like we would hear this in the
Senate this would be the war on
Christmas right it would be we're on
rural people but because he comes out of
the Trump administration right
nothing and by the way I mean it goes
further than just not delivering certain
packages it says that it should be
easier to close post offices and where
are those post office is going to be
closed there are 31 thousand locations
in rural areas where it's unprofitable
it talks about slowing down the speed of
processing mail in places where it's
unprofitable so maybe you can get your
mail in a row but it'll be once a week
instead of three days going back to the
Pony Express yeah and desert anti-future
and then it talks about raising you know
how can how can we make the Postal
Service cover its costs
you know revenue enhancement options and
it talks about like hunting licenses and
fishing licenses you can well sell at
the post office but it it specifically
says no banking yes it specifically says
it expanding a quote here expanding into
sectors where the USPS does not have a
comparative advantage or where balance
sheet risk might arise such as postal
banking should not be pursued now for
folks who who are new to this show if
you would listen to this show in like
twenty fourteen or fifteen you would
have heard probably more about postal
banking than in any other medium that
existed except for print it is why your
audience was cut in half exaggerating
that area exactly and had Hillary
Clinton won this would have been all
postal banking all the time but I just
briefly remind people why this would be
such a great idea right so in the United
States there are significant amounts of
people who have little or no access to
banking services either they don't they
don't have the ability to get a bank
account at all or they have one but they
also used all these alternative sources
like pawn shops or payday lenders or
whatever and those services charge
extortionate rates the average is
something like I think it was twenty
five hundred dollars a year in interest
and fees on these alternative financial
services for the average family and
these are families making $25,000 a year
it's like ten percent of our total
income just on fees for conducting you
know being part of the financial system
and in a modern economy if you're not
part of the financial system right get a
job or rent a car I mean there's so many
things you can't do so the idea would be
to go back to something we had in from
1911 to 1967 where the post office
provided a postal savings account that
anyone could access that would give you
the ability to have an ATM card that
would give you the ability to conduct
financial transactions and it would be a
way to promote financial inclusion which
is squarely within the mission of the US
Postal Service to bind the nation
together so this would not only help a
little bit on the Postal Service's
finances you can you could charge vastly
less for you know lending services or
things like that in terms of interests
so families would save 80% 90% in fees
and interest but the Postal Service make
a little bit of money and more important
promote Financial Inclusion after
medicare-for-all
that's my number two that's number two a
my my bucket list but this task force
said no can't do that well but this task
force just is I mean it's just going to
be operative during the Trump years
right I mean theoretically right right I
mean the logic of it I think is gonna
endure to a certain extent I hope so all
right
