good because a non Jared artis gr Dardis
I was doing that better before Jared
artists you know what you know the
problem is actually somebody who really
does know these pronunciations corrected
me and I have the really right one in my
head which I'm totally failing at but
anyways he wrote a book what is it what
does the name was book in I think it's
winners take owners take all easy he is
he's a very smart persistent critic of
the Davos class of our style of
capitalism and he because of his
pedigree and his connections he's
invited to participate in forums like
Bloomberg or Davos where he humiliates
people and in this case he's gonna turn
Tony Blair who is one of the worst
people on planet earth the fact that
Lula is in jail and Tony Blair is free
is the distillation of the sickness of
our times he I mean he is aware to start
with guy but he could lead it you could
leave it frankly if you want help lie UK
into the invasion of Iraq was a co
architect of that and has spent his post
Premiership lobbying for Central Asian
Middle Eastern I mean just doing some of
the most immoral oil based profiteering
imaginable in addition to the JP Morgan
work and for the last couple of years
been a persistent irritant and past to
undermine Jeremy Corbyn and labor and
we're not done on him yet but first here
he is responding through the conduit of
Christiane Amanpour to a very sensible
question from a non giad artists about
why do we even have Davos anymore and
that's gonna turn this this you know
sort of smiling tight jawed sociopath
into a gibbering mess let me just play
you this little sound bite from a guy
who's kind of gone viral right now and
I'm geared at us who's just written this
book you know winner takes all the
charade of the global elites look what
he just told me
I think Davao should end I think it
should be cancelled this year and should
should end going forward it is a family
reunion for the people who in my view
broke the modern world I mean you can't
argue with that right I can currently
it's the easiest line in the world to
make by the way you know there's only
what I do when I come to Davos so later
today I'll be meeting three of my
presidents from Africa I do want to note
my presidents from Africa their assembly
won't - I won't belabor it what does he
my African American my African Americans
my African presidents I would be meeting
with my African presidents but what what
because he possibly mean they're clients
of his consulting practice he has a so
he calls them my ok yeah here's a
governance project in Africa where he
teaches a deliver ology by the way you
know there are tell me what I do when I
come to Davos so later today I'll be
meeting three of my presidents from
Africa I don't think they broke the
economic system I'll be meeting a whole
lot of people from multilateral
institutions who work in the developing
world I'm here because my Institute
which is a not-for-profit Institute
works in in some of the poorest parts of
the world trying to help them and you
know to be fair the people who come here
they're discussing serious issues so
it's the easiest play in the world say
oh you know all these people are coming
along here the global elite and so on
and by the way you know these arguments
about cultural identity and nationalism
in my experience you've got elites on
either side of the argument so you know
Davos it is what it is it's it's it's an
opportunity for people to come and
network on issues of importance and you
know some people you know may come here
who are billionaires from different
parts of the world but other people come
because some of the issues that they're
discussing here are important because
they were invited by the billionaires to
discuss those issues let me just say
this first of all the part I like is it
is what it is
if I'm lobbying for the Kazakhs or
 Rupert Murdoch's wife and a hot
tub while he's away which is by the way
if those reports are true by far the
coolest thing Tony Blair has ever done
it is what it is and let me just add a
few more cheap shots on top
but that Tony Blair's a war criminal
sociopath and should be banned from
media we have one more Tony Blair thing
to get to but first I believe do we is
there a return here is Sam back on the
line again Sam are you there yeah I'm
trying just one more yes I am here yes
electrifying really oh do you see you
call yourself a leftist and yet you're
calling us that we hear you can you okay
yeah yeah I've been hearing you I'm
pathetic yeah I the one of the best
things sorry about that no no from the
basket of pieces I think I've ever read
was on Davos was by Chris Hayes and
that's worth checking out when I'm out
he he wrote it years ago but the fractal
inequality oh that's you know and that
that's um that's actually it's a good
Tony Blair anecdote because I remember
there was a piece that came out about
Blair about a year ago and it was like
Tony Blair charted his own yacht in
Italy and his whole career had been
built unlike it was always like hey he's
on some Oleg Ark or some movie stars
yacht like who's he currying favor with
this week and the article was like his
consulting practices and PR advice for
like Kazakhstan has gotten so lucrative
that he can get his own yacht now and so
he feel you know he feels like less
resentful of all of the elites he's
around in terms of because that is his
experience of that fractal and equal
yeah that's important yeah yeah yeah
that's very important yeah all right
Michael listen to me can you count to
five for me because I think there might
be a big latency problem with this
version that I'm using right now one two
three four
three huge five huge yeah that was not
good
all right Wow okay
all right thanks we'll try something
different okay
by Sam I don't know what happened that
time al that was crazy all right we got
to get to this now so Tony Blair let's
continue on him for a second this guy so
don't forget you forgot this was this
was the darling until he became he's
become so odious in the past couple of
years that even sort of respectable
Democrats don't want to be seen with him
although he still provided advice to
Hillary Clinton over the phone in her
campaign but Tony Blair who has and now
is starting to rebrand himself because
for a couple years it was like oh he's
the one advising the Saudis and the
Kuwaiti s and the Kazakhstan and the
Kazakh government he's you know just
purely running a cash business and
influence-peddling off of his position
in a way that was even unprecedented in
modern UK politics in the past couple
years he's come back and now he has this
Open Institute in the UK and he's you
know back to I am high-minded and I'm
trying to stop brexit and blah blah blah
and in this process he still has almost
a total inability to criticize Donald
Trump and he is constantly undermining
Jeremy Corbyn now if you wanted to say
hey you know what he has that American
allegiance thing he doesn't want to lay
into Trump sure although he's laid into
Bernie but then there's another weird
question here there was even a story
that in the beginning of administration
that Tony Blair was lobbying Jared
Kushner to bring him back into the
Middle East peace process which was his
total fail he if you don't if you recall
when he left office he was the head of
the quartet which was a as Middle East
peace envoy which he apparently mostly
used to like run interference for Israel
and pressure to Palestinians to accept
deals on behalf of corporate clients he
had it was sleazy and failed but he's
trying to brand himself as the anti
extremism guy first of all of course
he's gonna draw a total insane
equivalency as many centrist do between
a Corbin and a Trump which is self
negating in and of itself but even
taking on his own terms first you have
the report of an outreach to Trump then
a couple of months ago there was a photo
of Tony Blair with salvini
the fascist Deputy Prime Minister
xenophobe in Italy apparently they were
meeting because Blair was lobbying him
on an oil pipeline or a natural gas
pipeline and now in Davos and I gotta
say like Tony Blair said at the time
when Lula was president he called Lula
one of the most extraordinary leaders of
the modern world this is Tony Blair with
JR Bolson ro who again let's even just
stipulate of course Tony Blair is on
board with the looting of Brazil for
Wall Street and austerity and the
destruction of all of the gains of Lula
and the Workers Party but he is still
theoretically a voice against extremism
and for things like gay rights that was
one of his big things he was on the
cover of a gay lifestyle magazine in the
UK a couple years ago because in you
know he was good on those issues he's
posing with probably now the most
certainly inside this hemisphere the
most globally recognized anti LGBTQ
leader on the planet and a guy who on a
daily basis now we have revelations of
his family's connection to a mafia
cartel that assassinated one of the most
promising and leaders in this case an
afro-brazilian lesbian in the world Tony
Blair should be expelled from the Labor
Party he should never be invited on any
show or outlet besides I guess Bloomberg
or Breitbart uh and we should learn
frankly from the British who loathe this
guy and people are constantly protesting
him and trying to make citizens arrests
and we should apply that same spirit to
everybody in the Trump administration
everybody in the Republican leadership
and a whole host of leaders and you know
maybe a Hillary Clinton for backing the
coup in Honduras Tony Blair yeah
talk about fake friends that's
unbelievable
no disgusting this this is going we're
gonna keep seeing this though as things
become more polarized worldwide and
there are fewer and fewer examples of
viable centrist candidate
right the people who've been trying to
paint themselves as these reasonable
centrists when they're actually like
free-market fascists who are socially
liberal in the context of you know the
societies in which they live they're
always going to break for the right
always no doubt
speaking of always breaking for the
right remember I mean look we're all
slaves in a metaphorical sense I
actually want to be more careful about
the use of that word but anyways all a
lot of us are caught inside the Apple
Matrix and anybody who's informed
obviously knows that Apple is an
incredibly problematic company in and of
itself then of course just the monopoly
power and influence that Apple
represents long ago GLE and Facebook are
pernicious and problematic in and of
itself but but this is a good example of
somebody who especially a couple years
ago I mean Tim Cook credit where
credit's due its historic he's the first
openly gay man to run a fortune 500
company and that is specifically
relevant in this case because let's be
clear here I mean Tim Cook is quite
public on calling for deregulation and
allowing Apple to get away with dodging
and stealing tax money from the Treasury
which is another major cause I mean talk
about the money that Fox supposedly
thinks we can't find I could seize their
Irish tax shelter alone would do a
beautiful dent in dealing with hunger in
this country so Tim Cook you know major
problem as a company and as a guy but
that being said he spoke and eloquently
you can hear him in interviews quite
eloquently speaking about his experience
as a gay man it even had and of course I
mean look the reason they D platformed
Alex Jones is because of no ethical
commitment it was just too much heat but
that being said um flowing from that
this is also a guy who did it the only
sort of overt political stand he's
contributed to Republicans and Democrats
but he D platformed Alex Jones
supposedly because that was beyond the
pale now what if you had a head of state
who was both variant ly homophobic he
said he'd prefer his own son be hit by a
car than me gay and who had on advisers
who promote conspiracy theories like
cultural Marxism which are
indistinguishable from Alex Jones in
fact one of his advisers is an
english-speaking astrology
living in Virginia this is one of the
prime intellectual architects of bolson
ro and no hate on astrologers but hate
on fascist quasi mystics which this guy
is you might think if you're a Tim Cook
maybe at the very least I shouldn't dine
with and be photographed with gyre
bolson ro but of course if you're savvy
and you watch this show you know better
and here is both are in a row
I'm sure Tim Cook could pronounce the
name this is Tim Cook dining with Jerry
Belson ro in Brazil disgusting and I do
have to say though it's funny because if
you follow Lula's Instagram and Twitter
accounts like bolson ro got panned for
his speech by even just like the
mainstream press because it was just you
know he's not a good speaker and it was
uninspired and also you know he's going
there and saying Brazil's open for
business and we're fighting corruption
while his family and administration are
just being engulfed and wild extreme
corruption stories so it doesn't really
work but just unlike a level of just
political skills and dignity of
representing your country I think that
was one of the things that Dave said
about like putting Persil back on the
map these clips of Lula just owning the
room like walking in and Obama's look oh
 look there's Lula I don't know I
made him sound like Bill Clinton but
like everybody is basically thirsting to
get into a photo with Lula and
apparently the only person really
thirsting to get into a photo with bull
Cynara was Tony Blair
so Satya Nadella the CEO of Microsoft
was also seated at that table I don't
think he's pictured I don't see it
