[Music]
here is Donald Trump's pick for a
lifetime position on the DC Circuit her
name is Naomi Rao the National Women's
Law Center summarize Rao's college
writings on race
she once wrote in an article that in
this age of affirmative action women's
rights special rights for the
handicapped and welfare for the indigent
and lazy elitism is a forgotten and
embarrassing concept
she called affirmative action the
anointed dragon of liberal excess and
claimed that Yale quote drops its
standards only for a few minorities
she's probably not aware of the Legacy
Program she also made dismissive
statements about those who critique
racism and sexism arguing that the myths
of sexual and racial oppression create
hysteria and finally lead to the
formation of some whining new group
sounds perfect perfect we love Hindus
love it because she is she she I don't
know that's just saying she's South
Asian I could not Trump getting to the
point all right well here is Durbin
questioning her on the judiciary
lifetime appointment folks and I just
cannot reconcile something which is
cringe-worthy and idealistic how do you
reconcile those things senator I think I
had a had a kind of idealism about about
racial relations I went to a school that
was very diverse I had friends from all
different backgrounds and and as a you
know growing up as a as an ethnic
minority I guess as it were I you know I
was inspired by Martin Luther King's
vision right that we should be judged by
the content of our character and not the
color of our skin and and maybe that
does seem idealistic and naive today but
but that was inspirational to me when I
was when I was starting college this
role I would really struggle to
reconcile
what you said about racial oppression is
a myth with the legacy of dr. Martin
Luther King pretty hard to cite Martin
Luther King and then say simultaneously
oh really that's because you're snailed
it but you and Ervin of both part of the
liberal elite that want to keep people
of color on the plantation
you just hate any time somebody thinks
independently for themselves you go get
them chutney girl thank God judge them
by the content of their bank account and
character and not by the color of their
skin are we sure the anointed dragon of
liberal excess isn't a direct quote of
Martin Luther King that's exactly what
it is she does have a way with words
there was a time in 1940 where racism
was kind of bad but by the time you get
to 1970 it's all backlash I think the
former writings of like the college
ratings of conservatives or even
liberals for that instance are
interesting reading like Tom Cotton's at
Harvard are still up there and one of
his first ones is about how the internet
won't have much of an effect beyond like
the certain news gathering that much
that's actually what I used to say as a
joke to people like this internet thing
I think it's probably going away people
like people like to make a lot of well
of everybody's credentials but
especially of Cotton's and he just does
not seem bright to me and I'm speaking
of like I mean look the reality is I and
and no one who is has even an iota of
exposure to the college admissions
process would tell you anything
different but if you come from Arkansas
your chances if you get good grades
getting into Harvard much higher than if
you come from New York State or New
Jersey I I was accepted in a New York
University for graduate school from
North Dakota despite only having like a
3.2 GPA
[Music]
offs bigotry of low expectations
