all right so this happened I guess over
the weekend I'm a little bit confused by
having done the show on Sunday but
Donald Trump there was a a couple of
pieces in the New York Times that broke
over the past couple of days one is that
the FBI had opened an investigation a
counterintelligence investigation that
is different from a criminal
investigation there is no report that's
issued from counter - there are no
charges that are issued necessarily I
mean it is it is one specifically to
sort of protect assets and The Times
piece said nothing was found but I'm not
sure if that is conclusive but leave it
at that at the very least also what
broke this week was that Donald Trump
went to great lengths according to a
Washington Post to prevent anybody from
getting any type of read about what
happened in his meeting with Putin and
literally took the translators notes
private you know private
classic classic stuff you do who are you
Jeff Bezos what those notes and you know
like yeah I guess it's conceivable the
Donald Trump is just such a
sophisticated guy that and is trying to
do something that is so remarkable that
he would you know as opposed to like
what he said to tear tey or others that
he you know was worried about the deep
state you know particularly that early
in his I mean you know cuz this is a guy
who has probably read quite a bit of the
history of the machinations of the US
government and probably understood from
a bureaucratic standpoint who you want
to prevent stuff - from getting - right
I mean that's not hard to believe
total reader total reader and
well-versed in all of these these
pitfalls so at the very least he's not
defensive at all he went on Jeanine
Pirro
show and
p√©rot folks I'm sure most of you know
what we mean in the biz by a softball
question well here's what happened when
when someone pitches you a softball and
you are so defensive that you whip out a
machine gun and try and shoot at it good
have you ever worked for Russia mr.
president I think it's the most
insulting thing I've ever been asked I
think it's the most insulting article
I've ever had written and if you read
the article you see that they found
absolutely nothing but the the headline
of that article is called the failing
New York Times for a reason they've
gotten me wrong for three years they've
actually gotten me wrong for many years
before that but you look at what's going
on you know I fired James Konya I call
him lyin James Comey because he was a
terrible liar and he did a terrible job
as the FBI director look at what
happened with Hillary Clinton and the
emails and the Hillary Clinton
investigation one of the biggest
screw-ups that anybody's ever seen as an
investigation and what happened after I
fired him Andrew McCabe Peter struck his
lover Lisa Paige pause it for a second
right now remember that Jeanine Pirro is
sitting there going like I was joking I
said it as a joke did I not communicate
that that's all that she's saying she
like literally they've cut away this is
all b-roll because she's got this thing
going I'm convinced at this point she's
looking around they did it and you know
they're all gone most of those people
many many people from the top ranks of
the FBI they've all been fired or they
had a leave and they're all gone this is
right they were talking about and
obviously nothing was found and I can
tell you this if you ask the folks in
Russia
I've been tougher on Russia than anybody
else any other probably any other
president period were certainly the last
three or four presidents modern-day
presidents nobody's been as tough as I
have from any standpoint including the
fact that we're doing oil
like we've never done it we're setting
records in our country with oil and
exporting oil and many other things so
which is obviously where they get their
money for the most part but many other
things so I I think it was a great
insult and the New York Times is a
disaster as a paper it's a it's a very
horrible thing they said and they've got
so far that people that were necessary
believers are now big believers because
they said that was a step too far they
really are disaster of a despair well
yeah
and still no actual denial right it's
salted is disgust I'm telling it's so
funny I'm listening to this crime town
pot a podcast about the Kwame Kilpatrick
mayoral reign in Detroit and it all
looks like totally nothing compared to
this but one of the things he's he's a
lot more articulate than Trump but he
always did that like I think that
question is insulting right and I think
the fact that you would ask that in
front of the people is not only an
insult to them and to me but even you
and your job as a journalist you think
yourself on and on and on and it's like
that except you know with a also a guy
who's losing all of his faculties and a
friendly journalist facility he I mean
he couldn't see you know to be fair he
couldn't see her right because he was
just on the phone because she's gone
she's doing the old laughing and he
apparently was just you know this is the
thing is that when you snort adderall I
think what it does is it makes it much
harder to pick up on social cues right
and I think that's probably not how you
treated rabid Durst was totally unfair
you are not gonna be Attorney General
now Jeanine Pirro
yeah I was gonna make you Attorney
General and headed to space for us but
now nothing nothing let's not blame a
perfectly good stimulant for Trump's
shortcomings all right Bernie adderall
is great I there's a that's true but I
would not go on are you sure that's if
you're very well I'm not sure I mean I
can imagine it's possible but I I think
if you're in a very defensive state and
I would not go on national cable TV
and try and defend yourself about a loan
here is that alive
what does she watch she's my friend rate
Russian baby boy God hey Mike that's
John sir I don't care no that trope
calls John whatever you look like a Mike
mustache mustache makeovers no way you'd
have a mustache like that unless you're
and I'm Mike succeed in the kind of
business we're gonna take a quick break
