[Music]
this afternoon and we'll know by the
time any of you hear this as a podcast
or a we will know the outcome of the
vote in the Senate to essentially stop
all US involvement in the war in Yemen
which it's not just in terms of like the
troops that we have they're coordinating
or selling weapons to the Saudis to
continue on providing other forms of
support here is Bernie Sanders on the
Senate floor explaining why the war in
Yemen is unconstitutional it is also
inhumane but trying to vote on inhumane
against inhumane policies don't
necessarily pull on the same
institutionalist heartstrings within the
US Congress but here is Bernie Sanders
on the floor of the Senate was this
yesterday this morning sir since pay
attention to and that is this war in
Saudi Arabia was not authorized by the
United States Congress was not voted
upon by the United States Congress and
therefore is unconstitutional let us not
forget that the founding fathers of this
country put the awesome responsibility
of war and peace into the hands of the
US Congress that is to the United States
not a Democratic president or a
Republican president article 1 of the
Constitution clearly states that it is
Congress Congress Congress not the
president who has the power to declare
war
it's the president the time is long
overdue for Congress to take back that
responsibility which it has abdicated on
the Democratic and Republican leadership
okay and here is a Sanders final call to
action before yielding is my friend
senator Lee of Utah senator Murphy of
Connecticut and many many others this is
an enormous ly important vote this is a
vote that says to the world we are going
to end the horrific humanitarian
disaster that is killing tens and tens
of thousands of defenseless children in
Yemen it is a war that says that we are
going to stand for American values it is
a vote which says that the time is now
the cell tells Saudi Arabia that we are
not continuing to partner with them in
this horrific crisis there you have it
we will find out the results of this
vote later this afternoon but I mean I
you know it's all of a part on some
level when you see Trump's covering up
for the khashoggi killing I mean is
exactly the same thing the same
continuum and the only thing in some
ways I mean I don't want to minimize
show cuz shogi and all it's horrific and
it's important but I mean there's been
happening in Yemen for years oh oh yes
without doubt and we should say that the
Obama administration opened the door to
this walked through it a little bit they
stayed probably in the
the front hall as it were the the theory
as expressed by former Obama officials
and you can you can take it for what
it's worth I think it's clear that I
think the record shows that Obama did
not have the best of a relationship with
Saudi Arabia and was as Saudi Arabia
skeptical as any of our any you know US
president but they did engage in in
providing support for the Saudis in
Yemen ostensibly as a way of being able
to control what they were doing or to
exercise some influence over it you can
believe that or not believe that I tend
to I tend to believe it and think it was
a mistake obvious little it's both well
yes I mean it's a Targa's they were just
also giving a gift like okay we did the
Iran deal you're freaked out about it
eggs all ahead exactly and and I think
it was also a way to maintain like some
small leash on it which we have it's
just that what Trump did is he let go of
the yeah well they specifically narrowed
the weapons they would sold right sure I
just can I just add real quick on the
slate slightly related but when MBS
comes here he was welcomed by Mark
Zuckerberg and Mike Bloomberg and of
course Trump and obviously all this
Friedman Freeman was glowing about him
lawyers and activists in Tunisia are
attempting to get a court injunction to
bar him from visiting the country a
little shout out to them there you go
good for them you know you gotta wonder
would NBS get so much welcoming if he
wasn't so damn well they it's bad as
ideas its ideas many secondary it's
ideas
