[Music]
this is pretty good yeah this is we
gotta be this is not Glenn Beck this is
our buddy Steve Hilton enough FoxNews
and here is I mean this is it's pretty
upsetting to hear but more and more
honestly I don't know whether she's
having some kind of nervous breakdown or
where they're always seeing now is the
true ugliness and darkness of her
ideology being revealed
but her statements lately I mean yeah
I'm the boss we're in charge now you got
this no child policy and it's it's
disturbingly authoritarian and it even
fascistic I mean it seems to me that she
should be much more comfortable frankly
in China where this approach to politics
it fits much better with the brutal
authoritarian regime over there I'm
really frightened of the way she's
talking I mean this isn't the first time
that we've heard this kind of very
extreme progressive rhetoric she so she
wants to know let's tally it up she
wants to get rid of children mm-hmm
airplanes and cow and health insurance
so no help I mean honestly so I just
want to say that that's really
unnecessary crew you're gonna go to the
countryside and do some really hard
manual labor and maybe think and get
into a more positive headspace but
honestly though but now see but honestly
I mean this is there anybody who can
justify getting rid of children cows and
airplanes I mean I have to side with Fox
and Friends
I mean outnumbered on this like it's
wrong we need to have children
we can't broad bipartisan complaints
yeah we do not need to have cows sorry
why we may not need to look at them
begin getting genocide all about a nice
yeah really gonna kill all that so weird
I stopped making more of them well we
can right but I mean we're not going to
get rid of it I'm going to get rid of
them you would they didn't man out to
wipe them off God's stop making so many
of them cuz people eat too much goddamn
is there anybody who can defend though
the policy of getting all the airplanes
and crashing them into fields of cows
who can defend it
what's amazing numbered who's gonna go
like hey wait a second what are you
talking about no I mean I've seen some
good YouTube pages where they drop like
a axe onto a block of ice from like like
250 feet up I think a plane into a herd
of cows would be pretty awesome YouTube
viewing yeah that's probably true I
would stick through that alright we
could be sounds like a snuff film to me
