you know Cindy hyde-smith of the famous
I would go to a public hand if this
Rancher invited me to one in Mississippi
yes indeed she's back at it
Sidney Hyde Smith was apparently talking
away the game Bertha guards to voter
suppression in Mississippi today here we
go so that's the hilarious joke
that's another hilarious joke saying if
there's a lot of liberal folks and some
of those schools in other places that
maybe we may only make it a little
harder to vote which is the one of the
more honest representations that's the
most honest representation of Republican
election philosophy since the guy who
was on The Daily Show if you want to
know why conservatives like Foster
Friess give money to people like Charlie
Kirk to attack the university system
just that's their job it's because if
you look at the returns on election days
those blue areas correlate with a
university exactly and for all of their
flaws and for all their hypocrisy that's
still a place where people can
occasionally be learning history or
reading books or figuring out how to
understand what propaganda is or the
scientific process which means they're
almost certainly unless they're
sociopaths multimillionaires not going
to be Republicans and what college does
is it gives you freedom to learn free of
necessities of working I mean not always
and less and less I'm all right more
heads have to work during college but
ideally it's you're free from the market
you don't need to you know contribute to
production just improve your brain and
we need a bit more of that and in a lot
more of that that actually should be the
purpose of a modern society right
