so Eric we're talking about this
phenomena of Tucker Carlson where he is
now being attacked from the right for
his critique of market capitalism which
he says has not fulfilled its promise in
well I think I may be putting words into
his mouth but keeping hard-working white
people from poverty
you know this critique is he doesn't
seem to come to this conclusion until he
sees that white folk in rural areas are
suffering like the people he would
malign in the inner cities who were not
white
you know maybe 15 20 years ago I'm that
old where I remember his posture then
but he is striking a an economic
populist tone but his lament is that
it's undercutting the traditional family
structure and on some level what he's
talking about is not just the breakdown
of the traditional family he's talking
about the breakdown of the traditional
power structure in America isn't he I
mean like the family the this is an
appeal to authoritarianism in many
respects isn't it yeah I mean I think
that it's he's operating at both levels
simultaneously and so a pretty broad
audience can hear what they want to hear
and he's hitting enough notes about you
know part of his argument about this his
sort of critique of neoliberal elite
which like kind of overlaps with with
portions of the far left but with a
different different emphasis and intends
to it is you know that these elites in
order to keep the working class down
have invented all these identity
politics issues like the idea that that
black people were the victims of
historical and justices that still
matter today and the deferment of action
that they're trying to divide people but
he does it from a right-wing perspective
where he's saying oh the Democrats are
injecting all these
absurd grievances cultural grievances
into our politics on behalf of women and
blacks and transgender people because
they're doing that on behalf of the the
you know godless hedonistic coastal
elites you know dude so he's doing both
things at once he sees finding a way
within Fox's formula of culture war even
to to make this to Wed that too and
economic critiques that that makes his
show you know a little more interesting
I guess and also speaks to to genuine
economic grievances that that an
increasingly large segment of the
Republican Republicans rural dwelling
white base as so where does this lead I
mean if he is making a critique of of
market capitalism and I think it's a
legitimate critique at least in terms of
the failure of it to function in a way
that would benefit the widest amount of
people but that the last part is not
exactly his concern as much as it is a
failure to benefit the white power
structure as it is embodied in the
traditional family so he is he blaming
what is the cause and effect for him is
he blaming the the failure of the market
to address the the status of white males
because it is empowered women and not
you know non-white there are people of
color or is it that the failure of the
marketplace has allowed for women and
people of color to assert more authority
in society or or what or is he just
being super slippery about that I mean
his official stance is that he is you
know he's the kind of I'm colorblind you
know that that all the races of the
sadie's he's very anti-immigrant
but all Americans are American and the
way to stop discriminating on the basis
of race is to stop discriminating on the
basis of race that sort of attitude
because so at least on the surface I
mean he plays to white nationalists as
all these dog whistle way but but his is
is official did is the critique as he
articulates it is an economic critique
and it does lead to something like I
mean the thing is some conservatives
were for Mekons like Ross Dusit have
been arguing for a long time that the
GOP should embrace you know
family-oriented social welfare benefits
like child tax credits and and you know
other things that are encouraging family
formation and making life easier for
working-class families and so you could
see you could see genuinely positive
economic reforms coming out of Carlson's
narrative the the issue is that that you
know who knows what his motivations are
that's kind of a black box and this guy
was a libertarian just a few years ago
and now he's talking you know like a
someone who supports like Herrenvolk
social democracy but but he's he's the
ultimate argument of his whole monologue
is that you know the Democratic Party is
either they either some of them just
don't care about working people at all
and the others are crazy socialists who
will bring benna's Whelan the United
States and they're all so obsessed with
this identity politics stuff that
everybody hates and so your only option
is to vote Republican but the Republican
Party should get better on these issues
and you know the the end game I think
which Bannon articulated is the idea
that there are still a lot of
working-class whites that still remain
in the Democratic coalition and
Democrats can't win elections without
them and if Republicans were to get like
you know 90% of white working-class
people they would have like a new DLS
coalition that would just dominate the
country and you know Trump what ever
showed that it's possible to at least
peel off some marginal voters while
making rhetorical concessions to
the economic left without actually doing
anything and so the fact that Carlson is
giving this narrative but still
suggesting that even if you believe this
narrative you should vote Republican
suggests to me that you know we might be
seeing an evolution in in trumpism such
that maybe a future Republican candidate
will have an even more coherent
economically populist message than Trump
did that that message does not won't
necessarily have any connection to
actual policy outcomes because once you
get into the legislative process what
really matters is you know political
organization and organized interest
groups and I don't see an interest group
within the Republican coalition right
now they're so anti-union that there
isn't really working class interest
groups who are going to be really having
much weight in that coalition so I don't
really see how you end up with a
situation where the Republican Party is
is defying the Koch Network on fiscal
policy so I mean is you know we only
have about a minute minute and a half
left here so tucker carlson in some
respects is heading down at least a
political dead-end you know at least
from a republican standpoint it seems to
me right because the he has to lead
would that market critique even though
it is in service of maintaining an
authoritarian traditional hierarchy he's
still he's still having to admit as a
first first step that the market is
failing to deliver on its promise yeah
yeah and i think you know i write about
in the piece that there's sort of
organic reasons why red America is
turning on the market you know literally
capitalism is literally abandoning and
rejecting rural America because of
corporate concentration and other forces
the investment is concentrating in
coastal cities it's leaving the most
socially conservative parts of the
country and investment is concentrating
in the most socially liberal parts of
the country and then also corporate
brands are trying to target Millennials
because young people's consumer dollars
account for more their brand loyalty
counts for more and so corporations are
constantly advertising hey we're
we're whoa were liberal where we like
gender equality we like immigrants and
so in in red America is not blind to
this messaging they're seeing corporate
America declare themselves its enemy and
it's creating tensions in the movement
it's fascinating and it's a fascinating
assessment by you Eric Levitz appreciate
your time today thanks so much for
joining us
