[Music]
malee Hemingway who is she now again the
Federalist I believe all right okay says
there was no collusion in Russia because
Trump has no business relationships
there now did she say this before or
after like a half hour or so before oh
yeah this has got to be really rough
Somali Hemingway's out there last night
on Tucker Carlson really trying to
establish that there is absolutely no
connection Trump had no business
dealings there don't you know Tucker the
Trump Towers in Moscow you hear that to
this day so you need to have business
interests in order to have this
collusion theory makes sense
the dossier said a bunch of actually
kind of contradictory things that Trump
was very interested in a business deal
in Russia and also that he'd been
offered sweetheart deals well if he'd
been offered sweetheart deals I think we
can reasonably assume he would have
taken them there's no evidence he has
ever successfully accomplished any
business relationship in Russia oh look
at that he's got a no proof stamp
graphic on there you know folks
sometimes in cable television life comes
at you fast because you could be at
Tucker Carlson at 9:00 p.m. saying one
thing and then you turn channel C and
then an hour later and then Chris Cuomo
says this face of the story or at least
the story the president would have you
believe take a look at this this is the
letter of intent for the proposed Trump
Tower Moscow all right it is signed by
Donald J Trump how do I know well
because we've been told it was by his
lawyer and it is and I'll show it to you
in a second now I want you to take a
walk down memory lane to remind you of
what the President himself has said
about this project first he said there
was no deal listen to this I have
nothing to do with Putin I have nothing
to do with Russia but I have nothing to
do with Russia we had nothing to do with
Russia you know for a deal that didn't
mean anything it's a lot of pages man
with a lot of detail about what they
wanted and how they wanted it and how he
be paid and there's a signature okay
Cohen said that so Cohen said that this
was the case
the president said nothing happened then
he gave a different story
where the letter kind of came up but not
in the context of his signing it listen
I think you should go back to I think it
was January it was just reported very
well by catherine herridge is a terrific
reporter on Fox
she talks about a letter that he signed
I don't even remember it and it
specifically talks about this deal
catherine herridge is a good reporter at
Fox worked with her know her respect her
president doesn't need her to tell him
what happened in his own deal here's the
letter Cohen didn't sign it the
president did then this weekend the
president's esteemed lawyer said quote
it was a real estate project there was a
letter of intent to go forward but no
one signed it why are they doing this
this is Donald Trump's signature it's
here we know this look I want to be
clear I don't like anybody involved in
any of the clips we just played but that
was pretty funny that was pretty funny
I'm a criminal with limited cognitive
abilities stop oh right but here's the
here's the sad part about it I would put
the percentage of people like if there
is a set of people let's call it a
hundred percent who believed that Donald
Trump had nothing to do with Russia in
terms of business things now this is
this completely aside from whether there
was collusion or not collusion who knows
he clearly lied about it now that maybe
that's a problem maybe it's not but the
hundred percent of people who are
convinced they watch Fox he's convinced
him nothing to do with Russia I would
say that report by Chris Cuomo probably
knocked off two percent less right you
know the answer people saw plenty of
papers man he's a busy guy as a
billionaire I think Michael Cohen who's
already Mike doesn't rat he gave he gave
him the paper try to trip him up later
and so again President Trump was
portrayed yeah it's Jew lawyer just came
back
from Jew lawyer fix Russia that was his
biggest mistakes you trust Jews a little
too much nothing I met a medical staying
with Israel you said yourself that
there's a lot more in it you said you
said there's a lot of papers in it you
think I read this of course I did yeah
that's not guilty not guilty I mean who
does that feel me is not real to me not
guilty
