Dave Chappelle and Jon Stewart were on
CNN talking to Christiane Amanpour Dave
Chappelle is of course one of our
greatest comedians he's incredibly
insightful and Christiane Amanpour is
supposed to be the sort of regal global
sophisticate of CNN and I've seen her do
some decent reporting from time to time
she certainly gets a lot of heat because
of her background and because of being a
woman and because she has an accent but
she's she's just not in her depth here
on this conversation about the fascist
wave the American fascist wave that
Trump is writing she's not in the
comedian's depth here she's on the
comedian's depth here Dave Chappelle
certainly is things they say even when
they say the Russian influence the
election it's kind of like Russian
Meaghan is racist is that who's doing it
okay oh my god thanks I thought it was
this they kill the country their way
then we're the murder weapon yeah so we
vote is the Trump era a good era for
comedians is it just unbelievable fodder
or not I would not even name the era
after him yeah he's getting too much
credit he's not making the wave he's
surfing it yeah they were he just all he
does is sing those peoples greatest hits
build a wall all these things we've
heard before he just sings all the songs
he's the only one that has been brash
enough to do it that's exactly right and
the beginning and this is actually
another good thing I think to remember
as we synthesized race and economics
into analysis of figuring out the
electorate and specifically the Trump
base I did say from the very beginning
in 2016 Donald Trump will most likely
win the Republican primary because he's
doing something brilliant from the
political perspective of a republic
primary which is being unequivocally
racist and xenophobic and speaking that
clearly and robustly to a party whose
non oligarchs and most of their Oleg
arcs too frankly are built on white
identity politics and conversely he was
lying obviously but he was questioning
Republican economic orthodoxies which
normal Republican voters don't care
about I recently was canvassing in Idaho
and I met a very charming lady in her
80s and she said what do you boys want
and after telling us that she was going
to vote Republican and that democrats
are full of and saying some
horrible things about immigration
she didn't went on to say and of course
yep I'm voting for Medicaid expansion
because people need health care and
Donald Trump tapped into that he
recognized that of course even a lot of
normal Republican voters understand that
giving money to Koch brothers and making
it easier to abuse them and deregulate
is bad for them but they're also rooted
in white identity politics as well these
things are both true and Dave Chappelle
pointed out exactly the case that this
is a continuing current of American
history and Trump is this eras showman
who's known how to exploit it and
there's really nothing special about it
if you have any historical understanding
of the threat that we face and
everything that Trump in this whole gang
symbolizes yeah if it weren't him it
would definitely be somebody else
and it's it's amazing how few liberals
in the media really seem to grasp this
they want to blame it all on Trump and
Russia like if it weren't for those two
actors we would be totally fine
and that's just not true yeah I think
the only the only limited way in which
that is true is that I don't think any
of the other I mean Hillary was Hillary
also throws a wrench into this but just
looking at the Republican field in
general there's a reason it wasn't a
career Republican right is because you
can't like people are sick of that
right but so it had to be this this
celebrity with a built in like different
sort of constituency like reality TV
heads and and the third contingent that
we'll get into with Bryan but it does
apply the United States as well as this
um
morphus anti-corruption politics which
doesn't mean anything and is
decontextualized from politics and that
is that why anti-corruption politics
help lead to the rise of Berlusconi it
has been instrumental in bolson ro and
was a man drain the swamp obviously and
he is turning over the tables in the
swamp
exactly
