[Music]
all right folks
so this is a little bit disturbing the
other day we had on the program
Robin Marty was it and she she was
basically talking about her book the
handbook for a post row America and in
some respects I mean we're not quite
there yet but it's we're very very close
there are now six states that have
passed the so-called heartbeat law and I
say so-called because it really is more
of what is known as cardiac activity and
it comes from a tissue called the fetal
pole right cuz and you can measure that
as early as six weeks with a vaginal
probe now I'm not telling women anything
about this but for most men to be
pregnant at six weeks the average woman
would not know that they were pregnant
at six weeks your periods supposed to
come four weeks some people sometimes it
comes five weeks so now you're two weeks
late for your your period at that point
under this law it would be illegal for
you to get an abortion so in an instance
like this one an Ohio man accused of
raping an eleven year old girl just got
a million dollar bond he was arrested
last week the girl's mother filed a
missing
personal report the suspects roommate
allowed police to search their home the
11-year old girl was found in an
upstairs bedroom closet now apparently
this guy was already the subject of an
ongoing sexual assault investigation
involving the girl in additions to the
rape charges she's also facing charges
of obstructing official business and
contributing to the unruliness or
delinquency of a child here's the thing
that 11-year old girl has been found to
be pregnant
and according to the Buckeye report
Ohio's new heartbeat bill would mean
that the 11-year old girl will likely be
forced to carry the child to birth now I
don't know if the bill has been quite or
I'm sorry the the law has been enacted
certainly been signed I guess it has
been enacted at this point it will be
challenged I don't know if the challenge
will come quick enough and there will be
a stay put on this law but it's quite
possible that this 11 year old girl will
be forced to give birth to the child of
her rapist but certainly and I I don't
know it what will happen in this
specific case cuz like I say we're still
gonna see challenges to these laws but a
year from now two years from now three
years from now this is going to be the
law this one may be stayed until the
Supreme Court can hear it it'll work its
way up through cases hopefully it will
be stayed so that she can get an
abortion if it's not stayed she will not
be able to get an abortion she will be
forced to carry this rapists child this
eleven-year-old girl three or four years
from now this is just going to be the
case there's not gonna be any qualifying
this may or may not happen this would be
the case there are five other states
that have passed this bill Georgia is
the most recent 15 states have
introduced similar legislation this year
Kentucky Mississippi and Ohio signed
theirs into law laws have yet to be
enacted because they're being upheld by
courts I mean or stopped by courts but
we will see and the reason why they're
they're all passing these laws is
because they know this is going to go to
the Supreme Court and you now have a
severe enough right wing majority that
we're going to see Roe overturned or at
least inhibited enough by this now under
to understand you know we're talking six
weeks six weeks most women do not know
they're even pregnant at that point
there are only let's just talk a little
bit about I should say there's a couple
other things about the Georgia law women
who seek lawful abortions out of state
according to US law of Georgia resident
plans to travel elsewhere to obtain
abortion she may be charged with
conspiracy to commit murder punishable
by 10 years imprisonment any individual
helps her may be charged with conspiracy
HB 481 would also have consequences for
women who get abortions from doctors or
miscarry
if you seek out an illegal abortion from
a health care provider
as a woman you would be a party to
murder if a woman miscarries because of
her own conduct
she wore drugs I don't know maybe she
engaged in activity that was to
physically risky I don't know
reliable for second-degree murder
prosecutors would be able to interrogate
women who miscarried to determine
whether they could be held responsible
these are look that makes sense that
makes sense if it's gonna be a crime if
it's gonna be a crime it's gonna be a
crime no OBGYN named dr. Jan Gunther you
can find her on on Twitter there's a
very good breakdown of one of the big
talking points that we're hearing now
this this notion of infanticide
and there are only seven states that
have no justice '''l age restrictions on
a pregnancy most states do not allow
abortions after 20 or 24 weeks
in these situations where supposedly
they're killing babies who are born
apparently when you there are times
where the baby has that that are
anomalies that are prenatally detected
but the fetus has and they can actually
be born where you have an option of
referring to that of saying to the
doctors I want a live birth or an on
live birth and all the only difference
there is that they would actually have
they would charge you
for maternity care and write a birth
certificate even though they know that
this delivered baby will die within
moments because of the anomalies this
apparently happened to this doctor
herself but it's a good breakdown we'll
try and link to it in the site
it's dr. Jen Gunter and she gives a very
good breakdown of this stuff her her
twitter handle is dr g en gunther and
we'll put a link to the here it is yes
yeah this is the the piece and she
starts with ben shapiro going after
elizabeth warren so but you know folks
got to be prepared for this because
there are very few scenarios that don't
involve frankly the untimely demise of a
Supreme Court justice that don't
squarely place this these type of things
I'm talking about in our future I mean
full on it is payback time there is no
way there is no way the Republican Party
and I think I think even John Roberts
understands this they need to deliver
now on these things they have no excuses
and like I say the only possible
scenario is that for some reason
Clarence Thomas does not does not resign
until 2021 when Amy Klobuchar is
president and whoa whoa whoa there's
already so much negativity in this one
oh just for God's sake just Bernie
Sanders his prayers
Ernie a little positive for Christ's
sake I mean in God if it gonna be
negative could you at least give me
Harris listen Amy Klobuchar whatever I'm
just used the point is a Democrat is
president I was a boy world right there
but the fact is as president in fact is
even if Amy Klobuchar is president and
John Robert I mean and Clarence Thomas
resigns at that point you're much better
shape than you are if he does so when
Donald Trump is president and that's
really is my point here is that that
difference is going to be the difference
between me not saying a story about an
11 year old girl who's raped who's
forced to carry the child or women who
sought a legal abortion in New York but
were that left Georgia to do so
arrested in in prison for 20 years
that's literally the difference like so
we couldn't even make what we perceive
as the worst case scenario president Amy
Klobuchar Vice President Joe Biden or
vice versa
even in that scenario but that would
require Clarence Thomas to say like I
want to hang on for another three years
so I don't know how that even that
scenario happens but this is what the
future we're looking at this is the
implications of the Supreme Court I mean
obviously they're much broader and wider
than this but this is how severe it is
and so people have to be prepared for
this yeah it's time to break some laws
there's really no way around that well
the the point is is that there'll be
some laws broken but if police get a
hold of that woman who goes who's gay
who's taken out of Georgia she's gonna
go to jail and if they capture the
people who who helped him out of jail
they're gonna go to jail I'm not excited
about that fact it sucks it sucks that
we have to do this but we also can't
just lie down and die and say well
abortion is illegal now I guess we give
up we now live in Gilead I was not in
any way telling people to lie down and
die I will I am against that totally
against the lie down a died strategy I
no I mean it's not it's not law yet it's
not law yet it very well may be prevent
you know prevented and I don't think the
Supreme Court I have feeling they're
gonna stay all these until after the
election well also for a lot of people
that situation is already here where you
know that death by a thousand cuts where
abortion access is so restricted to so
many people in so many places it would
certainly be a lot worse if Roe vs. Wade
was overturned but you know we need to
be organizing yesterday there are there
are people who are already organizing I
mean there are organizations that are
going out there and they're funding
helping women who don't have access to
abortion getting it now that would be
illegal under this Georgia law there
would be no organizing that would be
legal then so I mean we do have
organizations that and I don't I am I
have no doubt that the number of women
who don't have access to abortion who
would in a if we didn't have such
hostility towards that right is is is
not zero I mean I don't know what the
percentage is but the the difference is
going to be dramatic and there's not
going to be legal organizing that will
mitigate it going forward
