[Music]
this is another absolutely there's
another great clip of really centering
and anchoring what's been happening in
the United Kingdom and I just think this
is so important because of course brexit
is a crisis and of course brexit has
caused myriad problems and of course
brexit as a vote reflects all of these
trends it reflects the rise of the fart
right it reflects the role of even like
bright of bright bard and cambridge
analytical and all of these dangerous
extremist oligarchs like the Mercer's
and even this sort of half serious half
ridiculous role of the of Steve Bannon
and also of course just general
dissatisfaction and rage at the system
and misplaced populist anger there is al
exit position but the UK is in crisis
totally independently of brexit it's in
crisis in terms of poverty which it
started accelerating under the Cameron
Clegg Conservative Lib Dem coalition
which people should be thinking about
there because Lib Dems are starting to
tick up in the polls and you should
remember that the last time you handed
them any sort of key they helped
accelerate poverty and austerity across
the United Kingdom these crises are
multifaceted they're they're direct to
the economic policies of the Tories and
global neoliberal governments and it's
and while brexit is real it is in the
interest of a certain part of the media
class and political class to bang on
that exclusively and in this clip Laura
pitcock who's a Labour MP just does an
excellent job on this BBC morning
programme of talking about how over the
past several years pre brexit that the
Tory conservative austerity policies is
gutting and destroying the UK and that
is a fundamental crisis and you know I'm
really surprised about only Marcia de
Cordova talked about this this is a
damning report from
from the United Nations and Philip
Austen it talks about fourteen million
people living in poverty one and a half
million people destitute and while we
apply let's think let's do two schools
because you're moving on to something
slightly different but it's all part of
the fabric of what kind of society that
has been created by this government we
have obsessed on this program about the
disintegration of the Tory Party fine
but that does nothing to help the one
half million people who are destitute
this talks about homelessness increase
in Sevenfold this talks about it being
you know the DWP creating work house
like conditions this is in any other
circumstances Jo this would have made a
government for what kind of must be your
fault as the opposition we've not done
enough to bring these issues to the fore
that is absolutely not true we have
their name and time put that's your
responsibility as a as a media that is
so bad you're literally undermining her
ability to do it right now
she just complained about their party
not for grounding these issues by
interrupting her for grounding these
issues again absolutely absolutely
leftist BBC yeah the leftist BBC can't
even deal with a member of parliament
articulating that now the united nations
along with the united states by the way
the united nations also documented the
obscene poverty of the united states
that first world developed countries
under this model of governance have
obscene levels of poverty and that is a
crisis that predates brexit and if you
don't think that those experiences and
attitudes influence things like brexit
you're delusional
you know i think that there was some
absolutely correct and necessary
pushback and a lot of the numbers are in
that of course things like Trump and
Briggs and and so on are motivated by
xenophobia and racism and and and gender
politics and sexism hundred percent but
I actually thinking especially in this
certain type of the mainstream centrist
and Senator leftist course we've gotten
to the overcorrection point where people
are legitimately forgetting that there
is also there is not only just rage or
misdirected populist anger I mean some
of that is even too cerebral there are a
lot of people that are absolutely
checked out of this stuff because it's
disgusting because it's corrupt and
because it's totally failed them and
maybe they vote maybe they don't maybe
they do you know they are totally
alienated and they're alienated because
of things like a United Nations report
sorry that's in the United Kingdom that
level of wealth generated in that
country even just historically is that
let's be honest as a global plunderer of
wealth for God's sake fourteen million
people and that's tens of millions of
people in the United States been
conservatively fifty million people
thirty million people probably at the
destitute level and over fifty percent
of the population including people who
might might you could pretend our
quote-unquote middle class who can't get
a couple hundred dollars together in
case of any sort of emergency that is
and and by the way of course those
things cut disproportionately on race
lines absolutely but they hit everybody
if you don't think the context of that
rage is behind what people aren't just
ready to be like oh well you know I
should have voted against per exit
I should vote for Hillary Clinton yeah
you're right
they've been totally decimated and
punished and you think that Joe Biden
people who judge are gonna do anything
about that
get real yeah it's not we're not ever
talking about only the folks who voted
for Trump or the folks who voted for
brexit right we're talking about all the
people who didn't come out to vote
against those things because the
alternative didn't have anything to
offer them so it's the job of leftist
politicians like Jeremy Corbyn now to
convince people
that you know even though labour hasn't
done for them for decades his
program is different and it's also and
you could see another part of that Lula
in veneer you I will reference he said
when he came into office one of the
first things he did is he took members
and he said he's like look I didn't run
a socialist government I wasn't in a
position to do that sorry
right like just honest and knows how
understands power but he took the most
elite members of his of his part of his
cabinet
he took a banker and he took a doctor
and he was like the first thing we're
doing is we're flying to some of the
most remote impoverished parts of Brazil
and he's like and he said and I showed
them he's like these people live in a
room and they take a where they eat
and they make like this is how they're
living and if you're gonna be part of
this we're gonna negotiate blah blah
blah but the center of this mandate is
dealing with their problems period and
that's something at the gut at the core
that people respond to and they
understand and they see and you need
that and I think frankly Jeremy Corbyn
is of that you know in a very different
way with very different background
obviously but I think he just gets it it
shouldn't be that complicated it's the
kid follow I'm gonna look at the eat the
apple core that's disgusting that's
wrong it's profoundly preventable so
prevent it
