[Music]
all right so Bernie Sanders gave a
really important address yesterday at
George Washington University and I I you
know I did I actually did do a long
stream on this yesterday on my channel
and I'll try to elaborate some of those
points and maybe find some new ones I
think and which one there's you starting
with one okay this is actually really
really important part of the speech and
you know there's a huge amount of
substance in it and it is incredibly
important I'd recommend everybody read
Harvey JK it is important particularly
it's just a matter of practical politics
to embrace that FDR legacy in the
context of a Democratic primary and in
fact very disappointingly even Elizabeth
Warren and this Atlantic piece laughed
at the idea of democratic socialism
which she also stood up to clap Trump
when he said we will always be a
capitalist country or whatever he said
yes which is a disaster and it's a
disastrous way of conceiving the world
and it's a disastrous wave it's a
limitation on your sense of democratic
possibility and serious accountability
which will undermine even good
technocratic reforms and part and so you
know as far as that part of the speech
goes the the question for all the other
Democrats is do you support completing
minou the New Deal
or not you know forget your snarkiness
and historical illiteracy about the term
democratic socialism
do you support completing the economic
Bill of Rights which coalesce is with
the agenda that Bernie Sanders put on
the table going back to 2016 and his
banged on for four decades in 1999 in
1944 when Franklin Delano Roosevelt
basically said in order to in reality an
actual real world to realize the
liberties that are enshrined in the
Constitution you need a economic and
material base for it and without an
economic and material base those are
false promises
and Bernie put that across very well and
he also looped it with the fact that as
we see I mean the hatred of Bernie
Sanders from the corporate class from
the political class it makes sense why
you know the worst people the Democratic
Party the people who run the Center for
American Progress the Democratic leaders
the people who've been having this model
that has worked for them professionally
for decades but has mostly actually been
a critical failure for the Democratic
Party and of course god forbid it's most
necessary constituencies poor people
working people people of color in many
key areas that they hate this guy and
you know one of the reasons that I find
it's so mystifying and bizarre that you
know people who example who are you know
frankly not part of the oligarchy buy
into the propaganda against him is
because it's you're doing the job of
other people who don't generally share
your interests and it's incredibly
self-defeating and even we're the
legitimate criticisms of Bernie they
frankly come from a very left position
that is not represented by any other
candidate and so you know Bernie is
gonna go back to the classic FDR quote
here about the real forces that he's up
against Wall Street Silicon Valley
pharmaceutical health insurance men much
the leadership of the Democratic Party
of course the Republican Party and he's
gonna echo Roosevelt in exactly how he
rightly feels about it like today the
quest for transformative change was
opposed by big business by Wall Street
by the political establishment by the
Republican Party and by the conservative
wing of FDR's own Democratic Party and
he faced the same scare tactics then
that we experienced today red-baiting
xenophobia racism and anti-semitism
in a famous 1936 campaign speech
Roosevelt stated and I quote we had to
struggle with the old enemies of peace
business and financial monopolies
speculation reckless banking class
antagonism sectionalism war profiteering
they had begun to consider the
government of the United States as a
mere appendage to their own affairs we
know now that government by organized
money is just as dangerous as government
by organized mob
and Roosevelt concluded and I quote
never before in all our history have
these forces been so united against one
candidate as they stand today they are
unanimous in their hate for me and I
welcome their hatred
that was that was FDR in 1936
now despite although it does sound I
must say it does sound a little
contemporary doesn't it despite that
opposition by rallying the American
people FDR and his progressive coalition
created the New Deal one four terms and
created an economy that worked for all
and not just the few so this is really
really important and again I think he's
exactly right about the forces that are
up against him and also the fundamental
distinction between his position in this
race and others it's a difference you
know his Ben Burgess said it's it's not
a question even of better it's just a
different kind and then he's gonna go on
an outline his plan for economic
freedoms and their importance freedom is
an often used word but it is time that
we took a hard look at what that word
actually means ask yourself what does it
really mean to be free are you truly
free if you are unable to go to a doctor
when you are sick or faced financial
bankruptcy when you leave the hospital
are you truly free if you cannot afford
the prescription drugs you need in order
to stay alive are you truly free when
you spend half of your limited income on
housing and are forced to borrow money
from a payday lender at 200% interest
rates are you truly free if you are 70
years old and forced to work because you
lacked a pension or enough money to
retire are you truly free if you are
unable to go to a college or a trade
school because your family lacks the
income
are you truly free if you are forced to
work 60 or 80 hours a week because you
cannot find a job that pays you a living
wage are you truly free if you are a
mother with a newborn baby but you are
forced to go back to work immediately
after the birth of that child because
you lack paid family leave are you truly
free if you are a small business owner
or a family farmer who is driven out of
business by the monopolistic practices
of big business are you truly free if
you are a veteran who has put his or her
life on the line to defend this country
and tonight will be sleeping out on the
streets this is so important and it's so
basic there's no substance to those
other freedoms without the material base
and you know and again this is another
very important way and linking with the
fight for every category of liberation
and against the bigotry and white
supremacy there's a reason also that
Bernie Sanders centered so much of this
in the 30s and there's a reason why we
look at great leaders like Nelson
Mandela or olof palme in that broader
democratic socialist condition a
tradition because they were some of the
only players who made all of the major
calls write about authoritarian and
fascism authoritarianism and fascism and
yes there is a vitally important
American tradition here including by the
way quoted extensively from dr. King
that is democratic socialism the civil
rights movement was a two-sided movement
one hand to end American apartheid and
legal discrimination it was also to
complete the New Deal by stripping away
the compromises with the Dixiecrats I'm
making it universal protections for all
forms of labor and all forms of social
delivery so and there's a radical
tradition of Deb's who is of course
Sanders is a hero and then there is even
with the historical complexities the
hugely important accomplishments of the
New Deal
so it was very disheartening you know
the Atlantic caught up with his rivals
and they said as Bernie Sanders leans
into socialism his rivals laugh Waterloo
Iowa making Elizabeth Warren laugh can
be tricky throwing her off her talking
points is almost impossible but both
happened when she heard that her 2020
opponent Bernie Sanders who's scheduled
to deliver a major address today and
according to his campaign entitled how
democratic socialism is the only way to
defeat a thora
the only way to defeat oligarchy and
authoritarianism the Massachusetts
senator shook her head it was Sunday
evening we were standing in the backyard
of the house in a poorer side of town
and it goes on she's making her spiel um
and then she says I'll have to hear the
speech she said diplomatically um and
you know she kind of brushed it off and
said I have to hear it I have to hear it
but her first response is to laugh and
then we go in descending order they
asked you know Hickenlooper and Ben and
I don't even know why they would you
know they're irrelevant um
Kamala Harris simply said huh-uh and so
on
ask your dad come on yeah ask your dad
if you're confused he would have some
expertise on this but the thing about
you know or maybe you might not want to
speak but the thing about this is that
it's sure it's campaign stuff and it's
juvenile and whatever but it's they're
not just rejecting Bernie Sanders
they're not just rejecting the absolute
necessity when you talk about real human
beings that need these policies I mean
it's disgusting if you have any sense of
actual people in your life that need
medicare-for-all that's not a luxury
it's not a negotiation that need massive
debt cancellation that need a structural
approach to fighting racism and
xenophobia and fascism which Sanders
also outlined
yes it's offensive that they would
dismiss that and it says but it's it's a
historical literacy that rejects their
own party and tradition I mean how many
you know FDR dinners are these
candidates going to
what's your position are you you know do
you want to live out in the in 2019 and
and include of course the you know and
and and build on the legacy of a philip
Randolph and Martin Luther King jr. and
Eugene Debs and FDR for a fully realized
21st century American social democracy
and full democracy for all human beings
here because that's the only way it will
work or are you you know the inheritors
of in you know Peabody Ginger's case the
he's a former McKinsey guys we talked
about earlier that was his first gig out
of college I the post 1970s technocracy
corporate tinkering strain or if you're
really gonna aggressively reject you
know the F to the art legacy well you're
on the right wing part of the party that
Bernie said in the beginning and you
would have been on the wrong side of
everything that we need from Medicare
Social Security civil rights legislation
and so on
so I you know pathetic pathetic to laugh
at it when you are denying the history
and you also don't have your own
philosophical architecture to hang a
broader argument around about who and
what we should be in this country
