so Heather we are now I think in the
Manoa fish' Liao t'side of the wake in
many respects at least in in the sort of
the the political news cycle respects of
the Cavanaugh hearings and yet the
Republicans have been able and what's
fascinating to me and because you know
again we said this in the first segment
we should say it again we should say it
the next three or four times I think
that we talked before maybe less
actually now to two or two times that we
talked before the elections that the
midterms loom large in all of these
things and we're going to talk about it
in the context of the Muller
investigation we're going to be talking
about it in the context of of things
like cuts to Social Security and
Medicare we're going to be talking about
it in the context of of of both from
foreign policy and the potential for
conflict with Iran and I think this week
also brought about two phenomenons I
mean one the Republicans seem to be able
to elongate they're part of the
Cavanaugh fight I guess which is to to
talk about the left-wing mob that exists
now and of course what they're talking
about our protesters who are protesting
not only the decisions that Cavanaugh
will ultimately make on the Supreme
Court about a woman's right to choose
about questions of health care and
rights of for disabilities and the
disenfranchisement of hundreds of
thousands of people in terms of their
ability to vote and corporate power and
the ability of government to regulate
corporations and polluters and whatnot
but also the the question of sexual
assault and the question of
accountability and the question of you
know the privilege
that white men in the society and
particularly some from the elite have
and expect and they the the the
Republicans have maintained this notion
of an angry mob simultaneously we see at
the beginning of the week a naked
display of all we could call it is like
fascist thuggery by a self-professed
violent gang that perceives themselves
as the tip of the spear for the
conservative movement they were aided
and embedded by Republican elected
official staffers in a Republican
Metropolitan Club in a Tony part of New
York City and these two things stand in
stark contrast this week and again a
perfect example
you know if Republicans retain control
of the house these fascist types these
so-called proud boys this gang types
like this are going to be even more
emboldened because it's going to be a
referendum in favor of Donald Trump and
the Republicans well right I mean I
think I mean first of all let's you know
unpack this a little bit this is this
angry mob in the post Cavanaugh period
here which you know Mitch McConnell came
out and talked about how they stormed in
the halls of Congress and it was so
threatening to them I mean let's not
forget what we're talking about our rape
survivors who came to Washington and
they cornered senators in the hallway
and in elevators to tell them their
stories and beg them not to vote for
Brett Kavanaugh I mean apparently these
men found that very threatening and the
truth is worse they didn't they're like
they did were strike they didn't and
they knew they knew that this was not
you know in any way physically
intimidating the protests were nothing
compared to the protests in the town
halls in 2010 over Obamacare and
in fact I put up some video on one of my
pieces in salon last week that showed
you remember they spit on on Republican
Democratic congressman Emanuel cleaver
and screamed in John Lewis's face as
they were trying to walk across the
grounds I mean it was intense and really
had a very violent feeling about it
so you know know that they were not
physically intimidated and my personal
feeling is that they that this was
actually an elaborate troll on the part
of the Republican senators first of all
to try and get past their you know their
their kind of shame over the Cavanaugh
business but also to try and intimidate
Democratic lawmakers into distancing
themselves from their past supporter I
mean this idea that you know and and the
media jumped right on it to oh look you
know the violent mob there there's mob
action and oh they're going up to people
in restaurants and that's just terrible
and look how out of control and uncivil
they all are calling for civility
civility that's just a method to try and
get Democrats to disown or condemn their
own supporters and so far I haven't seen
much evidence that Democrats are doing
that which is somewhat surprising I mean
normally they would I mean that's
usually a pretty effective ploy on the
part of the Republicans and yeah it does
fire up their base but that has been you
know this has been not this idea of this
angry mob actually goes back to the
moment when Donald Trump was inaugurated
and the NRA immediately came out of the
box with this campaign called the fist
of the righteous fist of truth I think
it's called the clenched fist of truth
sorry and it was run by Dana Loesch and
and what it was was this idea that
antifa
and the resistance were all the same
thing and they were marauding in the
streets and getting ready to burn down
your ear town and they put out a whole
series of those ads and they've been
pimping that from the very beginning I
mean that's been going on for two years
so this idea that there is this angry
mob is sort of churning underneath and
that leads us to these groups
crowd boys they are positioning
themselves as the as the defense against
the left-wing angry mob right I mean
that is how that's being how that's
being sold in right-wing circles that
these guys are protecting themselves and
the scariest part of that proud boys
incident is the fact that the cops seem
to be on the proud boys side right
because there were an Tifa outside the
the event and they were holding signs
and screaming at them and what-have-you
they didn't start the violence but that
was sort of how the cops perceived it
that they were provoking the proud boys
and they kind of I mean if you saw the
videos you could see that they were not
exactly aggressive in stopping the
beatings we're taking place so I think
that that's sort of where that part of
it is leading and and and part of
pimping this idea of the violent
left-wing mob mostly a bunch of women
wearing pink hats is to sort of give
them the excuse in case this does sort
of escalate and I see it escalating with
or without Trump you know without
winning the midterms or without you know
anything this is something that's
happening sort of organically on the
right and it's really really dangerous I
mean you see those red hats on cops and
you see those red hats on those proud
boys and you're kind of going roof you
know this is not there's there are some
historical parallels that are disturbing
to say the least
and we should say it was a US
congressman staffer who set this event
up at the Republican Metropolitan Club
right right I mean so this is not at
arms like I mean the idea of a
Democratic Congress person setting up a
you know a black bloc a group of people
use black bloc tactics to speak at a
Democratic Club is unlikely to say the
least
and the outrage would be enormous
you know the I think there's a
misconception amongst people as to
who so-called anti-shah people are right
this is people who are simply fighting
against fascists to be distinguished
from you know black bloc people use
black bloc tactics but I think that you
know in the and the popular conception
these are the same things but neither
group and Anti Fog can be just a teacher
who was you know trying to identify you
know one of these guys who are involved
in beating somebody at Charlottesville
through the internet none of these
people would ever be invited to a
democratic function in their official
capacity it's just absurd right but yet
we see this where the Republicans are
are hosting this guy Gavin McGinnis to
do a a reproduction of the assassination
of a Japanese socialist figure from the
1950s I mean this is you know clearly
the Republicans are trying to be well
provoke some type of violent conflict
yeah all right but well look we got to
take a break let's talk more about this
on the other side I'm Sam cedar this is
wearing a fire radio I'm talking to the
great had their pardon or Digby
