CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday May 30th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrious Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today Marcy wheeler on Muller's
handoff to Congress and the question
will they fumble it meanwhile how a
drape over the US s John McCain explains
Trump's collusion in Israel Bibi fails
big-time Israel to hold an unprecedented
second election as Netanyahu can't form
a coalition government and the
Republicans in Wilbur Ross are about to
find out that in the digital age the
dead do in fact tell tales the
Republican census plot exposed crazy
story meanwhile Louisiana passes the
latest fetal palpitation bill signed by
Democratic Governor John bel Edwards
China escalates its trade war or our
trade war
halt soy purchases
and the CEO of Cigna health insurance
supposedly threatened Connecticut as
they were contemplating a public option
and new report incompetent rich people
are more likely to get ahead than smart
people with no money all this and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
we got a lot to go through today there
are two stories I didn't I didn't
headline the the Ben Shapiro story of
yesterday that there was a an incidence
in in Indiana I think it was right where
a we're not gonna get into it now but a
synagogue was vandalized by a neo-nazi
who had been radicalized with the help
of his wife his wife was radicalized in
part according to her testimony the
defense the IND in depositions by Ben
Shapiro and I said something somewhat
flippantly but I thought was certainly
possible yesterday that Ben Shapiro's
good Jews and bad Jews may explain how a
someone like Ben Shapiro not necessarily
has to be an Orthodox Jew but they're in
an invention bureaus case I think it is
specific to that or an Orthodox Jew with
Ben Shapiro's perspective on things
could actually you could draw a line
between what Ben Shapiro says and the
actions of a neo-nazi why would a
neo-nazi take any inspiration from ben
shapiro we will go deep into that today
maybe in the fun half but there is
now compelling evidence that that is
exactly the case we will talk about that
and this story about these hard drives
found that belonged to a Republican
operative who is considered the
Godfather of the Republican
redistricting gerrymandering program I
think from 2010 and these hard drives
reveal that the census question that the
administration wants to put on the
census about citizen status is not just
about terrifying immigrants but has a
specific calculated modeled agenda to
help Republicans win in elections and
there are two cases that are in front of
the Supreme Court that this is going to
have bearing on in my estimation one is
of the question of the the census
question which is up I mean there are
weeks away from deciding on maybe not
even weeks and the other is a
gerrymander question about intense
partisan gerrymandering and what we'll
talk about that too as the program
progresses but we're gonna get into
stuff with Marcy wheeler but before we
do many of you have probably seen this
story it's all over the place that on
his trip to Japan Donald Trump famous
for having an issue with John McCain
John McCain having an issue with Donald
Trump they didn't like each other
folks there is a worship called the USS
John McCain it was named after John
McCain's dad when John McCain past they
recommissioned it as being named after
both of them
Donald Trump did not go to that ship and
speak to the the seamen who are are in
in around Japan stationed in Japan he
went to a smaller boat called the wasp I
think it is and my friend Larry who was
a naval seamen himself Larry Murphy
tells me that boats small that's a weird
boat for someone to go on at the time
and it has come out that apparently the
White House not only wanted to avoid the
USS John McCain but put a drape over the
name while he was around so that he
couldn't see didn't see it and none of
those the seamen I think stationed on
that boat were allowed to hear his talk
I mean classy stuff here is Donald Trump
explaining that he didn't know anything
about it
it was his underlings it's a wonderful
exercise in watching Donald Trump's
cowardice but it also I think has some
relevance to what we're going to be
discussing today in terms of the Muller
report here is Dharam
the sailors at the John McCain that they
were banned from
what happened I wasn't involved I would
not have done that I was very angry of
John McCain because he killed healthcare
I was not a big fan of John McCain in
any way shape or form I think John
McCain had a lot to getting President
Bush a lot to do with it to go into the
Middle East which was a catastrophe to
me John McCain I wasn't a fan but I
would never do a thing like that now
somebody did it because they thought I
didn't like him okay and they were
well-meaning I will say I didn't know
anything about it I would never have
done that
I heard Taylor's old one us we had a
tremendous group of sellers from various
ships it was a beautiful day but the
McCain thing I knew nothing about okay
now maybe you can choose to believe
Donald Trump or not choose to believe
Donald Trump here that's irrelevant the
fish rots from the head down and the
head of the fish is certainly rotted
there's no reason to believe the rest of
the carcass is not also rotted but what
this also exemplifies was something that
we were talking about when the Muller
report was issued and again you don't
have to read the whole report read the
first two the first two chapters you
you'll get all you need to know it was
clear that Muller's task was very narrow
in terms of looking at the question of
what we coloca lee call collusion but
there is of course no legal there's no
crime you can commit with collusion he
had to look at something very specific
which was a very specific conspiracy
charge wherein with the two things that
the Russian government was involved in
that is the hacking and leaking of the
emails and in the social media
shenanigans did anyone
from the Trump campaign actively
coordinate with those people to do that
stuff did they trade material aid to
each other essentially in doing it and
they found that they did not or I should
say he did not find sufficient evidence
to find that they did that's more
accurate he specifically Muller or the
report specifically says we do not in
any way that does not in any way mean
that we didn't find the two parties
weren't working in concert in other
words that and they go on to say that
one party did something that the other
party reacted to the second party did
something that the first party reacted
to but they never coordinated those
things it's almost as if like you know
or anticipate what the other person
wants and then goes ahead and does it so
maybe Donald Trump doesn't say to any of
his staff I hate John McCain and if I go
there I don't want to see his ship and I
don't want to talk and I want to
actually disgrace the ship in some way
by taking it out on the sailors maybe
Donald Trump did not say that
maybe we believe Donald Trump that his
staff knows that he hates John McCain
and goes and does something that they
know will be pleasing to his staff I
mean to him and then Donald Trump is
like you guys did that and gave me
deniability
I'm not gonna coordinate anything with
you but here's a raise
here's some job security you see the
point there there's collusion in some
fashion they know what each other wants
but there's no conspiracy because they
haven't coordinated it won't someone rid
me of this troublesome aircraft
indeed and I think if you read the
report you see that there's a lot of
that I mean if you have the other 30,000
emails Russia go ahead
the Russians are thinking do you think
Donald Trump wants to win yes let's talk
to someone not affiliated campaign this
is a good time to drop these emails when
this tape comes out this also might be
why the Trump administration is so
understanding about Mohammed bin Salman
and Jamal Khashoggi yeah sometimes
people just get the idea that they want
something done and they do it and you
can't you know these things happen they
came from a good place the heart was in
the right their heart was in the right
place yeah meanwhile the second clip we
have for you today is also relevant to
having Marcion and really the question
of impeachment this is pretty stunning
and we played some of the clips from
from the Justin Amash town hall where
the he had a tremendous amount of
support for his calls to impeach Donald
Trump based upon the mahler report I
think there's a lot of people would
argue you don't need them all a report
to impeach Donald Trump but it's nice to
have multiple accounts and the argument
that many people are making about
impeachment despite the fact that it
doesn't have poll as well as one would
want to go ahead with it is that there's
a huge contingency of people in this
country who are not aware of what's in
that report I would include virtually
all of you listening to me because I
know almost none of you have read it I
know almost none of you have read it and
but you're aware of a you know
summations of it so you have a general
gist there's a clip from this Justin
Amash thing that I think
in some ways is sort of mind-blowing and
it's just a good reminder that we don't
know what the f a certain segment of the
population a large segment of the
population is exposed to on a daily
basis and what their perspective is on
these things we can talk about ben
shapiro although he is now on on
right-wing talk radio we can talk about
you know Jordan Peterson de brood maybe
that's that's where the kids but when
you talk about people ages 40 to 70 in
this country who are conservative the
main source of their news is not just
Fox in fact it's not Fox it is
right-wing radio and if you listen to
right-wing radio you are living in a
completely different universe than
everyone else and here is an example of
that this is from lawrence O'Donnell
caught this clip it's pretty amazing
poorest were outraged and others were
confused one Republican who attended the
congressman's Town Hall said that she
didn't know there was anything negative
about President Trump in the Mulla
report until congressman Amash started
talking about it I was surprised to hear
there was anything negative in the malla
report at all about President Trump I
hadn't heard that before
and I mainly listen to conservative news
and I haven't heard anything negative
about that report and president Trump
had been exonerated I I mean where could
like what like where would you ever get
the notion that although they completely
exonerated all the charges obliterated
in their report FoxNews right-wing radio
and people and guests who go on those
shows guests even guests who are really
concerned about misinformation and
hoaxes and whatnot that that that is why
any calculation that anyone makes about
polling regarding impeachment is largely
irrelevant because it presumes that
people know what's there and the fact is
is they don't you go back and as big as
that grab them by the the p-word tape
was not as many people heard it as we
thought I think at the time Clinton's
emails dropped strategically right on
that day or the day after that tape got
released and not as many people were as
where of where of it I think as as we
thought at the time so those are the two
clips were playing before Marcy wheeler
gets on just a reminder you can support
this program by becoming a member at
join the majority report com join the
majority report com you support the free
show and then we give you extra content
every day we'll be right back marcy
wheeler
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone I want to say it's a
pleasure to have her on and it is for me
but I do want to start off by issuing an
apology to earth to her for having her
on I think that's what I'm supposed to
do Marcy wheeler I'm sorry I'm sorry
that you have to do this and I'm sorry
saying that you're gonna catch no no end
of crap for this from certain quarters
well that crap is not going to end
either way I mean folks there's there's
a white-knuckled quality to what some
people want to argue and folks can tune
in to Tucker Carlson I think if you want
to see more of that but with that said
yesterday well alright so Marcy we have
not haven't you on since the Muller
report dropped and yesterday robert
muller ended the whole thing for the
most part as far as I can tell so let's
just let's just start with with with
this there was a in in Politico a piece
that said something to the effect of
like you know maybe what Robert Muller
was just basically reiterating what's in
the report and he wasn't saying anything
new and people are making too much of a
big deal of it he just reiterated what
was in the report just you know before
we get into a lot more of the specifics
of that what what's your take on that
take the idea that robert muller just
got up there he didn't say anything new
he just was reiterating it here let me
let me read it okay to you it's
misjudging Muller at the end of the day
all Robert Mullard really did was
reiterate what was in volume two of his
report he wasn't allowed to indict the
president for anything so the special
counsels office didn't consider it to
the extent that he leaned into the idea
of impeachment all he did was note the
fact that it was up to others Congress
to figure that out
maybe robert muller is exactly who we
thought he was someone who follows the
rules to the letter and views his
mission in the narrowest terms possible
and maybe folks on the last left are
investing too much of their hopes in a
guy who doesn't want the entire weight
of American democracy on his shoulders
and never has well what's your take on
that take I think well let me just start
by saying about start by you know making
your brain hurt but he did not end the
whole thing yesterday he ended his
investigation yesterday and I'll get
back to why that's important okay and I
think it is true that he substantially
said this is what's in the report but I
think it's important because very few
people have reported correctly on what
is in the report in other words there's
been a lot of disinformation for example
I mean one of the things he said
yesterday which was very subtly
different from the report but people are
understanding entirely differently as
you said there wasn't enough evidence to
charge a wider conspiracy very simple
sentence right a very similar one
appears on page two of the Miller report
that says just because we say that that
we did not establish a certain set of
facts doesn't mean there was evidence
there was no evidence of a certain set
of facts I can't tell you Sam how many
times I've said please go read page two
for that and one other reference on it
because people you know whether their
right-wing denialist left-wing
denialists good reporters people with
JD's they I've heard them over and over
again say there was no evidence of a
conspiracy and it's like no there there
was evidence of a conspiracy just for a
variety of reasons there was not another
evidence of a conspiracy to charge I am
and that's important I had guests on
this program who said who have said that
there is no evidence multiple times they
said it before they came on this program
they didn't say it when they came on
this program but they did say it after
they were on this program and Muller
made it very clear yesterday there was
insufficient evidence which is of course
you know is a it's a it's actually a
term of art isn't it in prosecution well
I mean yes and I mean so is did not
establish but the problem was that many
of the people reading the report treated
some the legalistic language in the
report as if it were plain English and
therefore they didn't they didn't treat
the legalistic nuances of the report
with any any honesty even people who
have de DS but yeah so there you know so
there was insufficient evidence to
charge conspiracies whether frankly it's
between just Russians or whether it's
between say Russians and Paul Manafort
or Russians in Carter page and and again
Muller did not go into the details of
why that's true but the report does and
in some cases there are prosecutorial
reasons for that and in some cases their
evidentiary reasons that go back to the
issues of obstruction on that so anyway
that's that's one thing that people took
his new yesterday which really wasn't
new I think it was important from Muller
to say his the three key details of his
logic on not prosecuting obstruction one
was he's not allowed the second one was
it's not fair to accuse the president of
a crime and not give him a way to
immediately say to prove his innocence
the second to challenge that accusation
in court and then the third was he was
preserving evidence so it's such time
and well the fourth was Congress it's
your job get off your get off your Duff
and start doing your constitutional job
I mean that's sort of what the vol 2
stuff was about and it was clearly an
attempt to counteract this bin that Bob
that bill Barr sorry bill Barr gave us
on March 24th you know so now like six
weeks ago right month ago and yesterday
we compared and contrasted bill bar
saying that in the March 5th
conversation Robert Muller
you know did not say that the OLC
findings were a but-for in terms of his
bringing a a charge but that was very
very narrowly tailored response because
it's clear that one of the reasons why
he didn't bring a charge of conspiracy
is because there was not enough evidence
but the other reason was he was not
authorized to bring a charge of anything
it appears at all and I feel like that
you know I'm reading this political
thing like the idea that he wasn't
allowed to indict the president for
anything I don't think that's been
terribly communicated to people Politico
you know you know threw it off like
everybody knows that that that Muller
was not allowed to indict the president
for anything I don't think people knew
that frankly right but right and and so
and and and I also think there's been a
great deal of spin about how
historically prosecutors have said to
Congress hey get off your death and even
Ken Starr even though he said Clinton
was guilty of a crime over and over and
over again which violated the rules that
Muller himself held himself do in other
words he could have said yeah this was
clear obstruction but he didn't because
he's not Ken Starr but even Ken Starr in
handing this to Congress did not say hey
Congress this is an impeachment referral
so no one should expect Muller to have
said hey Congress this is an impeachment
referral it was clear to people who had
read it closely because he kept saying
there are constitutional means to do
this and prosecuting is not one of them
here e emphasized that yesterday but it
was clear in the report had people read
it it was you know he kept saying over
and over again Congress Congress
Congress Congress you know we don't want
to charge him because that would
interrupt the actual constitutional
means of holding him accountable
Congress didn't get the message so
Miller made his made his statement
yesterday ok so I want to go backwards
here for a moment when we've spoken in
the past
you were speculating that that what
Muller was going to charge various
officials involved in the trumpeted say
the Trump campaign and potentially
Donald Trump himself or was going to was
investigating was a the crime of a
conspiracy to defraud the United States
give me a sense of like what do you like
how you have reassessed or how you
assess whether that was the charge or
the you know the the if he was in a
position to charge I guess if that was
what he was pursuing and where they did
not have the evidentiary what they
needed in terms of evidence okay so I
also think and some prior guests on your
show have said that I claimed he
definitely would charge a quid pro quo
conspiracy what I have said is there's a
great deal of evidence of a quid pro quo
conspiracy that that and on all of these
issues there's a very big question of
whether you can hit the bar of charging
the president's fund and on campaign
finance issues so on both the June 9th
meeting and on getting these email these
stolen emails released the second one
many people don't realize was also
considered for a campaign finance crime
and on both of those Moeller basically
said yeah I think a crime was committed
but according to the DOJ manual I can't
charge something unless I'm pretty damn
sure that I'm going to be able to get a
conviction and keep the conviction on
appeal and given whom I'm dealing with
and given what kind of evidence I've
gotten I'm not going to get there and
also given the First Amendment
considerations involved with WikiLeaks
and email releases and so on and so
forth so and that would also go to the
conspiracy to defraud thing if you get a
campaign
donation and don't reveal it then that's
another way to charge that so what he
basically said is and and importantly
just as an example Don jr. we know from
the report did never testified he's
willing to testify again to Congress but
he never testified to Miller's people at
all there's some hints although this is
redacted that he was subpoenaed and his
lawyer told Muller that he would invoke
the Fifth Amendment to you if he were
actually forced to come before the grand
jury and so did not appear or maybe he
didn't did invoke the fifth but you you
know just as an example you can't charge
the June 9th meeting without either
getting done jr. to testify or Emma Naga
Lara to find out what he said to Don jr.
on the phone and what Don jr. actually
expected from the meeting feminize lraa
cancelled an entire concert tour in the
United States to avoid testifying to
Muller know just remind people who
you're talking about the June 9th
meeting is the meeting that took place
at Trump Tower in that meeting
supposedly was Jared Kushner mana fort
Trump and and and and and who was there
Trump jr.
right and that and there was some
question as to whether they spoke on the
phone afterwards or beforehand or
something to that effect
what who were the Russians in the in
that meeting so the Russian who
organized the meeting is Aris aguillera
who is an oligarch who's close to Putin
he's the one who brought Trump to Moscow
in 2013 for the Miss Universe pageant so
they had worked together they had
discussed the Trump Tower deals until
basically until 2015 when a new one kind
of replaced it and so he was probably
the powerful Russian with closest ties
to Trump and his son has ties to Don jr.
and so his son had his concert promoter
Rob Goldstone emailed Don jr. to get a
meeting and Emin the son was like get a
meeting here's what I want you to tell
him and he got the meeting and at the
end of the meeting this Russian lawyer
natalia vasko kaya said
we want you to turn over Magnitsky
sanctions and and Don jr. said you know
we'll revisited after the election and
that's where I was getting to the point
of you know he took a meeting for dirt
and at the end of it he said we will
give you something in exchange for this
meeting for dirt come so that's one
example of where you might have gotten
there Muller did not get there another
place where there was clear evidence of
it now just to be clear that's the idea
of a quid pro quo and Muller it seems to
me in the report said the only thing
that they were investigating whether
there was actually like sort of like
material help or coordination in the
acts that each and other did so even it
seems to me like like he said and after
he stated that right after the sentence
after that said something to the effect
of like we're not talking about people
working in concert you know or people
making moves in concert with the other
people in other words like I see you do
this so I'm gonna do that and then you
see I do that so you're gonna do this
and back and forth
it's there has to be like some full
articulation that my doing this is
contingent upon you doing that yeah and
there's a lot of lawyers who will say
that if you or I were being assessed for
conspiracy the evidence that Muller had
would have been far easily sufficient to
charge us but you throw in the fact that
you and I can't afford the lawyers that
Don jr. can afford and that you and I
you know work we're not big on right the
stakes are big right you're afraid I
mean I would be I was not afraid I mean
I think it's I do not want to lose a
case against the president's son right
simply you're not going to do that and
so you're gonna make crystal clear and
you know on the June 9th meeting he kind
of said well Don jr. is too stupid to
conspire meaning that he doesn't know
enough about law about what's legal and
what's not legal to be able to say that
when he accepted that meeting he knew
that he was committing a campaign
finance violation
so and camp
finance violation in safar's like you're
getting services in kind essentially as
opposed to like money right okay right
and and the analysis on why the emails
weren't isn't is redacted because it
pertains to Roger stone we know I mean
the Roger stone stuff in the report if
people haven't read it it's still really
heavily redacted but it's really damning
because Trump was very very closely
involved in all of it you know he was
telling manna fort selling gates go
figure out what's coming next go you
know go get stone to tell us what's
coming next both both Cohen has
testified to this publicly Gates appears
to have testified that they witnessed
stone calling Trump and saying here's
what's coming down the pike so in other
words Trump was really closely involved
in telling Roger stone to go optimize
the WikiLeaks releases there's new
evidence in there which your prior
guests have ignored which makes it clear
that they did in fact know that
Podesta's emails were coming out well in
advance of them coming out but but even
if that's the case even if that's the
case would that still fall under what
what Muller was tasked because it seems
to me that like if WikiLeaks is an
independent player here Gordon yeah
right it's a big if but but presuming
they are if the Trump campaign is like
getting a heads-up from a publishing
entity that these are coming out that's
not that's not in any way like
contributing to like you know
coordinating the actual hack of the
stuff it's just getting a heads up on
the leaking of this stuff right and and
and it is clear there was a significant
First Amendment consideration in that
analysis what there are many things
about the way these stuff that's that
are interesting one is that using the I
mean Julian Assange just got a
easily superseding indictment was it
last week if that how much time is
passing that that charged him 17 counts
of espionage and that really poses a
grave risk for rapport national security
reporting in this country because it
accuses him of basically saying here's
what I want you to go find so that's the
basis of like nine charges of espionage
it accuses him of and wanted to do that
via basically a broadcast on his website
to people as opposed to like calling up
specific people and saying to go get
this for me right right and then and it
accuses him of helping so that's a CFA a
violation and that was the original
charge but there was an espionage charge
tacked on to the CFAA charge that poses
maybe less risk to journalism but still
does pose a risk and then the last one
is straight up publication he was
charged with three counts of espionage
for basically releasing the identities
of American and coalition force sources
so like an IP a violation of ex post
covert identities and knowing that that
could pose some risks so that's a really
dangerous prosecution but what's
interesting about it is as you said a
bunch of those charges nine of those
charges are based on a wish list that
WikiLeaks had on excite in 2010 that
allegedly Chelsea Manning was responding
to when she was digging through DoD
servers and finding stuff to leak to
Assange and what's interesting about
that in this case is there's really no
there's only one difference between a
the day before the Russians started
hacking John Podesta WikiLeaks issued a
tweet saying hey do you think that we
should pose a put up a reward for
getting the goldman sachs transcripts
which the russians did get from John
Podesta server so in this case
in the case of John Podesta Gmail's they
also issued basically a wish list and
the Russian hackers the next day started
hacking and obtaining that stuff so and
then in addition there's Trump standing
there on July 27 2016 saying Russia if
you're listening can you go find these
emails and again five hours later the
Russian started hacking Hillary's
personal server and so it's a real
question the one difference between
those two wish lists and the ones that
are in the EDB a espionage indictment is
that in the 2010 wish list WikiLeaks was
asking for classified information
whereas here wicky-wicky we WikiLeaks
was basically suborning theft and as was
as with Donald Trump suborning fast go
hack Hillary Clinton and find these
emails and so that's a question that
should be asked because it's curious
that bill bar would greenlight charges
against Julian Assange in 2010 but not
greenlight the same charges against
WikiLeaks or Donald Trump in 2016 so um
that's one thing that's sort of weedy
but I think it's an important question
the other thing is that you oh no no go
ahead I was gonna say that that makes
IIIi clearly understand that analogy in
fact the only difference in there is in
one instance you have the in in the in
the former instance where it was an open
call by WikiLeaks the difference is is
that they're looking for whistleblowers
they're not asking outside right I mean
they're you know they're they're
specifically asking whistleblowers
people who are working within these
agencies now maybe there isn't a legal
difference but it it seems to me to be
so at least a difference and in the case
of Trump saying he's addressing the
Russians directly in that instance right
like like he like he has someone in mind
to do the job
as he says it publicly now maybe he was
just joking but maybe WikiLeaks was
joking when they said maybe should we
offer a reward for this stuff I mean so
alright but I get well in and the any
evidence in the Miller report makes it
very clear he wasn't joking because both
cohen and flynn and gates and manna for
they're all on the record saying Donald
Trump was really obsessed with getting
these emails right so including that
same day so it's you know it's like the
evidence makes it clear he wasn't joking
that's just one of the many questions in
his horn answers where Trump very
clearly lied to Muller but whatever you
know that's just one of many okay so all
right so we have that that odd choice by
Bill Bar I'm being a little bit
facetious to prosecute WikiLeaks for
something they did in 2011 and not
choosing to do what they did basically
the same thing in 2016 and I should be
clear that I think that the prosecution
that you just talked about and I think
you have made it very clear I think is
is wrong and very very dangerous for
journalism regardless of what people
think about Julian Assange or WikiLeaks
or whatnot because the the legal theory
can be applied to anybody they don't
need to be Julian Assange for that legal
theory once it's established to be
applied to I don't know pick your
favorite national security reporter so
alright and yeah and I and I also wanna
make clear I'm not saying it should be
applied in the 2016 case because it
would be equally danger in the 2016 case
I think that Muller's whatever Muller's
First Amendment review was I think that
that probably was a sound decision
it's EDB a that's not making sound
decisions yeah EDD I'm not calling for
anybody yeah well just tell us what DBA
is Eastern District of Virginia which is
but the Judicial District where Assange
is being prosecuted it also happens to
be where CIA odni that
the Director of National Intelligence in
the Pentagon our and so a lot of the
worst precedents for national security
whistleblowing are there okay and and
that's one of the reasons why they're
prosecuting Assange there because the
precedents are all there okay so all
right so with that addressed I want to
go on to what you said about let's talk
about the continuing investigation and
then I want to talk about your most
recent posts on there is recent evidence
that Trump lied in a sworn statement to
Muller that the Trump Organization
withheld responsive emails from a
subpoena and that those emails are
available if they want it to I guess
presumably like the House Judiciary
Committee or a a an impeachment Select
Committee but let's just start with the
continuing investigations Muller has
ended what he's done but there are still
investigations that continue on that are
pertinent to the work that he did right
so there were 14 referrals and - I may
have this wrong altogether they're 14
cases still out there I think most of
them probably aren't anywhere close to
prosecution and may never get close to
prosecution so I think that number is
inflated but but what Muller made clear
was there's a bunch of stuff we sent off
mostly to other judicial districts
federal districts and then there are
some cases where they were continuing
when we finished and here's who's in
charge of them and one of those that is
unredacted and there's actually a site
literally as we speak in DC right now in
Roger stones case is Roger stones case
there has been both with journalists
trying to get the warrants used against
Roger stone and importantly with a Roger
stone Ally associate named named Andrew
Miller who works on
first owned in the government's
responses to their request the
government has said the investigation
into Roger stone is ongoing and what
happened yesterday and I suspect this
coincidence is not at all
accidental so literally minutes after
Miller finished so Andrew Miller worked
for stone in 2016 was basically his his
scheduler including during the RNC he
was interviewed by the FBI in spring of
2018 and Muller said here's a subpoena
and at first he was going to he's going
to respond to the subpoena and then some
right-wing operative funded a challenge
to the subpoena and the subpoena went
all the way to the to the Supreme well
it went through the DC District the
sorry the DC Circuit and was denied all
the time he was trying to say Muller has
no authority to subpoena me and that
just got sent back that like that having
you know tried to appeal it all the way
to the Supreme Court that just got or
decide if he couldn't that just got
dumped back at the district court and
yesterday literally minutes after Miller
finished that hearing on whether or not
the chief judge in DC was going to hold
this guy in contempt went through and
she said yeah I'm gonna and she did that
based off the representations of the
prosecutors one of whom is a former
molar prosecutor guy guy by the name of
Aaron szalinski based on their
representations that they still need
Miller's testimony for something and
they couldn't have gotten that testimony
given the way grand jury subpoenas work
they couldn't get that testimony unless
they could convince to her and they did
secret you know under secret conditions
yesterday that and you know in a sidebar
they did convince her that there are new
charges that may be out there based on
what Andrew Miller testifies to now he's
going to testify as far as we know
friday morning at 9:30 so these would be
new charges new charges against stone
new charges against anybody else or just
Roger stone I suggested actually after
the post you referenced earlier I
suggested in a post today that it
appears they're still looking for
Russia's hacks Lucifer 2.0 Assange and
Roger stones relationship to all three
at this so it's all the same stuff
there's just you know potentially new
charges that they may bring against
stone based on what Andrew Miller knows
yes I don't know what that would be I
had thought that it's clear from
something that stone submitted to court
that he was also investigated for a wire
fraud and I had thought maybe that's
what this was going to be about because
Miller has suggested he was a little
worried about his own financial exposure
but it's given what was submitted
yesterday it seems fairly clear it is
the same party so Assange Russia
Gustavo 2.0 and WikiLeaks that these
potential new charges would pertain to
okay so that's ongoing and is there
anything else that is extant in terms of
that that we know about at this point
one thing that that also is extant that
we know I mean there there are aspects
of Michael Collins testimony like there
is a lawyer who floated a pardon to him
and they're investigating the way in
which pardons were floated to him we
know for example in this isn't
necessarily didn't necessarily come out
of Muller but there are common witnesses
there still an investigation until into
the inauguration fund there still an
investigation into something mana fort
lied about that we don't know details of
so we know basic outlines of some of
these some of these things you know that
there was an indictment maybe two weeks
ago of a guy named Steve caulk who's a
banker who gave manna for alone that no
one in the right mind should have given
him and he did it in exchange for a
position first in the in the campaign
and then he hoped in the administration
and he got charged with bribery so he
got hit really hard that's not a mullah
referral they said that they don't
consider that a mullah referral and yet
it's something that describes oh my
goodness
is Paul Manafort a crook I mean like the
way in which he suckered this guy into
giving him basically fifteen million
dollars of loans based off promising him
that he would get him a position in the
Trump administration is just pretty
galling stuff so that's ongoing pretty
damning stuff not a mullah referral and
there there are a number of cases like
that when they bribe a guy and you can't
trust them to do it's very sad I know I
mean but I you know so I did this I'm
working on this timeline of what we know
of the investigation so when when
certain warrants were filed and
therefore when the FBI knew about
certain you know potential crimes and
doing that I'm just stunned again by how
corrupt all these guys are I mean
Michael Flynn is well like he was being
paid by Turkey an unregistered foreign
agent of Turkey well he was getting
pre-election briefing top-secret
briefings as the president's top
national security adviser so foreign
agents getting top-secret briefings well
but he's an honorable guy and so he
won't tell right yeah internal firewall
at the meeting all right let me know so
one more one more ongoing investigation
is for some reason when Washington Post
tried to get all of the breach
declaration related to Paul Manafort and
that's a lot of that stuff does show up
in the Miller report which is what they
told the judge they're like just let us
have this and prosecutors in that case
too are also saying ongoing
investigation so there there are aspects
of manna Forte's behavior which may
pertain to his ongoing efforts that went
until 2018 to basically push this
Ukraine quote/unquote peace plan which
amounts to carving up Ukraine for
Russia's benefit so that
maybe what their continuing continuing
to investigate for mana fort but there
is something with mana Ford that's still
extant as well there was a at one point
there was a foreign entity company that
had been subpoenaed or and we're
fighting the subpoena whatever happened
to that thread we don't know but again
giving given what Muller said I had you
know no one has gotten reporting on this
hopefully now that everyone's done they
can explain this I couldn't even get
people in Congress who should know to be
able to explain it but nobody nobody
could explain why Muller stuck around
two months after his report was filed
it's quite possible he stuck around
until he knew that Miller's testimony
that they would get Miller's testimony
and if that's the case then you probably
stuck around until they got whatever
they needed from mystery appellant so it
may be that there is something pending
with mystery appellant which at least
from my read of it implicated somebody
really seen either really senior or
somebody who had the goods on somebody
really senior like I don't rule out that
it's a Chinese company that was
investing in Eric Prince's company
because that clearly had some criminal
implications and there are reasons to
think it might have been true and the
reason you might go after Eric Prince is
because he knows certain things he's
hiding he's still not telling the truth
about certain things about Trump that
charging him with being a foreign agent
of China being a mercenary of China
basically might you know might get him
more willing to talk about what he knows
about Trump so there there are still
examples of that and that's that's we
don't know what happened with mystery
appellant and what I just told you was
just a hypothesis I'm not promising it's
going to happen or even that that it has
come in I'm just saying that that is for
example a scenario that's possible okay
and one more thing before we get on to
the sort of this sort of the new
evidence and
at one point Mahler said at the end
almost the end of the press conference I
think maybe it was the very end there
were multiple systemic efforts to
interfere in our election and that
allegation deserves the attention of
every American is that him just saying
hey you know Donald Trump despite the
fact that you say that there was no
interference there there there was
systemic efforts to do so and you
shouldn't deny that despite the fact
that you you did some own sleuthing
yourself in asking Putin if he did it
what is there more to that what does
that mean the way I took it and I wrote
a post on this and I've got another
piece coming out on it because it's not
just that reference although I think
that reference so multiple systemic
efforts to interfere in our election he
also said and I'm reading he also said
that there were numerous efforts
emanating from Russia to influence the
election I'm not sure I have that quote
exactly right and he also describes how
the two indictments so the GRU
indictment and the iearned IRA
indictment and other activities
described in the report described
Russia's multifaceted effort to
interfere in the election and what I
take though that language to mean is
when Bob when Bill Barr you know he did
his for his four-page memo he said there
are two parts to this there's the IRA in
GRU indictments and Trump's people
didn't conspire there and then there's
the obstruction thing and because
Trump's people didn't conspire with IRA
or GRU the obstruction thing with a
no-brainer he's innocent and in fact of
course there are two volumes there's the
obstruction volume and the first volume
which
include the IRA GRU indictment and all
these descriptions of Russians trying to
reach out to trump people and I think
what he was trying to say is many if not
most if not all of those instances that
he included in that first volume of that
outreach he considers attempts to
interfere in the election so as an
example you know when Joseph Masood
reached out to George papadopolis that
wasn't it and said hey we've got these
emails we wanted we want to get a
meeting with Putin we've got these
emails and by the way a couple things
that the report shows which hasn't
gotten a lot of attention
one is that Massoud has ties to both the
IRA operation and the GRU operation so
whether or not he knows Putin's niece
which he lied about he was very well
positioned to know about the operation
the ongoing Russian operation another
thing we know is that there were aspects
that Papadopoulos kept doing that he hid
he you know he he had these notes for a
meeting with Putin's office in September
in London at the same time he was
complaining about having an FBI
informant sent out after him and he
refused to tell the FBI he refused to
help the FBI read his notes on that so
he's still trying to hide the details of
what that September meeting was supposed
to be so Papadopoulos is actually more
damning than you make out and then there
was this aftermath with a guy named
Sergei million who people kept offering
Papadopoulos these jobs and he was like
it felt really creepy I thought it was
weird and I'm like well if it's weird
call the FBI you know if you think this
guy like you know million said we'll
give you thirty thousand dollars a month
if you get a job in the Trump
administration and there'll be women and
and top it off Liz's response was well
that sounds illegal and he did nothing
about it being illegal and continued to
talk to Sergey million but and so what I
think one of the things Muller was
trying to say with the multiple systemic
efforts are
we haven't been Amina not this is true
of me as well like we haven't been
saying the entire volume one is about
Russia's efforts interfere in the
election yes it is true that that no
conspiracy involving a trump official
was charged but Muller seems to be
suggesting that many of those instances
Papadopoulos mana for sharing polling
data the effort to get the meeting
sharing dirt and asking for sanctions
relief
Carter page that those are all Russian
attempts to to reach out to the Trump
administration as part of the same
operation or as for as parallel
operations and and and that that's what
I was that's one of the things that I do
think was new with Muller statement
yesterday and was pretty importantly new
because we haven't been thinking
no one has no zero people have been
thinking in terms of it was all part of
the same operation I mean it was all
part of like certainly the outreach to
Trump's people I said earlier Arisaka
lrf the guy who set up the June 9th
meeting he's really close to Putin and
it would be silly to imagine that
aguillera
was doing that without thinking that it
somehow might please Putin especially
because we see the head of a different
Bank later and the later in the report
say yeah you know Putin at every
quarterly meeting with me has been
saying how can you get to trump how can
you get me to Trump how can you own
Trump so you know it's clear that that's
what Putin wants what Muller shows in
volume one is none of it amounted to
criminal behavior that he could charge
and prosecute and withstand on appeal on
but that yeah it was part of the same
effort okay so is in some way the fact
that that it took I mean even if it's
this right that like you know the the
analogy is like I hate John McCain and
one side of your advisers says oh I know
how I can please the boss let's put the
drape over the USS McCain
somebody else says oh you know what we
did is we do faced you know a dinghy
that had John McCain's name on it or you
know we went out and I told Megan McCain
go go you know go after yourself like
all of them go out with it with this
sort of the prime directive of you know
you know make it make me happy about you
know what happens that that is
consistent with my hatred of John McCain
but the fact that I mean that's one
scenario I guess that that you know
we're talking about that there was the
impetus for all these different contacts
whether they were coordinated or not or
whether there was a central sort of like
repository for these actions all
emanated from a desire that was
happening in Russia does not the fact
that they were they happen repeatedly
over time indicate that the Trump
Organization that they never succeeded
that the Trump Organization that you
know people said kept they kept going up
to the Trump campaign and say do you
want to dance you want to dance you want
to dance and they kept getting shot down
or you know or like oh I need to get a
drink you know maybe not exactly shot
down like no there wasn't necessarily a
no but it was like oh I got to get a
drink and then they came back and they
couldn't find each other I mean
something like that like like the fact
that that that they had to continue to
try and meet with the Trump people
indicative of they never really
connected I think to some degree it does
although there are cases that are
exceptions to that I mentioned
Papadopoulos both before and after the
campaign he was willing to at least
entertain these job offers and and never
really did anything to stop getting the
job offers even after having been
interviewed by the FBI about them same
thing with Carter page even after the
FBI started coming after him he was
still like yeah I'm gonna listen to
whatever Russia wants me to do I want to
go into business with them and so and
and particularly with Paige the molar
report is like well
we could never figure out exactly what
he didn't rush us though the case is not
closed on Carter page and the case
against Carter page and the report is
actually far more damning than ever gets
discussed in in regards to its life
application there's aa recycle RF where
he definitely tried after the election
to to to capitalize on the relationship
and on that meeting and to kind of say
well you promised us and that maybe you
know I think one of the things that say
over and over again we see Trump's very
venal loser associates still know that
something's wrong when Trump doesn't so
I think Steve pin and actually saved
Trump in a number of positions including
when he became the guy in charge right
after the election saying no we're not
going to take this this dangle in the
way it was given and then another really
important point of continuity that we
actually don't see all of in the report
but is clearly there is is with
circuitously off so the I said kiss lyac
sorry I said his name Ron it's clear
that he's making outreaches to everybody
during the election and his outreaches
after the election to Mike Flynn formed
the basis of his charges right so he
kept talking to kiss lyac and eventually
convinced him not to retaliate for
sanctions based off assurances that that
trump would fix sanctions right what's
important about Flynn and that
relationship is many parts of that
relationship are actually not in the
report so meetings going back to 2015
not in the report even though we know
that they were part of an FBI
counterintelligence investigation and to
understand why Muller didn't charge
Flynn for according to the public record
at least basically going rogue and
reaching out secretly to the Russian
ambassador and saying I'm going to fix
these sanctions given the investigation
that was already started into him it
should have been a no-brainer I mean it
should have been like you just
I'd for Russia and he wasn't charged for
spying for Russia
so Muller must know more and I suspect
that one of the things that plane
cooperated on that we can't see is to
talk about that longer relationship and
so kiss lyac is somebody for whom there
was more continuity there are a couple
of other people that actually do show up
again and again and many of them are
hedges American hedge funders right who
have business in Russia and I think one
of the criticisms of people that is
absolutely right about the Russian
investigation is first of all it set off
this kind of suspicion of all the things
Russia
I think it's flattened the notion of
what is Russian so a lot of Georgians or
varies or Ukrainians or Cypriots or
what-have-you are treated as Russian
when they're not I mean they might have
interests in common with Russia but
they're obviously not Russians and and
and that all got flattened out but if
you look at the report one of the weak
points I mean if you want to say there's
this counterintelligence threat of
Russia coming in and selling us out and
having American sell us out the weak
point is not necessarily Russian
business people but it's like these
hedge fund people in New York
Richard Burt is one there's a guy named
Forsman who's another who keeps coming
back and keeps you know offering these
back-channel meetings just like Russian
bankers were there was a guy Rick Gerson
who with a Russian banker basically
planned the first phone meeting between
Trump and Putin it wasn't anyone in the
White House it was these bankers in DC
and in Moscow who were doing it together
and that's one of the things that is
that is a little alarming and that
frankly justifies where Congress is
going and in subpoenaing all these bank
records because you know these these New
York bankers they don't care about
America they care about making business
deals and and that's the way you're
going to get it and it's not it's not
just the Trump administration although
the Trump administration I think is is
extremely susceptible because they're
all venal and
they all have no moral compass not all
but most are venal and most have no
moral compass and therefore when some
guy comes up offering a wad of cash
they're gonna say yeah I mean they're
not going to think through who's behind
that cash isn't that probably what was
largely behind all of this was on some
level the people closest to Trump
anticipated he would lose there was this
huge pile of cash in the form of like a
building that they wanted to build in in
Russia and it was more like you know to
the extent that anything was promised
that we would look at you know after we
win it's sort of like we're not gonna
win so ya promised them and let's just
keep a good relationship with these
folks because this is the way that you
make a business deal right like you know
yeah yeah and this will segue me to the
Cohen stuff to the Trump Tower Moscow
stuff I you know I do suspect the
details of the term Tower Moscow when
you read Michael : talking to the House
Intelligence Committee he sounds like a
dope I mean he really he's like I mean
first of all like Muller has said and
Cohen has said and fader has said this
deal was worth 300 million dollars and
if that's true it is literally too good
to be true and so a lot of people are
like it wasn't a real deal because the
money doesn't add up and I think a
better way of understanding it was you
need to think a little bit about why
this deal doesn't why this deal is too
good to be true
right and why why Felix fader kept
pitching it in certain ways and certain
times that really served Russia's
interest and why Felix aider said if you
do this you'll win the election and why
Trump and Cohen made certain decisions
in conjunction with the schedule of the
election I don't think Michael Cohen is
being fully honest about all of that he
sounds really idiotic when he says oh
yeah I Felix said or mentioned the
election and I didn't think anything of
it oh yeah I was holding off on
scheduling these meetings until after
the primary and but don't take any any
don't make any connection between the
election and and this deal but it seemed
clear the Russians behind that deal
which includes people from GRU did keep
that in mind so it may have been Cohen
was telling himself a fiction because he
thought he'd get rich but the Russians
knew exactly what they were doing and
and and that is a perfect example but
when you look at some of the rest of
Michael Collins testimony I mean you
know even in when the house the House
Oversight Committee he's like Trump
thought he had a three percent chance of
winning the election it for him it was
an infomercial it was just branding it
was just a great marketing opportunity
and that's why and and really Miller and
Congress have him dead to rights I'm
lying under oath to Muller about the
Trump Tower deal because the Trump you
know like basically Trump in his sworn
answers about the Trump Tower deal to
Muller said basically repeated that the
Michael Collins story that he's now
sitting in prison for having told you
know he said that it stopped early there
were very few conversations no
conversations with anybody else in the
family no talk of traveling to Russia
all fall and all the false stories at
Michael Cohen told to Congress back in
2017 Trump kept telling that same false
story and oh by the way his personal
lawyer was involved in writing that
story with Michael Cohen and that is the
sworn story that Trump told Muller now
after it became clear that Cohen had
test had had cooperated on that then
Trump started running Trump and Rudy
Giuliani started running their mouth and
they're like oh yeah well the answers
that we wrote we meant those to carry
all the way through until acha the
election and that's the first that
Muller had actually suspect Cohen was
not telling the full truth about how
long the deal went but that's the first
that Muller was told by somebody by
Trump you know in a public interview but
in fact the deal that he kept the deal
going until you know he stopped it after
the election
maybe reluctantly but that's what
trouble on tit he didn't want to be
present in the United States he wanted
this too good to be
true offer and it really served the
Russian goals to keep that offer on
there because it meant that Trump was
always going to be willing to say what
they wanted him to say and to take
meetings and to do X Y & Z and so so the
Trump Tower deal is not a crime it is
not a crime to entertain a deal which is
too good so good to be true that you
should really think more about why
somebody's offering you the deal but
Trump is too narcissistic
I mean he's you know a narcissist is not
going to do I also I mean you know I
mean I have some alternate theories
about that to a certain extent but but
the the pursuing you know like changing
policy because you think it's gonna lead
to a good business deal for you or
coming out with policies and then you
know carrying through on those policies
after your president because you think
like your kids are going to be able to
make that deal or whatever it is it's
not a crime but it's certainly something
that's impeachable it seems to me right
like you're as president you're not
supposed to be acting you're not
supposed to be sort of forging US policy
based upon developing a good
relationship with the country so that
you can get a business deal there I mean
that's that's not what you're supposed
to be doing I mean it's also strikes me
is that Donald Trump could have believed
it not just out of his you know his sort
of just his pride and or his ignorance
on some level like Felix Eider is a
money launderer you know maybe that 300
million dollars they there's no doubt in
my mind that when they build stuff they
pad budgets they hide money this is the
way you skim right like it's a 300
million dollar deal and it maybe it cost
like two and a quarter to build the
thing and then you've got 75 million I
mean they did it with the inauguration
as far as I can tell yeah super
expensive inauguration and yeah we were
able to you know shuttle off whatever it
is 25 million dollars - milania's friend
and that for doing whatever and then we
don't know where that money went
I mean that's
so alright so of the stuff that we know
Trump is lied to is in a sworn statement
to Muller that could come up in an
impeachment hearing they withheld emails
from a subpoena and those emails are get
a bull now right because because Muller
had them basically dipped in amber more
or less right I mean is that what
happened well and also because Trump for
a really corrupt businessman doesn't
conduct his business in a really safe
way Google and Microsoft both offer as a
service to enterprises which means
either usually big businesses and also
college universities they offer to run
their email system you don't know that
that they're running your email system
so for example Temple University twice
the government has been able to go to
Google who runs their email system and
get emails from a professor and from a
student there that if they had gone to
Temple Temple would have been forced to
make a First Amendment challenge to the
subpoena to the warrant and and that's
true of virtually everyone who uses
Microsoft or Google to do their email
services is that the government's going
to go to Google and Microsoft because
Google Microsoft you know they're going
to follow the law but they're going to
follow the law but also Google and
Microsoft because the way the government
does this aren't going to be able to
give the business or the university an
opportunity to challenge the warrant
which normally would happen and this is
a problem that affects everyone and
Microsoft to their credit has changed
this somewhat and ironically they got
DOJ to change the rules in October 2017
in July 2017 well in June 2017 as Muller
was looking closer at Michael Cohen he's
like whoa there's some there's some
stuff there and he calls up he calls up
Microsoft and says please preserve all
of my quirk Michael Cohen's oh so what
is the kicker on this is that that
Microsoft provides Trump organizations
emails
so there are two ways you can get Trump
Organization emails you can go to Trump
organization and deal with Trump and his
lawyers and they're all corrupt or you
can deal with Microsoft and they're
going to follow the law and so what FBI
did twice in 2017 that we know of is
first just with Michael comer with
Michael Cohen and maybe others and then
a second time for everybody in the
company the FBI caught up and said hey
do us a favor and dip those in amber and
so since July of 2017 everybody at Trump
organizations emails have been dipped in
amber have been preserved by Microsoft
and what appears to have happened with
various things that Muller was
investigating is he'd asked Trump
organization to voluntarily comply and
they would say they did and then at the
same time Muller and the FBI were going
to Microsoft and saying hey can you give
us all these emails in the Trump a
member was looking at and they didn't
know that that that Muller was basically
setting them up to lie to him and so
then Ben Miller subpoenaed that stuff in
I think March of 2018 and probably still
didn't get full compliance and so and
and three of the emails so so that's
what happened with Muller and the FBI
but at the same time it just so happens
that by freak of chance Michael Cohen is
one of the only Trump people that
Congress decided to subpoena and it's a
freak of chance there's not a really
good explanation for it but they did
they subpoenaed Michael Cohen and most
of the documents that they wanted from
Michael Cohen back in March in sorry May
of 2017 he didn't have Trump
organization had so he went to Trump
organizations lawyer guy named Alan
Garten and said hey can you pull all of
these emails so that I can fit I can
comply with the subpoena from Congress
and Alan garden before he gave this is
according to Michael Cohen sworn
testimony to hypsi Alan Garden before he
gave those documents to Michael Cohen
looked at them and said how are we going
to tell a story that's not damning to
the boss and he pulled the emails
that showed that proved the Trump Tower
deal went past the Iowa caucus
so those emails were not delivered to
the House Intelligence Committee even
though they were subpoenaed and guess
who signed that subpoena
it wasn't Adam Schiff it was Devin unas
so trump organization refused to comply
with a valid subpoena signed by a
Republican back in 2017 and when Michael
Cohen was testifying in in in March
basically you could see Adam Schiff I'm
reading the transcript and you could see
Adam Schiff mind going wild because he's
like wait a second these emails were not
handed over to us as part of our
subpoena so that's that's how like now
Adam Schiff has proof that Alan Garten
did not comply with the subpoena but
I've added now the added bit which which
says Adam Schiff guess where you can go
get those emails right you don't have to
you don't have to fight your mark to get
it right you can just go to Microsoft
and once you get this you know once you
get those those court rulings that say
this is of course a valid subpoena just
ask Microsoft and they're going to give
it to you and then you're going to have
smoking gun proof that Trump
organization was that Trump Organization
told the lie that Michael Cohen is
sitting in prison for Trump organization
and Jay Sekulow and Donald Trump mount
Michael Cohen well I mean Michael Cohen
did Nancy Pelosi basically saying okay
we can go forward with this and that's a
that's a different issue
all right so lastly one more thing I
want to ask you about the in every post
that you have written since oh I guess
maybe a year or so now you have write a
disclaimer at the end about having
turned in a source we I can't remember
the date in which we discussed that on
this program but it was a source who if
I recall correctly had contacted you
the day after the election of Donald
Trump had informed you of a meeting that
was going to take place you didn't think
much of it you thought the source was
sort of talking out of their ass
subsequent to that Jared Kushner
testified that that meeting actually did
take place in retrospect and I think it
was Ignatius in the Washington Post
maybe had reported on that meeting as
well and you you put two and two
together and said there's no reason why
this person should have known that but
the fact that they did know that leads
me to believe that they were involved
with these people in a way that doesn't
make sense unless X Y or Z I mean I
don't know all the factors that went
through your mind so you went to the FBI
well let me let me let me interrupt for
a sec that's not why I went to yes yes
okay all right yes sir
then do tell but but but up to that
point had I gotten the story straight
well it is true that I showed that text
and that I had no idea why this person
would know what Mike Flynn was up to 48
I mean he looked like he literally told
me about it 14 hours after the polls
closed so that you know so but that's
that has that that that has nothing to
do with the main reasons I went to the
FBI there was something that people
don't know and still don't did not know
and still don't know was part of the
election year attack or at least I have
reason to understand that it was and
that was the urgent reason I went to the
FBI something was happening something
was ongoing and there was actual harm
happening and I felt that I couldn't
just write about it I couldn't fix it by
by reporting and I couldn't at the same
time in good conscience watch that
continued harm to happen so that's the
urgent reason I went and then there an
aspect of what I went to the FBI about
and I don't know how much and I don't
know the terms of it but an aspect of
what I went to the FBI about did get
moved under Miller such that when I
spoke with Miller's office a year ago
they were grateful that I had reached
out to that and beyond
that though what I've just told you that
that the main urgent reason why I went
to the FBI and that the person this
involves has absolutely nothing that I
understand to do with Trump people also
explains why the the advent of the molar
report doesn't actually change things
doesn't if you know what we see in the
molar report doesn't affect doesn't say
it doesn't say to me one way or another
how much of what I went to the FBI about
they were able to corroborate or not or
how much or whether they've you know
since decided they've chased down all
the leads and decided that it was
nothing I'm not gonna you know I I have
I'm not going to say more than that I do
know or think I know more than that but
I you know I'll just say that the Muller
report does not change where I was at a
year ago when I talk to you
so about my understanding of where
that's at so let me ask you this that
question do you anticipate that there
will be we will know a story that will
involve this individual in the future
and things will become clearer or is
this basically the end of that story as
far as you you know you could you you
will reveal publicly um there is a crime
that it's DOJ can charge it they will
charge it and so if they charge it and
it doesn't and I you know and it's not
the person I thought it was then I will
know at that point that I was wrong
about that aspect of it
there's also part of it that but it's
not clear they're ever going to be able
to get the evidence to actually charge
that and you know these things happen
and then there is there are other
aspects of this that might not be
charged for other reasons so so I don't
I don't know I mean I can promise you
that the FBI does not call me up with
updates to tell me exactly what's going
on that's the last thing I mean you know
yes so the room and had a conversation
together but it's not like we're pen
pals at all this point so it's it's it's
possible that this is
the end of that story that we're going
to hear from you if there is no further
action by the FBI is that I mean is that
the case yeah I mean I suppose there's
at some point where I will you know come
around to saying to explain a bit about
it but now's definitely not that time it
would be I'm certain that now is not
that time it'll be sometime in the
future but you can't you can't give a
timeline for it mmm yeah but you and I
you you and I have a standing date that
I'm that I said two years from the time
when we talked I would tell you about
how weird it is to talk to the FBI so
maybe that's when we should revisit
which I think is is probably about 15 15
months in the future but more time you
know we can get back together
all right well Marcy thank you for you
know we kept you on for a long time let
me reiterate I apologize for that I
should not be on the show I'm sorry for
for spoiling Sam so I'm not sure it was
listeners that had a problem with you
but but as long as the apologies are out
there all apologies we will I'm sure
we've covered everyone we need to cover
with that well so let me ask you this
just lastly about that source thing just
finally do you have regrets about that
or do you still are you still okay zerah
zerah none I mean I am none and I mean
they have to take your word that you
actually did any of that for all we know
at this point right like I mean who
knows yeah that's true although I think
that I've made enough claims about
having about Muller's investigation that
they might have corrected me if that was
all made up so right okay fair enough
Marcy wheeler thanks so much folks can
read more at empty wheel dotnet I really
appreciate your time today thank them
there you have folks a lot of stuff in
there a lot of stuff for I again I will
implore you
you can listen to it audible has a free
download maybe we should put a link to
that in the our podcast description
today here we go
Michael Tracy took a screen shot cool
guest I heard she has some big ethical
problems though you know the whole fairy
tale she concocted about going to the
FBI and becoming a big player in the
mower investigation the explosive
evidence of collusion she claims she
possessed other than that cool guest
I got sarcasm Oh oh he's he's being
sarcastic look at that oh there you go
about what Marcie did with turning in
her own source to the FBI
not being in the let's get a hurt that's
gonna hurt it's just the Glenn clip
saying he respects Marcy wheeler as a
journalists and doesn't think you should
apologize for having him on oh well
alright good to know he got super
producer Matlack ladies and gentlemen
doing his twitter foo as it were we will
put a link to the audio of the Muller
report in our podcast description I just
listened to the first two chapters that
will take you maybe an hour maybe we
should have just play it rip it from out
of stream it we might be able to find a
public domain version that won't sue us
for it well maybe we should just read it
do like the first two chapters maybe
I'll do that hmm another media property
did that and they got a lot of use for
it I think I said somebody might have
suggested that on day one
mm-hmm-hmm and then I was poo pooed I
think by people in this office anyways
speaking of poo poo you can become a
member of the majority report by going
to join the majority report dot-com when
you do you not only support the free
show we give you extra content every day
and we give it to you ad free
so join the majority report calm it is
the members that make this show
independent it is
I mean it's hugely important to what we
do like every time I make a calculation
about hiring somebody or expanding the
show or you know trying to pay you know
give raises or or whatever it is it is a
function of our members we make some
money through YouTube obviously and some
money through advertising but at the end
of the day it's our members because
members won't won't decide one day like
oh we're gonna do monetize this channel
or a hashtag got a jump or well hashtag
got a jump but look how hard those guys
have been working and they you know even
with their incredible efforts it has an
effect of the numbers about well well it
may not be the case but it is it's still
tough those gotta jump geyser they're
not easy but the point is is that it is
our membership that is at the core of
this of this program and so by becoming
a member it is much appreciated with
that said if you don't have the finances
I don't want people to put themselves in
any type of financial stress to support
the program there's a lot of different
ways you can support the show go give us
a review on iTunes tell your friends
when we get merch wear a shirt if we
ever you know can get our act together
and if you want the extra content but
don't have the finances send an email at
majority reporters at gmail.com
we have hooked up hundreds upon hundreds
of folks and we are happy to do it
we don't want to kick anybody out for
financial reasons Michael is on a
retreat silent retreat that's why I
think tonight in the feet I'm gonna put
a letter hangover episode so
and take over the feed League all the
cat's away the mouse will play so poach
some audience there you go you should do
like for every because there's still
some food there apparently
so check out TM BS and get a double dose
literary hangover also you can check out
the anti Fatih at patreon.com slash the
Intifada what's happening on literary
hangover people should check out the
Margaret Fuller episode which is the
most recent one especially if they don't
know who she is because I feel like she
should definitely be more known she's an
early feminist and a sort of socialist
utopian socialist and yeah very
interesting and she died off of Fire
Island in a shipwreck actually yeah yeah
after a pair of famously saying that
women should be able to come sea
captain's there's some dark irony there
yeesh alright quick break fun half see
you there
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen let's fire
up the the I am and we will get to calls
in a moment but let's go through this
bench Bureau thing because I want to
this is this is actually I think I think
it's fairly important frankly now we
mock ben shapiro on this program he of
course was sold is what was it that was
he built now he was the cool kids
philosopher per the new york times the
cool kids philosopher and there have
been now multiple instances where ben
shapiro his writing his twitter his his
show all of what he produces has been
cited on multiple occasions now various
instances by people who have gone on to
do horrible things one who shot up a
mosque up in canada cited ben shapiro
in terms of like the invasion and how
dangerous it was to us and etc excited
me excited ben shapiro but you you can't
be responsible for who your fans are ben
shapiro however but you can be
responsible what you put out there now
Ben
Piro made a point recently that shooter
in pittsburgh was following a similar
ideology as Ilan Omar but of course that
that person didn't in any way cite Ilan
Omar but what if that person had what if
it was actually true that the ideology
was the same now it's not I don't think
it did it sought it is it all but what
if that person had said well forget
about Elana but forget about anybody
just in general what if there was a
person public figure who set up a an
equation let's say a plus B equals C and
someone went out and did something
horrible and said said well you know I
was radicalized I got into the mode
modality of thought to go do something
horrible because I listened to this
public figure well that would be bad but
what if that person said I got
radicalized because I listened to that
public figure and in fact this very act
that I did I did because a plus B equals
C what if they did what if they said
that what if the connection wasn't just
that this person generally influenced me
but this person generally influenced me
and specifically I did this act and
reiterated a formula that that person
who inspired him espoused I want you to
look at that just contemplate that
generally what kind of responsibility
would that person who is espousing that
stuff have I don't know if they would
have direct responsibility but they
should look at themselves in the mirror
and anybody who's supportive of that
person should look at themselves in the
mirror because that's exactly this
situation we have a Ben Shapiro so you
have the story of an Indiana man
sentenced to federal prison for
vandalism at a Carmel synagogue a Carmel
I think is a town in Indiana
Nolan brewer 21 of eminence Indiana was
sentenced on Monday for conspiring to
violate the civil rights of Congregation
Sharia Tefila a Jewish synagogue Breuer
and his wife Kiyomi painted Nazi flags
and iron crosses on the wall of the
trash enclosure at the synagogue and in
the defense kiyomi says that she was
radicalized one of the influences that
radicalized her was Ben Shapiro here it
is this is from the filing she then
moved on to writings by bench Pierrot
and articles on Breitbart news which
bridged the gap to the notorious white
supremacist and anti-semitic propaganda
site Stormfront Nolan brewer her husband
for his part bought into the propaganda
he wanted to please his new wife and the
material seemed to make sense to him
despite buying into these ideas Nolan
Hodari
had always been rather docile and
passive person and extremely averse to
violence or lawlessness by all accounts
prior to this offense no one was not
known to have ever even broken a minor
rule so there's the defense arguing that
Breitbart and ben shapiro articles on
Breitbart was a gateway to storm front
that's pretty bad but then
Kiyomi ended up becoming an active
participant in a white supremacist and
radical right-wing communication on a
server called discord discord has many
channels one of them apparently was a
white supremacist one after moving in
with his with Nolan and his parents
Kiyomi spent several hours a day on
discord while Nolan was at work Kiyomi
found sudo academic propaganda that
purported to prove her white supremacist
beliefs
every evening Kiyomi would share her
views with Nolan and ask him to read
articles she had found according to
Nolan she began with right-wing yet
mainstream views as those presented on
Fox the ax discord server was related to
identity Europa who was also connected
to the Christchurch killer so on this
identity Europa according to this story
in the indie star here where is that now
one of the reasons why these guys chose
that synagogue was because quote well
I'll read from this set piece
prosecutors said evidence showed the
vandalism was not a spur-of-the-moment
childhood prank but rather an attack
fueled by Nolan Brewers belief in Nazism
he told investigators that he and his
wife a minor targeted the synagogue
because it was full of ethnic Jews
Authority says and then in the records
of the exchanges between Nolan Brewer
and people on this board
they go back and forth and no one Brewer
says we were talking about that Peter
was getting in contact with my wife and
then so this BB I don't know who that BB
is some this is the the guy connected
with the Europa she's on the forum -
yeah she's on the forum because I was
trying to get her learn about my
perspective on life uh-huh
so as the guy but says Nolan Brewer so
what did he I guess what did he or she
or ever it is to tell you to do this is
uh getting trying to figure out what
Nolan Brewers plan is he said oh well
just I'm gonna look at a map of Indiana
and find all the mosques and synagogues
that are there to see which ones are the
biggest and which ones aren't are made
of like ethnic Jews rather than
religious Jews and then you need to get
this this and then hide your face and go
and apparently this is based on the idea
they said get as close to the synagogue
as possible and get in the synagogue and
then do the dumpster but the bottom line
is they why did they care about ethnic
Jews as opposed to religious Jews
apparently that is a that was the thing
that the neo-nazis tell themselves about
Hitler didn't have a problem with the
religious to sit with the ethnic Jews
this delineation between good Jews and
bad Jews as if the good Jews were
religious ones I mean this is where
Brewer says okay and I guess what did he
tell you what's the purpose of doing it
at the synagogue he said because it's
full of ethnic Jews which is the main
thing the religious Jew part wasn't the
being religious Jew wasn't wasn't the
deal for Hitler it was the ethnic Jews
because there was like two percent of
the population represented so a race
versus religion right so this
distinction of religious Jew
being good ethnic Jews being bad it
turns out that the same person who
radicalized this guy's wife has the same
exact theory here's Ben Shapiro back in
November of 2011 the Jewish people has
always been plagued by bad Jews who
undermined it from within in America
these bad Jews locally largely vote
Democrat now wait a second I can't I
cannot assess from this that he's
talking about bad Jews are just ethnic
Jews and the good Jews are religious
Jews but in 2016 he clarifies for us no
it doesn't matter that Bernie Sanders is
ethnically Jewish he's a Jew in name
only what and he quotes from daily
wire.com his own site there are two
types of Jewishness ethnic Judaism an
actual belief in and practice of Judaism
by the first standard Sanders is Jewish
by the second not in the slightest
but wait a second that still doesn't
mean that he thinks ethnic Jews are bad
here's bad ben shapiro just weeks ago
weeks ago on a BBC interview people
pointed out this interview because ben
shapiro made an ass of himself because
he assumed that the the questioner who
was asking rather reasonable questions
was must have been some type of leftist
because he was asking reasonable
questions turns out it was no a guy who
turns out to be basically a tory
right-wing by any standards but he wants
to know about this whole good jew bad
Jew thing and ben shapiro lays it out
just like the guy who was trying to
impress his wife who was
radicalized by ben shapiro impress his
wife by going and committing vandalism
at a synagogue here has been shapiro
explaining to the world what a good Jew
and a bad Jew is oh well again with mr.
Obama
you said Jew and you're Jewish yourself
I only mentioned that because food is in
context the Jews who vote for Obama are
by and large Jews and name only
Journal's you call them nice statement
was based on the fact that Jews in the
United States as an ethnic group are
largely irreligious which is true by
every single poll Jews of the most
irreligious group in the United States
as an Orthodox Jew who actually takes
Judaism seriously the point that I'm
making is that most Jews who are
ethnically Jewish are not religiously
Jewish in any context no no no the point
you were making is that Jews who vote
for Obama are Jews and namely only I
said I said that yes that is correct
that Jews who voted for Barack Obama a
progenitor of the Iran deal a person we
don't need to know all that because
that's irrelevant we know that he thinks
that bad Jews let's bring up the bad
Jews again right they're bad Jews vote
for Democrats and he's saying that those
people who vote for Democrats are Jews
in name only he's an Orthodox Jew he
takes Judaism seriously the other ones
are Geno's bad Jews like the kind
according to this white supremacist Nazi
those are the ones that Hitler cared
about now Ben Shapiro has a list of bad
of mistaken things he said on his
website I don't know if this is on there
he was defending it two weeks ago
is he gonna add to this how many things
on a list
can you put an escaped culpability for
despite the fact that it's inspiring
people directly to do horrible things
how many times can you get away with
doing that and still have the New York
Times call you the philosopher for cool
kids how many times are we supposed to
take this guy seriously when if he was a
Muslim and mom they would end up like
literally putting this guy in jail if
not us assassinated a guy because he was
going around an American in Yemen I mean
but yet we we support this guy many Jews
are Jews in name only 2011 I wrote a
column about American Jews voting for
Barack Obama and stated Jews who vote
for Obama by and large Jews and name
only that is what that's on his a
mistaken thing I said Paige yeah that's
the defense yet he defends it on BBC I
don't know when he put that on the paper
on the thing but he defended the whole
concept on the BBC he also suggests that
he's only been saying that in 2011 which
we have examples of him saying that
sense in 2016 I mean give me a break
give me a break what a scam this guy is
running but it's it's worse than that
because he's literally now inspiring
these attacks and denying it and he came
out and he said when people pointed this
out he says people are claiming I
directed this attack nobody's claiming
you directed it here's the claim you
inspire the people who carry it out
and you also reiterate the exact
rationale that they used to attack this
synagogue the exact he said yes if
there's one thing I'm known for as one
of the most
prominent Orthodox Jews targets of the
alt-right and critics of the alt-right
in America is directing Nazis to attack
synagogues what garbage
no no but you do lay out the equation
bad Jews and good Jews and who are the
bad Jews in a way that the neo-nazis
have fully embraced a lot of this stuff
comes from a twitter handle at
underscore al Makua people can check it
out we'll put a link to this so that you
can share it with your friends but this
is disgusting and ben shapiro
should have to address this in a serious
fashion and any of those people who have
written fawning profiles of this guy
need to revisit this this is what they
mean by intellectual dark web you know
what they when they say dark web they're
talking about things like gab and all
the other places where the neo-nazis and
supremacists gather to discuss their
stuff it's not a coincidence that they
borrowed that construct this is I mean
this is really disgusting stuff ben
shapiro should be held to account for
this really held to account well maybe
he'll add a couple more things to his uh
his webpage that has stupid things he
said this that he continues to reiterate
and justify yeah it'd be better named
the stupid things i said that weren't
really that stupid when you look into
him because he also defends his
palestine era arabs like to live in
sewage thing by first saying that he was
talking about palestinian leadership and
then saying oh actually i was talking
about all Palestinians because of poll
numbers unbelievable
really unbelievable one more story I got
to get out we're obviously running late
today we went late with with Marcy so
right now the Supreme Court is literally
weeks away from a announcing a decision
over arguments they heard in April over
the legality of the decision to add a
citizenship question to the United
States Census for the first time in its
history remember the census is required
by the Constitution the Constitution
does not call for the counting of
citizens it calls for the counting of
all persons within the United States at
the time of the census period that's
exactly what it does
to suggest that our founders did not
know the difference between persons and
citizens is absurd because of course
they did and it has been suggested that
the reason why the Trump administration
is adding that question has nothing to
do with any compelling government reason
state interest or interest of the people
but rather they're suggesting that it's
being done to intimidate immigrants and
to deny areas where immigrants are
located representation and services
because that's the way congressional
districts are are designed this case was
heard by the Supreme Court in April they
are also like I say weeks away from from
from making a decision at the time the
Trump administration argued that the
benefits of obtaining more accurate
citizenship data offset any damage
stemming from the likely depressed
to the census by minority groups and
non-citizens and it dismissed the
charges that the Commerce Department had
simply invented justification for adding
the question to the census as
unsupported by the evidence a majority
of the Supreme Court justices seemed
inclined to accept the department's
explanation the question was needed to
enforce the Voting Rights Act and
appeared ready to uphold the
administration's authority to alter the
census questioned as it sees fit the
idea that the Voting Rights Act in some
fashion because there are requirements
that you represent the districts have a
certain amount of of minorities our show
some measure of representation because
there was a time in this country like I
don't know months ago when certain
states would try and gerrymander around
different races and so the Supreme Court
as of a couple days ago at least looked
like they were heading to accepting this
argument from the Trump administration
that there was a rationale behind it
that had to do with maintaining the
Voting Rights Act and that that that
offset the damage that would be done to
this constitutionally mandated census
well the New York Times has this story
that a guy named Thomas B hofler who was
a near mythic status in the Republican
Party as the Michelangelo of
gerrymandering the guy who built the
partisan maps had done all the sort of
algorithms and the studies that given
outcomes in places like Wisconsin where
you have dem
Kratz getting 50 per six percent of the
vote and Republicans controlling 64
percent of the seats in the state
legislature so he died last summer and
his daughter went to go clean up his
states apparently they did his estate he
apparently they'd been estranged and she
got one of the things she found was all
these hard drives and on those drives it
showed that she had written a study in
2015 concluding that adding a
citizenship question to the census would
allow Republicans to draft even more
extreme gerrymandered maps to stymie
Democrats and after months of urging
president Trump's transition team to
tack the question onto the census he
wrote the key portion of a draft Justice
Department letter claiming the question
was needed to enforce the 1965 Voting
Rights Act which ended up being the
rationale the administration later used
to justify its decision now it's quite
clear he was writing an alibi those
documents have now been cited in a
federal court filing on Thursday of of
this today by opponents seeking to block
the citizenship question so apparently
it went down like this it's pretty crazy
but he wrote that by adding this
question it would depress minority
response and non immigrant response to
the census he had done exhaustive
analysis of Texas state legislative
districts
Texas of course has often had their
districts found to be racially drawn
concluded that such maps if they did not
include all the people there and
represented only people who were non who
were non-hispanic whites such maps would
be advantaged the Republicans and
non-hispanic whites and would dilute the
political power of the states Hispanics
the reason he wrote was that the maps
would exclude traditionally Democratic
Hispanics and their children from the
population count because you have many
families where you have mixed
immigration status that would force
Democratic districts to expand to meet
the Constitution's one-person one-vote
requirement in turn that would translate
into fewer districts in traditionally
democratic areas and a new opportunity
for Republican map makers to create even
stronger stronger gerrymanders the
strategy carried a fatal flaw however
the detailed citizenship data that was
needed to draw the maps did not exist
the only existing tally of voting-age
citizens mr. Hoffer studies stated came
from a statistical sample a sample of
the population largely used by the
Justice Department to verify that the
1965 Voting Rights Act was insuring the
Voting Rights of minority groups and so
Hoffa wrote this memo saying that we
need to add this question and the court
filing filed today describes two
instances where mr. ha fellers digital
fingerprints are clearly visible on the
Justice Department actions one was a
document that from the whole feller
drives created on August 30 2017 as the
wooing of the justice
Department was nearing a crescendo to
get them to do this Wilbur Ross was
trying to get the Justice Department to
give him a justification the documents
single paragraph cited two court
decisions supporting the premise that a
more detailed citizenship data would
assist the enforcement of the Voting
Rights Act that same paragraph appeared
later appeared word-for-word in a draft
letter from the Justice Department to
the Census Bureau he wrote the letter or
the key portions of the letter that the
Justice Department sent to the Census
Bureau saying that we need this
information he developed the alibi and
then he literally wrote it and they used
it word for word the second instance
involves the official version of the
Justice Department's request for the
citizenship question a longer a more
detailed letter sent to the Census
Bureau in December 2017 that letter
presents nuance and technical arguments
that current citizenship data falls
short of Voting Rights Act requirements
right the Justice Department has
citizenship data that it is gleaned from
these districts to enforce the Voting
Rights Act but they're now asking
formally of the Census Bureau will you
ask this question so that we can get
this data and these arguments enumerated
in this letter are presented in exactly
the same order in some times with
identical descriptions like building
blocks as in mr. Howe fellers 2015 study
so the Supreme Court is now aware of
this stuff and remember this case rides
on whether there was a legitimate need
by the Justice Department to get this
information to fulfill its obligations
under the Voting Rights Act and we now
know that all of their justifications
the key portions of their justifications
the fulcrum of their justifications came
from a guy who did a study on what would
happen to Republican fortunes in various
states if we managed to under count the
number of legitimate Hispanic voters in
these districts so it's gonna be
interesting to see where of the Supreme
Court lands on this case the question of
the census question it's gonna be sad
because we know how this is gonna work
and also on the on the case of
gerrymandering because it's quite clear
that when you allow excessive partisan
gerrymandering you incentivize all sorts
of horrible behavior and you actually
begin to corrupt even the chief law
enforcement agency in the country like
the Justice Department that is now lying
as to the reasons why it requested this
information it's unbelievable it's an
unbelievable story alright let's go to
the phones people got to be quick we
don't have much time I want to take as
many calls as I can today come from an 8
for 7 area code who's this where you
come from Josh from Chicago what's on
your mind Josh something that's really a
live report
all right say again you get a bad
but good can i shamelessly promote
something thats related report yes
please
so I am in a reading coming up in Long
Island City that starts it's a 24 hour
reading of the Muller report I'm yep
oh yeah I'm kind of a big deal Sam just
want to let people know that but if we
were going to be reading the Muller
Voort verbatim for 24 hours on Saturday
June or sorry Saturday June 1st at 8
p.m. and finishing at 8 p.m. June 2nd
which is Sunday there's some big names
in it but it's at the arc in Long Island
City and I'm going to be reading from
7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. I don't know if
it's just me but uh yeah
tickets are 24 like 5 or between 5 and
25 dollars and it all goes or the money
goes to charity as well so there'll be a
fun time and if you're apt I was wet by
the conversation with Marcia you today
that you had then you should hear me
read par the Mueller report that's
awesome
we will is there when I'm coming from
Chicago just for this by the way Wow I
live in Chicago I understand where is
there a link that we can point people to
yes I can email you the link but the
theater is called the official touch
event filibustered Josh send us an email
can't understand you all right I sent
its name but we will call we will have
that call majority male majority
reporters right now Josh so that we can
we can do this in get this you know out
there while the show is still going on
and you know will also promote it
tomorrow
well you guys remind me calling from a
2-1 for area code
who's this where you come from gotta be
quick hi can you me yes what's your name
and where you can awesome okay Diego I'm
calling from Dallas Diego from down I
was caught yeah yeah I was calling
because you know I've seen Bernie
Sanders pushing for for worker coops
more recently and I was wondering like
it he's paving like an actual road
towards real socialism so I was
wondering what's your thoughts on him
pushing for worker coops
I think worker coops are great awesome I
mean like this is like a legitimate road
towards like real socialism where worker
is able to I guess reap this I don't
know what on creation I don't know what
real socialism means but I mean it is
about like coops are socialistic it is
on a socialism is always a sliding scale
on some level in terms of societies I
think I I don't know that we're ever
going to get to a place where you have
total democratization of our economy and
of our powers but I think more coops are
great there have been bills that have
been introduced in Congress that I think
are maybe on the verge of passing where
the US government would provide bridge
loans to workers who who work at like
family businesses and the family wants
to get out and they want to sell it to
the the workers but there needs to be
some type of bridge loan to do that and
I think we even have that if it hasn't
passed that legislation I know that
we've very close to have passed it's in
there so right yeah no I think it's a
good thing yeah and I like the idea of
having US workers on boards it will take
some time you know because obviously
like our work force doesn't have you
know has not had like the experience
that let's say in Germany they have ad
with these things but I think it's a
good idea appreciate the call oh thank
you
by calling from a five for one area code
who's this where you come from uh hi
this nice yes it is you
Oh awesome this is Christine from Oregon
and I have a question about Elizabeth
Warren I think a lot of people on the
Left kind of see her as like a flawed
left wing candidate and I think it might
be more productive to kind of look at
her as like a like a centrist plus um I
just mean like whatever crowd of people
that like Booker Gillibrand iton whoever
they are courting I think that Elizabeth
Warren would win them hands-down and I
just think it would be more productive
if people on the Left kind of saw her as
the better option of all of them and
kind of think of her in that way as
opposed to kind of female bad Bernie
Sanders which is sort of the mode that
I'm seeing on online discourse right now
yeah I mean I don't see her as in that
way I mean I think III think from you
know I mean I think her foreign policy
is is not as strong as Bernie's but I
also think that her executive skills are
better than anyone in the race frankly
including burning like in her ability to
actually you know I heard a talk I'm
gonna have Ryan grim on the show to talk
about his new book out and I think it
about a week and a half but one of the
things he talked about was his coming
around to to to Bernie having you know
people in our generation
Ryan's a little bit younger than me but
he was involved in politics the same
time have a very good idea of Elizabeth
Warren a very specific image of
Elizabeth Warren as being an incredibly
adept at working the inside-outside game
of politics and doing so without having
to compromise from a very sort of I
guess more you know middle-class
spective I don't know that she has the
same capital critique as Bernie Sanders
but in terms of like effectiveness in
pushing policies that help people you
know that that that you could layover a
class consciousness I think she's pretty
strong again I think foreign policy is a
little more problematic and but I
understand what you're saying from a
rhetorical standpoint but like you know
who you trying to convince with that
because I think that she is positioning
herself as both those things I think she
is trying to position herself to hang
back and hope that a Joe Biden implodes
and that she becomes a compromise
candidate between you know sort of all
of the candidates who want to stop
Bernie or represent the stop Bernie
crowd and the Bernie crowd I think
that's where I think that's where she's
position I don't know if that's gonna
work but I think that's my sense of
where she's trying to position herself
well I I just think that you know she
might be a compromise candidate in that
way but I also think that you know
especially when the debates come up like
I think that she's going to terabyte
into shreds like I I don't think that
she is going to be hanging back at all
yeah let me and III think she might be
the reason why I didn't close and I
think that is really really helpful for
the left I will say this I agree with
you if they are on the same stage that
they that she will rip him apart the
best-case scenario is that it's going to
take luck to get her on the same stage
as Biden because there's two nights the
worst case scenario is that like it's a
fairly opaque process in which it's
determined who's on what night and we're
going to do it alphabetically
that would be a oh god yeah that you
don't want to sign the Marianne
Williamson against it Elizabeth Warren
pretty cool everybody thanks for taking
my call
appreciate the call I mean that's just a
I don't know I got to dig more into if
they've publicly announced how they're
gonna divvy up which night is which but
my understanding it's going to be a
chance and I've been involved in a lot
of things of chance that sometimes you
feel like and not so chancy call from a
nine five one area code who's this where
you come from
love you bye bye hello hello Sam
yes I fan the this is James from
Riverside um just real quick I mean I
wanted to point some things out just
like the lady from warge and said in
terms of like Elizabeth Warren like I
have been on and off like you know
political discourse online and a lot of
people try and vouch for like you see a
lot of mainstream media propaganda
essentially that is you know garnished
towards Joe Biden for example about how
he's ahead in the polls he's this and
he's that and argument that I continue
to make it I mean is essentially that
Bernie has been on the right track
essentially for 40 years like he has
little bumps and bruises here and there
but over forty years he has always
remained essentially consistent like I
saw a video of him from 1989 a year I
was born
and he is talking about you know wealth
inequality and you have people like the
lady from Oregon which you know Warren
is fine and everything but we have to
remember like if we're talking in terms
of consistency she was a Republican
great
like Yahoo's originally Republican was
she not and I don't think that that is
you know conducive to the situation that
we're in we don't need a former
Republican who has seen both sides no
offense to Warren she has amazing
policies that I totally back and and all
that stuff she's she's an awesome social
champion but I still go for Bernie and
then to the other caller who always
always like what we we okay um but it is
the case that in the 80s
maybe into the 90s even I may be worn
may have been a report was a Republican
I don't know if she was into the 90s but
I can tell you like the the the thing
that Grimm's were reminded me of last
night and and I think you know Bernie
has made a big change over the past
couple years he's gotten a lot more
serious about policy because for those
years that he was in Congress retort and
I say this as a supporter of Bernie
Sanders yeah in Congress he there was a
lot of like rhetoric he was the
conscience I would say in many respects
of the country but he was not known as a
guy who was building a movement now he's
done that many ways a movement built up
around him and I think frankly in the
years over the course of that campaign
in 2016 and the year subsequent he's
built on that and he basically leaned in
and accepted it and I think he you know
he his perspective changed but I just
don't think that like that Warren I
think Warren should be judged on the
work that she has done over the past 20
years as opposed to where she was 30 25
years ago and okay you know again I
think like in terms of the policies for
the most part I think Bernie's are more
aggressive there are some that that that
she's come out with that are you know
more aggressive in other ways she's come
out for the u.s. government to produce
generic drugs I think that's a good I
think that's a great thing that huge
yeah or to argue for those prices right
but I hear you all right so what was the
other point come on to me
the other point just real fast was the
guy who was talking about coops the
caller from Dallas yeah and I think I
was I was watching a a video a talk of
Richard Wolff and he was over on the
Google campus and he's talking
essentially about Marxism of course and
I'm pretty sure that coops are
originally a Marxist idea not a
socialistic idea is that correct I maybe
I don't know I'd have to stand two over
two
mr. Brooks um and then the last thing
just real quick point Sam your your
debate language I guess I could say the
framework in which you debate and when
you say like things like it seems to me
or it would appear that and I've noticed
like these little phrases that you use
that are very very good in debates very
disarming and they're not they're
completely like the antithesis of
hostile and I'm wondering how because
like you know obviously we're gearing up
for 2020 and we need to be able to
conduct you know cordial civil debates
and discussions based on you know and on
really tough issues so I was wondering
if you could you know at some moment
just go over you know how your mindset
is somewhat in a debate in terms of
keeping it respectful and minding you
know your emotions and things like that
if you could yeah I'll get some thought
to that I don't I got to be honest with
people like I don't really spend a lot
of time thinking about process I don't
spend a lot of time about the way I like
to use the f-word well yeah I mean well
the way you do that is you start doing a
radio show and they tell you that you're
going to get fined thousands of dollars
and you could ruin the company by
swearing if you do it on enough outlets
it doesn't get caught that will teach
you very quickly to speak without
swearing and then you reinforce that by
having a little kid at your house during
that time that you don't need saying
things and then you know you lock it in
and then you have to be sort of somewhat
conscious of it afterwards but you know
I I think to the extent that I have any
role model oh well thank that to the
extent that I have any advice on that I
would say that it is better in when
you're debating anybody to narrow to
narrow what you're saying every time you
say it in other words
okay I'm not going to a tribute a is
something of knowledge I'm not gonna say
everybody knows
blankety blank blank blank mmm because
if I do that Wayne there's always
somebody who doesn't know and so that
can be the focus of what I've just
postulated and you don't want that right
don't offer two things don't you use
hyperbole as little as possible in the
context of any given assessment because
it's usually the the adjectives that
people focus on and not the actual
substantive claim with that said you
know I'm rude to some people I
appreciate the call
goodbye only good only when they they
warn't it that I you did not warrant it
no I just did that for the sake of my
ride for a be rude to people I was rude
to Michael Tracy
but like I say if you start if you start
that way with me do not expect me to not
to I mean I didn't start that way with
him I was pretty patient it took about
five or ten minutes before I started to
get really annoyed with him to be fair
come from a two one three area code
who's this where he come from
if you've been on the line and firm or
if you've been on the line for more than
ten minutes I will get to you two and
three who's this this is Ben Shapiro
calling from Sumeria worldwide Sam I
really got to keep my name out of your
mouth and put some respect on my name if
that's even epistemologically
feasible but three quick points first of
all Palestine is a fiction doesn't exist
second of all I don't really care how
much violence and destabilization
Netanyahu and Trump create as long as my
occupying settler cousin has her
passport clarified and then third of all
my billionaire Christian Zionist Texas
patrons have told me that the
genetically modified psychedelic pink
and polka dot heifer is ready to go
that's the slaughter will begin and I
will contact israelian
telogen wealthy al-aqsa mosque so none
of this is going to be relevant but uh
no this is actually Jeremy in the
radical middle of America Lawrence
Kansas and that's both political and
geographical and I just wanted to bring
in a few things and Jeremy you get one
one thing because I gave you that whole
thing up front and and so you don't get
multiple things not when I'm trying to
be quick all right okay so the I think
that the the to add on to your
conversation with Marcy wheeler it might
be very interesting for you to have on
people like Seth Abramson
to discuss his upcoming book or proof of
conspiracy that brings in the entire
Middle Eastern aspect of the collusion
facts which would then include not only
the front our meeting from no June but
then also let me let me tell you why why
Marcy wheeler has been the only guest
that I have had on to talk about this
since the beginning and that is because
Marcy wheeler has real national security
reporting bona fides in my estimation
that I have been familiar with her work
for over a decade she was literally the
first or second hire at the intercept by
Scahill and Greenwald she started as a
skeptic in terms of whether there was
anything that was prosecutorial in this
context so I you know like I I'm just
not going to bring on people who I just
don't think have that level of bona
fides to talk about this I mean I only
had Marcy on you know I don't know I
mean on this topic maybe four times now
over the course of the investigation
maybe five and you know I
I think what we need is the house to
investigate all of these things yeah and
I think look I'm happy at times Jeremy
too to speculate about stuff but I make
it very clear that I'm I'm speculating
and I just I don't have the faith in a
lot of the people who purported to have
inside information or special
information or any of that but um and so
but just to clarify that Seth Abramson
has not never said he had special
information what he's done is what he
calls curatorial journalism from open
source reporting from around the world
thousands of open sources journalists
that he's then constructed into the
actual narrative of what actually
happened okay well that's one saying
like look I could take that same stuff
and construct a different narrative and
so that's not what I'm interested in I'm
not interested in in somebody who has
curated something into creating a
narrative I'm not saying that people
should or shouldn't listen to it
themselves or go follow his twitter feed
or whatever it is but that doesn't
interest me okay well point out that
there is this deep middle I know there
is and and we have talked about that we
have talked about the the relationship
that the Trump people have with the UAE
with the Emirates with the Saudis with
Israel and there is you know I suspect
that in the end if we ever find out that
we're talking about something that is
largely in a monuments issue that Donald
Trump doesn't give an F about this stuff
it all has to do with what's going to
enrich him or what's gonna ruin rich
Jared Kushner or in vice versa I mean I
think that's it I think there is
probably something to be said about
about a dynamic where a lot of people
you know we're similar to what we've
seen with Iran with Bolton and Pompeyo
Trump's an idiot there's a lot of people
who have other agendas and they pursue
them under the rubric of of the trump
administration and but it's only going
to happen if we have investigations by
by by Congress call them from a 509 area
code who's this where he come from
Ronald Reagan how are you sir
good between South Abramson and the guy
recommending the zeitgeist movie did the
other day we're getting some really
great recommendations from listeners but
hey sun's out guns out yeah and and I'm
getting a lot of really good
recommendations or tank tops that you
could wear I thought the best two
recommendations one person recommended
that you suggested that you wear Karl
Howard's overalls no undershirt kind of
a tank top you know this may be hard for
people to believe but that's doable that
happens oh yeah and then the other thing
was also highly beautiful just the
sweater vest we could also like a tank
top yeah it seems super itchy but other
than you know seems super it to me if
you get yourself a cotton sweater vests
Reagan let me ask you a question are you
hiding under a desk or something like
are you trying to like do you have
clients that are like in your office and
you don't want them to realize what
you're doing
I do have an 11:30 who's here to sign
some important documents you know
pretending to be doing something else
important so if you don't mind I got to
keep it quick please no more
interruptions yeah
now there is one more shirt that I
wanted to recommend which is there's
like a Christian theme paint Papa says
Father forgive me for these games I'm
about to achieve we've got a guy lifting
weights I can barely help hear you man I
can barely hear you okay well the last
one is one that says reps for Jesus and
it's got a picture of Jesus lifting two
dumbbells so lots of great tank tops to
choose from and I think that Tom where
did this thing go on all right well well
think about it
Ronald Reagan I appreciate this oh here
we go Father
forgive me for these gains I'm about to
receive and it's my workout tank top
alright well we'll look into that
appreciate it pick it up for only 12
bucks so it could be worthwhile all
right we got time for two more calls
calling from a three to three area code
who's this where you come from
hey Tim this is a Remo from LA remote
what's on your mind gonna be quick so I
was thinking about the way that the
right frames issues in terms of human
cost as opposed to the left which always
youth issues frame in terms of monetary
cost so a medicare-for-all would save
about thirty two thousand miles a year
and it's estimated it could be a little
higher than that
so rather than framing it as it's a
three trillion dollar plan which is
payment as it saves the person from
dying every 15 minutes I mean I think
there's no reason that these need to be
mutually exclusive yeah I agree I mean I
think you know we hear quite a bit from
people about but we can't afford to do
it and you know that the society and I
appreciate the call Society makes those
calculations all the time right
if we run save once save all the highway
deaths we could drive cars at 20 miles
an hour and the number of highway deaths
would be would be significant or
significantly diminished I should say
but you know we got to find some happy
medium in this case though you know the
there's no excuse for the like why would
the happy medium be like why would the
competing interest be we need to give
profits to insurance companies versus
saving lives I mean people need to get
places so we all agree as a society
we're gonna drive you know reasonable
speed to get there and we settle on it
but I really do we have a large
constituency that's out there saying we
need to save insurance companies profits
I don't think so
calling from a nine one seven area code
who's this where we come from hi my name
is Edie what's on your mind be quick
oh that's phenomenal else nobody get
through all right really quick short
premise on the question considering how
fairly racist and misogynistic the
country seems to be at various points in
time why is it that so many people are
absolutely determined to believe that
Russian and involvement was the number
one reason that Donald Trump became the
president of the United States I could
not possibly
know that there are so many people who
believe that I certainly don't believe
that well I personally don't believe it
either however with a lot of people that
are on the Left I constantly come into
the situation wherein I bring in all the
other reasons that Donald Trump could
have become president meanwhile the
Moller investigation and all of that is
all of the proof that they need to say
that Russia is responsible so it seems
like they lack a really good foundation
in my opinion I mean I would agree with
that I mean I think but I think that's
because they lack a big foundation I
mean III have said multiple times that I
think that there is I could come up with
12 12 different reasons why Donald Trump
one that are that are but force in many
respects right like strategic ones by
Clinton
flaws that she had as a candidate flaws
that were in the campaign the Comey
letter which is really more a function
Eltham Utley of like the Benghazi
hearings I mean there's so many
different things that contributed people
I think focus on the Russian
interference and I don't know that
frankly I would even say that's a but
for to be honest with you I don't know
that that really contributed I mean I
guess you could argue that the email
hack was pretty big and it's harder to
measure that in some respects but I'll
accept that it may have been a reason
the reason why people point to that one
is because you have an election that was
swayed by 70,000 votes out of two
hundred and what 40 million 70,000
voters not many and of all the other
things that that people voted on racism
misogyny the fact that Clinton you know
ran a bad campaign maybe that Chuck
Schumer and she were trying to protect
protect Paul Ryan in some respects she
didn't go to Wisconsin she didn't go to
Michigan whatever it was the only elicit
thing that happened during that time was
someone illicitly
broke in to her emails her email server
and then published it and used that as a
weapon to keep people from knowing that
Donald Trump said grabber you know P
word like this is not stuff that I would
like to see a election one on or lost on
I would like it to all be about policy I
represent about 4% of the United States
population in that respect probably and
so I mean I understand you know why
people would attribute the election I
guess on some level to to to Russian
interference and so far as the hack cuz
like any number of like a dozen things
could and I understand why some people
point to that specifically because that
may be the easiest thing
fix and it's the most nefarious and they
may have some political salience I don't
necessarily believe that you know but I
can understand it all right thank you
very much for your time Sam I really
appreciate it thank you bye alright
folks that's it for all the calls
I'm gonna read three IMS I know that's
not many I apologize for that but must
go immediately s Rea the full report is
available as a free multi-part audiobook
podcast read by a guy in a closet of his
house no high quality oh here we go or
spin by the podcast here it is I can put
this on there right there we'll put that
in the thing thank you I should have
done that fames Darwin Sam there's a
famous Talmudic dictum cold yes rail
I've Ramsey Lisette I eat all Jews are
responsible for each other I personally
don't put a lot of stock in the Talmud
but he is Shiva Booker alike Shapiro
probably does someone should remind him
of this thank you things Darwin secret
identic somewhere Michael Tracy is
punching himself in his immoral decrepit
cowardly and ultimately de minimis penis
I don't think that's true actually I
think he's like sparring with Matt on
we're fighting on Twitter
Epis yeah this listeners definitely not
unhappy about marcy wheeler being on a
majority personally I'm extremely
suspicious of those and progressive
independent media various social media
micro influencers are the extensible
left who have made it their mission to
troll journalists doing their best
accurately cover special investigation I
suggest that M our staff and M our
listeners approach that crowd with
similar skepticism also literary
hangover is easily the smartest most
engaging Patriot podcasts on patreon
thank you
Michael's butthole but with the blades
developments I think Democratic
leadership hasn't shown incredible
weakness now they're not only slowing
progress but they are danger to the
country for allowing Republicans to aim
for authoritarianism progressives need
to hammer these Republican tables like
FDR did the oleg arks agree train boy do
you think Biden staying off the campaign
trail because of his Parkinson's disease
or his Irishman's fainting palsy and the
final I am of the day
[Music]
would you please have someone on it was
in favor of expanding nuclear power
including nuclear power and expansion
the green New Deal is a contentious
issue and I think there's candidates on
both sides of the debate I think the
best two people that bond will be James
Hansen or the author of a bright future
Joshua s Goldstein
maybe see you tomorrow in Matt's it goes
to get
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
