[Music]
Donald Trump has really been on a pretty
steady comedic decline since being
elected president the only thing he's
really good at in life is inheriting
money and dunking on Republicans and
being a you know a messy bastard work in
the press look in the press but uh I
mean look I guess if you want I mean
some people might get sensitive to this
because this is definitely a guy's just
brain and pure decline here but this was
funny from yesterday this is Donald
Trump with Tim Cook Tim Cook was at a
table of Boston ro a couple of weeks ago
in Davos so the Apple CEO very
comfortable consorting with fascist
Syria's meeting with the clown fascist
and chief Donald Trump now used to say
Tim you gotta start doing it over here
and you really have that mean you've
really put a big investment in our
country we appreciate it very much Tim
Apple that's also not true of course
Apple still is hiding a massive amount
of assets and overseas tax shelters and
using sweatshop labor and their hardware
any manufacturing but let's just play
that one more time put a big investment
in our country we appreciate it very
much Tim Apple
Jeff Amazon sent naked pictures of
himself it was sad bill windows bill
windows great guy I want that to be a
purposeful shade it's probably not
though no that's the milk people are in
my brain if you can abstract away from
all the bad outcomes Trump is without
question the funniest president we've
ever known Obama never did so Bob was
just like yeah Tim apples here whatever
I think good JFK or Lincoln are also
very funny
JFK could JFK actually would do the like
Tim apples here he would do the shame
JFK was talking to Eisenhower during the
Cuban Missile Crisis and Eisenhower says
like I don't think that'll make him
shoot him off and they talk about
nuclear missiles and JFK psycho
yeah oh god no JFK i underst I don't
want to get into the whole JFK debate
but one thing that you just cannot deny
is that the man had very well-developed
sense of irony there's that in that
speech at American University which is
you know who knows maybe he would have
followed up a policy we don't know
because he was assassinated but where he
gave like the the basically a call for
like really de-escalating the Cold War
and pointing towards disarmament and
talking about how like 70 what is it
like 70 percent of our body is wada and
we all share that same water and the
ocean i mean it's it is a great speech
taking in its own terms and the thing
though it's funny in the beginning so
it's a funny piece of historical kind of
trivia but Robert Byrd is there the
senator who died you know only a couple
years ago and he's already a senator and
Robert Byrd another extremely
complicated figure and in many ways a
bad figure but in other ways a very
admirable figure who did apologize
fourth right Lee for his badness but any
rate he was up he was a poor guy from
West Virginia so he was getting his
degree at night school from American
University and Kennedy said like I have
a former colleague who's here who's
receiving his degree after working
nights for several years I'll be getting
the same degree in two hours it was just
like the type of joke that you would do
today it was very interesting because
you see like we talked about how comedy
dates itself quickly and JFK's like the
president and his like sense of irony
and Sensibility it's like like you look
at Reagan and there is something like
what was going on in the 80s that people
thought this was so amazing and then you
look back at Kennedy and you're like
yeah makes sense you know really yeah
yeah it's just just on a cultural level
I also like the stories about LBJ's Hogg
oh yeah yeah LBJ hilarious in entirely
different ways in entirely different
ways and I mean my god if well again I'm
erasing a lot of history here but you
know if not for Vietnam the guy will be
looked on pretty fun
I think there's something about like
there hasn't been like an sob who was
like occasionally on the right side and
like quite some time like I got like
just like stories of him like
terrorizing segregationist senators
there's something like very satisfying
about that the image of the hamburgers
will live in our minds forever
yeah give us hamburgers never forget
which I think we under covered on this
show no we did
