[Music]
but ladies and gentlemen we have some
some important breaking news according
to Twitter just two days ago it took us
two days to get to this news sorry can
you scroll up oh yeah here it is okay
Brandon Straka the unsilent dot dot dot
then saw it minority on silent minority
I'm considering running against AOC in
2020 in New York states 14th
congressional district and then of
course his followers please don't be
joking please don't be joking please do
this do this do it do it say also me he
came bags do this and he wrote back not
a joke I never wanted a career in
politics no he just wanted to be famous
but I would consider this because I'm
probably the only New Yorker who could
go up against her and stop this crazy
fringe leftist reign from further
infiltrating our government and reverse
its course what is up with this dude's
use of language
that's the crazy fringe left astray I
know I love the idea that somehow he has
the idea that he's probably the only New
Yorker who could go up against it he
said probably he did hedge it I'm gonna
run as a Democrat or a Republican do you
think I he's our boss away from the
Democrats
I can't walk back yeah walk back to what
you walked away from Wow maybe that
would actually be really funny if you
went old don't you see I'm the only New
Yorker who could take her odd oh my god
I'm torn I don't know I mean how much
attention do we give him but god it
would be fun but yeah I mean the that he
said we need to stop this crazy fringe
leftist train yep so just I mean this is
a mixed metaphor we all know this but
just to go slowly through it stop this
crazy fringe leftist train so it's a
fringe leftist trend great a crazy train
that's Ozzy Osbourne crazy crazy from
further infiltrating so it's a train
that's infiltrating but I thought it
she's already in Congress though so if
it was further when he be taking out
another person like that see another
district doesn't make someone else who
might join her and contender reverse the
AOC so really should rosy should say
revert see he makes you he's doing the
same thing to me now he did to you he
makes you super pedantic where it would
be like what you what you mean is
reverse the Train bread well around 40%
of your conversational trading our
government means getting deeper into the
apparatus of the government so it's not
he perceives aoc is not just showing up
at Congress but boring further into the
establishment which I think it's you
know arguable it's arguable but he wants
to reverse the course of the crazy
fringe leftist train as opposed to the
non crazy fringe leftist train so the
regular fringe the regular leftist train
could go probably also the regular
fringe left his train to go it's just
the crazy leftist trend that he wants
that so he probably feels but maybe
so he's he's saying he feels comfortable
with Nancy Pelosi um it's it's unclear
yeah it's unclear and that's that's one
of the things we wanted to say Brandon
if we need to talk about your incorrect
use of language with the hopes that
perhaps your run for Congress will be
more enjoyable and more likely to happen
from our perspective let us know where
we are of course we're gonna be
apathetic about it yeah so we're just
gonna throw it out there through a
lackadaisical we will be the Roger stone
to your Al Sharpton and I'm sure Brendan
doesn't know what that means but I'll
look it up apathetically that was
amazing that people who haven't seen the
debate yet where members only four
members yeah we should come a member of
the majority unlock it to maybe but just
that there was a real segment of the
like a not inconsequential amount of
time of Sam like a sort of condescending
disappointed parent and Brendan struck
is like a belligerently stupid
thirteen-year-old literally arguing
about the usage of the word apathy I
mean to keep having transportation
noises what math sentence I found a
steamroller noise no is this theme I
just love that sounds like no no so you
think that was the Inc good note you
would say what you would say would be a
pathetically doing nothing so as an
example you would be not and he's like I
use my words very consciously which is
the sound drop from the debate for me is
I choose my words very consciously I
can't wait to see him go after a Oh see
see how that goes for him okay
