[Music]
sort of a matte pick right this is
apparently Donald Trump does not like to
be called Donald which makes that's kind
of a goofy name maybe if you say it
enough it's like hi John it's a Disney
name Donald Donald did you II did you
launder money again oh come down here in
Rob momma's feet Donald did you say
another bizarre thing about your
daughter on Howard Stern Don I'll go
pick up Afghan so apparently this is
this is you know a fairly well-known I I
wasn't familiar with it but of course I
would never address the guy but if I was
let's say the head of a state nation and
I said I want you know my briefing book
tell me everything that could get under
this guy's skin and tell me everything
that could make this guy feel good and
if I was Trudeau in Canada and I've now
decided like this isn't gonna work out
between us
Justin Trudeau realizes that like or
maybe things aren't gonna happen with
Melania or a Monica wherever whatever
whatever even better wasn't there one
point where he was like supposedly
there's vodka I think was giving him my
eyes there's a tariff on my daughter but
I thought that was wrong
so now he realizes like you're not
erasing I've got to distance myself from
Donald Trump I mean every world leader
now who is still I should say every
world leader that has to deal with a
democracy is finding like oh the way to
pick up five points is just to humiliate
Donald Trump in some fashion and so here
is Justin Trudeau just during the course
of a speech referencing Donald and
Donald has a completely knee-jerk
reaction it's really just the look on
his face but it is rather precious
make no mistake we will stand up for our
workers and fight for their families and
their communities and Donald it's all
the more reason why we need to keep
working to remove the tariffs on steel
and aluminum between our countries and I
like how he looks back and Donald and
then looks back again just to see the
look on his face to get a little kick at
we have the reaction set up okay yeah
yeah this is even better you can see it
better and Donald it's all the more
reason why we need to keep working to
remove the tariffs on steel and aluminum
between our countries what I love is
that it's I just I mean I'm not even
pointing out hypocrisy here it's just
funny like a guy who goes through life
he littered he threw let's just take it
on this level forget even Twitter
he threw a starburst that Angela Merkel
at a meeting and said don't say I never
did anything for you
right I did like the guy goes Donald and
he just has a total like this is just
zero class this is a treatment I get
this is just total disrespect
