[Music]
this is a little bit strange we have
been on this beat now for a couple
months and of course I'm talking about
the the Jack siddhis beat now a lot of
you who have been following the Jack's
at his speed are probably like Oh Sam
I'm sorry you've misspoken it's not the
jex to this beat it's the Exodus beat it
started out as the jacks at his feet and
then rats do we have that clip well no
there's a there was an article Haaretz
the israeli paper reported that jack
siddhis was no longer that it was Exodus
because of course this is back in what
was the data on this was March 22nd
Jackson us we hardly knew you right-wing
Jewish movement change his name to
Exodus and there's a picture of the
spokesperson Elizabeth pip Co she also
she set it up as far as we know and they
realized after they came out with Jack
siddhis that that was sort of silly that
was like calling something like calling
something Jewish you know calling
Passover Jass over like the Jewish
Passover but Exodus for Jews so exodus
comes from the word exodus which is one
of them are Leoville which is a Bob
Marley album and that was inspired of
course by the one of the five books of
the Torah which was Exodus about the
leaving of Jews from from Egypt and into
the desert into the land of ultimately
Canaan let's not get too caught up in
this I don't want to start a fight here
but and here is here is that
spokesperson again showing up on Fox and
Friends today and now it's Jack siddhis
oh and also the spokesperson is gone
campaign advisor board member
Jeff Bella bond is the founder of Jack
siddhis a movement
Jewish people not to vote Democrat joins
us right now from our nation's capital
with an inside look chef's good morning
to you morning good morning well so why
why the meeting at the White House well
first of all I just want to make a
slight correction jaxa this is not about
urging Jews not to vote Democrat it's
actually urging the major political
parties and these days the Democrats
seem to have a bigger problem to
distance themselves from rising
anti-semitism is the mainstream now wait
a second wait a second can we go back to
when Jack siddhis was Exodus and then
Jack siddhis again and we had the first
person who was a Jewish millennial who
launched Jack siddhis and let's go back
to Jackson is dot-org and here it is
about leaving the Democratic Party and
she was a millennial who launched it and
this hello old guys what's going on here
good here with more on the movement is
former Trump campaign staffer and Jack
siddhis spokesperson
Elizabeth Epico Elizabeth good morning
good morning let's juice Millennials
this is what obviously it's a plan
exodus but we left egypt and now we're
leaving the Democratic Party no wait a
second
now what is going on here I'm terribly
confused go back there's many cooks in
this kitchen go back to the old
millennial guy who looks to be about my
age if not older who is now the
millennial who launched Jack siddhis
this is now we've now bookended the
Jackson is with the Exodus in the middle
what's going on with the Trump people
good urging Jewish people not to vote
Democrat joins us right now from our
nation's capital with an inside look
chef good morning - morning good morning
well so why why the meeting at the White
House well first of all let's want to
make a slight correction Jack say this
is not about urging Jews not to vote
Democrat it's actually urging the major
political parties and these days the
Democrats seem to have a bigger problem
to distance themselves from rising
anti-semitism is being mainstream like
they're just a fossil it's just like
it's like they pretend they didn't have
the same interview
three and a half weeks ago with the
Millennial because it was a millennial
organization and they've also pretended
that they didn't change from Jackson as
to Exodus to jek siddhis again my guess
is they had problem with their search
SEO on Exodus but nobody could find them
because they go Exodus and they find
like oh this is Paul Newman this is the
Paul Newman movie it's like they're
doing all their a/b testing just right
in front of us like it's about leaving
the Democrats it's know about all the
publican parties all the parties just
don't be anti-semitic at right all right
happens to be that it's you but while I
was better than ten days ago why would
it be Jack siddhis if it's just about
don't be anti-semitic because we're
Jackson so Democrats are way more
anti-semitic than the Republicans
remember the the stronger together
bomber oh wait that was the bomber
I'm sorry all right let this continue
being mainstreamed unfortunately in our
political process and mostly by people
like Ilan Omar etc that yesterday's
event wasn't really about that but it
was certainly the backdrop to the
feelings of what's happening in this
festival of Passover that's coming up on
Friday night which is the festival of
freedom and we say in the Haggadah in
the book that we read for thousands of
years we say that in every generation
they rise meaning our enemies the
enemies of the Jews rise up against us
to try and destroy us and God saves us
and that was on everyone's minds I mean
it's the best of times and the worst of
times right now if you're Jewish in
America and around the world you know
what else the Hagaddah says it says love
and welcome the stranger there's a big
cup that we put on the table to
symbolize the idea of welcoming the
stranger welcoming the the Prophet
Elisha and the whole story the whole
story is about Jews being immigrants in
another country and being treated poorly
why this is bad
I'm making it simple for the simple sons
out there
remember simples the simple sons who
can't get the name of their
organizations straight who can't get
their story straight about who started
it whether it was this old guy works for
Trump or Millennials who launched it
whether it's Jack siddhis or Exodus or
Jack siddhis whether it's about leaving
the Democratic Party or just leaving the
idea of anti-semitism I guess and why
would anti semi Semites respond to the
idea of Exodus or even a more Jewish
Exodus than Exodus Jack siddhis none of
this makes sense
and yet what is the best part about it
is that no one on Fox seems to even bat
an eye it's just like whatever you got
we'll take it he could keep coming we're
gonna make total asses of ourselves
because we're theoretically a
journalistic outfit and we're just
pretending like none of this is strange
like you know I can understand like if
there was six months apart but it
literally she was on a month earlier
unbelievable they did do a pretty good
job rolling with it though yeah well I
think they're probably I'm completely on
autopilot I mean I can only imagine I I
mean my conjecture is and this is total
speculation that one has to take all
sorts of types of sedatives to to be a
Fox and Friends host or something like
that I don't know exactly maybe you need
to like I don't know lick electrical
outlets or something like that
