CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any elite
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday November 29th 2018
I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
and this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program Mike Mariani he's a contributing
writer at GQ we're talking about the FBI
are almost all terrorism cases you read
about in the news elaborate entrapment
cases and what is the incentive
structure the numbers game inside the
FBI that preys on mentally unhealthy
socially vulnerable individuals and
hooks them into contrived terror plots
well than it is worth all Hayes work the
FBI talking about that with Mike Mariani
Michael Cohen pleading guilty to lying
to Congress about a potential business
deal between Russia Russian investors
and the Trump org Donald Trump of course
has some incredible sounds in response
to that get to that we are doing ship
Bank offices are searched as part of a
warrant fire far-reaching money
laundering probe that headline of course
totally having nothing to do with
headlines about Trump and Cohen and man
afford it should be a week we had
learned yeah that should be a daily
headline indeed Paul manna for its plea
deal getting yanked
he has been apparently his lawyers in
communication with Trump's lawyers and
the screws turn even as Trump dangles
the possibility of a pardon late-night
calls between ultra sleeves Roger stone
and ultra sleaze Donald Trump is drawing
the attention of actually slightly
sleazy Robert Moeller because he's one
of the reasons that we have these FBI
entrapment problems but it's anyways
it's catching his attention some trip in
the right people he's trapping the right
people this time and it's not exactly
entrapment
I don't think Trump of course hinting at
a possibility of a pardon Jerome Corsi
and Roger stone knowingly pushed Seth
rich lies - Seth Rich's families the
family the family of the murdered Seth
rich received propaganda from Corsi and
stone which they knew to not be true
apparently that's that to me this is
dreadful Abiola
u.s. life expectancy - slight declines
again in a dismal trend not seen since
World War one storm front really digs
Tucker Carlson Fernando Haddad the
Workers Party candidate in the Brazil's
fall elections is visiting New York in
the United States and effort to bridge
solidarity for Brazil as bolson ro
salutes Bolton in the united states
military industrial complex and
corporate sector eagerly sets its sights
on a new far-right anti-people alliance
across latin america a rare victory for
democracy and foreign policy and against
barbarism as Bernie Sanders Yemen bill
passes the Senate yesterday for sure to
face a trump veto but significant
progress nonetheless all that and much
much more on today's majority report
welcome everybody the four of us here
Samantha probably rakaat I guess he was
going wild for his birthday yesterday oh
that's right
uh happy birthday Samantha that Sam's
version of celebrating a birthday is
reminiscing on how fun the Mike Stern of
each thing was and how great that was
for him and us and then texting us in in
a text thread to make sure that I think
particularly Matt cuz you were probably
the most excited about it knew that the
big cows story was not real very that's
super important see during I almost
responded that I don't think I should be
alone tonight it almost hurt you the
fake could you imagine what well I kind
of suspected this but the cows
surrounding it were very were especially
like miniscule did you really suspect it
was fake because I recall you being
pretty gung-ho about it I was more
gung-ho about the perspective t MBS
youtube title which was giant cow
baffles Marxist economist because we had
Richard Wilkins through that is a really
good title and I really wanted that but
fair enough so Michael Cohen has please
as has copped a plea specifically this
is actually separate from the whole
stormy Daniels thing which is apparently
which is I think our has been our main
exposure to Michael Cohen and Trump's
legal troubles in the last couple of
months but this is specifically around
lying to Congress around the timing of a
Trump possible joint venture for a hotel
in Russia the lie was was that the talks
of this deal had concluded the project
never went forward and Cohen was lying
to Congress saying that these talks
stopped before the Iowa caucuses
turns out they continued after the Iowa
caucuses so you know this is just kind
of regardless of any bigger kind of
Russia stuff here this is just the sort
of like this were in on monuments why
can't I say that we're in the gist you
know using the campaign using the office
emoluments a monuments we're in that
territory here I don't know why I can't
say that today it's bizarre but Donald
Trump he's on his way to Argentina for
the g20 summit it's sure to be a there's
gonna be a lot of action there there's
actually a citizen's effort and
attorneys effort to apprehend MBS there
and Buenos Aires as well so hopefully
the left will be out in strong force
protesting in Argentina Donald Trump's
on his way there and he of course had a
very succinct very clear answer to the
Michael Cohen question that got shouted
to him this morning on the White House
lawn this is really when Trump is sort
of lying and all over the place like
this but still in a very obvious way
hedging his language mm-hmm this is when
you know that he's quite aware and quite
tense about his potential jeopardy he's
in yeah he likes to like explore
different ways of framing and length and
putting things into language exactly and
it's super subtle nobody can sell Cohn
has made many statements to the house as
I
and the Senate he put out a statement
talking about a project which was
essentially I guess more or less of an
option that we were looking at in Moscow
everybody knew about it it was written
about in newspapers there was a
well-known project it was during the
early part of 16 and I guess even before
that it lasted a short period of time I
didn't do the project I decided not to
do the project so I didn't do it so
we're not talking about her doing a
project we're talking about not doing a
project Michael Kohn what he's doing is
he was convicted I guess you'll have to
put it into legal terms but he was
convicted with a fairly long term
sentence on things totally unrelated to
the Trump Organization having to do with
mortgages and having to do with cheating
the IRS perhaps a lot of different
things I don't know exactly but he was
convicted of various things unrelated to
us he was given a fairly long jail
sentence and he's a weak person and I
think I'd like other people that you
watch he's a weak person and what he's
trying to do is get a reduced sentence
so he's lying about a project that
everybody knew about I mean we were very
open with it we were thinking about
building a building I guess we had in a
forum it was an option I don't know what
you'd call it
we decided I decided ultimately not to
do it there would have been nothing
wrong if I did do it if I did do it
there would have been nothing wrong
that's my business it's beautiful so
well I'm sure there are a variety of
legal troubles that Michael Cohen's
involved in definitely his plea bargains
have definitely all had to do with the
Trump Organization because that was his
prime employer and who he was primarily
lying on behalf of the person he's
talking about who might have more
character than Michael Cohen is clearly
Paul Manafort who is a calculating
career criminal who's still hoping for a
pardon that Donald Trump is dangling in
front of him that's what he said and
that's what I said that's
obviously what the our position is
exactly Paul and so and just to add to
the you know comedy of Lies here we now
have you know you have one son who is
clearly the product of neglect and
whatever ultra bizarre emotional and
psychic issues are going on in that
house and he's the one who trumped wool
I don't know maybe follow back on
Twitter or something of course I'm
talking about Don junior then you have
the other son who there's just a lot of
basic misfortune with this guy and he's
the true embarrassment and this clip did
not is not helping every time there's an
international incident they say whoa the
president's too nice to Vladimir Putin
that's because he has so many
investments in Russia they said he's too
open to letting this investigation play
out that's busy as investments in Saudi
Arabia you're running the Trump
Organization what's the reality there's
zero investments in Russia there's zero
investments in Saudi we have absolutely
nothing to do with those countries and
by the way my father's been tougher on
Russia than probably any human being in
the world that's what happens when you
give offensive weapons to Ukraine right
Obama never did that so what happens
when you promote you know American
energy you take away their largest
financial you know stream which is oil
and that's what built oil and gases
wouldn't built Russia and all of a
sudden we're saying hey you know I want
you buy American oil we've got a lot of
great oil workers we've got a lot of
great energy in the u.s. how about this
will supply you all the energy you could
ever possibly need don't buy it from
Russia talk to your dad about ok ok so
obviously we'll start he's lying
there's relationships with Russia we
know this then Saudi well maybe look to
Jared Kushner on that relationship then
there's ok yes this actually is
important to bear in mind for the
resistance types and I'm not somebody I
think that people needed a much smarter
more nuanced perspective about what
happened in Ukraine several years ago
there was obviously a fascistic
far-right that opposed a Russian
presence there but there was also a left
oriented democracy movement and it's
complicated and I'm not interested in
excusing you know Rush
munroe policy any more than I'm
interested in excusing us man role
policy in terms of controlling its
neighbors that being said it was great
that Barack Obama didn't fuel that
conflict by giving offensive weapons to
Ukraine and there's a lot of neoliberal
Hawk idiots and that was a subtle but
usually important difference between
Obama and Hillary Clinton because she
did want to ramp up the the weapons
capacity of what sent to Ukraine so if
this becomes another thing where you're
pushing Trump to cover up these bizarre
connections which really are going to
amount to questions of oligarchy and
corruption with the Russian regime to
fuel an ultra hawkish NATO expansionist
policy along with what he's already
doing with arms control that would be
well just be polite very short-sighted
and the third point is is I don't think
any oil-producing country that is
blocking the transition to a post fossil
fuel world is going to be extremely
happy with the Trump administration's
approach to energy including Russia yeah
you know anybody going through an FBI
investigation there's sort of an
unfairness
I guess we'll sort of discover in the
interview coming up right that it's sort
of like running hurdles in a pitch-dark
gymnasium but with but with the mole
investigation the reason like I'm not so
concerned about the unfairness is that
it's like making the worst people in the
world to run through that hurdle yeah
they're the worst people on earth and
there's gonna be things there I mean
that's the thing that's so fun right
it's like if there's nothing to the
Russia thing and I think it's proven at
this point there's definitely something
to it but it even if there was nothing
to it if you put a team of forensic
investigators on the true station
financed exactly I mean are you kidding
me it's gonna be hard for them to not
write something like if you didn't find
multiple global crimes I would be
shocked like genuinely I still think
that they're gonna get out of it somehow
who everybody I mean
not everybody okay not everybody but
like Trump and his top guys I mean I
don't think metaphor it's gonna matter
for it's not a metaphor it's there but
anyway I mean whatever even a regardless
so bleed him out for 20/20 there
whatever way you spin it it's not good
politically for him to have to be on the
lawn talking this nonsense that's not a
good look
and yeah
elites usually get away with things 2018
has been a difficult year for human
rights but have you ever wondered how
rights abuses are documented around the
world you probably have with the sheer
volume of global crises we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing and Myanmar to the
caging of children on u.s. borders it's
critical that we expose truth in order
to defend rights of all and bring those
responsible to justice Human Rights
Watch does does just that they're an
independent nonprofit organization known
for their accurate fact-finding and
partial reporting and targeted advocacy
often in partnership with local
activists and human rights groups they
accept no money from any government but
rely on the support of informed
dedicated people just like you
so if human rights are important to you
visit H R W org slash majority make a
donation and support it's vital work
around the world when you do it not only
as your gift tax at the deductible it
will be matched dollar for dollar until
2019 that means your donation will go
twice as far to advance justice and
defend the basic dignity of the people
who need it most again that's H R W org
slash majority we'll be right back with
Mike Mariani on the majority report
you
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Mike Mariani he's a contributing writer
for GQ this Pete his piece the would-be
terrorist verse the FBI was released on
the November 20th issue of GQ Mike tell
us about this
26 year old or in 2010 he was 26 year
old years old Matthew and I'm gonna
butcher this Matthew lens ax
Matthew lynnae's Matthew lynnae's ax who
was he
where did he grow up and how did he come
to the attention of the FBI yeah
absolutely so Matthew lanuza he grew up
in Mesa Arizona it's near Phoenix
somewhat close to the border with Mexico
he grew up living with his grandparents
and his mom his mom had him when he when
she was pretty young so her parents
still you know helped out quite a bit
raising him eventually he moved up to
the Bay Area his dad actually had moved
up to the Oakland San Francisco Bay Area
when he was really young so he went up
there presumably to look to look for
work he really couldn't find very much
work in Mesa from his perspective it was
kind of plagued by drug cartels and drug
dealing and just a lot of just crime and
powerlessness so he moved up to the Bay
Area in his Winnebago this is around 2
2010 and sometime in late 2010 the court
documents are a little bit vague on
exactly what happened but sometime in
late 2010 Matthew made one or multiple
social media posts ranting against
American foreign policy and expressing
sympathy for jihadist groups or overseas
terrorist organizations and it was that
that
that social media post that first
alerted the FBI to Matthew lenez's
existence and and then one other thing
just in terms of setting up his
background and this isn't really well
written piece and there's a lot of
detail and nuance to it he goes and he
spends time with his father and his
father's concerned about his sons
basically his sons mental health and
he's concerned about the security of his
new family but could you explain that a
little bit there's a concern about him
but it's not he didn't actually he
wasn't threatening people in his
immediate vicinity and he had a gun
collection but he never he never harmed
anybody is that right and what was it
happened as a result of his his guns
being discovered in 2011 exactly right
so so he he only had one gun it was a
gun that he actually had registered in
Arizona when he moved across state lines
it was it became illegal in California
he didn't really he either wasn't aware
of that or didn't make the proper
accommodations to adhere to the new
state laws so he did have a mental
health episode or a mental breakdown if
you like in in April I believe of 2011
this was after he'd been living in his
Winnebago on the curb in front of his
father's house for some time he said
some things that were disturbing to his
father we don't know exactly what they
were some court documents implied that
they might have had to do with him
taking his own life so it could have
been kind of suicidal language again we
really don't know though that's not it's
hard to say so some aspects of that
incident are vague but it was enough
that his father reached out and had
medical personnel come to his house they
do
decided that he was unstable enough that
it warranted what's called a mental
health hold and that's a 70 72-hour
psychiatric hospitalization and
involuntary one and over the course of
those three days police officers
returned to the Matthews Winnebago and
his father's residence and expressed
concern to Matthews father who then went
into his Winnebago and discovered this
gun that he had brought in from Arizona
and that's what triggered that first
stint in jail in California for about a
year he got a J got a year bid just for
that unregistered gun and in the context
of what was already like was it was it
was a basically a concern about his
mental health yes and the biggest upshot
of that episode was that during those 72
hours he was diagnosed with bipolar
disorder and paranoid psychosis right
which you know is a very severe
diagnosis and it in some ways came out
of nowhere because he really had no
history of of being diagnosed he did
have have an elaborate history of
unusual behavior and thought patterns
but he had never really gotten adequate
mental health treatment for it so it was
only this incident that that spurred him
to receive this serious very serious
diagnosis so I'm gonna just do a little
editorial here this is already the first
part in the piece where just there's
total barbarism of the justice system
this case in the and the just in the
policing and gun charge level because
you have somebody who you finally
discovered that they have very serious
issues that they're dealing with that
could explain some of the anguish in the
context of what's going on with them
they have a you know an unregistered gun
clearly could have been I mean just you
know a mistake moving across state lines
and instead of an effort to help this
guy they're gonna stick him in prison
for a year and that's gonna be the
upshot of his diet
so already we're in just this incredibly
cruel barbarous territory now well let's
run a parallel track for a second so
this is what's happening with this this
troubled young man that really could use
our help we're also in a post September
11th world and the FBI is shifting and
pivoting its resources and it's focused
to terrorism obviously there's a real
reason behind this can't you know of
course September 11th is a real thing
there are actual terrorist groups but
the whole infrastructure the bureaucracy
is sort of reorienting towards terrorism
robert Moeller who was then the FBI
director increased the number of joint
terrorist task forces throughout the
country which are first introduced in
1980s I'm gonna quote from you really
briefly hey JT TFS worked to ferret out
terrorist plots through monitoring
surveillance investigation and not least
the cultivation of sources on the ground
these sources known as informants work
to get close to individuals as a group
or task force believes may be capable of
committing a terrorist crime talk about
the rise of these task forces and the
differences that started to take place
after September 11th in terms of who
they could actually target and use their
informants to go after in terms of the
loosening of standards yeah absolutely
so you know in addition to reporting on
Matthews story I obviously did want to
parallel that with how things just how
things had changed since 9/11 in terms
of the FBI its counterterrorism division
I managed sting operations one of the
people I reached out to is a man named
Michael German who was an FBI agent for
I think maybe 12 or 13 years and now is
a really strong whistleblower basically
for its behaviourist its tactics like
you said it standards since 9/11 what he
told me is that when he was there which
was primarily in the 90s in order to
initiate a sting operation which was you
know what was initiated on Matthew FBI
agents needed to either
prove that a group or an individual was
actively planning to commit a crime or
was explicitly connected to some sort of
criminal or terrorist organization one
of those two things or both had to be in
place for a sting to be launched
now if you look at some of the cases
since 9/11
there's about 870 of them of individuals
being prosecuted for terrorism offenses
and you just start to look at brief
descriptions of a lot of them or or dig
deeper you'll find that in many cases
neither of those things are in place
these people Matthew included have zero
actual concrete connection to a
terrorist organization and we're not
planning explicitly planning a criminal
act
so let's yes so we'll we're gonna and
there's a big media piece to this
because there's also a major failure in
how the media has reported on these
stories and there's also definitely a
numbers game and a bureaucratic
incentive structure inside the FBI which
reflects broader problems I'm thinking
there's a book came out I think it was
called numbers of mass destruction
I forget the author's name but she talks
about the problem with these
quantitative targets across the board in
business and in a law enforcement I'm
not creating these you know incredibly
unjust and crude social outcomes and the
same things going on with the FBI but
let's go back to Matthew so Matthew
leaves jail after a year now he has a
criminal record so in addition to you
know serious issues he's dealing with
both in terms of his mental and
emotional health and his ability to have
stability you know not trained not
educated and now the stigma of crime
right so all and and the trauma of being
in prison for a year I mean God knows
what only happened there and all of a
sudden he Luck's out or appears to luck
out and this is in some ways the another
gut punch if you're reading this with
any empathy
he gets offered a job he basically
working for a plumbing a small plumbing
outfit explain that and what emerges out
of this plumbing job what's really going
on there yeah so he gets out of prison
he has the felony on his record or the
crime on his record there's the stigma
but more importantly for him they're all
the fees and costs associated with going
through the court system going through
the criminal justice system so he had to
pay a probation a monthly probationary
fee he owed his lawyer a certain amount
of money and there may be one or two
other expenses that I'm not remembering
but it amounted to several thousand
dollars which for him was a lot that he
had to find a way to pay for and this is
as soon as he's released from prison
eventually he did have to sell his
Winnebago which you know I'm assuming
was his most valuable possession his
most valuable property to his name and
at a certain point yeah after he was
released he did find a job at a plumbing
company in the Bay Area it seemed like
something of a godsend at the time
because he really couldn't get any work
not even you know day by day manual
labor type of stuff so he was desperate
you know desperate for employment
desperate for a steady paycheck this
comes out of nowhere furthermore one of
the people at the plumbing company it it
seems like it was a supervisory
relationship was also really benevolent
towards Matthew you know helped pick him
up and drop him off helps him get food
when he needed food was just really
solicitous and really helpful in terms
of Matthew just getting his life
together and kind of just surviving on a
week-to-week basis now what's really
going on what Matthew obviously had no
idea about at the time it is that this
person at the plumbing company is an FBI
informant and he has been dispatched by
the FBI to feel out
Matthews feelings about America about
overseas jihadist groups and more
importantly his willingness to act on
those sentiments and on those ideologies
and they have conversations again court
documents are somewhat vague on the real
concrete's and specifics of those
conversations but it seems clear that
they talk about Matthews interests in
aligning himself for joining overseas
terrorist organizations and and so and
this starts to evolve and Matthews you
know claiming Islam at this point then
there's a cousin I think that comes in
who's supposedly connected with the
Taliban and they start to spell out this
elaborate and in this case right so I
would say for me do you know just
stipulating and obviously some of these
cases here where the FBI kind of takes a
troubled person and sets up a scenario
for them that's a problem structurally
but you know in some of these cases
obviously these people even though it
was all imaginary they're agreeing to do
acts that are heinous they would kill a
lot of innocent people
Matthieu actually doesn't want to have
he wants to basically blow up a building
when no one's in it if I read you
correctly and then there's this like
whole fantastical scenario about how
like that will lead to like an American
Civil War my point being is like it's
not even really like a traditional like
this is something that the Pakistani
Taliban would want or Isis or something
like that it's it's very much it's
almost like a something out of like an
Alex Jones conspiracy or something and
they're feeding this plot to him the
whole time and then they also tell him
they basically also paint and I want you
to fill in it in a second like this
amazing fantasy life if he does this so
thinking of somebody who's totally
marginalized as
very tenuous connection suffers these
mental health problems and they tell
them not only like you know forget
getting rewarded in heaven right like
you do this we're gonna take you to
somewhere in South Asia I think Pakistan
and we're gonna set you up nice yeah
what do they tell ya yeah that's exactly
right I mean the first thing the point
that you make which I think really can't
be highlighted enough is Matthew's
scheme that he comes up with is not
connected really in any way with
traditional what we think of as a
terrorist attack or something that is
motivated by religious extremism in any
way what he wants to do just briefly is
he wanted to make this Bank bombing
which again he insisted you know II was
serious about did not inflict any
casualties look like something that was
planned and executed by a right-wing
militia organization which then would
trigger a a harsh and vicious federal
government governmental response which
would then in turn spark either another
response from a smattering of right-wing
groups and organizations or all-out
civil war and so when I discovered that
that plot that scheme that idea the fact
that he had a couple of this idea and
his relationship to cause and effect and
the fact that he actually thought that
there was this was in some ways
plausible and that all this causal chain
would really be triggered by this
bombing to me it was just such a
powerful demonstration of this is where
this this individual is mentally that
this is what his relationship to reality
is and yet it didn't really seem to
cause people to bat an eye
in terms of continuing with with the
sting operation
you say that even at one point the
informant or somebody involved in in
setting up this whole scam on Matthew
with the FBI actually said like this guy
isn't a threat yeah yeah so in the
defense sentencing memorandum there are
a handful of exhibits which which I was
able to get my hands on and some of them
are conversations with the informant at
the plumbing company and at one point
you know he describes Matthew as
harmless he also talks about how I don't
know if you want to get into this
another point but Matthew was on a lot
of medication yeah 2012 um so he talks
about how Matthew could quote barely
hold a shovel at work because uh
presumably it doesn't say this
explicitly but it seems quite clear or
more than likely that it had to do with
um all the medication he was on or the
the medication that was being introduced
to him over and over as they tried to
find something that was that was the
right fit for his disorders and so in
addition to being mentally ill I mean he
was he was on meds that he was having a
lot of trouble negotiating you know and
that were making each day probably
seemingly disorienting to the point
where he couldn't even hold his tools at
work so and nothing gives pause they go
forward and they eventually they set up
a fake bomb they do the whole thing he's
arrested and then I think they're you
know there's a couple other things that
sort of spill out of this I mean one is
well first let's let's focus on the FBI
what's going on here in terms of the
career ISM and the incentive structure
and how broad a problem is this because
it has been my understanding you know in
addition to your reporting that a lot of
terrorism cases that we see reported
actually have been boiling down to this
scenario like a very significant amount
of them which is a an in for
in and there's there's what you say I
think there's like 15,000 of these
people which is a pretty I that's a
large number for you know think about
across 50 states they're on a relatively
isolated amount of communities you know
basically inducing often just really
troubled marginalized young men into
fake plots and then essentially charging
them with their participation in a
fantasy life so why like what's going on
at the FBI that there's a culture of
this yeah so this was definitely not one
of the first things that I intended to
explore in any significant detail when I
set out to to report this story
but after speaking to enough experts it
became clear yeah that this element of
quote careerism at play in the FBI's
counterterrorism division so just to
kind of sketch it out as we all might
assume since 9/11 the counterterrorism
division of the FBI has grown and grown
and grown you know there there are a lot
of Joint Terrorism Task Forces
throughout the country maybe something
like 70 or 80 and the reality is every
year the counterterrorism division has
to go to Congress about its budget right
and they have to prove that they need a
certain amount of money to continue to
employ these JTTF and to power this
division so in order to do that and as
Michael German put it they need to quote
proof statistical accomplishments so the
bottom line is that if they want to keep
the budget that they've grown over the
course of the past decade and a half or
so it's incumbent upon them to make
arrests you know and to move individuals
through the criminal justice system you
know and to get Prime and to get the
to prosecutors and to get convictions so
in a way there is a incentivization
there's an incentive structure for them
to NAB individuals committing terrorist
crimes you know or however they can
which is you know where stings come into
play and all the the moral issues and
ethical quandaries that come with with
these stings and what about the failure
of how the media reports on these in
terms of being clear that you know
because because there was a period of
time where there would be like there
would be like a headline like whoa
there's this operational cell it sounds
like 24 and there are Miami and they're
gonna blow up this building and they
have this this and this and this and
then you'd read the article and you'd be
like oh it's like a group of guys who
were really high and they requested like
special like Muslim ninja outfits and
the FBI just basically you know just
hustled some like you know messed up
dudes into a fake thing and now their
lives are destroyed yeah yeah I mean
that was a point that that that I felt
was pretty important in that you know
when these arrests take place the FBI
will issue a statement they may have a
press conference and at least for a
while it's evolved a little bit in
recent years but for a long time this
this century the media just jumps and
lunged at the headline you know from
these from these statements from these
press conferences and from these arrests
and there was probably a certain level
of embellishment or exaggeration maybe
not on the part it might've been on the
part of the FBI
it might have been on the part of
individual media organizations but what
it amounted to were these headlines that
were misleading you know there's no
question about it and especially and the
real problem occurs because it takes
some time even today even to this day
a for journalists and other people to
really parse what's going on in these
individual cases and make sense of okay
you know what
this subway station was not actually
about to be blown up you know or this
building to kind of parse the nuances of
what really was at stake but the problem
is is that by the time people commit
extense of what the stakes really were
the new cycle has moved on so to me that
has been a real problem since 9/11 the
fact that the media may only be
infatuated by these arrests for 24 48 or
72 1/2 hours and that's not enough time
for them to in some in many cases to
really make sense of okay what did these
individuals or this individual really do
and what were the nuances between them
and the sting operation that kind of
facilitated this crime so okay so media
is sensationalistic and bad and they
need to do a way better job and people
need to have media literacy so this is
yeah this is like lesson 500 million of
that what about you know the legal
question and I understand this is a lot
more complicated how it actually plays
out in a court room and obviously
courtrooms are very favorable towards
prosecutors but it kind of reminds me of
the scene in the wire where Bodhi I
don't know if you've seen that show but
bodis one of my favorite characters is
in a police you know he's in a he's in a
interrogation room and they're laying
out of cake they're laying a case out to
him that's dependent on this open-air
drug market and he's like isn't that
contraption and McNulty who's the cool
cop is like I think the kid has a point
and they have to let him go so my
question is to paraphrase Bodhi how are
all of these cases not essentially giant
entrapment cases yeah it's a really
tough question and it's a question that
I posed to a lot of people while
reporting this story I I guess the best
way to distill it is to explain my
understanding of what a defense attorney
needs to do to win and try
in case to actually you know to stage an
entrapment defense and win it so what
they have to do is they need to first
prove inducement so they have to prove
move that the FBI explicitly induced
this individual or individuals to commit
this terrorist crime and that already is
really fraught with gray areas because
it's so hard to tell how the
conversations begin how the planning
begins usually it's between you know two
or more people so being able to really
isolate inducement is extremely
difficult and then the second thing that
they have to do the second bar they have
to clear is they have to prove that
their client had no predisposition to
commit this crime which is also
extremely difficult now this didn't
really come up too much with Matthew but
in that with speaking to the experts
I've heard that in some cases proving
predisposition is is easy because it can
be so vague right so even if a defendant
you know went on youtube and watch some
jihadist video or a video that looks
askew at American foreign policy even
things like that that are only really
dealing with their ideological growth
you know as teenagers as 20-somethings
as young people that in some cases seems
to be enough to say look here's
predisposition even though that may have
no connection to the specifics and the
concretes of the actual crime so you
know to jump through both those hoops is
really difficult to prove inducement and
to prove that their client has no
predisposition to commit the crime and
that's why it has never worked in a
terrorist case it has never worked and
even even the most ludicrous cases it's
never worked because we're in
thoughtcrime territory I mean I mean
because you really are just saying
essentially like well hey and let's and
let's see now let's make it really
high-quality here this this guy watched
you know he watched a Noam Chomsky video
on us supported coos that seems hostile
right that's right that's the logic of
it exactly yeah and those are just I
mean that's like a an intellectual it's
like it's it's the world of ideas right
and and they're seemingly using that in
some cases from from my reporting to
prove this predisposition right okay I
mean so it's really clear what the
situation is and it's very clear what
the incentive structure is this piece is
excellent there's also a piece I think
it's called the terrorism Factory it's a
book if that's the terror factory by
Trevor Aaronson which came out in 2013
but you reference and that's still a
really important book holds up well for
explaining this phenomenon it's not
where is Matthew now have you been in
touch with him and what you know as this
system from the local police to the FBI
have just been totally grinding and you
know destroying this human life where is
he what happened to him have you spoken
to him yeah yeah so he's at federal
prison in Oregon or against one federal
prison I over the summer when I was a
spring and summer when I was reporting
this story I reached out to just about
anybody I could get contact information
for in his family and then him too and
the one person I actually was able to
get through to was Matthew we spoke okay
through email and then we spoke on the
phone and I had you know maybe 12 or 15
phone conversations with him over the
course of the summer he's going to be in
prison for another seven eight nine
years I don't know the specifics of his
if there is any eligibility for parole
I'm not sure if there is in federal when
I'm dealing with federal crimes but yeah
I mean he's there he's there for a long
time
I think that when I spoke to him it was
probably one of the first times that he
was really revisiting what happened in
2011 12 and 13 and trying to kind of
analyze it and examine it and make sense
of it I think it happened so fast
his mental illnesses and his medication
may have made some in some parts of it
all blurred to him and he just was
trying to dissect it on the phone with
me well and and also it's yeah I just
when in the interview with him and
people read it like it's the way even
you can kind of trait some of the things
that he's been afflicted with in terms
of just going right back to the
beginning and interview like his
misperception of just how dangerous and
baroque his environment was a messy
Arizona like really thinking that like
experiencing the world like it was like
a scene in Sicario over and over and
over again lines straight up to this
delusional plot right so up until his
interactions on the phone with you where
he still has a lot of you know very
serious paranoia about the world and of
course what's just so depressing and
gutting about it is that intuitively his
paranoia becomes right because in fact
one of the most powerful agencies the
United States and his false friends all
are actually on in on a conspiracy to
destroy his life for their own you know
various forms of advancement and that's
kind of the most gut-wrenching irony of
the piece for me yeah yeah I mean you
you you kind of pinpointed it perfectly
it's like this moment of poetic
injustice or something where he's been
delusional his whole life at least from
what I was able to report and to discern
and he has overestimated the level of
danger around him for such a long time
and then suddenly it all comes to a head
and his paranoid thinking actually
perfectly matches
the schemes and the plots taking place
around him with him as their target it's
really just there's an extraordinarily
sad symmetry that that kind of climaxes
when he is arrested and like I said you
know just because it makes for an
interesting insight in the story doesn't
make it any easier for him you know
obviously he has to deal with with these
awful awful consequences but but yeah
it's Mike Mariani the piece is the
would-be terrorist verse the FBI it's in
GQ it's indispensable reading please go
out read it share it widely it's a very
well-written very human story which
opens the door into this really enormous
abuse by the FBI the terrorism complex
and federal prosecutors in the post 9/11
era and and the human costs of it as
distilled in Matthew Mike really
appreciate your time man thanks so much
all right thank you so much for having
me of course all right folks
I love how this show is so skewed in a
way that where I want to go after that
was really it was a gut-wrenching piece
I read it last night and I had to like
pace around the apartment it's so
upsetting and now I'm having that same
experience in the interview and you know
how we go into our defense mechanisms
when we're feeling stress so I love I
love Judy totally so this is please do
not but I just I did want to go into
like - don't you love Robert
Moeller I was like no I don't love
 Robert Moeller
god damn it seriously I really I'm I'm
glad that the same tricks that have been
used to terrorize the mentally
vulnerable are now being used on the
worst people on earth that's beautiful
I'm all for that
but no I do not like Robert a powerful
as good as the resources are being yes
those resources shouldn't be there in
the first place indeed but as long as
they're there point them in the right
point on that Trump Inc
indeed Trump or would that still doesn't
make it worth it that we have these
institutions okay now of course you
really okay here is Brian Krassin Stein
who is a well-known former multi-level
marketing guy and now a leader in the
resistance right yeah yeah he uh he has
a him in his but are they twins his
brother once they have a website called
the hill reporter which is very funny oh
really because when you see that in
print it looks as if they work for the
hill and they're reporting for it they
are they are the thing is is I've called
the krasna signs out for being grifters
a number of times and they Twitter
search their name so they'd be like what
did I say that was wrong and and the the
the truth is that there actually
despite being I think transparent
grifters to me they're very good at it
um they've clearly they clearly they
might sincerely believe it they might I
couldn't wait they might believe in
other level marketing they might believe
in the FBI grift a might be unconscious
just one more reason one more example of
why intentions don't matter grifting
can't be unconscious I mean look
intentions I'm not a hundred percent on
board with the like cedar position of
intentions are totally irrelevant they
didn't matter personally and
interpersonally relevant and they matter
will frame some of our some of our
opponents but Brian the crossings are
not inside the tent it reminds me of
that protest I saw a picture of a guy
holding up a sign at one of the
russia-related protests that just said I
love laws that guy is the reductio ad
absurdum of the resistance and that is
also aware on a sort of psychic level
Trump speaks to more elemental human
truths although I would they're like
laws aren't fun necessarily I would like
to show protest in the Isle of
I love the regulatory state that was you
know an anti-fog guy who had to make a
new sign real fast as a disguise after
smashing Starbucks most I'm convinced
that would be funny if everybody
like a black line it's a black black
person going undercover in a Starbucks
yeah for black put on a cardigan and
it's like respect FBI for the black blog
for the black blog going undercover is
taking your mask off and having a really
lame ass like wait for the molar report
there is sort of a movement now to have
like an army block so they can't really
tell who you are which i think is much
loved that's very smart thinking I mean
the the IRA had Shin Fame guys I mean
look the the optics of these things is
secondary importance to the underlying
you know material concerns Oh etcetera
etcetera but there's something to be
said about like look at the picture with
the Ferguson girl with their prom dress
on right like that was big right you got
to play the media game to a certain
extent if you're going but you're saying
you got to do the the people who came
out the day after Charlottesville uh
suburban people being like uh get the
 out of here you racist morons
ruining our town um and that's also to
counterpoint because you never can count
on NBC to cover it right so they'll have
the identity Europa guy I'd be like well
what do you know he brushes his teeth
and he hates gee he says he's not racing
yeah I says not racist whoa but you got
to play that game so therefore it you do
need the equivalent there's a reason
they've I'm a normal person who happens
to have taken World War two seriously
like I trust Captain America that's
where I hate fashion I'm gonna signify
talking right up front that we don't
have a lot in common yeah exactly and
that's and it's just not good strategy
um on Tuesday we had an amazing time a
Professor Richard Wolfe and now you can
get all where you want to just throw
that up for a second Matt the Michael
Brooke show YouTube page just want to
say for a second that there's
a huge amount of clips there now um so
you can really get a feel of the show
and no ads and no ads yet we haven't
monetized it yet because our free speech
is being hindered we're being suppressed
or being shadowed banned
we're being suppressed in shadow bands
but yeah look we have pieces on Brazil
what needs to be said the race Democrats
race and economic anxiety we have
Richard wolf woke bros with Waze and I
we're covering why beer is ruining
capitalism is ruining peer we owed a lot
I mean obviously as you'd expect a lot
more global stuff a lot more kind of pop
culture but also IDW Marxism it's really
fun great clips with Richard Wolfe and
Contra points this weekend go subscribe
to the YouTube channel and from now on
the live Tuesday Michael Brooks show
will be streaming live on Michael Brooks
show YouTube channel this Sunday
an illicit history of logic with Ben
Burgess for patrons it's an interesting
conversation on can tool logic be
rescued from the sophistry of the right
and also kind of interesting historical
slot philosophy lesson and you do not
want to miss any of the post games
particularly of course the ones that
just happened Richard Wolffe so
patreon.com slash TMDs patreon.com slash
TMDs wall on our way and come see us at
the Bell House February first Michael
Brooks live show and of course come to
the majority report live show January
12th also at the Bell House January 13th
also at the Bell House both links to
those tickets both majority report and
Michael Brooke show live shows are at
the majority doubt if them homepage buy
them fast because they are going fast
Jamie all right so as you all know Sean
and I were on vacation for 10 days so we
don't have a lot of new stuff for you
but we did unlock our real maoist hours
wherein we read a document possibly real
possibly fake about the florida
communist fronts plan for protracted
people's war and the florida everglades
people got mad at
because they're like oh it's fake it's
obviously fake but it was still fun if
it was a fun bit of satire then hit
pretty close to home for some of the
more adventurous elements of the left
and it was fun I'd also like to plug a
couple of events that the DSA is putting
on including the holiday party this
weekend if you're in the New York area
the New York City DSA is throwing its
annual holiday fundraising party it's
called Redd's need green a GSA
fundraiser
there'll be a performance from Shilpa
ray really really awesome musician kind
of bluesy punky sexy amazing and that's
from eight to twelve I'll put a link in
the episode description also this ties
in with a lot of things we were just
talking about in the interview the
libertarian socialist caucus and the
black socialist of America have worked
together to put on a panel on the
history and effects of COINTELPRO Oh
tonight
nice yeah I won so Pro X star bar in
Bushwick featuring Jamal Joseph of the
Black Panthers who actually did a number
of years in prison who can talk about
its effects on him personally and on the
organization as well as yeah Cohen so
Pro very important thing to understand
yeah that's awesome
is Michael Steven Smith and yeah awesome
well if I wasn't if I wasn't going to a
Fernando Haddad event tonight I would go
to that actually Matt a literary
hangover is my podcast and check that
baby out short and sweet
all right folks we'll see you in the fun
half
[Music]
you
welcome back we are on the fun half
Michael Brooks here with the squad just
wanna explain seongjo Brenda Finn Matt
explain the song choice that was a song
by celli french guy looks like Lupe Keef
a oh no sorry
lapa pay KD we so typically the song is
Lupe q fae know and I just pick a random
one on Spotify and play that I didn't
realize this one was which la Pope a key
fain know in French means the doll whose
says no no or declines that's all who
declines and well cuz fait it but I
don't know I love a Kiki Dee we is the
doll who says yes oh you found her
 sister yeah exactly
geez Jamie with the slut-shaming be
funny like I'll find your sister
great it should be followed to the ivory
appropriated it so I mean I was a bit
confused because I thought it was gonna
be the same so Amber Rose we
appropriated it that was what I was
thinking of Oh a lot of people did it
was Amber Rose don't steal vallah
I would never steal amber Rose's fala
disgusting you know Fowler to go around
like the crescents teens the crabs your
son crime Fowler
no okay I'm gonna explain a lot of white
girls they want to be the ones that got
rid of slut-shaming and he feel very
uncomfortable with Amber Rose I like by
the way I really liked Sam Rogan I feel
like that bit has a lot of legs Oh
should we also quick before we really
start getting into it that what's up I'm
starting a campaign called hash tag boot
Boris so we played on the show a couple
days ago and I was Boris Epstein a
sinclair broadcasting has been sending
must run segments of Boris Epstein who
we like to make fun of here for being
Terrell
job and basically fascist propaganda
yeah that person fascist and so he did a
segment or two defending the the gassing
of tear gassing of children on the
border right and Sinclair tweeted out
eighteen hours ago we'd like to take a
moment and address some of the concerns
regarding a commentary segment by Boris
Epstein that was aired on Sinclair
stations this week the opinions
expressed in the segment do not reflect
the views of Sinclair Broadcast Group
but it does reflect the views of
something that they'll tell their
affiliates to must run sinclair
continues when boris segments are aired
on our stations they're labeled clearly
as commentary i mean that it's true that
the word commentary is clear on that
screen but what that means to Sinclair's
audiences
it says the commentary I say the things
now when the comment is below we also
offer our stations offer which offers an
interesting word choice to use because
with Boris they're not just offering
Boris their you must run this or we'll
find you right there mandating it we
will we also offer our stations
reporting from the Beltway and beyond
that are not partisan or bias in any way
they finally continue if you have any
concerns about any of our content we
genuinely want to hear from you I mean
yeah sure above all we are committed to
fair unbiased journalism across all our
stations nationwide and a truly honored
blah blah blah so I if you want hash tag
boot bars go uh you can find this I'd
like to retweet this guy I would say
Matt if you get Boris booted that we
could add that another notch to one of
your nominal achievement yes I would
like I would like that would be that
would be one of my a modicum of
achievement Monica I would like to
return to Boris and hey now that I've
got you fired is that achieved enough to
be able to talk to you
so yeah boot Boris get him out there
it's gonna model the paint as they say
maybe several Mata calms I think mmm
modicum eyes
Colin from Nebraska did you all see
Peterson's weak response to Wolf's
assessments on his views of Marxism
posted about
will you go oh we should have
played that on the postgame I didn't
know that you respond oh he
responded that's crazy
oh I can guess it has something to do
with like there's a study of an ant
colony that I read half of that um Mao
was bad yeah Richard wolf is actually
the guy who's paid all the trans playing
money to transact this to bother me in
my office trying to try to get me thrown
in jail by constitutional change that's
communism that video is so good it was
such a bike drop on Peterson like on the
one hand I was upset that Richard Wolfe
has to know who Jordan Pederson is the
other hand it was very good it was we
were talking about the richness of
capital as a text and how when you first
approached it it's incredibly
intimidating but then you also realized
that unlike this sort of public
imagination of of just Marx as a writer
as a as a as a theoretician it's it's so
alive and it's and it's filled with
literature and analogies to everything
from like Frankenstein to Othello real
gothic imagery to a lot of gothic
imagery it's a synthesis of English
economics French politics German
philosophy it's very rich and and
Richard Wolfe is elucidating this as
only he can do and I cut in and it was
time pretty well and I said so you're
saying that maybe Jordan Peterson is
missing something here and Wolfe just
had this look on his face like what he
talked about young men pulling
themselves up by their whatever he did a
little Trump paraphrase and his Peterson
dunking
he's got the sort of perfect effective
posture for that like it's sort of like
the like it's it's a district that you
kind of don't want to have to be doing
but you're you can just do it like a put
upon professor having to explain
something to a child so while I am NOT a
big Drake fan and I didn't push a one
but the brilliant thing that Drake did
in the in the first response I forget
the name of it
Jeffrey stone Duffy is he starts the
verse as if he's mid-sentence and he
literally sighs before he starts like I
already told you like he literally
starts to diss that way and that I mean
you got to give Drake a lot of credit
for that and and Wolff basically yeah
it's just that like it's a different
frequency than words but right it's
important and precisely attorney Andrew
sup Mike what is the show's views on
advertising for human rights watch when
they often are criticized on the left
for their involvement in promoting US
national security interest namely
providing pretext for intervention
seeking regime change um I think and I
can't speak for Sam but I mean clearly
the calculation is is that someone like
Ronald Reagan telling us that Human
Rights Watch's work is useful for his
practice as an immigration attorney as
an example they definitely provide some
clear and objective value undoubtedly
now I have you know Kenneth Roth the
head of Human Rights Watch just put out
a disastrous tweet the other day
defending the ending of this amazing
Cuban health initiative in Brazil and
doing a you know hey well you know
bolster owes not a nice guy but he's
right about Cuba and I think this is the
tweet this is at Ken Roth bowls an arrow
is an odious messenger but he's right
that Cuba shouldn't be seizing most of
its doctors wages when they work abroad
or preventing them from building their
families from bringing their families
there are fairer ways to serve Brazil's
rural communities now fairness right now
look I mean the reality is is that this
is a program that benefited millions of
Brazilians a partnership between the
I'll just say a democratically govern
Brazil and Cuba now anybody who has any
awareness of anything will understand
the cube is an incredibly complicated
place and the Castro government is a
mixed one that's objective reality they
undoubtedly have engaged in human rights
practices that we would oppose
conversely they've survived ninety miles
off the coast of Florida
with dozens of assassination attempts
CIA interference us-backed right-wing
Cuban terrorism including blowing up
civilian airliners and they've also
achieved incredible results and things
like health care especially relative to
their poverty of a country under
blockade so Cuba has incredible
achievements and you know there's a
broader problem here which is
exemplified by Human Rights Watch of a
very narrow Human Rights rhetoric that
does not speak to a broad spectrum of
human rights concerns including of
course human you know economic ones and
doesn't deal with corporate issues and
doesn't deal with a whole other broader
sets of concerns and also you know has a
sort of punitive and and us-centric
approach so I don't know I mean look
it's up to Sam that's really the bottom
line I'm not saying it's a pastor
offices literally uh and and there have
been occasional advertisers I won't say
which one but I know I read an ad once
and I was like I'm never reading that
again oh yeah the sort of like credit
report yeah they're renters yes I'm
never reading that again I felt like
that I mean I know that would have been
used to keep my family from having homes
I felt dirty and disgusted reading it
just used to keep me and my husband from
having a home yes it's been used and
fair enough it's been used in my
adulthood too I should acknowledge but
it there's something even more of a at
least a punch for me of thinking of like
a parents with kids but yeah exactly the
same point as adults of course and we
appreciate having this fun have to be
able to hash things out like this when
occasionally there are calls like this
yeah we're open to it we're totally open
to transparency yeah and Sam will be -
there's always intellectual honesty I
think the only time that he got upset
was when we were doing ads for a PBS
historical drama Indian summer and
Indian summer and the advertiser
apparently did not like libertarian
Gandhi's thoughts
which is there I will yeah which is
totally there everything they understood
Howard Stern or bill burr or any great
advertising they would know that that
was probably getting more audience
engagement than any other read we ever
did this is the this was actually the
last little phase I remember when I was
a majority report listener and not
actually working here because like two
weeks later bender left and I started
right but I remember listening to that
your impression of libertarian Gandhi
during that and thinking like you know
what I didn't mind watching Downton
Abbey maybe this will be interesting
like the British cannot leave we are not
equipped with our own market incentives
if they're oiled if the untouchables
don't pour themselves by the Brutes top
there would never be reinforced I was a
 am faster was a correct and I can't
not do man right he was a no you
know Mendel is clearly everything just
has to become Rogan Sam Rogan right-wing
Mandela Rogan Gavin's a funny
guy but you know it's like trolls I
don't have last I heard about the prod
boys it was just a joke I thought they
were jacking off into cops or whatever
but now I see I guess that I guess
there's no I don't know I haven't really
I don't know I don't see it but you know
anti-fog reads they read a book and you
know it's about some hero or whatever
but you know violence man it's provoked
by artifice you can't do it you don't
let that violence provoke you if you
could dream big what would what what one
policy would you like in a green new
deal I would like a complete
nationalization of all major energy
companies oh yeah how'd you percent I
mean you just look at you historic eyes
the poisonous impact anti-democratic
impact just the fossil fuel industry
alone has had stealing a public Commons
in a way that's even more like that is
the crudest form of capitalist like
there's market innovations that if
you're being intellectually honest are
like steps removed from like basic
accumulation but that's just literally
like
here is that a common resource period
we're gonna privatize it we're going to
do everything from pollute your lungs to
support coos to own your democracy and
we're just gonna make money off of
drilling dinosaur bones and pumping it
into the atmosphere and killing all of
us and there's not a thing to do
about it one of the world
yes colossal failures that was allowed
to happen yes yes full nationalization I
was in an argument with someone about
this last night who was like well
there's no evidence that global
socialism or democratic control over the
economy could solve climate change and I
was like well maybe it could maybe it
couldn't but definitely capitalism can't
so maybe give it a shot yeah in the
meantime we're not going to just allow
you to get massively rich on something
that's poisoning the world if we're
gonna poison ourselves anyway we're
gonna do it we're the the the sort of
wealth goes to everybody that's also so
unbelievably stupid was like what yeah
we're gonna have a I think we're being
honest a post-capitalist future none of
us know what the specifics of that look
like what we do it's sort of like saying
like hey if you start exercising and
stop smoking it still might not make you
healthier I guess but we're gonna do
that because that's a much better bet we
got a try yeah we're gonna try the
obvious step here you're calling from of
eight for seven area code who are you
where you calling from hey Michael it's
Josh from Chicago how are you doing
buddy what's on your minds I'm good I'm
good Michael it's the dream team that's
in studio today huge ami match to
defriend in the leftist not the not the
center not the caucus yes that the
caucus MSNBC kook yeah MSNBC Wow Sam I
want to talk about two things first off
I was very disappointed to see the
election result yesterday for caucus
chair yes
barbra we did not win
yep which is horseshit yep and I think I
actually a king Jeffries used to be my
rep and he's not the worst but you need
more believe a lot of he ain't barbara
Lee takes a lot of money from charter
schools and I think the this incoming
class is looking up to someone like
Barbra Lee right now especially the
incoming class freshman Congress women
like a OC proceeded to leave ina Presley
and I guess it just shows that you know
hey first of all dude entered the race
like two weeks ago
when I understand and it really shows
that the establishment really wants to
block any progressive movement within
the Democratic Party in terms of like
leadership positions yeah I think
there's a no doubt that I'm just going
to quote briefly from this piece in The
Washington Post which is after loss
representative barbara Lee wonders
whether when black women get a seat in
Democratic leadership by a mere ten
votes California congresswoman lost to
Hakeem Jeffries New York on Wednesday in
a hotly contested race between two
members of the Congressional Black
Caucus the divided Democrats and issues
of gender and age but here is the real
thing
I mean I honestly I mean obviously those
are important things but I think that
this speaks really directly to it only
one point three of Hakeem Jeffries money
in the last election came from small
dollar donors compared to twenty one
point two percent for Lee almost half of
Jeffrey's money to get reelected came
from PACs
so I I think that yeah I mean it doesn't
mean that the process isn't still
happening and it doesn't mean that there
isn't some movement and momentum but the
fact that barbara Lee who in addition to
being a very good progressive in
addition to having a very good record in
addition to being someone you know in
the mold of you know a real progressive
with convictions who's been working it
for a long time yeah I think that that's
a fair to say she's also you know she's
highly respected she's not a gadfly
she's not you know she and the only way
to read this defeat is that
fundamentally they don't feel
comfortable with somebody who's
genuinely on that progressive reform
wave and it is a conflict and I mean
look I think some people oversell the
relevance of it but it's it's definitely
an Ella analogous to Perez over keith
Ellison you know okay we can move a
little bit more liberal but we can't
have somebody who's really good in there
and it just underlines the the massive
struggle that still is ahead of us and
it's obscene it's a huge disappointment
there's no way of spinning it as
anything other than a real loss and yeah
I mean look how came Jeffrey's sure we
could take it as a sign of a modicum of
improvement he's probably a little bit
better than Joe Crowley but charter
money Wall Street money also another big
difference I mean and even the only
thing is debatable
and even though Kuro Joe Crowley thing
is debatable and Hakeem Jeffries also I
mean you know another major issue here
is gonna be some light in terms of
police supporting a genuinely centrist
position with regard to Israel Hakeem
Jeffries totally in line with the you
know New York Laocoon style Israel can
do absolutely anything it wants anytime
anywhere any place we're not gonna
question apartheid policies or blockade
policies and barbara Lee in addition to
being the only member of Congress who
voted against the original AUMF after
September eleventh which is set the
whole stage from Bush through Trump of
this global mega war which has kinetic
activity across the globe which has
killed so many people she not only was
right and prescient on she's continued
to work on a repealing the AUMF and of
course one can only imagine the amount
of death threats and things that she
faced when she cast that incredibly
courageous vote so yeah I mean it's
disgusting there's no positive way to
skip it it's stupid yeah I agree
and it's unfortunate I also first off
want to get a shout to my friend Ryan
he's listening he just texted me get
back to work Ryan also I have you guys
what the Hillary comment from last week
although I know
we uh yeah I mean dude there's not much
to say about it I mean she's got I mean
she's just in a different time I'm I'm
she lives in the 1990s and the only
thing I think that's relevant honestly
to add about it is the same people who I
braced who embraced shallow performative
identity politics and linked it with
Hillary Clinton 2016 I'm gonna let you
go Josh cuz a little loud in the
background but the same people who
hooked and connected the shallow
performative identity politics of
Hillary Clinton in 2016 and the you know
Kaldor intersectionality of so many
writers and so many Democratic Party
leaders they need to recognize that for
the Clintons and for that class of
center-right politicians that those that
the core base is a market orientation
and an opposition to universal programs
that is really what it is it's it's a
making a piece with and building a
politics around the neoliberal consensus
that emerged out in nineteen eight 1970s
and Hillary Clinton is absolutely still
part of that even if though she of
course she's moved a couple ticks the
relative relevant to the relative left
but Bill Clinton in the 1990s when the
fashionable thing from the Third Way was
to triangulate to the right on race he
signed incredibly repressive immigration
bill he made sure to go home to Arkansas
to sign a death warrant for a mentally
incapacitated black man when he was
running for president in 2008 Hillary
Clinton and Mark Penn ran absolutely
nativist appeals against Barack Obama
one of Mark Penn's memos said Barack
Obama save it I think for 2040 just on
name alone so not only is a shallow
performative reductive pseudo
intellectual incoherent Pro neoliberal
identity politics the type of politics
that would say oh no no Bernie Sanders
because he's a white man look that's
trash it's stupid we got to do better
than that period notes
for that but if you are concerned
obviously as we all are anybody on the
left with the authentic convictions
armed connections between how you know
all of these systems interplay and all
of these you know vital issues connected
and distinct you need to know that you
know the the what isn't negotiable as
the austerity Hillary Clinton didn't say
here's what's happening in Europe
austerity is killing us and there's
actually new research that just came out
finally some counter Velata evidence
that had been like this stuff is driven
by cultural trends in terms of the
voting patterns there's no doubt about
that but there's new research in the
Washington Post that did show that at
least in Europe people who vote for
center-left parties when those parties
embrace lost arity those voters break
for far-right parties and so what
Hillary Clinton could have said is she
said I said okay there's two issues here
there's austerity which is hugely
unpopular and we failed on and we need
to change our policies and at least be
kansian and there's immigration which
she's probably right about probably is
politically unpopular and it probably is
hard to deal with in Europe okay in
terms of reality but we need to figure
out a way of fighting on that issue and
connecting it with labor struggles and
connecting and so forth because it's a
you know it's a value conviction we have
uh but what she doesn't do is she
doesn't bring austerity into play which
could be a winner and she goes right to
this superficial appeal on immigration
which is the 1990s playbook and that's
why even if you think that those types
of politicians are gonna be woke for a
second that's never durable because it
will go out you know the other end in a
second yeah
it also kind of puts the light to any
liberal pretensions to being for the
free movement of people because it's a
human right right like she was perfectly
happy to promote this neoliberal
globalization world order vision when it
made sense and now that it's beginning
to threaten the neoliberal world order
from the left or from the right she's
pulling away
on it yeah definitely and I mean there's
I mean the only other thing I'd also the
other thing I'd like to just say apropos
of the clintons and I think potentially
cory booker we're gonna be covering mark
Epstein more in the future Jeffrey
Epstein excuse me Jeffrey Epstein yep
you could call it the real pizza gate if
you want and this was a enormous ly
wealthy hedge-fund guy who spread his
money around and this is just money
there's no clear evidence of anything
else but associated with Donald Trump
there's even a clip from back in the day
where Trump said like me Jeffrey Epstein
likes you know he really likes young
women I don't know if Trump men the
literally woman as young as 14 years old
that Jeffrey Epstein was sexually
abusing Jeffrey Epstein also flew around
Alan Dershowitz and all sorts of other
influential people on his plane and they
continued to have associations with
these people even after he was
criminally convicted on a slap on her
wrist charges I have the Trump quote
terrific guy Trump told New York
magazine back in 2002 he's a lot of fun
to be with it is even said that he likes
beautiful women as much as I do and many
of them are on the younger side no doubt
about it
Jeffery enjoys his social life and his
social life literally involved like
grooming and mass child sexual abuse
there's a soul I want to just say with
regards to the Clintons just quickly and
then go elaborate on it I want a
Democratic nominee where we can use
Jeffrey Epstein against Donald Trump and
his administration and I want to talk
about it regularly so I don't want
somebody who I'm not saying anything
else there is no evidence of anything
else other than Bill Clinton hung out on
that plane a lot and this is an
associate and that's one of the reasons
that even if she wanted to Hillary
Clinton couldn't flip on Trump and say I
don't forget you know this or that rude
comment you're gonna talk about my
husband check this out oh I can't
say that because my husband also hung
with that guy yep I don't want to done
with it come on we need someone who
cannot be made to look like a hypocrite
bottom line even yeah or someone who
just isn't a massive will always
try to make the movie a hypocrite lot
disagree with you Isis a this one's way
worse than hypocrisy like that's there
yeah we need to turn over the tables and
this we need to turn over the deed I
love this on Nathan Bernard a shout out
to Nathan bruschetta
he's the anti IDW bulldog the silence
from pizza gate fanatics bumble Jack and
Poe so biack and weird and weird Mike
Serna vich on Jeffrey Epstein is
deafening really disappointed in that
and this is so true because look I know
that I'm on wax here on majority report
of saying like there's a reason this
isn't coming up during the campaign yep
and it's because they're both tainted by
it because if Trump wasn't tainted bite
he would 100% have been tweeting out the
links of Bill Clinton Epstein right like
I totally would have been doing that and
and it was it was one of the more
interesting things to watch in terms of
that mudslinging that they both kept
their hands out of it because and look
all the truth uh naps time we all agree
and we can play this game where it's
like Hillary it's not it's it's not bill
it's Hillary right yeah I don't have
time you know if you come to me in 2000
and I'm sorry I finished your point but
I mean I'm just gonna say that's
over yeah it's over and it never was
because the thing about people who
wanted to make those arguments was they
all it's like look the reality of
Hillary Clinton's political career first
of all it's a partnership and it goes
both ways there's no doubt that Bill
Clinton would not be where he was in
many respects and have what he had
without her intelligence and strategic
insight okay it's a partnership and and
so you know let me by bed sleep you made
your bed sleep and you can't
simultaneously go well Hillary Clinton
did all of these incredible things and
she was part of this and that as first
lady and as a partner the president but
anytime you talk about his behavior his
associations and what they did is a
political
elective then all of a sudden no she's
not part of it and you're using her
husband to get her get the out of
here it's all or nothing either she was
pure window dressing who did nothing and
wasn't part of his political
accomplishments which is untrue a
historical and sexist or they were a
political team that did everything
together
and at the end certainly at the very
least she was complicit in it and you
know I mean everybody's seen the picture
with her and Trump and her husband like
just just stop like that stop the pseudo
woke defense of nonsense before it
starts in 18 because I will be even less
polite than I was in 16 like I missed me
with it yeah I mean I'm a little torn
about it to be honest like I think she's
absolutely complicit in everything
political that he did but in terms of
his like gross douchey behavior with
women I don't know but Jeffrey Epstein
isn't exact well I mean that's we could
I don't agree with you but we can table
that I'm saying Jeffrey Epstein money
was flowing to them jets were being used
for things so I'm not even say if you
fly on the low leaders account for the
the money part in the political
connection certainly well and also just
I mean but even in general like yeah
like I don't like if you know and you
are like your husband flies in the
Lolita Express and you know it and
everybody knows ya and disorient it's
really dark like that's actually super
dark and we don't and we don't you know
look we keep saying we don't know maybe
Hillary maybe Bill Clinton's behavior
was totally aboveboard on the Lolita
Express but maybe it wasn't and I'm not
willing the hell of an oversight yeah
for an ex-president I'm just I'm I'm
just saying like husband's hide all
sorts of from their wives no wasn't
if I knew in 2012 about those flights I
mean I guess I guess if Sean were
revealed to have flown on the Little
League Express I might have some
questions for him but maybe wouldn't
want to hitch my wagon to his everybody
knew that he was flying in the lily to
express for a year
I guess is my point and not even to
mention the whole money dimension back
there our package it was a different
time it's a totally different time you
could fly on planes with 14 year olds no
I mean okay not saying anything yeah
they did name the plane after a book
about child rape so that right there
should be a pretty big red flag yeah
that was not just about child rape that
was an examination of a statics great
prose and that is what I was that is
what I think Jeffrey appreciated in
Lolita
that's what Jeffrey appreciated that's
what my husband if read Humbert Humbert
actions are different from how beautiful
it is to hear him describe for instance
a mural on a ceiling yeah I'm sure I
don't know I guess like both the the the
vestigial liberal feminist in me
sometimes gets defensive when she's held
responsible for his gross nice but you
know what she's gross too so and I don't
even know it's responsible it's just
connected like she's not responsible
look if somebody said hey it's because
of Hillary Clinton that Bill Clinton's
on that plane Joe yes I agree she said
you get on that plane this brings up an
interesting distinction right like it's
not about responsibility but it's about
accurately assessing real liabilities
that exist anyway regardless of whether
she's responsible for him or not precise
yeah she made a cost-benefit analysis
somewhere down the line and what was so
amazing a bizarre about Clinton's and is
this bizarre culture arose around them
particularly in 2016 where it was like
on one hand like I mean we already know
like the myth of competence and the myth
of that they're effective in all of this
and her if efficacy obviously that myth
is totally just is destroyed but there
was also just this weird like you know
it was like it was like yeah like oh you
know we got to go with them they're
serious she knows how to take the fight
to them they know how to win and then
the other hand like actually in this I
have to say frankly a way that was
totally disrespectful of her it might
men like effective short-term silly
point scores on Twitter but like no
excuse me
Hillary Clinton is one of the most
powerful sophisticated operators in
modern American politics therefore
that's how she's sodastream nomination
right
therefore we talk about her involvement
in things politically and all of a
sudden people it was like the same way
like you know Hillary Clinton she's a
boss she can destroy anybody whoa
Bernie Sanders disagreed with her on the
debate stage totally inappropriate like
people had this weird bizarre
both I mean some of them no scruples
some of them actually genuinely had like
a whacked incoherent
double-consciousness we're on one hand
it was like she was the ultimate slay
queen and then also just like the
perpetual victim whereas both of those
narratives are actually sexist and
inaccurate - a very flawed very
complicated and ultimately failed but
certainly sophisticated ruthless smart
and at times very effective political
operator she herself used to cite what I
thought it was one of Nixon's best
touches the man in the arena thing right
like yes we're public officials like
this is what this is right and so the
people that are like you know you know
stop making fun of Hillary or leave her
alone leave Britney Alone sort of thing
like this isn't the woman that you don't
know run for president you don't know
her though you also you're defending her
she would shoot like scoff at this sort
of pathetic defensive and that was what
was an in fact and not in some ways you
could you could actually I think you can
measure some of the responses to her
because I actually you know lifelong not
Hillary Clinton fan but anytime she
actually could and this is where it was
pure sexism no doubt but sometimes when
she would like break her I remember I
can never find this clip in 2007 she's
in New Hampshire campaigning against
Obama and I mean you know no love for
her right I'm like in college loving
Barack Obama hating Hillary Clinton and
Chris Matthews though like even at that
time and even with all of my many blind
spots as a straight man which I will own
I could be like uh Chris Matthews is a
little weird when he talks about Hillary
Clinton and he was at an event and by a
little weird I mean like incredibly
misogynistic and so he was at an event
in New Hampshire and he's and Hillary's
campaigning and he's and he's like you
know he's doing he's got the mic so
Hillary really coach come on my show and
she comes over to him and she has like
this smirk on her face like oh I won't
come on your show
I wonder why and she gives him this like
condescending pat on the head and I
remember being like I would still not
vote for her but if this is what Hillary
Clinton if this is what she's about
I like that Jim know she that's that's
cool but and not and that's totally the
part where she's a victim of sexism she
could not be I'm actually like a grouchy
old person it doesn't have time for
Chris Matthews and that is
totally a the total gender dynamics that
she couldn't do that hundred percent
fast I respect her for that well
you a you were on our side yeah but we
can respect her but but her for being a
tough ass woman right but when her
defenders are all of a sudden like that
same woman who did all of this stuff the
Benghazi here yeah the big and all that
was a little bit that Bernie Sanders
interjected a point I mean she might
need you're smelling it's like Bernie's
gesticulate yeah I mean it's just the
way that they were so inadvertently I
mean the the the people need to watch it
in general like the aunt the aunt be
anti essentialist and your feminism as
well and my god don't treat Hillary
Clinton like a like she's gonna
be on a fainting couch for having a
debate pathetic no that's ridiculous
but back one point to the Jeffrey
Epstein thing like pizza gate is
obviously crazy and untrue but like
there's a grain of truth to it quite a
bit of responsibility mom ended up Itza
right you know kicking it off and it's
become like an extremely destructive
thing in our politics so maybe don't fly
on the Luigi Express and then turn
around and express shock and horror that
this conspiracy theory is going around
and either more if we've happened to
attract any pizza Gators and in the
youtubes
with this clip because we're gonna clip
this maybe wonder why or what APIs OB ik
and Jack Mike Serna vichaar hiding by
not covering some story that should so
obviously be on there beat I mean
there's even a Clinton angle of it this
is a story that I am sure if you dug
into that story it could probably
implicate not only Democrats but I mean
who knows Ivy League professor all sorts
of people that you culturally signify
against all day I'd like might end up
and you know it that would be great if
you can get all the manifests to the
Lolita Express love to see him indeed
whoever brings them forward if you have
an actual report if it's real I'll link
to Breitbart if you if you bring that
out I mean if Breitbart runs that
they're just gonna post the Clinton
stuff no totally exactly well that's why
I say if because I never want to post
the Breitbart so I know I can easily
avoid that alright let's uh we're gonna
touch on Brazil Fernando Haddad G is in
New York now and we'll be at the I think
at the conference of progressive leaders
that Bernie Sanders is organizing up in
Vermont this weekend and this is
happening at a fast clip Lula da Silva
still imprisoned and they've also some
22 people in lava jato related charges
have been released from prison even as
he's still sitting there obviously let's
pivot back to him in a minute but first
I want to really distill what's
happening here you have a foreign
minister who has been appointed in the
incoming Boston ro government who is
called global warming a cultural Marxist
plot you have a new created Ministry of
citizenship headed by an Ave angelical
who is claimed that black brazilians are
from some type of satanic tribe I
believe you've heard all sorts of
comments about from bowls and arrows son
saying they got rid of the Communists in
Indonesia we could do that here
of course a campaign of mass government
mafia us-backed murder in the 1960s and
70s and the Trump administration and
john bolton specifically of course could
not be more excited to have a new circle
of far-right governments that mirror
Pinochet in the 70s in terms of giving
their country away to Anglo
multinationals Amazon b2b totally
destroyed public AXA resources to be
stripped austerity destroying unions
everything that capital wants along with
neo-fascist authoritarianism this is
john bolton greeting volson ro here in
brazil and just i have to say actually
think of this in today's world we do
have national borders we do have
national pride it's not all at all a
negative thing frankly and i have to say
if you're brazilian regardless of where
you are in your politics aren't you
embarrassed by this feeble pathetic
display from bolsa narrow not even to a
fellow head of state this is a
national security adviser look at this
he's saluting john bolton because he
knows that bolton's his new boss and not
saying like a look at that idiot
look at me proud of this SUV catering
their catering showing him around he's
treating him like a guest of highest
honor the nationalist international
there's no doubt and i think that look i
mean obviously it's no surprise and it's
important of course to always note the
wall street journal' endorsed this the
brazilian oligarchic elite neoliberalism
will break fascist when pushed to the
brink and the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation which tweeted out after
bowls narrow one like he says some bad
stuff but this can be great for Canadian
companies we need to be honest in every
way shape and form people like Bernie
Sanders have already spoken out on
balsan arrow they've already spoken out
on Lula da Silva is a political prisoner
but people need to do a lot more
Alexandre Castillo Cortes needs to be on
this Russia it to live needs to be on
this any self-respecting Democrat needs
to be in on this and this is an
interview from a couple of days ago Noam
Chomsky visited Lula da Silva in prison
before the elections and rightly called
him the most important political
prisoner in the world today and noted
his stamina and his energy in the
context of his confinement people asked
me from time to time why Lula matters to
me so much and I've done a lot more
coverage on him particularly on TMDs but
let me just say look again tens of
millions lifted out of poverty a policy
that tried to strike a balance with
positive relations everywhere from Iran
to the United States and wanted positive
really
the United States but as an example
refused to privatize all of Brazil's oil
refused to totally give away the store
to Western corporations in u.s. foreign
policy which is obviously what balsa
narrow and the bankers and the
petrochemical companies and the foreign
policy elite of both parties wants Lula
had enormous social progress in terms of
afro-brazilians in terms of women in
positions of leadership and so on and
also even in terms of some environmental
policies with the Amazon he is the most
successful leader of the 21st century so
far and it's also a lesson about what
capital will do and the just hatred that
the elites have for someone that came
from poverty and was a metal worker and
was better than they are and his
treatment is a obscenity he's an
incredibly important political prisoner
and a usually accomplished person and we
should all honor that this is Noam
Chomsky explaining it to Amy Goodman
talk about who exactly Bowl senado is
are you afraid that the country will
descend into a military dictatorship and
where Lula stands in all this today well
let's start with Lula there has been a
long slow right wing what's often called
soft coup one step was impeaching the
president dilma rousseff 2013 she was
impeached on the riser e charges by a
parliament of thieves most that the most
dramatic vote for impeachment was in
fact paulson arose when he voted for
impeachment he dedicated his vote to the
chief torturer of the military regime
who in fact had been the responsible for
the torture of Dilma Rousseff herself so
that was his dedication when he voted
for the ridiculous impeachment it's a
it's a competitor for one of his most
violent mom
there's plenty of competition the next
step was to ensure that Loula would be
put out of commission he was far and
away the most popular political figure
in Brazil so in order to carry off the
right-wing soft coup it's necessary to
get rid of him he was sent to prison for
12 years virtually a life sentence
solitary confinement barred from
receiving books press or journals and
crucially the courts decided not
permitted to make a public statement
unlike say a convicted murderer
so he's silenced put away then comes the
next step a huge there has been a major
in fact I think he should be regarded as
probably the most important political
prisoner in the world today a hundred
percent and we need to stay on this and
the political imprisonment of Lula is
connected with what you will see now
which is a full spectrum effort to
criminalize the quote-unquote left in
Brazil which is essentially being
determined as the 40 million people that
voted for Hernando Fernando Haddad or
didn't vote for bolson ro and that
includes bills to ban certain areas in
the curriculum an umber includes bills
to ban protests and Steve vannin and
u.s. foreign policy makers have
supported this in Brazil the Obama
administration was complicit in the soft
coup against Dilma and this stuff is
gonna come back to us at home if you
look at polls Republicans voters are in
love with Jerr bolson arrow to the
extent they know who he is we live in a
globally synchronised time and you can't
think of these things as in isolation
from one another so care for Brazil have
solidarity with Brazil and what Lula but
also see that this kid be migrating
back here what do you think it signifies
that Haddad's coming up here to meet
with bernie and not obama says a whole
hell of a lot doesn't it and it also by
the way it says a hell of a lot to that
eat like in the european context former
heads of state that are obama's
equivalent have all signed like moderate
Zapatero blonde schultz like they've all
called for the freeing of lula this is
like an absolutely as well as of course
the leaders of podemos just went to
visit but in europe this is even the
centrists are supportive of this like
this is not controversial and barack
obama used to love lula he called him my
guy and the most popular politician on
earth when they first were spending time
together so well it's a it's atrocious
obama should be speaking up on Lula
absolutely
I would only add that it really shows
the limits of bushwa democracy and
electoral politics in just bringing
about not even socialism but social
democracy for everyone to have a decent
life like there is a fundamental check
on the power of electoral politics when
the oleg arks and those with economic
power can decide at any minute
no we're actually going to take a
democratically elected politician and
put them in jail so people need to be
doing other things as well outside of
the electoral system that had the power
to oppose the power of these forces I
think it's true
and it was definitely what was
historically possible when Lula was in
office even and Dilma was very different
and there's also like yes but the
broader point is is that even even you
need to disarm the enemy so they can't
come back on you and even in a social
democratic context the deals that they
had to make like leaving the media
monopolies in power like not dealing
with those power structures definitely
allowed for
this counter you know Cory Robin held
out had an interesting post on Facebook
a month or so ago about how the left you
know very opposed to Citizens United and
this conflation of money equals speech
right right but if we just if thought
experiment we accept that and we
understand that like well actually when
you allow people to have a bunch of
private wealth that serves as like a
bunch of extra votes they just get to
have right and that's the I think
thinking about that more and and
flushing that contradiction out a bit
more and that maybe we just lean into
this like say like fine money's gonna be
speech like I don't know how exactly we
what exactly this means like long term
strategically but I thought it was an
interesting sort of principle to think
about to like because it sort of by your
own logic them to like what they're
saying about the nature of how voting
works not not necessarily to score
points in a debate but I mean like I
mean like legislatively right like well
if money is speech then we should do
something to level the playing field
about speech because if if certain
speech is spread if speech is all of a
sudden on a market then somebody having
more money equals then having more
speech which means that everybody else's
speech is devalued right which means
that speech like literally is cost
prohibitive at a certain point yeah it
goes back to using libertarians
arguments against them because if they
really care about freedom of speech they
would care that rich people have more
freedom of speech than people without
money and obviously almost none of them
do care about that but exactly right um
no doubt
so speaking of which of of at least so
Bernie Sanders has spoken consistently
on Brazil the connecting rise of fascism
and how it fits with the global threat
from the United States to India to
hungry to Russia in terms of global
far-right governments synchronising
Saudi Arabia Israel and he's spoken on
Lula
he's also been a major driving force
behind an efforts to stop the
administration from backing Saudi UAE
mass
in Yemen the Yemeni conflicts gone on
since believe 2015 the Saudis have
unleashed just a brutal wave of killings
cholera epidemics food shortages bombing
hospitals bombing funeral homes bombing
school buses all because of their own
phantom fears and delusions about a
hootie government merely being upon for
the Iranians in fact the Houthis are an
organic movement to Yemen and play into
Yemen zone very difficult and delicate
political balances arising out of their
disruptions and movements in the context
of the Arab uprisings going back to 2011
the Sanders bill which he co-sponsored
along with Chris Murphy Democrat from
Connecticut Mike Lee Republican from
Utah actually advanced in the Senate a
lot of media coverage focused on this
being somehow to do with Khashoggi or
sending MBS a message not fine enough
the primary concern of course should be
ending as I say us enabled and backed
mass murder in Yemen this is Bernie
Sanders talking about the vote earlier
today let me thank all of the people at
the grassroots level throughout our
country
who helped us today when a major vote on
the path toward ending US involvement in
the war in Yemen but let me caution
everybody given the extremely obscure
and complicated rules of the United
States Senate this fight is far from
over
what we won this afternoon was a vote to
discharge our resolution out of the
Foreign Relations Committee and that was
a major major victory but what we have
got to do is continue our effort to make
sure that we end up winning the
resolution to proceed to go forward and
then finally we have got to win a final
passage on this legislation and what we
did today was of enormous significance
this is a really important step forward
and what this fight as you all know is
about as three fundamental things
one what's going on in Yemen now is a
horrific humanitarian disaster we're
talking about the reality of 85,000
children in the last few years
starving to death starving to death and
what the United Nations tell us tells us
is that millions more people are facing
imminent starvation in Yemen today which
has always been a poor country but in
Yemen today what we're looking at is
10,000 new cases every single week of
Cholera which then lays people open to
all kinds of other illnesses and death
so what we are saying is that the United
States of America in our resolution has
got to get out of that war and instead
of being part of the killing in Yemen we
have got to do everything we can to
bring peace to that country and
humanitarian aid so that we stop this
horrific humanitarian disaster all the
things that Sam outlined so well in
terms of caucus assignment with
progressives a couple days ago do the
same call your senator make sure that
they're supporting this bill thank them
if they have if there's someone like Ben
Sasse as an example who is a grotesque
windbag who voted against this but likes
the posture as an upholder morality even
as he aids in the mass murder of Yemeni
children maybe if you're in Nebraska you
give his office a call and you say that
maybe he should have a conscience and
not side with Trump who he supposedly
finds so odious and maybe with someone
like Bernie Sanders who actually is
supporting humanity and ethics in u.s.
foreign policy we need to stay on this
needs to be very aggressive and there is
a possibility in terms of public
sentiment the forces of both Emirates
and Saudi lobbying efforts as well as of
course all of the arms manufacturers
like General Dynamics and Raytheon who
are making a killing on this are what
we're up against and here's a list of
the 37
no hyde-smith oh okay what a surprise
this is a list of the 37 Alex Koch
tweeted this out on Twitter roll-call is
in for the Yemeni resolution these are
the 37 nay votes so we have Barroso of
Wyoming Blount of Missouri Boozman of or
of Arkansas burr of North Carolina
capital of West Virginia Cornyn of Texas
cotton of Arkansas Crapo okay these are
all Republicans let me we and maybe we
should post this but were there any
Democrats that voted against this it
looks like it looks like there are no
Democratic knows on this actually yeah
maybe they can be shamed into doing the
right thing if you're if you're senators
on here go ask him or her why they're
part of they're part of the Senate
Yemeni genocide yeah why are they part
of the Senate Yemeni genocide caucus and
why are a couple of of yeah Raytheon
assembly lines which could be again it's
not about losing jobs all those jobs can
be turned into productive activities but
people are literally voting that I mean
this is as basic of vote gets for a
campaign contributor that directly leads
to literal mass murder yeah this is them
supporting like that this is they would
have supported in the South African
apartheid Oh abscess is like that boat
this is right yes these people probably
did some of them probably did these
people are disgusting you should all let
them know call them and particularly
yeah I like the the postures are here
Rubio sass truly grotesque 37 the Yemeni
genocide caucus give them all a call and
also the rest who actually voted on this
Republican and Democrat please thank
them including Michael E is totally
atrocious he needs to get a ton of props
on this Rand Paul is atrocious needs to
get props on this this is the smart
version of where we're not dumb
partisans when it comes to passing
essential legislation like this and I
got to say I mean look
Burnie is the indisputable choice for
2020 if he runs I don't see a real
argument otherwise if you care about a
left perspective but uh Chris Murphy
really ought to be shooting his way I
don't see he should be he should be
talked about on those lists for this
type of work alone
he'd be a good VP oh yeah I think he
would be I think he would be um the
Trump administration went into overdrive
of course because they are the Yemeni
genocide administration Mike Pompeo is
the Yemeni genocide Secretary of State
maddis Yemeni genocide at defense and
this is of course all coming on the
heels of what is broadly determined
across intelligence agencies
internationally from Turkey to Canada to
the United States of being the hit on
Jamal khashoggi being ordered by MBS
there's been tapes of people literally
hearing this guy being sawed apart in an
embassy okay just just register that
again before we gloss over this and yes
there's structural problems that go
deeper than that in Saudi relations it
is an escalation to have a lunatic
power mad prince who in addition to a
far-right conspiratorial view of Iran
which he shares with the Israeli and
American right a genocide a war in Yemen
to almost certainly have ordered a hit
on a us-based Washington Post columnist
is something and the Trump
administration has been clear about not
caring about that valuing the business
relationship over anything else and here
is Mike Pompeo who is one of the most
important far-right far far-right Koch
brothers backed Congress people when
he's in Congress then head of the CIA
threatening to invade Venezuela and here
he is running interference on an
administration committed to doing
nothing to interfere with the money flow
from Saudi
you believe that the conference of Saudi
Arabia orders mantra is killing I do
believe I've read every piece of
intelligence must come in in the last
few hours I think I've read it all there
is no direct reporting connecting a
ground bridge to the orders of
authorship that's all I can say so yes
there is no direct reporting in the
sense that there is no member of the
Saudi royal family or the circle of
advisers around MBS who said hello CIA
am i calling on a secure line this guy
ordered the hit what we have is a team a
hit squad of people that were some of
them were very close to him deployed to
Turkey phone records showing calls
between mbss office and the hit team and
numerous other pieces of evidence but I
wish you know if that evidentiary
standard applied then Mike Pompeo would
be the biggest support of the Iran deal
on planet but of course he's not here
dose because they're all thugs
you'd also have some calls about the
drone program and targeted
assassinations oh yeah I mean I I don't
see I if real evidentiary standards of
intelligence you have to ban the drone
program immediately that exact same sort
of metadata which is phone calls exactly
that's used to kill people whose
identities that's what we have on MBS
and cachet who is an actual person in an
actual prince in an actual position we
use metadata to bomb wedding parties
that were unsure about literally and
they would cite phone calls like this
and timelines like this and be like well
allow be an unusually high amount of
drone attack totally justified soundly
tonight 100% I mean on the one hand this
is what Empire is and has been for a
very long time they're just being much
more naked and dumb about it like Oh
Trump said the other day they gave us
tons of money America first on the other
hand it's especially dumb because Saudi
Arabia needs the us to invest in as well
they need a place to put all of their
giant bags of money so like well they
can go to China
there's plenty of places they can go I
mean also again you're totally right in
terms of the history but this is
that is a not unimportant escalation to
say to set the precedent that a
journalist who is a resident of your
country can walk into an embassy and
will and someone can cut you apart and
we're not even gonna pretend to be
concerned about it
that's an escalation that's know that is
especially folder manifestation for sure
but it's literally in US and in terms of
the range of things like there's a
reason why even the when the well what
was the name of the guy that the
Chileans blow into Italia they didn't do
that again okay like the United States
still back Chile they still back
mass-murder there's the structural thing
you're talking abouts a hundred percent
true but there's no doubt that somebody
got the message to the operation condor
people you don't bring that to DC and we
could say it's hypocritical blah blah
blah that's all true that's fine it
shouldn't rob us from a larger critique
of what needs to happen but it's also a
major difference in terms of what new
pieces are put into the board as to what
can happen like when they literally are
like I don't care what signal does that
send this kit and if there wasn't a
massive counter reaction in so many
other forces including someone like
Angela Merkel talking about suspending
arms sales and all the rest of it like
he would he probably would have had like
other journalists chopped up to seats
like within the last couple of weeks
he's just different his toe in the water
yeah and he certainly wouldn't he would
have released his kid they had the kid
there for the first couple of weeks they
had to let him go after he was forced to
shake hands with the Prince and his dad
that's one of the most disturbing
pictures I've ever seen yeah yeah it's
real all right speaking of real
 Ivanka Trump does she have a
Hillary Clinton problem I thought having
insecured
emails I thought in email enforce was
the was well I mean equivalent to I
don't know doing something like having a
journalist going an embassy and cut him
apart alive I thought this was a big
 deal I guess when Ivanka does it
is not such a big deal unless you're her
and it's all part of a broader process
personal growth I had ever been
criticized publicly until politics
entered my life and a lot of the things
I used to be praised for were somehow
weaponized against me that's my actually
have experienced on a personal level
this tremendous growth in my own sense
of self and seeing more brightly my own
compass and signal and I'm so much less
motivated by ameliorating the critics
and I think I ever would have been Wow
let me just say first off GUP meets
fascism yes second of all there was a
lot of idiots who used to say like she's
friends with Chelsea Clinton pet her and
third maybe her and her dad would make a
good couple I see it there's a lot of
similarities there
I am I I'm a person who's very
stridently likes to you know be a white
knight for women who have vocal fry'
because I think vocal fry is just
something we need to get used to and and
it's something that people don't point
out when men have it so I think if you
know is I'd like to slay her when you
get a little fry I think you need to
look at like and and really entertain
the idea that you have some sort of
underlying misogyny that you're not
addressing however okay yes what is
going on with the voice of Ivanka it's
not is it plastic surgeries that have
affected her no no no I I just okay if
that's not I mean she has a thing going
on in the sense of being a dissociative
sociopath well nothing we're talking
about so she sounds a bit extra horse so
maybe she's under the weather or
something like that but she's she's
putting a lot of energy into personal
growth and not ameliorating her critics
I will also say this and this is
probably also gonna get me in a little
bit of trouble she has the same cadence
as Chelsea Clinton
when she says these sort of complete
brilliant lights like bow like banal
like narcissus yes exactly like the like
like very a privileged person loving the
way that they talk and it and like I
think the other the Trump boys get in
this self too but it's especially it
she's no that's the thing she's less
odious I think they're all as odious but
she's not as dumb as they are I don't go
say she's smart I would say more tests
yes there you go
the low bar I was gonna stay I mean
they're talking B - and F - here you
don't have to be that smart to do what
these people are doing which is part of
what we know maddening about it but like
her brand has been basically destroyed
by her dad's political career so you
know it's all pretty bad but silver
linings folks okay it's speaking of rich
people who like hearing the sound of
their own voices let's go to the cool
kids philosopher bench bureau this is
somebody who as we all know is a logic
gene he's a logic genius he is a serious
philosophic mind he's the type of person
that you could say well you know I'm a
liberal but I appreciate the rigor of
his perspective and I do want to say I
agree with Ben Burgess who has a book
coming out called give them an argument
the left's
I think it's like leftist logic or
something I think that the left does
need to get a way more comfortable with
arguing with these people debating them
it can't all be snark and moral
condemnation fair enough that being said
I just want to remind everybody before
we play this clip which we will
logically respond to this is somebody
who is the leading light of this IDW
thing this is somebody who is highly
respected by the New York Times this is
somebody who can you know goes around
spreading the gospel of sweet logic well
this is Ben Shapiro and I don't recall
when this is from you guys don't have
this time
when this comes from for me but I don't
think this is recent I think there's a
couple years ago this is Benjamin it is
evergreen this is Ben Shapiro arguing
that people need to calm down about
climate change for the following only
logical but really intuitive reason and
intuitive and what last year this
happened last year 2017 this is all a
logical it's intuitive intuitive in the
sense that this is probably a four year
old might think of this but then
actually promptly understand why that
might work not work we have to include
this ridiculous right so a couple of
things one the subset of climate
scientists is not all that large so I
really don't care what a doctor in
biology has to say about climate change
he knows about it he knows as much as I
do so it depends on what they have a
doctorate in that's gonna be debatable
as we're gonna fight that's gonna be
debatable and I'm also gonna say ad
hominem if we can get into the nerd mode
not really dealing with the argue that
is not an argument that's poisoning the
wells everybody yeah better watch out
we're gonna we're gonna monitor this
very closely yes fallacy so you're gonna
monitor this very closely go ahead right
so you said you're right there's a lot
of climate scientists and and in you
know climatologists who have who said
that that global warming is an absolute
fact and anthropogenic global warming is
an absolute fact they have very
different measurements as to how large
that effect is going to be there is a
broad range among climatologists as far
as I can tell posit there is a broad
range among the over well over 90% of
climatologists who say it is human
caused which he just said in a more
fancy way a few seconds ago and the
debate ranges between absolute
apocalyptically catastrophic to really
bad and we should urgently do something
about it go ahead
among how much the climate is going to
actually change sorry I just want to put
tack on probabilities work in a funny
way which is that there's a range of
them and and what Ben Shapiro and Bret
Stevens the odious older version of him
at the New York Times always point out
it's like well some people say it might
only be this amount of degrees right
they don't point out
that when you use probabilities like a
lower-end range you have to also include
the upper range estimate because it
could be either way that's what that's
what Pro yeah that is some uncertainty
that's what I'm inserts so so in fact
the game of probabilities and
uncertainties does not always just point
to maybe miraculously 99% of climate
scientists are wrong and there's nothing
wrong with pumping unlimited amounts of
fossil fuel emissions into the
atmosphere it could also mean that their
rate of the crisis is actually even
faster than the consensus and the types
of massive global breakdowns and
premature human deaths are gonna happen
in an even higher and faster way rate
then as an example a UN climate report
might predict that's how probabilities
work this is logic and what is the
direct impact of carbon emissions on
that given the fact that for the last 15
years there has been no global warming
you know the the the the single largest
study of global warming that was done in
the in the in Britain it turned out a
lot of the data was actually kind of
falsified so they kind of falsified it
because he couldn't really you can't you
know I was going into the the these the
an old story of a right-wing effort to
smear British climate scientists and
that was an overblown misleading story
to begin with somebody Hillary's emails
the email gate which also WikiLeaks
published yeah Climategate emails which
is the first maybe one of the first
signals that WikiLeaks was going fascist
but exactly and also yes I don't know if
he's confusing I I don't know what he
means by no actual warming I don't know
if he's confusing weather with climate
but he's talking really fast so it must
be true right yeah but average
temperatures have been average
temperatures have been increasing each
in both last couple of summers have been
hottest on record urine and year-out so
I don't know exactly what he's trying to
frame I don't think we've had an under
average year since like the 80s but
whatever no well certainly not in the
past several years each summer we it's
report I'm not saying that it's not
happening it may be happening you know
I'm happy to say that it may be
happening I may even be happy to say
that it's probably happening but again
once we have posit so all of the caveat
and tempted maybe I might even be able
to say it may be happening but do you
notice how this sounds a lot like how
Trump speaks when he's talking about
Michael Cohen and so all of the
poisoning of the well is actually
basically irrelevant now because he's
actually happy - apparently stipulate
the main contention and this is where it
really gets logical base Aleutian - the
problem that does not involve killing
off millions of human beings or raising
taxes or raising taxes no no right no no
and then no but this is the I agree but
the problem is that if you're going to
provide if you're going to make this is
another issue where the demonization is
significantly more important to the left
and actually solving the problem right
so I wasn't pretty at hominem and
projection the left says about climate
change is basically you're a climate
change denier therefore you're fool well
yeah well yes right as opposed to okay
maybe maybe you're wrong about climate
change denial but also pause in here I'm
sorry it isn't just the left backpacker
the this is a facts don't care about
your feelings because the prime people
look if there was not anywhere near
consensus science on climate change and
the anthropogenic contributions for it I
will totally concede that my intuition
with my politics would lead me to think
that pumping an unlimited amount of
pollutant since the air is probably
doing something to the earth that isn't
good but I wouldn't say you're a fool
like you're a fool for not accepting
that because I wouldn't have the grounds
to say that I'm not gonna open up the
GMO debate I have a narrow critique of
GMOs from an intellectual property point
of view but I might have concerns that
are more broad about GMOs which I know
is not a scientifically validated
concern it's an intellectual bias that I
have that I could be right about but I
could be wrong about but you're not a
fool for thinking I'm wrong the people
saying you're a fool for thinking
climate change isn't happening aren't
leftist it's those who do climate
science and it's because we know who
paid for the arguments you believe
precisely but here's the solution that
you're ignoring where is the solution
that's being ignored right I'm sorry
it's not Holocaust denial the use of the
language denier is
pretty ridiculous on its face
considering that there that thirty years
ago they were claiming there's gonna be
a grip so now the defense is he's not
this don't call me the same as a
Holocaust and now the defense is
standpoint epistemology I believe which
is the thing he also dislikes standpoint
epistemology and bizarre non sequitur I
am offended by this anti-semitic
turn of phrase and Ice Age that was
gonna freeze us all to death so you know
I'm willing to wait for the evidence to
come in especially given the fact that
we don't have a good solution for it at
this point
positive we have plenty of great
solutions for it we have solutions like
stopping mass deforestation Norway just
banned it we have work that has actually
advanced pretty well in Europe and is
starting to advance in China on
upgrading energy fleets on rapidly
deploying new renewable technologies we
even have a debate which I'm on one side
of but is a debate that maybe we can
have on nuclear power there is a debate
about re-engineering the United States
so that we have more density and better
public transportation systems and people
aren't dependent on cars there is
literally thousands of smart ideas from
the activists governmental and private
sector which are being implemented
particularly in the European Union China
but even actually also India where
they've rapidly deployed solar panels
people are already dying in cities in
India because it's too hot there oh and
also as far as yes as far as people
dying I'm I'm actually I'll just
stipulate that in fact people already
are losing their homes and dying
prematurely because of causes related to
climate change like air pollution and
overheated cities back to bed once
there's a once there's a plausible
solution that the left actually wants to
propose we can talk about costs and
benefits of it but you know then I also
have to I have to understand what
exactly is the real imminent threat to
human life I mean the idea that that the
gradual rise of sea levels is going to
kill hundreds of millions of people is
it's just fantasy
it's just fantasy it's not gonna kill
its it they act like the day after
tomorrow is how global warming is going
to be right like the a giant wave is
gonna sweep in and then the next morning
it will freeze and all of New York will
be under ice and Dennis Quaid and Jake
Gyllenhaal be trying to fight their way
through it
that's not how global bop-bop-bop
warming is going to happen right global
warming is going to happen if it does
happen that the rate they say it's going
to it's supposed to happen over the
course of the next hundred years so
let's say let's say for the sake of
argument that all of the water levels
around the world rise by five let's say
five feet over the next hundred years
say ten feet by the next hundred years
and it puts all the low-lying areas on
the coast underwater right would you
okay in the world so all right so the
Caribbean fair amount of people live
there the Maldives Bangladesh and I'm
actually going to be more conservative
than him because I'm gonna say that even
though places like New York City will be
greatly affected by it
we probably do have like the wealth and
the capacity to shield a chunk of it
from happening Miami
that's impossible Miami's gonna be gone
so okay we're actually gonna stipulate
that several countries and I don't know
hundreds dozens conservatively of major
metropolitan areas are gonna be
underwater yeah okay Bend me I guess you
want to stipulate been might not be an
expert on how settlements work unless
they're in Palestine but typically
historically speaking people like to
settle along a near a body of water yes
historically speaking if you look at
like where settlements were in like that
1600s most human beings lived nearby
water so this is gonna cause a problem
yeah living nearby water was not just
having a second home it was also a kind
of important part of the development of
dust industrialization and all modern
society but look it's amazing here's
what I'll say Ben is stipulating
something and he's stipulating maybe
he's actually been willing to stipulate
so far that we could be right the
climate scientists could be right this
could happen and all of these major
coastal areas can be underwater
and I gotta tell you something if he has
a solution to this that's workable I'm
all ears because it sounds like he's
stipulating everything that we've
already said and I'm open to any new
ideas to dealing with these problems
frankly no matter where they come from
that all of the water levels around the
world rise by let's say five feet over
the next hundred years say ten feet by
the next hundred years and it puts all
the low-lying areas on the coast
underwater alright would you let's say
all of that happens you think that
people aren't going to just sell their
homes and move there's the big tsunami
that comes with wipes out everybody so
human beings have a way of adjusting
okay a way of adjusting so that is logic
and facts kids and economics and
economic they're gonna sell their
increasingly underwater homes first what
you do is you flip your house that's
underwater you believe that I got a
house in Miami yeah hey let me tell you
something I'll give you a deal I look I
don't wanna make a loss on it I got a
beautiful beachfront home it's
underwater don't worry about it you
could could swim around the
house the whole thing is a bathtub for a
competition would start kicking the
Edition would start kicking in okay so
first the people that have beautiful
beachfront properties will somehow
miraculously be able to flip them and
move even though the houses are
underwater other people will buy them
this is why they want to tech a higher
education because you need dumb people
to sell yes your McMansion too yes
exactly right you need you need to look
good I'll prove it there just a log will
protect me from the caravan if I buy
your underwater home mr. Shapiro
okay so then that will happen now of
course because all of Ben and his
friends world are just rich people with
second beach homes this is the extent of
his moral imagination but another thing
that will happen is that millions of
people across the world who might even
leak live in like I don't know shacks
even they might not really have like
beautiful beachfront homes that can
easily be flipped into underwater
estates
they're gonna need to leave where they
live and that's gonna create an
ecological immigration crisis of which
people like Ben do not like they're
already freaked out by people fleeing
Wars and economic conditions that the
foreign policy they support coming into
Europe and the United States so let
alone possibly not being able to sell
your primo Bangladeshi real estate so
guys I know that there will be people
who will see this and of course say that
we've engaged in at homonyms and
appealed to your emotions and in context
of this video and I just want to respond
to that by just saying and I think that
that's an earned ad hominem facts don't
care about your feelings dude look it up
there are already climate change
refugees yeah at homonyms can be good
tags to actual logical points and that
and just because you tagging ad hominem
to your logical point doesn't mean that
the logical point because facts don't
care about your feelings doesn't mean
the logical point is not valid anymore
indeed and don't tone police comedy
pricks go read a book alright
you're calling from a nine to nine area
code who are you where you come from
right-wing daddy what a right-wing daddy
hello right-wing daddy I'm gonna tell
you this is not a Sam day you have an
incredibly limited time to pull this off
well I just wanted to say yeah I'm on
YouTube and I don't know why you guys
don't like my foot okay thank you
appreciate it you're calling from a 707
area code who are you where he calling
from hi this is Logan I'm called from
Sonoma Haley I wanted so much um I
wanted to talk about some of the kind of
economic nationalism ideals that are
being pushed forward I just want to have
several conservative friends and one of
them sent me he ban in
talk at that Oxford
it's actually three interesting that I
definitely don't agree with banner on a
lot i watch some of that huh yeah good
yeah yeah and then and then I saw I
think it's the Ohio senator talking
about the the new bill that he's putting
a sherrod Brown talking about the new
bill that he's putting before Congress
or before the Senate to incentivize the
buying of american-made cars
I just am a little bit concerned that
there's a risk that as we rebuke Trump
largely we missed some of the kind of
economic nationalist things that we do
like or maybe we do like of trying to
bring better jobs here trying to
increase possibilities for working-class
people to increase their their equity
increase the amount of money that they
make to buy homes and I hope that
Democrats going forward start pursuing
those actual policies and what what's
happened with Trump is that the promise
was great the promise of bringing jobs
back and giving people their wages
correctly or you know good wages for for
manufacturing jobs with a great promise
but the actions are terrible right
increasing decreasing taxes on wealthy
people attacking unions and so I think
Democrats need to work with that promise
and then start providing the solutions
better and I don't know I think that
there are some opportunities maybe as
Democrats gain control of Congress and
start passing some bills that work in
that direction and yeah yeah I think
some of those things like I think the
sherrod Brown bill is a good idea I
think ultimately you're gonna have to
have a much more ambitious agenda as far
as workplace democracy as far as
Universal programs and also you and this
is another thing I mean only only people
with some type of left cred sherrod
Brown could actually do this but any
time I see Steve Bannon before you even
get to the arguments that need to be had
about xenophobia and race obviously
it's like dude if you care so much about
all this economic stuff where's your
Union agenda like I don't know what the
 you're talking about
because most of what it boils down to is
actually a different version of the same
argument of old trickle-down which is
that we have gutted so many standards
that there's some jobs that are
returning in you know very you know not
desirable sectors like we're not
transferring people we're and we're also
not saying a lot of the jobs of the
future are gonna be in things like home
health care and retail and not saying
well why aren't those unionized so those
can be middle-class jobs just like
anything else there's nothing magical
about blue-collar jobs that made them
middle-class it was because of unique
struggles and policy so bannon's
Benton's full of with regard to
that stuff honestly if Bannon actually
can bind like a legit economic agenda
with his xenophobia it would be
terrifying but he doesn't so you know
let's hit him on that those grounds too
we are some people create that sort
of synthesis though like Tucker Carlson
Wales very signal socialist talkers
super shrewd about that and Tucker needs
to be seriously watched and dealt with
and Tucker that's another thing no it's
not it is correct to say that Tucker is
promoting a xenophobia absolutely it's
not sufficient he's tapping into things
that mean to be seriously dealt with and
he is doing that well but same principle
applies Tucker where where where your
segments on card check where your
segments on global labor standards where
your segments on breaking up corporate
monopolies where I mean unless it's
Amazon and you could shift it into a
Trump thing at the end of the day
because these people are still
Republicans and right-wingers even if
they're doing smart tabloid they
don't have any real agenda because
that's gonna run headlong into at the
end of the day what the oligarch policy
is you're calling from a four seven
eight area code who are you where you're
calling from right
howdy howdy how you doing Jeff hey man
I'm doing just fine listen I were
playing Piero's just a few things
came to my mind don't know if people
were interested but when I was a kid in
the nineties the received wisdom that I
got was something like after the oil
shocks of the 70s caused huge problems
in the economy the real problem was that
oil was eventually going to get too
expensive for us to use in the same way
as we do now and so like that's why
transitioning it was incredibly
important that wasn't received wisdom I
got when I was just a teenager in the
nineties you understand and and I don't
know if some some people in the audience
may still have kind of this conception
that that this is this is going to be a
problem and unfortunately it's not that
that's kind of a bigger problem
because of the end of it all a lot of
this just needs to stay in the
ground yeah and as long as there's a as
long as there's a dollar to be made from
from buying and selling that in the
ground they'll never stop trying to get
at it which is why in the near medium
term socialism is the answer like we're
all public ownership of this of these
resources because otherwise there's no
way to prevent it from being extracted
eventually ending up in the atmosphere
and contributing to a phenomenon that
will possibly in human civilization as
we know it I don't wanna go too far and
say is gonna wipe out every human on the
planet but I mean the species look
totally different if we ever even come
out the other side agreed and I don't
know how much money is worth it just to
literally sell out the human race but be
superior I'd be very interested in the
answer to that question and thanks for
the call man appreciate it you're
calling from a 5 to 5 area code who are
you where he calling from hello me
yes is you oh ok so I wanted to talk
about who are you
who are you worried calling from first
oh sorry yeah my name is Nestor I'm
calling from New Jersey
Nestor from New Jersey yeah okay Nestor
what's on your mind I wanted to talk
about elections and this whole deal with
you know Republican policies that sort
of disenfranchise voters etc and the
reason why I wanted to talk about it
like well I'm originally from Mexico so
as you may know we we have had some
problems for like the past century we'll
actual electoral electoral fraud right
right yeah and so like one of the
favorite Republican policies obviously
like oh we need to pass voter ID laws
because you know people are voting
illegally or whatever yep and I
understand why that is sort of like I
understand like the underlying bad
intentions behind that mm-hmm but at the
same time looks like in in Mexico we
like after the 94 election I think it
was we created like I'm nonpartisan
independent Electoral Commission we
mandated voter ID and honestly like it
worked much much better for us like for
example so what's okay so I'm sorry
because we got we're running tight we
got it I mean look I it's hard because
just just not yeah we have a totally
different conditions in the United
States and the primaries and there is no
voter fraud here it's literally a I
don't have the stat in front of me but I
think it's like one documented case in
years and that case might even have been
an accident
there is no voter fraud problem
that's not how elections are won here
there won by suppressing the vote so we
just got a look at the conditions we're
in and voter ID might be you know voter
ID is a tool of voter suppression and
maybe you could say I don't know people
I don't know what an alternative would
be maybe you could say your license or
whatever but the bottom line is is there
just needs to be national preclearance
so everybody can vote here because
that's just the conditions we're in I
appreciate the call thank you um all
right let me yeah cuz it's just - I'm
sorry I'm not trying to be rude it's
just it's just a totally different
reality here um few different Iams
before we leave new human everybody
thinks the FBI was after Tony but the
entire time they were building a
terrorism case against AJ ever since he
read Howard Zinn and started talking
about Columbus I was a good arc Winnipeg
Craig the krasin steins wrote a book
Matt takes patron money to read other
people's books so who's the real grifter
if it's Matt versus the Krassin Stein's
I'm choosing the kresson Stein's every
time I mean I'm not taking the money to
read keep other people's books I would
read the books regardless I'm taking the
money to do a podcast indeed
so suck it to the literary podcast suck
it Madison can I get some book
recommendations on getting into
socialist economics can I actually I'm
gonna say to start with sebassis
subscribe to economic update Richard
wolf
on YouTube economic update on the
podcast and listen to on podcast form
David Harvey's lectures on capital and I
don't know there's a good there's some
good there's a book it's like a global
reader from marks the Gramsci to Castro
I think it's called that will give you a
good global overview on it a book that
we use sometimes in DSA political
education that comes highly recommended
is socialism seriously a brief guide to
human liberation and I haven't read it
but it's supposedly very accessible and
very good also
like to tell people to read the
illustrated introduction to Marx's
capital by David Smith and look out for
Bosch Carson Carra has a book coming out
soon on socialism which is gonna be
great I don't know if it's been released
yet but we'll be talking about that soon
for sure yeah those are all good place
to start
Matt you have any Marxist economics
I'm actually really this is a little
more specialized but friend of TMDs and
friend of Mr Harvey Kay has a book on
the history of the it's called the the
British Marxist economists and that's a
fascinating history book of British
Marxist theory and how it fed into
broader theories of industrial
development and feudalism and it's a
pleasure read Harvey Kay great writer
it's 4:20 somewhere yo Michael don't
read this out loud but Mr and Jimmy door
are tied with four thousand and and one
and fourteen a subs competition would
start kicking in it's time to rally the
troops to get us to 420 first pushes
over pea boat don't boo subscribe don't
bow subscribe send rod Lacan your lava
Joe no t-shirt tweet as joke but you got
a subscribe no I feel bad for Ronald
he's just there yeah
hello God they should never live down
that lava Josh bad guys come on
yeah it's bad and TYT needs to do some
follow-up coverage on Brazil and Lulu ah
guys come on
yeah and I mean maybe whatever Lula
Libre Marxist Marxist Manny did you all
know that Michael is writing a book for
zero books yes I did and its first draft
almost done it's getting close another
zero books author Sean Scott member of
Seattle DSA announced his campaign for
City Council and seat four here in
Seattle he's running an explicitly
socialist platform to fight Bezos and
the current political establishment that
has made the city unlivable for so many
working-class people yes I tweeted his
and
spinouts the other day that's another
one that definitely people should be
working towards Sean Scott getting the
City Council okay let me find the final
good I am ah all right
this could be a funny final I am I
apologize for not getting to all of you
we will be back live tomorrow my board
[Music]
let me end with a little red meat here
Netta flight jimmy door is going to calm
at a russia phob for starting hashtag
boot Boris they bring it yeah that's
like that would not in any way to be
been I would literary hangover things
look good
literary hangover wise alright thanks to
me publicly thanks everybody
[Music]
no son
I was
[Music]
yeah no ticket
[Music]
I just seen where the choice is made
so the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
