[Music]
let's give some credit where credit is
due
andrew yang people the question is is
how many critiques of him can you
tolerate in one video even if it's
positive before you have a tantrum let's
play a game let's play a game
Andrew Yang's ubi is incredibly
regressive and he doesn't have a faith
in people or democracy
please read up on it however I think
that this was bold this was
compassionate this is the correct policy
here is with crystal ball who you know
I've had this conversation with her and
something she takes really seriously
something we should all take seriously
there's an actual area in reality that
Bernie could go further on and Andrew
took this opportunity to talk about
serious drug decriminalization I would
decriminalize opiates that are being
used for personal use and aren't being
distributed so in addition to
decriminalizing marijuana I would
decriminalize opiates for personal use
that's a big deal I mean does that
include heroin yes it does I mean at
this point what's happened is you had
this oxycontin addiction that has
morphed into fentanyl and heroin right
which are frankly more accessible and
sometimes less expensive than the
oxycontin that started the addiction
chain yeah are you familiar with the
Portugal model what they've done because
it's something very similar to what
you're saying they essentially
decriminalized all drugs including
heroin they have injection sites where
people can go and be dosed but also have
access to treatment rather than being
thrown in prison we're not talking about
dealers here we're talking about the
individual addicts I mean is that is
that essentially is that consistent with
what you're talking about here yeah I
was inspired by Portugal success where
in the wake of this change in approach
they saw a massive reduction in both
overdose rates and substance abuse rates
so I'm for safe injection site safe
consumption sites and I'm for referring
addicts to treatment instead of jail and
letting them know this excellent
everybody should follow and readings
lead on this birdies
right on marijuana and that puts him
well ahead of the rest of the field of
course Joe Biden is the architect of so
much human misery he Joe Biden attacked
and pushed Ronald Reagan from the right
in the 80s most other candidates haven't
put anything significant on the ball
cory booker has done some good and
laudable work on this but no one's come
near this so good for Andrew yang I
guess also Tulsi Gabbard also talked
about marijuana legalization good for
her no one's talked about the Portugal
model Andrew Yang's in another league on
this so credit where credit is due
segment props to Andrew yang I forgot
even what I wanted to say about their I
do I do you think we want to note that
we just criticize Bernie Sanders folks
whoa and somehow we were all able to do
that yeah you should but also I said it
about something that was actually
happening in reality it wasn't a feeling
or an entitlement or a made-up
projection based off of nothing it was
an actual thing that when Bernie was on
with crystal ball he mentioned his
correct position on marijuana but didn't
go further than that where he's wrong so
I was able to point that out Michael I
don't know if everyone just heard that
because the stream just went down and my
computer isn't working
yeah Andrew yang is better is leading
Kamala Harris in Cali and Callie is
awesome also beating Beto and blue dick
because because he's talking about real
because it's a better person and a
better candidate than those only those
you know party flex that are just coming
to crush the movement without a doubt I
also I will say though that I have heard
many people say that they don't want us
to criticize Bernie for not embracing
the Portugal model how do people have
said it folks
