but Nancy Pelosi this week in and you
know there this is I want to have a you
know this is a fairly nuanced topic it
seems to me and more so than it has been
made of it Nancy Pelosi in the context
of an interview very it seems to me
consciously and deliberately basically
said impeachment off the table more or
less and then later when asked to
respond to that she said I didn't
impeach George Bush and they wanted me
to for the Iraq war etc etc I'm not
going to impeach Donald Trump the the
the biggest issue I had with with Pelosi
response was not even and this before we
addressed the practicality of
impeachment and the political expediency
and the value of it or whether you know
impeachment is an important sort of
device but she she proposed the idea of
impeachment just broadly by saying it's
divisive and whatnot like basically
doesn't just take it off the table in
this instance but takes it off the table
period and to me that is highly
problematic in terms of the the issue
that we have in this country about
accountability for the elite well yeah
and I wish someone would ask her would
you have voted to impeach Richard Nixon
I really wish someone would ask her that
because it is exactly what you say it
appears that she does not believe in
impeachment I mean I'm just saying
across the part that there are no there
is no case in which you would impeach a
president and because and this to me
honestly and I know this sounds
hyperbolic but if you can't see your way
clear to at least hold the door open to
impeachment for Donald Trump who is
blatantly abusing his the powers of his
office we're seeing it every single day
he's completely incompetent as he was
named he was at least identified as a
co-conspirator with another
co-conspirator of somebody who's going
to jail for that crime and as we said
earlier he's got four of this top aides
associates and intimates standing before
federal judges in one week you know he's
got a there are people investigating him
all over the country he's got he's
clearly violating the emoluments clause
he's running his business out of that
out of the wife she's paying off porn
stars with checks are paying off people
who paid off porn stars with checks
while he's president I mean we have
documented proof of this I mean I don't
know whether or not he could be whether
or not an impeachment would would
succeed in the house or in the Senate
but I mean you don't go into it you know
knowing for sure yet that there's just
no way you can do that but you
investigate now I suspect and you know I
don't know I don't know what her
reasoning behind this is and it's a
problem with it is I get that people are
afraid oh we're going to start in
teaching every president well that
actually hasn't happened we did have an
impeachment of Bill Clinton which was
completely ridiculous it was based upon
a you know a a lie told in a civil
deposition it was ridiculous this is not
and neither was was the Richard Nixon
impeachment hearings I would argue that
iran-contra would have been worthy of
impeachment hearings they do exist and
the reason is because we have a bunch of
criminals keep getting elected by the
Republican Party in you know and putting
office in theoretically the same could
be true of Democrats as well when that
happens there has to be something you
can do and impeachment is what the
Constitution you know what the
Constitution set goals is the way to
deal with this especially when you have
a Department of Justice which is
determined that a president can't be
indicted for crime there's nothing else
literally so it's it's absurd to me that
she's doing it and and I'm not sure I
understand her her reasoning yes
impeachment device and of course it is
so what I actually believe that there's
an argument that from a political
standpoint you don't want to impeach him
I think the strongest argument against
impeaching the president is the full
knowledge that there's no way the Senate
will convict
when it's controlled by this many
Republicans there's just simply no way
and you only get one bite at this Apple
and God forbid that Donald Trump gets
reelected in 2020
you're gonna want impeachment to still
be an arrow in your quiver because
otherwise Donald Trump
if you've already expended it you've
already impeached and the Senate has
already rejected Donald Trump is gonna
feel like he has completely no checks
and balances on him right because that
you have basically unloaded the only
metaphorically speaking of course bullet
and you're in the chamber with that said
the rhetoric and the approach that
Pelosi has taken I am as baffled and
frankly in in some ways appalled because
it's one thing to say Donald Trump
deserves to be impeached we could
impeach him but the Republicans are
basically protecting him they are
protecting a criminal presidency and
therefore it makes you know there we
need to exercise some type of
prosecutorial discretion now is not the
time to do it because we can't get the
job done and we don't want to waste our
ability to do so you know after the fact
to reject impeachment in that way it
seems to me is very rational to poopoo
the idea of impeachment and like you say
she should be asked if she would have
voted for Nixon's impeachment says that
there is no accountability that
accountability in and of itself is not
worth it and you like you said I'm not
convinced that we didn't get all sorts
of malfeasance because we didn't impeach
during iran-contra I'm not convinced
that we didn't that the financial crisis
wasn't a function of not holding elites
to account I mean this is this is
something you know she says Pelosi says
this is divisive well not doing it seems
to be pretty divisive as well and
working out for it exactly and you know
people can say well in 2006 or
seven you know what if she had tried to
impeach would we have Barack Obama not
nearly the same situation whatsoever and
again this is about how you lose you
know you can you cannot impeach and like
I say I think it's probably the wisest
move just because I'm afraid of Donald
Trump gets reelected that the the
Democrats and the country will have no
recourse but how you lose again and this
is I feel like a conversation you and I
have had for years how you lose is so
important because you are framing the
fight in a certain way and we have such
an accountability problem in this
country that it's it's stunning
and when we take a break when we come
back let's talk about another
accountability problem that we have that
is indicative of this error that we're
living in it seems to me and that is
this massive college admissions cheating
scandal that broke this week and was
revealed by the FBI we got to take a
quick break I'm Sam cedar I'm talking to
the great digby we'll be right back
after this
