let's continue I just want to play this
noam chomsky clip because when we talk
about Bernie Sanders saying that the
people who work for Jeff Bezos
unsurprisingly have a tainted
perspective to his politics they they
necessarily I mean despite the fact that
if you look at his platform
issue-by-issue
his policies are mainstream as far as
the American public is concerned they
are by any definition of the word at
least in terms of what they held they
hold and support his policies are
mainstream he is not covered in that way
and his policies are not covered in that
way and these are the type of people who
are gonna work in this type of
institution largely speaking not all but
many that is going to be the editorial
thrust on some level is going to be
broadly status quo this is a Washington
Post has a culture and a pedigree that
comes from things like saying that like
Bill Clinton is not of this place I mean
that is the attitude and culture that
comes from that paper the New York Times
know better in some instances I think
maybe even worse but here's Noam Chomsky
talking about this dynamic gang you
don't you don't wait like the reason the
problem that people had in mind did
Andrew Marr I would say the problem I
had with Hillary Clinton doing those
speeches for whatever was 250 400
thousand out whatever was was not that
she was going to do something for those
banks because they were giving her the
money it's that they knew that she was
the type of person who does stuff for
them and that's why they give him the
money yeah they're friends
yeah that's basically it we ship where
we are here right here you and I like
this and so I don't need to tell you to
do anything I just know you're gonna do
it the ring organization tell me how
that works is that you're not suggesting
that proprietors phoned one another up
all that many journalists get to their
copies spiked as we say it's actually or
well you may recall has an essay called
literary censorship in England which was
supposed to be the introduction to
Animal Farm except that it never
appeared in which he points out look I'm
writing about it the peloton aryan
society but in free democratic england
that's not all that different and then
he says unpopular ideas can be silenced
without any force and then it's too
sudden he gives it to sentence response
which is not very profound but captures
it he says two reasons first the press
is owned by wealthy men who have ever
interested not having certain things
appear but second the whole educational
system from the beginning on through
just x gets you to understand that there
are certain things you just don't say
well spelling these things out
that's perfectly correct i mean they're
it's the first sentences what we expand
this is what I don't get it suggests
that I mean I'm a judge would like me
are self censoring no not self centering
your there's a filtering system that
starts and kindergarten and goes all the
way through and it's not done like a
hundred percent but it's pretty
effective it selects for obedience and
subordination and especially I think
that I said says stroppy people won't
make it don't be influenced behavior
problems or if you read applications to
a graduate school you see that people
will tell you he's not he doesn't get
along too well with his colleague you
know how to interpret those nice I I'm
just interesting this because I was
brought up like a lot of people probably
opposed to Watergate film and so on
to believe that journalism was a
crusading craft and that there were a
lot of disputatious stroppy difficult
people
in gentlemen and I have to say I think I
know some of them well I know some of
the best and best-known investigative
reporters in the United States I won't
mention names by the way whose attitude
though the media is much more cynical
than mine
in fact they regard the media as a sham
and they know and they consciously talk
about how they try to play it like a
violin if they see a little opening
they'll try to squeeze something in that
ordinarily wouldn't make it through and
it's perfectly true that the majority of
journalists who are trained have it
driven into their heads that this is a
crusading of Kriss profession
adversarial we stand up against power
very self-serving view on the other hand
in my opinion I hate the nekkid value
judgment but the better journalists and
in fact the ones who are often regarded
as the best journalists quite a
different picture oh well first of all
what I love about that is like he is
subtweeting the guy sitting right across
from him for subtweeting even existed
nice job he's mastered it I interview
for me I'm talking about you just in
case you were actually wondering but I'm
not gonna say that and
