[Music]
as what happened frankly in the the the
house and we'll talk more about this
with Digby but here is the the set up
the the House Democrats passed a four
point six billion dollar bill that was
to provide essentially humanitarian aid
for for immigrants at the border and to
increase the quality of the the centers
to put restrictions on the centers to
put restrictions on the administration
the bill at least parts of it were
drafted by a member of the House who has
previously served as I think in an NGO
capacity writing Human Rights bills and
this was drafted it was Raul Ruiz Ruiz
of California who was a medical doctor
who trained in refugee assistance at
Harvard drafted the humanitarian
standards who had said that merely
increasing funding for medical care
shelter and other needs would not be
enough when just Department lawyer
argued in court that Customs and Border
Protection may not be required to
provide soap and toothbrushes for
children in custody in other words
money's and that's not going to do it
because the way that these people
perceive what is okay what kind of
squalor it's okay for kids to be living
in and what kind of supervision what
kind of responsibility the United States
have when we are detaining children
right I mean you open up a day
care center and you take the kids in
there is some requirement that we have
in terms of the way the kids are treated
and apparently Department justice
doesn't feel that we need to do this
with these children so the bill passed
it heads to the Senate of course Mitch
McConnell completely ignores the bill
rewrites another one that doesn't
involve any of those protections that
expands enforcement money for ice and
that bill passes with significant
Democratic support in the Senate I think
about probably half the caucus maybe a
little bit more because Chuck Schumer is
a garbage leader of the Democrats in the
Senate completely missing in action
you remember Chuck Schumer Chuck Schumer
is ostensibly the leader of the
Democrats in the country arguably it's
Nancy Pelosi but Chuck Schumer is in the
Senate and he is the leader of the
Democrats in the Senate and you haven't
heard his word because the last big
Billy had was a bipartisan bill that he
rolled out to stop to strengthen
essentially the Do Not Call Registry I'm
not being facetious about that and so he
basically must have given a pass to
everybody in the Senate to vote on this
piece of garbage bill and when it came
back to the house the 25 members of the
get stuff done caucus the so-called
moderates apparently Nancy Pelosi felt
that she was going to cater to them
completely caved did not even negotiate
anything on the bill and passed the bill
in the house and bypassed it I mean this
it was with a majority of Republicans
she's the Speaker of the House there's
nothing going to get to the floor that
she doesn't want to get to the floor
she did so ostensibly because Mike Pence
had given her assurances private
assurances in other words worthless
assurances that the administration would
abide by some of the restrictions she
had sought they included a requirement
to notify lawmakers within 24 hours
after the death of a migrant child in
government custody and a 90-day time
limit on children spending time in
temporary intake facilities so it is
trust without verify in terms of this
administration of course why wouldn't
anybody trust this administration right
I mean it is just bizarre and even if
they do notify us like the kids are
still dead yes it's like Natasha Lennard
said in the foreword to her new book
democracy dies in darkness it also dies
in broad daylight yep and here is a OC
responding to the the fact that this
bill was about to pass I think this is
just before it passed and it looked like
it was gonna be inevitable to pass
abusing kids at our border and Mitch
McConnell immediately smacked it down in
order to pass and rammed through a
Senate bill that has an enormous amount
of funding for military as well as no
guardrails and no accountability for
facilities that are abusing our kids so
that's the bill that's in front of us
here in front of the house however we
didn't even bother to negotiate there
are House amendments we could have
negotiated it in
we could have conference we could have
tried to get amendments in to get
humanitarian provisions put in to get
consequences for facilities that abuse
kids in and instead what we're doing is
that we're immediately going to just
saying yeah
- what got passed out of the Senate and
these are two completely different
dynamics the Senate you have a minority
democratic party there and here we are
House of Representatives and we are a
house majority and we need to act like
it but congresswoman didn't you vote
against the House version - I did I did
and the reason that I did as well is
because I understand you had who Leon
castor right before he disagreed with
even the House version of the bill as as
do i I do not believe that we should pay
more money to ice my district is 50%
immigrant and I have an obligation and a
responsibility to protect them I believe
that really what we should ideally be
doing is passing a pure humanitarian
bill to get money straight to those kids
no tricks no writers no poison to get
toothpaste toothbrush soap and we need
to make sure that these kids are
protected as well as having their
resources funded and the fact that this
is even a game is a frankly a huge huge
disappointment well if you oppose the
Senate bill and you also oppose the
house bill I guess I'm wondering what it
is that you're willing to support that
could pass in either the house or the
Senate posit like just say like you know
I don't know if Jake Tapper I listen I
do not too dissimilar stuff as Jake
Tapper and there are times he get
distracted but she literally just said
we could pass a clean of humanitarian
bill and now he wasn't listening to her
or he just wanted to paste the interview
differently or wanted to try and
emphasize this notion that somehow she's
being unreasonable or whatnot but
continuing I just that you're willing to
support that could pass in either the
house or the Senate right and once again
I think that a pure humanitarian bill
could pass I do not believe that
Republican voters are interested back
home in preventing kids from getting
toothbrush to ashes in toothpaste pass
just the money for these for for these
kids in addition the president wanted to
he could he could declare an emergency
right now and get that money to those
kids because right now what
is able to do is he's able to put
billions of dollars from the Pentagon
told funds from getting dispersed in
Puerto Rico in order for him to build in
an inanimate wall but he will not lift a
finger in the same capacity in order to
get toothpaste to those kids right go
ahead so I I think that what we can do a
there's that provision with the
president but also what we can do is
pass a pure humanitarian bill but you
know what even if it came down to it if
it came down to brass tacks and we had
to in negotiate in an imperfect bill
with house amendments that at least is
better than the situation that we have
right now so there's a lot of people on
the left in the caucus that are really
pissed about this I mean being extremely
vocal about it and they should be
because you're holding up stuff for a
very small minority in the house and
it's almost impossible to imagine and
I'm sorry these people ran in these
districts and they may or may not know
them they obviously know them better
than than people who don't live in those
districts but it's very hard to believe
that a bill that provides more
humanitarian protections for children in
the wake of the photo of that dead girl
and her father in the wake of these
stories of these babies it's really hard
to imagine that these 25 some-odd
so-called moderates would be endangered
in their districts
if these amendments were added here's
just a couple of the quotes from some of
the leading Democrats in the house that
are not part of the leadership although
the leadership was split and largely on
generational lines as far as I can tell
Joya Clyburn Bustos all supported the
bill
the so-called second tier of leaders
Hakeem Jeffries who's no you know this
guy is not that far to the left by any
stretch of the imagination Ben ray Lujan
Katherine Clark they all voted no mark
Pocan who is the chairman of the
Congressional Progressive Caucus the
co-chair I guess with jeyapaul said of
the problem-solvers caucus which is the
23 democrats moderate democrats and 23
moderate republicans so-called tweeted
out since when did the problem-solvers
caucus become the child abuse caucus
apparently max Rose who's from Staten
Island did not appreciate that he said
that's why everybody hates this place I
Got News for him well it's not maybe
he's my idol gay yeah exactly but he
hates this place max
Pramila jeyapaul said she blames the
Senate Democrats first and foremost for
putting us in this position which is a
very very fair assessment it is
extremely difficult for the House
Democrats to vote down a bill that has
gotten almost a total majority of
Democrats in the Senate she said
jeyapaul said I'm looking for a new
pharmaceutical drug that builds spines
or develops a conscience
yeah recognized as a child abuse is
unacceptable
Jared Nadler voted no there's honorable
mention for an older member of the
caucus I was I was just talking
specifically the leadership but no i
yeah i mean i guess isn't he chair he's
chaired the House Judiciary but I'm
talking like really the people who have
specific positions in the leadership you
know and obviously like Clyburn and and
story
we are gonna vote with with Pelosi I
guess in this instance although it's
just sort of shocking and certainly a
decent amount of those votes were there
just to basically make it appear like
it's not as brutal of a loss as it is
but it was we will talk more about that
with Digby in the meantime
