where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat da
majority report with sam cedar
it is Friday October 5th 2018 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live not steps from the
industrially Ravitz Gowanus Canal but
instead from sunny at Las Vegas Nevada
where I haven't seen the Sun in days
that's I've been inside the Palacio
hotel conference center at the mass
torts 2018 conference yes folks the
biennial visit to las vegas to sit down
with some tort lawyers hear about some
of the most recent cases that are taking
place around the country involving very
often enormous amounts of corporate
malfeasance and today is no different I
am here for this conference done a
couple of pre records yesterday because
we had trouble scheduling for today
later on the program an attorney named
Mike Berg who has been on this program
before to talk about the explosions that
took place in Massachusetts from the
underground gas pipelines and litigation
I think that's going to or actions are
going to be brought against the company
I think it's National Grid I can't
recall and then I sat down Bobby Kennedy
yesterday to talk about a case that he
was working on as an attorney out of his
firm in California against Monsanto and
a large settlement that was given as a
function of in regards to roundup and I
should just tell you right now we did
not talk about vaccinations I've
addressed this in the past with Bobby
Kennedy
on air and I've spoken about it on air
I've spoken to him about it on air in
the past we have a fundamental
disagreement about his I wouldn't call
him an anti-vaxxer but I would call him
very VAX skeptical and I think that's
really an incredibly dangerous position
to have and contrary to the science but
you can go back and find that I think I
can't remember exactly when we had that
conversation but we did not get into
that at all
because I was more interested in that
Monsanto thing and that's what I'm here
for to hear about these cases
interesting they figured I'd use an
off-label usage for roundup so that's a
little bit just a little bit of
housecleaning and before we get to our
first guest who is also here doing his
show from this conference David Pakman
will be joining me in a moment but
before he does a couple of moments of
housecleaning it's been now publicly
announced when I go to a politican I
will be debating charlie Kirk he is the
titular head of turning-points USA so I
mean some people have Twitter I've
noticed like some of lackeys flunkies
from flaky flunkies from turning points
have been randomly saying like I am
cedar I just listened to him for seven
minutes and I could never get those
minutes back well yeah it's true they
will never get them back and I will
continue to take from every single
person involved with turning points USA
I will take I will take I will take and
so that will be Sunday the 20th or 21st
or something like that in LA I assume
they're going to put it online at one
point I'm not sure and but I will I'll
have more to say about that later and
before we get into this and and I think
you know
David Pakman knows as well as anybody
that about the need for service like
news voice news voice is one of today's
sponsors and you can go to news voice
dot-com slash majority I think everybody
understands the problems with media
concentration and the idea of
epistemological bubbles that we find
ourselves in I think I used that
properly and it is highly relevant to
know what the other side is saying what
conservative thought is and you know you
don't have to look at it as the other
side it's just simply getting different
perspectives on your own that's the
thing that's good about news voice it's
a new media company that's come up with
their own response to that problem of
our blinders and our sort of like a pre
destined algorithms that send us news
it's called news voice it's an app for
iOS and Android it gives you access for
free if you go to news voice dot-com
slash majority and it gives you a
personalized news feed that you set up
by aggregating a mix of mainstream media
news sources international news sources
independent media sources and then
multiple sources are provided for each
news story as well as left and right you
can choose the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upload stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
or you can add a source that's missing
for a story it's meant to be completely
open and democratized news aggregator
that lets you get every side of every
story they also have a video interview
series featuring guests from Chris
Hedges - Alexandre Acacio Cortes you can
go download the app for free at news
voice dot-com slash majority I put the
link under this video if you're watching
on video and if you're not you're
listening we've put the link in the
description of the podcast so you can
check it out it's news voice comm
majority joining me now in the
I don't know what they called this room
the x-bow room or whatever it is David
Pakman of the David Pakman show here to
help me before we get into a couple of
those interviews with lawyers talk about
the the state of play obviously the big
story of the week maybe of the month
maybe of the year aside of course from
the election that's happening in a month
Brett Cavanaugh's nomination coming down
to the wire
tomorrow 51 votes to move forward have
30 hours of debate maybe as early as
Saturday they'll have the final vote
Collins senator Collins from Maine
scheduled to make a statement at 3:00
p.m. Eastern Time yeah so that's three
hours from now yeah I guess that's three
hours and initially reported that she's
just going to announce why she's just
utterly satisfied with this
investigation that's taken place and
even though she had her hesitations
initially she is ready to say hey you
know what we did the investigation and
now there's no further reason to hold up
Brett Kavanaugh but a few reporters
including Manu Raju from CNN said it's
not clear that that's what she's going
to announce at at 3:00 Eastern and that
that would conceivably make a difference
in the 51 votes to move forward on the
last 30 hours of debate Manchin Joe
Manchin from West Virginia was the one
Democrat to say yes let's do it
and Lisa Murkowski from Alaska was the
one Republican to say no let's not go
forward so this this actually you know
there's sort of like two narratives
right one is take the 30,000 foot view
only which is it doesn't matter what
Susan Collins says on Tuesday it doesn't
matter whether Lisa Murkowski says let's
move on to the final debate or not that
they're going to push him through that
that was always the plan and that
McConnell knew it and that even Jeff
Flake arguably was part of that plan
going to him and saying listen you're
not running for re-election what if you
say let's do this investigation you'll
get attention but we'll still push them
through eventually that's like the
30,000 foot narrative the micro
narrative is well know if Collins says
she's not going to and Manchin says no
then Brett Kavanaugh doesn't get on the
court
well here's I mean you know a lot of
this is going to be resolved in in three
hours
yeah
and so for many people by the time they
hear this it'll be moot but the dynamic
one way or another is is this it seems
to me joe manchin will not vote for Joe
Manchin will not be the 50th vote let's
put it this way right it's obviously the
51st vote would come from Mike Pence
if Susan Collins announces that she's
not going to vote for for Cavanaugh it's
very hard for me to believe that Joe
Manchin is going to be the 50th vote and
then when it depends right
it just I think at that point he can be
guaranteed that if he ever needs a
single favor from the Democratic caucus
he will not get it I don't know it's
conceivable that Joe Manchin could
decide at one point to become a
Republican I don't know like if if he
votes if he's the 50th vote i-it's EEMs
to me there's gonna be some speculation
about that you know but there's already
been for years right I mean this will be
oh okay this it seems to be that we're
at that point this is the movies going
to met yeah I don't know why he would do
that
other than maybe he wants to be in the
majority yeah and they may offer him
something but I suspect that if Susan
Collins comes out and votes no or she
announces that at 3:00 then mansion is
going to be a no and the theory would be
this all the Senators who vote in this
middle ground right they're all looking
for cover and so Murkowski she votes no
on cloture the pressures offer no one's
looking at her vote she needed to to not
just vote against Kavanagh she need to
fervently vote against Kavanagh because
I think in a larger the primary impetus
is the Native community
Alaska there's just she has had strong
support from in the past and because of
Cavanaugh's rulings about about indian
reservations they are very nervous about
him and then this I think on top of that
there's a large amount of sexual assault
in the Native community and I think this
is you know I think this has become very
important issue for them so Murkowski
she all the pressures off her nobody's
talking about Murkowski more she is
sidelined herself Collins may want to do
the same thing because it will come down
to Manchin and certainly Manchin Collins
and Murkowski have already talked about
what they're going to do the the those
three know what each other's plans were
isn't it insane though and I know that I
mean this is not like a shock to people
who pay attention to politics it doesn't
even figure into any of this what Brett
Kavanaugh actually did to women it's
just not a factor and it never was right
like even from the beginning where
Republicans were saying well do we or
don't we need an investigation or what
exactly who exactly is the right person
to ask questions of Christine Blasi Ford
but it never actually mattered what
Kavanagh did or didn't do I don't think
that's true
really Murkowski may have had some
issues with voting for Kavanagh prior to
this but I think Collins would have I
mean I don't know Colin still may vote
for her but the if' for him but you're
saying that her vote would be based on
what she genuinely believes happened
thirty years ago or just a political
viability of it I don't think any of
them give a crap about what specifically
happened in one way or another it is
right what do they think is going to
with the public revelations how is that
going to interact with their
constituents exactly and will it hurt
them
and so the Cavanaugh stuff does make a
difference one way or another if if it
had been
if Blasi Ford had come forward and been
far less compelling I think then
Cavanaugh would be fine right now
he still may be ultimately fat yeah but
it had had I don't know what Cavanaugh
could have done worse but maybe they
were I mean if there had been another
allegation that came out this week that
was more prominent or maybe if you know
if Mike Mark judge had said yeah it's
true right I think that would have
changed things without a doubt so you
know III think these things matter not
because of the way that they influence
the politician in their mind and their
sentiment although I think Heidi
Heitkamp we should note this it is clear
this Cavanaugh thing has hurt her yeah
and I think she I think for her largely
it was a personal measure and she may
feel that she's going to lose this
election anyways and which makes the
decision more about like how she wants
to go out although I think there's also
argument it's going to be interesting to
see with the Cavanaugh hearing behind
her right if if the Republicans vote
against Cavanaugh - it's ultimately
Collins in Murkowski who bring Cavanaugh
down the pressures off a hike camp if
Cavanaugh gets in the pressures off a
hike camp so I think she's going to have
another month to reset the campaign go
back to the issue of health care which
was working for her down South Dakota so
I you know we'll see do you think Trump
has stuck with Cavanaugh because he just
wants to win and he sees having to pick
somebody else who he obviously would as
losing or do you think it's I don't know
if you've been following the the really
specific legal reasons why he wants
Cavanaugh on the court for what's coming
up when it comes to presidential power
when it comes to you know there's a Kay
about the sovereignty of the presidency
or like a mix of the two
I'm Church a mix of the two I think also
you know it's unlikely but there's a
scenario where they do not confirm
Kavanagh the midterms happen Democrats
win and Jeff Flake and Susan Collins say
it's not appropriate to to confirm
somebody in the lame-duck session I
think that period between the election
in January yes if the day if the day if
the Senate's gonna change hands I think
that's a far-fetched area but it's but
it's possible it's possible I mean like
it may be you know
McConnell thinks there's a 10% chance of
that happening it's dangerous and why I
don't want to go there but even then
doesn't Trump get his pick after January
like will Democrats actually say I mean
I know online people say if that happens
Democrats should say we're gonna do what
you guys did to garland but they're not
gonna do it hey I'm not sure that they
wouldn't do that but they certainly
could say that and get a pick that is
not on that list of the Heritage
Foundation that may be I mean the idea
that they wouldn't use their leverage at
all seems even for Democrats unlikely
unlikely I mean they still got to win an
election you know two years from January
yeah or you know at that point 20 months
away so there I that would be stunning
yeah them to say oh well yeah well now
well now we will be the ones to confirm
cabinet I don't think that's not
happening so I don't I I I think there's
just too many different I mean I who
knows why Donald Trump wants this I
think on some level it's also he doesn't
want Cavanaugh to go down for this
reason right and because this is his
core brand proposition do you think that
wait why are you asking me all the
questions oh I don't know I'm curious
what you think well well do you think
yeah whatever the question he asked you
so I forgot the question because he
threw me on oh no I mean like when I
think about this entire thing and I
think back to the initial like McConnell
is either he's either stumbled into just
like a brilliant combination of a chain
of events that's going to lead to
Cavanaugh getting in or it was
beautifully orchestrated from the
beginning where McConnell said from the
start
listen if we slow this down and do an
investigation Democrats will just say it
wasn't a sufficient investigation of
course then they did a completely
insufficient investigation and now
McConnell is able to say I told you that
this is what Democrats were going to say
like what was it so scripted from the
beginning or or did it just and out no I
mean I think they didn't want to have an
investigation they were genuinely didn't
want one right but it's the obvious
thing to say at that point Democrats
will say this because he also knows like
if we do one if we do one we're not
going to do a complete woman
I mean we the president can do exactly
what he says we pretend we're doing in
event I mean the idea of doing an
investigation to whitewash anything a
not a real investigation is probably one
of the oldest things that politicians
yeah one of their oldest techniques in
the world right I mean Andrew Cuomo with
the Moreland Commission and then that's
what he thought he was getting and when
the Moreland Commission started to
actually look into corruption he's like
well we're gonna have to end this
because you guys do not and yeah I mean
and this is part of the reason why they
wanted to keep it quiet so that the
investigation they're not gonna show the
results so that they can leak things
they did this with they've done it with
different parts of the Russian
investigation I mean this is this is the
way the game is played
but for Collins and Murkowski in
particular they have to be concerned
insofar as they can look at the real
reports and know the ink how incomplete
it is and then be worried that next week
the Washington Post is going to come out
with a story that says XY and Z and and
and their ability to have said like oh
we saw the FBI investigation
clearly you know goes out the window
because because they could see that it
was incomplete right I mean so the
pressure here there's certain amount of
reality no pressure from just the
reality of the situation and what they
anticipate our future risks so I mean
this is why McConnell just never has to
think twice about anything he's doing
because there's just no political risk
effectively for any of this stuff for
him in Kentucky he well not just in
Kentucky
I mean or even in his position in the
Senate yeah he has been incredibly
successful in jamming the courts with
right-wing judges and I mean he thinks
that history is gonna look out of his
move keeping that seat opening with
Garland as the reason why Donald Trump
won and led to a fundamental shift in
American society because of the courts
and and it's hard to argue with that
what also struck me is interesting this
week was a Breck have an i yesterday
wrote an op-ed yeah in The Wall Street
Journal in the Wall Street Journal where
he apologized for how brusque he was but
said that the reason why that all
happened was the allegations yes yes I
think that was a bow to Jeff Flake who
had said a couple of days ago we can't
have that on the court that type of and
so they said go write an op-ed and
address this I mean I think that's
what's happening we're watching sort of
like a PR you know crisis management
type of situation and that's what
they're doing and it's a geared towards
I mean it's sort of sick oh it's very
sick that you know it's geared towards
one or two people I mean that is one of
the things that I think has really come
out of this too is that in addition to
the court hopefully being
publicly scarred by this I mean I have
been very jaded about the Supreme Court
for almost exactly 18 and a half years
or getting it coming up on almost 19
years with the Bush v Gore result and
ruling but I think two things come out
of this if Cavanaugh is confirmed one is
the Supreme Court as an institution is
been dramatically weakened in the eyes
of the American public and ripe for some
type of legitimate reform I think we're
gonna hear calls for court packing which
in principle I have no problem with I
think calls from the left calls from the
left yeah when Democrats returned to
power and term limits which I think are
you know probably a better reforms a
more durable long term I brought their
people though before the the 2016
presidential election saying thinking
about the future of the Supreme Court
isn't a valid thing to think about when
you decide who to vote for for president
I remember people were saying that David
Pakman and I went to dinner last night
it was some constituencies who felt that
I I don't know like Michael is Ben I am
Emil Ike a get to it already no III
don't I mean look
oh there's stuff from last night yeah
well ya know revealed last night
absolutely not all personal discussion
hey David by the way hey Michael I just
think the left needs to be to start
taking the court more serious I think
they're nothing I think they need to
stop being corporate Democrats
alright but I think I think the left
needs to start taking the court more
seriously and I think they're going to
on some level okay what do you mean when
you say at the left
I mean everyone from the center through
the entire left well that's not going to
happen
well I wouldn't mean by that's not going
to happen well what what does it mean to
take the court seriously that you that
people like what's actionable about that
well you don't write off you don't write
off considering the impact of what's
going to happen on the court when you
decide who to vote so here just might be
your doing before - here's my theory but
a vote I'm not using conscience and then
there's a filler where I want to just I
mean I go through this with Jamie a
little Bobby voting isn't activism what
else could the Left be doing oh well I
think the left could also start being
more aware of the issues that the court
deals with so that you don't just have
activists who are arguing about a
woman's right to choose which of course
is it's hugely important and I don't
want any what I'm saying to in any way
imply that we need less of that we need
more of that
the answer is looking for his car bombs
but no but I'm saying there should also
be a greater awareness about I mean when
was the last time we heard anything
about citizens united maybe also things
like feeders like now it's like when was
the last time we heard anybody talk
about Citizens United that died a very
quick death and or I should say you know
in terms of like activism around that or
beyond citizens united what about things
like you know the the importance of the
court in terms of what agencies do and
the even things like the ACA you can you
can both feel like the ACA did not go
far enough and that there's something
fundamentally wrong with the court
because it doesn't say that the
government can expand Medicaid
don't you think also a strategy for
dealing with things like the Federalist
Society and long term plans for how to I
know they tried to do that right exactly
they tried to do that with the ACS I
mean
when when when Obama first of all there
should have been more pressure on Obama
to make nominations of subsidiary courts
there was none there was a couple people
writing about it couple people
complaining about it but no one on the
Left cared there was no letter writing
there was no petitioning there was no
activism around it at all because
Merrick Maryland's a corporatist and
then when when people are put up for the
court there's barely a peep and even on
Janice well I'm not even talking about
the the rulings as so much it's like you
know when you had different very
progressive justices who were put up who
were knocked down right by the
Republicans there was no there was you
know nary a peep and so you know
electoral politics are not the end-all
be-all but when it comes time to vote
you should you should factor that in and
it comes time to you know what's getting
you agitated that should also factor it
there was always the two things for
voting for Clinton over Trump and there
were many but it was really simple if
you want to simplify it you could just
say Supreme Court picks and Iran deal
and those are the two things that have
already been I mean among many many
others obviously but those were such
clear dividing lines in terms of voting
intelligently and no one has any answers
to those two and they're both
catastrophic well yeah I don't think
most people on the Left are arguing
against voting for Hillary Clinton like
that's not an interesting question to me
or most of us I would think but the
question then becomes well not most
people but all you needed was less than
70,000 people to go out and vote in
three states but then what else are we
supposed to do okay okay I think this is
good I mean so there's another thing
here which is not often discussed last
night there was discussion of 400,000
people protesting and you got very very
agitated when that when that was brought
up and in general strikes and so on
there's been this int
our plan right where if you don't show
up to work one day you're fired because
you're at will wage is stagnant in real
terms for 40 years so even if you're not
gonna get fired because you go to do
civil disobedience or participate in a
general strike you can't afford to do it
so there's this entire infrastructure
where when we say well okay you vote
every two years or however often but
what what else right
other than signing petitions and
letter-writing the entire infrastructure
is set up so that people really just
can't go out and do what would be the
next things to do well I mean the idea
of of some type of wildcat strike around
the Supreme Court which is so crucial is
has been not never even contemplated and
and yes III agree I wouldn't say most of
the left by any means didn't take voting
you know for Clinton seriously but we
had an election where she lost by 70,000
votes over the course of 7,000 people
wasn't in Michigan or is it 11,000
10,000 in Wisconsin a big part of that
had to do with voter suppression a big
part of that voter suppression had to do
with the Supreme Court gutting the
Voting Rights Act David and I mean so
the I mean just the idea of like
protesters shoulda been protests about
the gutting of the Voting Rights Act
there should be people organizing about
it so David how agitated was Sam on a
scale of one to ten I'm having a hard
time here and Michael what he asked me
David can you hear me now yeah I can
about how agitated was Sam if you were
gonna use a one to ten scale he I mean
he was more agitated than I'm I've maybe
ever seen him in person
[Music]
or through audio-visual recordings the
goddamn supreme coy but yeah no I I mean
and the same would go for labor
protections the same would go for I mean
the only thing that I think is maybe
well it's not a fair it's not a
validating criticism of the dum-dum
perspective at all but you know
Democrats did use the the sort of the
Supreme Court in a non-affirmative way
in elections right like not here's what
we might want to do with who we put on
the Supreme Court but simply we will put
on people who aren't absolute monsters
which is true and is enough of a reason
to vote for them in a general election
well maybe again there does need to be
maybe more of a strategic proactive
vision for what a progressive court
could look like right yes absolutely and
I will say that a certain percentage of
the Democrats I don't know if it's 30%
to 35% 25% are quite happy for the court
to roll back yes you know consumer
protections worker protections
regulatory schemes because then they
don't have to right and so you know we
had I don't know how many Democrats
voted maybe a half a dozen voted to a
roll back dodd-frank and you know they
can do it because it's quiet nobody pays
that much attention to it but this is
this is a this is a problem I mean and
there's a problem because the left is
not and again I died left I mean from
the center to the the far left and for
some of them that's just not you know
what their shtick is but the bottom line
is the implications of the Supreme Court
had just not appreciate it broadly by
the left
I mean dum-dum-dum left as an ad hominem
though we're not supposed to say them I
saying that I wait what did Jamie what
so I actually talked to my friend who's
the GSA's legal working group the other
day and he listens to the show I think
he's called in before and he was talking
about some of the real structural
barriers to setting up a left version of
something like The Federalist Society
absolutely which is I mean he could
probably call in and tell you more but
like the career path to being even
considered to be nominated for a
judgeship involves being a prosecutor
which mostly means putting black people
in jail so right there no matter how
much legal aid you've done on the other
side that is a structural check on how
progressive you're going to be as a
judge and like there are all kinds of
other ways people start out as you know
progressive young lawyers who want to do
right by the world and end up being much
more conservative and much more
establishment well I mean I I think
that's I think that's accurate but the
the job for the the broad left is to
also make sure that the apparatus is
such that we're not allergic to those
people right I mean certainly we have
examples of people who are on the left
left of center who are prosecutors you
know three or four of them are sitting
on that Judiciary Committee they they
exist certainly but I'm talking about
probably to the left of that like I
don't but I'm rod left I'm talking about
the broad left I mean I don't know you
know the membership of DSA is what now
at forty fifty thousand people thirty
thousand about the mean those 50 so okay
so it's gonna need to coalition with
other people obviously yeah of course
and
and and there just has to be a bigger
awareness of the importance of the
courts and there isn't and I know that
well maybe there would be if you and
David didn't smear Tulsa gaffe
advantage so we could go to war with
 Syria and that's the whole point
you're corporate Democrats they
see don't vote your conscience and then
we have war at Tucker Carlson
said so it doesn't seem like we actually
are starting to gear up for we mattis
this week I think it was yeah announced
a greater military presence in Syria
absolutely here's a clip of Hillary
Clinton saying something in 2010 that's
the whole point the
anti-capitalist left has to draw the
line somewhere right like the TSA
engages in targeted electoral campaigns
we do not issue blanket endorsements for
all Democrats right like how does that
connect though some Democrats I going
back to the voting and the being aware
of who who's going to be President right
not I'm not I'm not saying the DSA needs
to make endorsements of Democrats that's
not at all what I'm saying okay people I
think I'm saying the brighter left the
broader left needs to have a greater
awareness of the importance of courts
and with you anybody defensive that
should not make you defensive about
saying of justifying what the DSA
position is about endorsements I am NOT
talking about just fifty thousand people
I mean I'm talking about the you know
tens of millions of people who you know
engage in politics in some measure or
another there's a broad responsibility
to understand the implications of
of the courts and certainly I get very
agitated as I may have dinner last night
with people who just casually dismissed
the relevance of the courts and focus on
other things like you know the curve of
a smile when you talk about Medicare or
something like oh no I absolutely no
comely Harris is nodding her head here
that super corporatist I agree
with you about that I just think it's
important to make it clear that when you
say that you're not saying that what
that means is that the left should just
focus on getting Democrats elected above
all else I it's not above all else it's
above very specific other things right
like it's contextual to some degree of
course it's above some incredibly stupid
arguments that people are still trotting
out to build their own delusional
personal brands that's not it has
nothing to do with what you're talking
you see how people might take that the
wrong way though I mean I'm sorry we
know some of those people right yeah we
know those people they're having it the
wrong way right now I'm sure I'm not I'm
not saying I'm not saying don't weigh
anything else I am saying that there has
been a complete undervaluing of the
courts hi our society and that is highly
problematic and I think you know the
argument is going to be you know clearer
when either Kavanagh or if it ends up
being was it Wendy Barrett or whatever
her name is
ends up on the court and maybe people
will start to be able to connect like oh
here's why public sector unions have
been devastated
oh here's why there's no bank reg or or
maybe here's Holly the air is
significantly more polluted than it was
five years ago or to interject Sam it
may be even more so really dangerously
is
let's play a positive scenario Bernie
Sanders elected president there's some
type of this and that would be far more
beyond electoral for those things to
happen there would need to be the type
of you know broad mobilization and then
Medicare for all
okay in this scenario it's passed a
Kavanagh Roberts Court is striking that
down there's no doubt that an actual
left agenda that was passed in Congress
and mobilized for in street action would
run full you know full stop against an
oligarchic Supreme Court so even in
these much more idyllic fantasy
scenarios about Bernie Sanders when
Cosmo Cortes right is inaugurated 20
years from now and she moves right to
you know to do go to a perfect
single-payer situation to nationalize
the banks to you know X appropriate the
oil refineries and the court goes hot
know right I mean this will be the same
court and this happens that we actually
can see examples of this of those you
know agendas conflicting in other
countries so I think and again I feel
like we're also frustrates me is what
you guys are saying it's certainly what
I'm saying is paying more attention to
the court includes have term limits on
the court potentially pack the court
make it much more democratically
accountable and transparent right yeah I
think part of it is now is like
understanding the importance of the
court would lead you'd see activism and
agitation about term limits right or
about you know packing the court like I
say not my preferred reform it's not
really reform but I think it's be very
helpful to have a very large movement in
this country saying pack the courts
where you know an 80 year term limit
ends up being the the compromise
position I think that's super important
you know on Monday
depending on on my babysitter situation
cuz it's high school we may run the an
interview I did with Carol Anderson and
on voting rights on on voting rights but
really the interview ended up you know
because she wrote that book about white
rage and which was all about black
people in this country getting some
measure of of Rights and then white
people pushing back institutionally and
you know maybe two steps forward one and
a half steps back type of situation and
the parallels between what the court did
back then and by back then I mean pre
Jim Crow Jim Crow and post it again in
sort of like mid reconstruction
post-reconstruction through to the 60s
right like this regime lasted for
seventy years right a regime of voter
suppression last seventy years and so I
don't know the people you know like
fully appreciate like you know the era
that we could be entering into yeah but
a gauzy o Cortes endorsed Andrew Cuomo
which shows you it's corporations
and that's why they want war with
Syria and Tucker Carlson is the only one
that says Amazon is bad because you're
 neoliberal seller I need a palate
cleanser I actually have really enjoyed
this we can things right like we need us
a diversity of tactics and is a
separation of that that's a bad analogy
I'm not gonna make but of like the
people on the progressive left left
liberals Social Democrats absolutely
should be doing more activism around the
judiciary the people on the far left
should be doing Street actions around it
and we have been so I think those things
can all go together
yeah I mean I don't know III I don't I
in no way making an indictment of the
far left in this I keep saying over and
over again from the center
the entire left Siteman is of the
dum-dum left which if you guys don't
want to do it okay we're just Dum Dum
Dums done not just but it's not just the
dum-dum left it is done also there's a
lot more people frankly in the center to
the you know who identify as liberals
right who again do not appreciate the
implications of the court I mean this is
a problem I I don't know how else to
articulate this other than keep saying
the center throughout the entire left
bow so Center it's especially a
problem relative to the focus the right
has on right like if he is is the
important if the right wasn't so if the
right knows what the left doesn't about
it and that's the problem
yes and that's I I mean I subordinated
everything to that some of them really
were sincerely like Donald Trump is a
repulsive disgusting human being and
there's one reason to vote in November
the court and that while Democrats were
running and center to left whatever
terms were running around in circles
thinking about nonsense and that power
strategy is undeniable for them yes and
they send that way and that's what
matters winning yeah I think David
Pakman has had about four four words
that you've been able to say during the
course is just asking questions you just
don't listen you have got a ton of
people in that studio we were all deep
at the majority report we didn't even
give Brendan a microphone Brendan Eich
yeah I have one brother there's been a
lot of good points that I share so I
didn't want to date other people
I mean we saw people packing Grand
Central Station the other night sorry
I'll let you talk
there were there's been a lot of
protests but like I mean cool but so
what
yeah I know like I mean it's great but
it doesn't matter
I think people I'm just saying people
are getting more activated around this
issue and you're gonna continue to see
it I hope so I hope so I mean it's been
a pleasure being with you and no listen
politican
política oh yeah I should talk about
yeah what are you doing at I have no
idea you have no idea I'm on anytime
that there's like something huge going
on like for example when jenk is
debating tucker carlson that's when i'll
be scheduled to do a really obscure six
person panel in the basement of the
building so that's my schedule for
politican I honestly I still don't even
know what I'm doing you should do a
segment on how to be a sellout
oh my I think I think every panel is
essentially that according to some
people you gotta hear the panel together
actually oh yeah what's the panel should
we be socialists oh is that uh is that
actually happening I think so you know
they have no socialists on that panel
that like it's I was texting with Kyle
kolinsky and so I think that that was
slated to be me Kyle kolinsky Ana
Kasparian Bakari sellers and I think
that's it the four of us and your
moderator yeah and so Kyle said well my
view is basically your view I'm a social
democrat is it oh okay is Ana is Ana
socialist he goes no and I'm like okay
well Bakari sellers is definitely not so
they're doing a panel on socialism with
no socialists right I don't I mean I
gotta be honest that I don't take a
politican seriously okay I'm not gonna
lie i I didn't really I am excited to
debate Charlie Kurt right and if I have
to go and sit on a panel or moderate one
or moderate one fine that's great yes am
you ready for a president pence to yes
I'm doing a panel on on vine on vice
president pence oh really
you got that resident I have no idea I
don't take it serious Ann Coulter
I don't know I just you know I'm
assuming they're gonna give us lunch I
am NOT assuming that well I as long as I
get lunch they're not give you lunch
I've seen nothing about lunch this has
to be okay now we're taking a very
Jewish turn in the conversation for his
lunch you can tell them I'm available if
they want a real socialist yes they
don't they don't care if they don't care
about the socialism panel definitely
doesn't have lunch I thought you meant
like in general like they might give you
long no I just and we have not what we
talked about social I just don't I I
don't care about it
no one's it doesn't implicate anything
we got a Cabana you want to hear the
copy can we cut this up in president
Mouse come to Politico I would go to see
me debate charlie Kirk right right
that's gonna be fun the panels you know
it's one don't go to the panels then you
know and that debates not scheduled to
be like in the second kitchen for the
custodial staff of the building they're
doing it in like a legitimate room for
Wow
III don't know the details I would ask I
don't I don't I know I mean as long as
this video of it I just sit in a room
I'll do I'll take Charlie Kirk to dinner
and someone's videotaping I should say
Backman was videotaping last night and I
told him he cannot release that Siri
David hit me on the side I'll send you
the video Sam and you can make the call
the restaurant had started clearing out
by that all right let's just I just want
to hit on a couple of points yeah
how much have you dug into this supposed
it NAFTA reform some your sense well
it's definitely no longer called NAFTA
that's correct yeah but there's some
tweaks you know like
sixty two point five percent of car
components used to have to be made in
the three countries to avoid tariffs
that's now seventy five percent in the
u.s. MCA is that a brand-new deal like
if NAFTA was the worst deal ever does
going from sixty two point five percent
to seventy five percent is that is that
mind-blowing ly different not really
you know there's intellectual property
stuff where copyright will will persist
seventy years beyond the life of the
copyright holder versus fifty I don't
know that that's in the right direction
no that's the wrong right actually
without a doubt increasing that is bad
right more consumers for artists yeah
for everybody right health has
implications for pharmaceutical again
want one of trumps complaints with TPP
was that the conflicts between the
parties were going to be adjudicated in
this kind of transnational extrajudicial
whatever right this is the corporate
resolution idea I can't remember that's
basically like another version of that
is how the three countries u.s. Mexico
and Canada
you know Trump complained NAFTA doesn't
allow for holding anybody accountable if
they violate the agreement the way that
now it can be done would be through
basically the same type of board that
TPP would have in place which I thought
Trump was against you know it's it's a
gong show
right and to the extent that there was
any of those other changes in terms of
like the car stuff that was all part of
the TPP yes right had been negotiated
with Canada Mexico as part of the TPP
yeah and that was just a language that
was lifted from there yep there is
actually some enhanced labor protections
yeah the $60 an hour Thea right yeah and
I think and Zack Carter we did the
illicit history of trade for my show and
what he said is you know there are some
people inside the Trump administration
which specifically on issues like that
are considering some relatively you know
leftward moves and the reason literally
is you know a white ethno state but it's
the soft side of the cruelty and racism
of immigration policy it's that like if
labor is less exploited and less abused
Mexico there's less incentive to come
here so it's like well okay I mean it's
the right policy for the most obscene
reasons imaginable but it is an
interesting policy shift yeah all right
well David we've got to get to a couple
the the lawyer interviews that I did
thank you for having me uh thank you for
coming on we didn't have a chance to
talk about how the Trump administration
wants to weaken mercury regulations but
who doesn't want a little extra mercury
here's a clip of Bakari sellers talking
about mercury at 2010 maybe you could
just smear tulsi gabbard Warren
sellout
alright look let's take a quick break
and then run this interview with Mike
Berg who talks about the explosions in
Massachusetts then we will come back and
throw to the Bobby Kennedy interview
David Pakman David Pakman showed right
calm david pakman.com whoa yeah all
right congratulations thank you scoring
that URL alright david pakman.com
[Music]
obviously you can find them on youtube
youtube.com slash the david pakman show
the David Pakman the hydrogen's on that
thank you all right folks quick break
and we'll be right back with Mike burg
sitting with me now at the mass torts
conference 2018 Nevada Las Vegas Mike
Berg from the law firm burg Simpson
Eldredge Hersh & Jardine and Mike you
and I have talked in the past you've
done a lot of I know construction
litigation faulty mantorp and they've
been the lead lawyer in the yeas and the
or throw ever and those iPrEx the
litigation Pradaxa okay so what what are
you working on now I think there's
something that people should really know
about that we're working on now
you know with the Cavanaugh hearing and
the hurricane the very little news came
out about these gas explosions that
occurred north of Boston in the Lawrence
and Andover area these explosions were
not explained explosion of one building
these were explosions of multiple
buildings along the main and feeder
lines of the gas company Columbia Gas
it's the most outrageous thing I've ever
seen I I've tried numerous gas explosion
cases around the country have handled
more than 50 gas explosion this is the
worst conduct I've ever seen by a gas
company okay give us a sense of and I
don't think people appreciate this this
is when you say it went across these two
towns it wasn't where they were joining
I mean it literally like how many miles
spam warehouse is subjected to just
blowing up probably for between three
and five miles but so long it's
unbelievable and and the reason and this
is really such an amazing situation is
in 2004 the gas company got acquired at
that time we have memos showing that
they knew that this is this this these
lines these old steel lines which had
been around for more than 50 years
needed to be replaced
they had leaks they had corrosion and
they knew they were dancing with the
devil if they didn't do it and so this
is Columbia energy and they are bought
out by National Grid is that what
happened whether they were they were
bought out by a company out of Ohio
which bought them is a holding company
that now owns Columbia Gas but we hold
both responsible and and they knew in
memos that they needed to repair and
replace these lines they knew there were
leaks in these lines they knew that if
they didn't do it and didn't do it
really quickly there were going to be
potential problems and what people don't
understand about the delivery of natural
gas is that it's lighter than air
so if you have leaks what happens to it
it tries to get above-ground it'll go
ahead and permeate along the line and if
you have multiple leaks along the line
which is what they had here ultimately
that gas will find a way to get out
whether it's through cracks in the
basement whether it's in a house whether
it's in a store and when it does and you
get the right mixture of oxygen and
natural gas and you it can be from a
pilot light it can be from a boiler it
can be from static electricity you now
have an ignition source and the next
thing you know you have a catastrophic
explosion which burnt is there's deaths
there's people burn family deaths well
we we know of at least three at this
point in time we have probably a half
dozen people that have been burned but
even even beyond that these people have
been evacuated from their house and what
some what's interesting is you have the
the town of Lawrence which is one of the
poorest towns in Massachusetts and then
you have Andover is one of the richest
right next door and these poor people
are the ones in in Lawrence they were
evacuated they couldn't get back into
their home they have no gas they have no
electricity they can't they got to go
stay with somebody a friend outside of
the the explosion area most of them
suffer from PTSD most of them have
incredible damages keeping them from
being able to go in and go back to what
would be a normal life gas still has not
been restored people have still not been
able to get to their property well
here's what strikes me there's a couple
of things like and so if I understand
you correctly the gas will leak in one
place and it would just sort of lay
across the pipe until it finds a seat
that it can go up correct and presumably
there were multiple of these over that
three to five mile stretch and then at
one point whatever it was
made it eat pop up or they found the gas
found one leak that put it to another
level and then they were able to go to
the home oh we do know we do know a
couple of things because we're still in
the early stages right because it just
happened within the last 30 days what we
do think is that the gas pressure went
down and then the company increased the
gas pressure in the mainline so the gas
pressure goes down because there's less
gas leaks they pump up the pressure
which then pushes the pressure on those
leaks to find more kravitz it makes it
even worse because when you have
corrosion I mean can it can happen not
only from corrosion and these that's at
this point we have a metallurgist that's
looking at it but we also know people
don't realize if you have a construction
vehicle a backhoe or a shovel that just
just nicks that line with the
freeze/thaw that occurs up in
Massachusetts and in other places you're
going to get that that steel pipe is
going to become brittle and you may have
had and we don't know yet because we
haven't gotten all the information a
catastrophic fracture where the pipe
itself breaks open and maybe there's
multiple catastrophic fractures that
occurred okay but clearly that piping
that infrastructure is old then you have
memos that suggest that like we have old
stuff you guys are buying us but we
should just tell you in full disclosure
we have old stuff and so the holding
company is responsible because they are
aware of it the existing company is
responding but how do we know 10 miles
down the line passed and over you know
or 20 miles west into Worcester I mean
why are we to believe that any of this
stuff is safe I don't think there is I
mean one of the things I handled the
case up in Steamboat Springs Colorado in
which our whole city block blew up one
of the things we actually went to trial
one of the things that was very
interesting was I was able to ask the
people in the gas company how many more
I said time bombs drew an objection I
said okay how many more explosions are
there under the ground that you don't
know
and the answer is we don't know after
the case and we got a very very large
verdict for the injured people in that
case a multi-million dollar verdict the
jury went to City Council and demanded
that they replaced the entire gas system
and I'm going to tell you I talked to
the Boston Globe I talk to people in
Boston they better be demanding that
there's a full and complete looking at
the system as you said all the way along
the line is there a mechanism in the
context of the case that you're doing I
mean chances are you gonna settle maybe
but who knows but can that be worked
into a settlement or a verdict where is
the responsibility to the continent I
think yes I think that the City Council
I know that the I was interviewed when
they were having a City Council meeting
in Boston about whether or not this
could happen in Boston
and I and I basically said yes it can
and it's more probable than not because
these lines they're structurally
inferior there are now new kinds of
pipes that don't have the same kind of
problem and to leave them in the ground
where you have corrosion where you have
potentially these lines have been hit
and under the d-o-t regulations the only
testing that they're required to do when
the line is up is some sort of
above-ground tester that's not gonna
that's not going to find those leaks
what you have to do knowing that you
have these leaks is you have to start
uncovering those lines and you need to
start replacing them period period and
you can't wrap them we had in the
Steamboat case had another explosion up
in Cody Wyoming where it got struck and
they wrapped it well that's not going to
help you when that when that when that
fracture occurs right and you're going
to have a apartment in that case an
apartment building went up what's
unusual about this is we don't have just
this one giant explosion that occurred
like in the two cases I've mentioned you
have these multiple explosions that
occurred that really suggest me there
are large stretches of life absolutely
be a problem absolutely I mean this is
it seems to me it's the functional
equivalent of like you
like a little housing cul-de-sac you do
it all in 1917 you put a 25 year roof on
it and you know around 1994 one roof
fails maybe a couple others lasts
another year or two but they're all
going to go around that time it's yeah
and I think it's but even but even worse
and I like your analogy but here
people's lives are in danger everyday
and anybody who lives in that area who
understands the the truth about it
should be very fearful when is the next
explosion going to occur when are they
going to replace these lines and I'm
going to tell you they had a plan in
place back in 2004 but they do talk
about how much money it's going to cost
them right to replace it these lines and
they newing not knowingly delayed it so
we went from 2004 to 2008 teen and they
had plenty of time to fix this so these
people would not be going through what
they're going to do that now I mean it's
all about shareholder value right
because if we expend more money where
our profits we're just eating into
profits because we're investing in the
future shareholders want their payoff
now and so this is one of those things
there's another twist that I want to
make sure everybody understands in
Massachusetts the Public Utilities
Commission entered into an agreement
with the gas company and there was a
thing in there called the tariff and in
the tariff they attempted to limit the
liability of the gas company for
anything like this and they did it
without the consumers knowledge without
the consumers knowing in which it says
they're not going to be responsible for
for anything that occurs which regarded
the gas line and the argument was well
we're going to keep your gas prices
lower that way all that did was in cinah
size the company not to do the repairs
they needed to do well they're not
liable then yet and and we believe
because there is some case law in which
they've enforced the tariffs in a
subrogation case that the tariff has to
be reasonable and under these
circumstances this company has to be was
held responsible not only for the damage
that it caused
the injuries that it caused but also
consequential damages and in this case
it is our opinion punitive damages so
Mike when do you bring in activists I
mean you said the jury went to their
City Council and said that but like this
seems to me to be one of those
situations where activists would become
aware of this tariff and agitate against
this and make their there they they
should they should be brought in now and
we're trying to what run the reasons I
wanted to do this show and I've been on
radio and I've been on television and I
talked to the Boston Globe is to let
these people know that we're out here to
help them not only from the standpoint
if you've been injured or displaced
where you have you know you didn't have
insurance but to actually get involved
and demand that they go and start
digging up this gas system because you
know people may not have an idea of when
you have a natural gas explosion the
incredible damage that it does you know
it's it's worse than a fire because what
happens is when that gas ignites
it'll blow the entire buildings to bits
in one of them that I was involved in
the flames went up almost a hundred feet
because that gas is continuing to pour
into that mixture and that fire
continues to burn
Mike Berg thanks so much for your time
today really appreciate it I appreciate
being on thanks him okay that was Mike
Berg and we're gonna take another break
in a minute and we will hear the
interview I did with Bobby Kennedy just
wanted to give an update on some of the
news that I'm seeing in relationship to
the Cavanaugh fight the super PAC
Priorities USA Action which is I don't
know if it's the largest democratic
aligned I guess super PAC but this one
says it is threatening Joe Manchin
in terms of providing money and has said
it will not back Phil Bredesen in
Tennessee over his election with Marsha
Blackburn because he came out and said
that he would in this situation vote for
Cavanaugh you know like but a part of
the problem is the American public on
some level like right like you know how
much and good for for for Priorities USA
but you know you can see the
implications what it has with Heitkamp
and and it's great for a hide camp and I
hope that it actually ends up helping
her in the end her stance but the we
need to start forced relocation of some
folks so you guys look around the studio
there you go Matt I'll go back when when
it pays enough that's gonna it's going
to be costly I think great idea Sam I
will volunteer for Omaha I mean out of
trees there Omaha really but a good want
to be that flat I missed the Missouri
River Valley so I could go back out
there alright so we're done by care
program a farmers market I don't know
buddy you might need to go back to
Jersey and make sure that that criminal
gets reelected plead the fifth on that
one I used to work for his daughter this
is like a hotbed of corruption in that
studio all right
we of course I'm not going to hear from
Susan Collins for I guess another two
hours the evening you uh but let's take
a another quick break and when we come
back Bobby Kennedy on the recent court
case involving Monsanto which is now
owned by Bayer as he'll tell us and
and an interesting case involving
roundup let's go to that now
so joining me now at the mass torts 2018
conference in Las Vegas Nevada Bobby
Kennedy who is obviously a longtime
lawyer with Waterkeeper and now are you
working with a specific firm on this one
well it's not on the Monsanto roundup
yeah
now with headland Madlen bomb headland
okay
and okay and so all right tell us about
this uh this Monsanto roundup litigation
because I think there's you know a lot
of questions that folks are aware of new
report I think out by the Europeans
saying that there's reason to believe it
is damaging to bees and bee colonies
there's been all sorts of questions
about it's a it's it's overuse for like
environmental issues and creating a
monoculture and then there's also I
think intellectual property issues
involving people having the ability to
own their own seeds what what aspect of
this have you guys been working on well
we you know we're open to litigate
essentially I don't want to aspect which
isn't on Hodgkin's lymphoma and as you
point out this chemical has a lot of
problems with it and really the problems
have surface and the concern is surf is
because of overreaching by Monsanto was
recommending round of roundup is the is
a common name the brand name for a
Monsanto's product life assay and for
many years and it's a it's an herbicide
so it's used by Monsanto is used by
farmers to kill weeds
and avoid paying people to pull out
these a monsanto made it he really made
it his money it's now 50% or 75% of the
herbicide that's right in America is
roundup and around the world it's
probably got 80 percent of the world
market and the reason the way that it
got the market is a developing GM o
plants that roundup resistant so farmers
other than the individually spraying
weeds can saturate the entire landscape
it's browned up it kills everything
except for that target organism the GMO
the Roundup Ready corn the round ready
soy etc which can grow through the toxic
spray but in 2006 Monsanto developed a
new application essentially kind of an
off-label application for roundup which
was they started recommending to farmers
and if you spray roundup on crops before
harvest it dries them out and makes them
easier to harvest so for the first time
in history eat roundup was being sprayed
not on seedlings but directly on foods
and so now it's showing up everywhere
it's in milk it's in mother's milk it's
in our children's cereal it's in beer
it's in wine it's in I'm almost all the
food virtually all the corn that you can
eat it's in almost all the wheat it it
there is no such thing as Roundup Ready
wheat it's used on wheat as a desiccant
and because of that it's an O and it's
in all of our foods and you're seeing
this huge explosion gluten allergies
which everybody is wondering where did
gluten allergies come from when you and
I were kids there's no such thing as
gluten allergy as far as we know right I
was very extremely rare and
a is it's painfully common all right
Willie so let me ask you this so it's
just how people can follow this right
there's three aspects to their business
one was to make a crop that allowed for
well their first is the original
business was this is just a weed killer
right then then and then and it was it
was basically sprayed on individual
weeds you couldn't spray it on the corn
itself because it would kill - good
point
- so they develop a now is in like 74 so
they develop a corn so that you can
completely saturate your field now get
out of airplanes and there's there's you
know we have some people have issues
with GMO let's put those aside for a
moment Jim you know people think a lot
of the people who are concerned with
empower dismiss because people is a
aren't you I was great because it's a
way of of making plants more productive
right but actually if you look at my
house ninety-five percent of those in
world our roundup ready though they
actually increase that use pesticides
that's right I don't say GMO is in and
of themselves the concept hypothetically
of GMOs is a great concept
right cuz and and it was promised I
Monsanto and others this is gonna reduce
the amount of pesticides we need because
you're gonna be able to develop these
new crops
you don't need pesticides well what it's
actually done actually as on is is
amplified the use of it extraordinary so
then they saturate I'm talking from
their business perspective we've now
literally saturated the fields but we
saturated our business opportunities so
let's take the same product that we're
producing and find another use for it so
that we can even expand our market even
more so it's not just you don't use it
just once when it's a seedling to kill
the the weeds around it now you use it
on things and you're not even using it
as a pesticide or
rather you're using it as some type of
like means in which to make it easier to
harvest which is like you're the classic
we see this with a drug manufacturers
label it says we've hit everybody who
could use it for blood thinning so now
let's use it for hair loss or something
whatever it is and so it's on this point
that so you know open everybody's foods
do we have records of where it was in
terms of its its saturation of humans
versus we're not or I don't know that I
know that it really became an issue and
beginning in 2006 because for the first
time we're spraying it on foods and
people started measuring at that point
and saying it's showing up our foods FDA
doesn't do that normally in the normal
course of business you know the it and
nobody's going in to your doctor and
saying yeah nobody's twenty years ago do
I have lice of fate nobody's you know in
my even even the FDA's program for
testing foods or herbicides and
pesticides vanishingly small
right well nobody's really looking for
it and you know but now because because
of the you know the extremely
proliferation everybody's concerned and
we're starting disturbing things we know
that it's just we the science has passed
inflection point where we know that it
causes an on Hodgkin's lymphoma but
there's a lot of other illnesses that we
believe are as it was it an a run the
gamut from obesity to Alzheimer's liver
cancer not fatty liver cancer how is
exploding and it's things exploding and
populations we never saw it before
like in ten year old children Wow
non-alcoholic fatty liver cancer
and we believe here's their strong
science suggesting that that's coming
from life as a fs8 is a as a key later
which means it removes the metals and
minerals and it does that from plants
and in fact nowadays corn I a bush of
corn weighs less and a bushel of corn
did 15 years ago because same mass I
mean I think minerals the happiest part
of that corn cob and chelated out of the
corn cob so the corns much less you know
it's not providing you with a new
version with nutrition right because the
minerals are all gone but it does that
to the human body too and it destroys
microbiome which is one of the most
important organs in your body it
controls your mood it controls your
immune system and and it it creates
inflammation in the brain a lot of these
problems and these are only a fraction
of the problems with IFAs eight the
people are seeing and that are on the
horizon now for this company potentially
to have to deal with one thing that
they've got to deal with is it a
non-hodgkins lymphoma because in 2016
the International Agency for cancer
research which is a global agency and
you know back and uh nineteen eight 70s
or 80s the the government's got together
and said you know none of us have the
ability to and the resources to
determine what you know what is the car
is magenta and what isn't and we really
need a an esteemed international group
that is going to create those
designations so they created this group
and really it's a system it's not a
static group they they take the best
cancer scientists
old independent scientists who don't
have industry ties and they bring them
together on panels every year and the
panel's looked at specific compounds so
they'll look at benzene or specific
molecules look at benzene one here they
look at cigarette smoking and says that
cause cancer they look at I even look at
you know certain occupations like people
who do I work in the steel mills get
cancer
looking like statistics primarily yeah
and there's a number it's very unusual
because most countries you can't
incorporate an outside finding in a
statute but at countries all over the
world because IARC is respected well
a-anything designated by IARC as
carcinogen will be treated as a
carcinogen on there are laws or so for
example the state of California as prop
65 that says if there's a carcinogen you
have to label it if it's it before you
put it into the stream of Commerce and
is that the purpose of determining what
is a carcinogen what is a carcinogen
we rely on IARC so if IARC says
something's a carcinogen
there are 30 countries and 35 states say
under their laws it it because it is
treated as a carcinogen legally and I'm
so I are added a wife had say a probable
carcinogen for humans and a definite
carcinogen for animals and that
triggered a cascade of of new
developments of legal developments hit
it triggered for example all of these
attorneys who suddenly he can filing
losses on behalf
of of clients who had non-hodgkins
lymphoma
after exposures to glyphosate and now
they they're about well when we filed
this case there was about 4,000 those
losses now there's about 9,000 Wow and
so he's been these been brought together
in like some type of MDL all the
attorneys yeah I know all the attorneys
are working together or they're
coordinating strategies the first case
that went to trial was Dwayne Lee
Johnson it was a school
groundskeeper in California in Northern
California and he had been spraying
roundup for two years and away that
really that actually covered his body he
was roundup he was ranked huge amounts
to kill the weeds on the school property
and he was very careful of that the
equipment that he had was malfunctioned
a lot and even though he would wear like
a moon sued Tyvek zoo he was getting
saturated and as it turned out the Tyvek
suit would trap the life estate inside
his suit and because he was sweating it
would actually penetrate his body much
more effectively and that's what they
you know that's what the experts
testified and he got a very debilitating
form of non-hodgkins lymphoma that is
fatal his doctors say that he has now
last thing here to live but it
disfigured him a lot his skin was you
know it's really really disturbing
looking he was also a very good client
he's a he's a wonderful man and he
hasn't very very good presentation he's
very hard-working he has a great family
he fell in love when it was in college
of love at first sight with a woman who
had emigrated here from Mexico I have
two kids and the wife testified Araceli
and um and he testified and I think that
Jerry really fell in love with
and so it's a good case and you know we
ended up getting a two hundred ninety
million dollar verdict forty million for
pain and suffering and compensatory
damages and then about two hundred and
fifty million for four in one case and
now I on Santo at that time was facing
four thousand other cases but you know
and as we predicted they should have
settled the victory in that case has
alerted other people that you know this
is some type of parameters right so now
is this how there's nine thousand cases
now does Monsanto appeal this first case
they mock they're gonna appeal and
they're gonna they're they've already
filed a number of Appeals but the first
meal is at the judge has the ability to
reduce or to even to eliminate that jury
judgment I think it's gonna be hard for
her to do even though she was not
friendly to our case throughout the
trial but we you know we we picked a
jury there was thirty five people
excluded from the jury because they
expressed some negative attitudes
towards Monsanto which is extraordinary
in itself right thirty five people
the jurors who were left over express no
negativity toward Monsanto it was a
highly-educated really everybody on it
had a college education there were two
working scientists on the jury the level
of attention I'm a one of the jurors
filled five notebooks with no it's all
of the jurors took notes throughout the
trial they were all alert and they asked
externally detailed questions about
specific studies and specific rats in
those rat studies they were very very
well informed and it would be and the
jury you know the the the verdict was a
rash on
it would be kind of a slap in the face
of American jury system if the judge
went and meddled with a verdict after
these people gave two months of their
lives in order to come in and gave all
that attention you know so what do you
guys anticipate Monsanto does they come
out they they claim they're go uphill
it's no longer Monsanto it's bear
because bear which German pharmaceutical
company and you know bear was the
company that was a big supporter of
Hitler's it was you know it was called
IG Farben at that time and it made the
my the cyclone B gas that was used to
exterminate Jews at our switch and it
has a long history but it's a huge
chemical conglomerate now and
pharmaceutical conglomerate they
purchased Monsanto for sixty six billion
dollars in June and right before this
verdict came down and there's a catch
dropped eighteen point eighteen percent
and then it regained for so it's the the
permanent injury from that lawsuit from
that verdict it was about fourteen
percent which is billions and billions
of dollars and you know I think there it
looks like they did not do it due
diligence on Monsanto and there's the
akka holders have a lot of reason to be
angry at them now because Monsanto had
when it when it negotiated its takeover
with Bayer at De Pere don't worry we've
put aside two hundred and fifty million
dollars to deal with these losses and
all that money is gone all right well
let me ask you this in the context of
the of the original case and presumably
there will appeal and maybe they will
prevail maybe they won't they'll maybe
they'll negotiate if there's if there's
at least four to nine thousand cases out
there they know they're going to have to
go through this again so they probably
sitting there trying to figure out some
type of algorithm like how much is this
going to cost us
like if we wanted this to go to way or
maybe they'll just say we're just gonna
keep fighting this for eternity it's
just gonna be one of our divisions is
going to be protecting bear some law is
going to be a law from a biologic but in
the original case what was the was it
that was the the case centered on the
fact that Monsanto must have known that
their secondary spraying that their new
off-label use of glyphosate would lead
to this what well no Monsanto knew from
the seventies that there was a lot of
problems with in fact original rat study
is one they were trying to get licensed
original rat studies show that the rats
all got tumors and Monsanto was able to
strong-arm EPA as it turned out Monsanto
had a mole and the EPA's pesticide
division who rose up and at the end was
running the division his name was just
Rowland and he was doing favors for
Monsanto two blocks that is to kill
studies and we have we got all those
documents at one point he's telling his
Monsanto handler if I can kill this
Honey by another agent say you are you
need to get me a medal and then he goes
out on these succeeds and killing it so
we had all these documents showing that
Monsanto knew that it was carcinogenic
or had reason to believe that and was
killing the studies one after the other
and um you know that's one of the things
the juries are they and that's what I
think damage is because it was a knowing
deception not only that Monsanto not
only block a successfully blocked they
were ghostwriting studies they were
bribing scientists they were um they
were you know they had captured the
regulatory agency had their own guy
running the pestis
Division in EPA and we approve of that
they were also the thing they really
were concerned about is they did not
want any testing done on the whole
compound it would allow testing on
glyphosate but they actually add things
in the e compound that make something
much more dangerous glyphosate and
probably be interaction to they're
called Japanse okay and those are the
those that the molecules that allowed
life to say to penetrate the bark of the
plant they do the same thing with humans
if you get it
well what these science indicates is
that worse thing that you can do is with
roundup is to spray it it's probably
worse than eating like to say because
the capacity these surfing's surfactants
or adjutants penetrate your body and you
know very very efficiently and and you
know to cross all the internal barriers
including a blood-brain barrier in your
body so the stuff is really the compound
itself has not been tested and we have
all kinds of documents in which in which
they're saying you know we got to make
sure that nobody tests the entire common
Wow all right well Bobby Kennedy thank
you for for updating us fire well yes I
appreciate that all right Bobby Kennedy
folks and we'll take a quick break be
right back with more from mass torts
2018 so that's Bobby Kennedy and we will
head into the fun half it's now 1:35
Eastern Time it is I don't know what
time it is here 10:30 maybe and we will
hear from Susan Collins in about 90
minutes or so and I got to say you know
[Music]
and I just you know one last I guess
opportunity to hear from you guys on the
free show it's just hard for me to
believe that Susan Collins is going to
make such a production of voting YES of
doing the sort of less bless you excuse
me
plus the the less I guess brave vote
right I mean you know I don't think
that's just my perspective I think
objectively speaking for her to vote
against you know for any person to vote
against their party may be brave is not
the right word it is more controversial
than voting with your party and I don't
know why you would want that on the
other hand she comes out today at 3:00
and says she is voting for Kavanagh it
takes the pressure off of mansion to
vote for Kavanagh on some level because
if she votes for Kavanagh then mike
pence ends up being the that then it's a
done deal
anyways so his vote is sort of
irrelevant tomorrow but I guess we will
see I mean I have just successfully
convinced myself that she will vote
against Kavanagh and successfully
convinced myself that she will vote for
Cavanaugh's confirmation I'm playing
chess against myself
[Laughter]
but I mean those are the two you know I
those are the two those are the two
reasonings as to why you would see her
announced at 3 p.m.
I think she's gonna vote against maybe I
don't know why I just know I mean
actually I think I think it's just I
think that if she was gonna vote for him
she would
do it get it over with and announce it
and sort of end the drama I don't see
the advantage for prolonged drama in a
yes vote for her well the advantage is
she gets to say oh there was an
investigation and they didn't find any
no but I'm saying she should have done
that yesterday oh well yeah then it
would be like yeah when she said it was
thorough then she could have just been
like all right
Here I am I'm gonna but she's big Jamie
could be right I mean I even if you know
this is another she ages pressure on her
I mean what's this uh well I mean a
three PM is you know the another day of
pressure but now she is guaranteed a
platform in which to justify her vote
yeah she did her due diligence but you
know who is she justifying her vote for
I haven't seen what what the Kavanagh
numbers are in main but if they are even
remotely close to what the rest of the
country in more less Trump you know
Trump full states the the numbers have
to be running against Kavanagh I would
imagine in main that would be my guess
so you know maybe III just who is she
trying to justify yes both to I mean a
no vote to I I guess you know we'll see
I don't know right that's the long and
short of it do you have a Jimmy reefer
cake song maybe the insight lies in
Jimmy reef cake who is in fact a maniac
himself well Wayne citizen it might be
in the song because it's called the
dankest truth from outer space the
dankus truth from out of space
okay well let's hear that song Oh before
we do folks just a reminder join the
majority report dot-com join the
majority report calm your support makes
this show possible it's past week we had
a Tuesday Tuesday existed this week
also don't forget just coffee doke
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
as I was saying this week did include a
Tuesday which means that it included a
Tuesday night which means that it
included a Michael Brooks show fact not
just a bright Brook show but the Michael
Brook show Michael who was on that show
Daniel bessner who's author of democracy
and exile rise of the defense
intellectual and author of a recent
op-ed in The New York Times on a left
foreign policy like what that would
actually look like programmatically we
talked about you the European Union we
talked about China and Africa we talked
about why the concept of national
security
just like the economy is sort of a myth
and how to actually disaggregate what
we're actually talking about it was
great and we took a lot of questions in
the postgame on the mechanics of how a
left-wing foreign policy actually comes
together and also of course touched on
what's going on in Brazil which Daniel
just got back from patreon.com slash
TMDs next Tuesday Alex Perrine get Jamie
the Intifada gasps so this week we had
on artists and journalists Molly
crabapple that episode is out now we
talked about DIY disaster relief and
mutual aid and austerity resistance in
Puerto Rico we also talked a little bit
about how our sex worker comrades are
resisting cesta FASTA and fighting for
safety and dignity we also looked back a
little bit on our own time in the naked
girl business which is actually how me
and Molly know each other
also Sean reminded me that our our
patron goal bonus is out now that is the
first and possibly only episode of our
cooking show acid kitchen so check it
out folks for your psycho culinary
delight it's for patrons and Matt
literary hangover this week yeah there's
going to be a brand new one out this
weekend on Corey Robbins the react
in mind where we will apply Cory Robbins
book to the zero-sum debate then
majority report had there's a very
relevant portion of that book and I'm
not going to spoil anything check it out
this weekend if you want to hear about
that it's a zero-sum game all right
let's hear the Jimmy reefer cake
offering for the week
[Music]
face
[Music]
the truth
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
rocking out Wow that was uh was really
throwback that was like it your time
when you were not knowing who ASA base
was huh exactly uh we gotta stop we
gotta get that sorry's in Colin's
exactly thank is outer space will melt
your face ANCA strum just also one thing
to look out for the trial of Jason van
Dyke who is the cop who shot
laQuan McDonald in Chicago folks recall
that video from now year-and-a-half ago
maybe that my understanding is that the
verdict is supposed to come down really
any minute and it could be a real mess
in Chicago so keep an eye on that in the
meantime we will take a break head into
the fun half six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty we will take your
calls and your IMS see you in a moment
[Music]
you
you
[Music]
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half of the program wherein we
take your phone calls
take your IMS and play a little sound
audio and video I am trying to find the
the IMS on my machine I you know I'm
vacillating back and forth I know that
but I starting to believe that columns
are gonna vote no just don't see why she
would make such a like a big deal about
voting yes I do a drum roll but we will
find out within an hour and 15 minutes
and with the confidence said do you are
you just as confident that mansion will
also vote no as a result of that I mean
mansion has to know how Collins is gonna
vote and for him he's gonna want to
downplay this vote although I don't know
how her announcing it would put would
put focus on him although you know he's
a Democrat and and it is you get more
attention if you vote against your party
and with your party but because the big
story is gonna be Collins I think the
other thing too is I mean the other I
just don't see how do you imagine less
mansions negotiating defecting to the
Republicans right this second which is
the other thing that could be happening
right now no matter how it splits up
between those people I just have a
feeling that the power is on
Cavanaugh's side and it without know for
sure and that's what makes me think that
he's getting through well we will have
better notion in
an hour and 10 minutes but maybe we
won't have a better notion an hour and
10 minutes right I mean I'm keeping you
all and what the the good news is that
we found out exactly who is behind these
protests with Cavanaugh it is not folks
who are concerned about the environment
it's not folks who are concerned about
the Chevron doctrine the idea that
regulatory agencies can actually do
their job it's not folks who are worried
about his a potential attempted rape or
the fact that he lied multiple occasions
to the Senate Judiciary Committee
ranging from the Manny Miranda scandal
back when he was in the Bush
administration to every too many aspects
of his addressing the question of that
attempted rape there are there are no
Americans ladies and gentlemen who are
protesting Brett Kavanaugh who are not
doing so because of George Soros here is
Chuck Grassley with Maria Bartiromo the
president Trump's I think greatest fan
in the media if possible
well Dobson quite the gone tip there
yeah I know but she's very fair she's
fair she's let's hear Grassley with bar
drama I mean this also suggested me that
there there they may be know that
they're going to lose the vote because
Soros is the last refuge but I mean you
you've had people thrown out of
restaurants you've had people shamed and
criticized online and obviously
protesters in your face first off do you
believe George Soros is behind all of
this paying these people to get you and
your colleagues in elevators or wherever
they can get in your face I have
heard so many people believe that I tend
to believe it I believe it fits in his
attack mode that he has and how he uses
his and billions and billions of
resources I think it promotes incivility
in American society but I also think
that the resistance that's been in
existence since November 2016 is a
headquartered here in Capitol Hill when
you have congresswoman say that you get
in the face of anybody that's in the
cabinet
we have senators say get in the face
resist
he's been doing French duolingo
that's how Soros presents it and I'm
tired they are they to a certain extent
I mean this is it is so wrote that you
know we don't pay much attention to it
but the idea that they have to they have
to say that this the protest and the
anger against Cavanaugh because they see
the polls right I mean and it's not just
Democrats who are against the nomination
of of Kavanagh independents people who
are not terribly politically active
against the nomination of Cavanaugh I
mean George Soros is rich but I will say
this like I haven't gotten a dime from
Soros and it's getting a little bit
tiresome to see him spread this money
around some hero he doesn't have my
address did you see Trump's tweet about
this that I think grassy was responding
to put put the tweet up wait rash is
responding to whereas he was on first
aggressive thirty minutes so after
Grassley we see this tweet from Donald
Trump which says the very rude elevator
screamers are paid professionals only
looking to make senators look bad
exactly they they're paid paid they paid
professionally to be rape survivors
apparently according to Donald Trump
don't fall for it also look at all the
professionally made identical signs paid
for by Soros and others these are not
signs made in the basement from love
hashtag made in the basement of love
with the milkman and another regular
American I liked when Trump tries to get
all new agey on people for being like
negative or having bad vibes or whatever
that's fun these are not the love
infused milk people doing it from their
hearts I think that's just rock down
commander not true yeah they're not
sincere is what he's trying to say I
think but made in your basement from
love pretty sincere sounds sincere to me
what part of sincere don't you
understand fake some fake sincere it's
part of the resistance oh I guess it was
it was Gohmert who sort of launched off
all the sorrow stuff if you want to play
right well here is Louie Gohmert right
there we go so this is the way this goes
right Louie Gohmert a backbencher but
also you know a marginalized figure
because he's so nuts but he's right in
the cognitive mainframe of the
Republican Party that's right that's
right but he is the one who first
traffics in this stuff and then Grassley
here's the Gohmert has said it and so
Grassley regurgitates it and then Trump
tweets it out but here is Louie Gohmert
like sort of patient zero of this
argument that George Soros is behind all
of the anti Cavanaugh protests the
Democratic Party has been politically
corrupt now for what 20 years and at the
same time they're their connections to
the Democratic Party and the Democratic
National Committee are and Democratic
administrations are documented and will
they march as well with raise their
forearm and raise their there
hands and yell Heil Soros is the way
they've headed but Soros you should know
well survive the Holocaust was I think
about fourteen fourteen or fifteen maybe
thirteen when the Holocaust hit and made
his way to England from from Hungary
which was occupied by the Germans at
that time when really he should know
better
didn't Glenn Beck imply though back in
like 2010 that Soros was a collaborator
not not imply he said it yes the the the
story was that as eight as is a 13 or 14
year old I believe it was maybe a
fifteen year old
Soros was forced to go with either a
German official or a Jewish official who
was working for the Germans to go around
and check I think the homes of Jews to
see if any of them were still living
there and so and it was a very brief
stint and he of course was was fourteen
years old and that they've now said that
he was some type of Nazi Nazi colossal
it was brief but it was faster than me
here about you know especially for a
devil George Soros is a fascinating guy
but it's also sort of fascinating
because the enormous big money that is
pulsating through the right that this is
just another classic sort of case of
projection I there's no doubt in
politics there's no doubt that some of
these organizations that are organizing
the protests gets some funding from
either George Soros or a George Soros
funded you know Foundation or something
to that I mean I would be I would be
upset to learn that they were not
getting there was none you know no Soros
money was involved in this because he's
supposed to be the billionaire that
funds everything but it just doesn't
work on the left the way that it works
on the
in terms of the the amount of money and
how how its spread around if the right
is so concerned about things these
things they can join us for calls for
transparency because I'd like to see I'd
like a website that shows all these sort
of contribution no problem I'm curious
to know when they're gonna transition
from Soros to steyr and what they're
gonna say about him when his money's too
thrown around I don't know there could
be a little bit of a problem as that
stired doesn't have the same allure that
a Soros has he's not foreign he's not
hook-nosed the that is you know one of
the things that makes I think it easier
for them to villainize a little receipts
Grassley in that strategy session so the
problem we're talking about steyr he's
about a hook-nosed foreign Jew Soros
makes it easy that way when you're
talking about the resistance now I need
a nap let's go to the IMS
jay-j cool car bomb activism Michael's
on fire today Sam why doesn't Jamie
think the courts are important Sean
remember when the Republicans who are
making excuses for a man that drank in
high school were completely reasonable
about Malia Obama when she drank a beer
legally yeah me neither
Gabe formally from Chicago Repat main
discussion Jamie was right y'all were
wrong left his best book I am Buffay
boys love the idea of Sam at the strip
club last night asking the girls are you
a 1099 or a tenant I need you need to
embody the change you seek in the world
so tell me the status candy or else I
can't go forward have you joined the
tour tweek Ralph Club yet solid and I
have not solidarity started the centrist
organizers of politican also include a
panel on should we be fascists because
then you could actually have some real
ones like tucker when a Prague Craig Sam
you look super classy and professional
in that suit I don't like it
[Laughter]
sjw centrist if Bernie's so woke why did
he take his wife did why did his wife
take his last name fraud doctor chaos MD
if trade deals are updated with some of
the worst aspects of TPP like the
corporate tribunal that supersedes law
by sovereign nations is that going to be
how a conglomerate like Monsanto bear is
going to get out of paying damages
arising from lawsuits if so how do we
fight against corporate criminals going
forward that's a different that's not
implicated here that's not a trade
question comrade Biden Michael Brooks is
screaming outside my window about Lula
da Silva at 3:00 a.m. a square say I'm
looking very much the part today what if
in your opinion will the effect on the
midterms
if Cavanaugh nomination goes down I mean
I my contention was an open seat would
have helped the the Republicans but it's
I'm starting to think that is not the
case that it will demoralize the
Republicans and that the the sort of the
the modus operandi of the of the
right-wing mind is is more about
aggrievement for Cavanaugh and if he's
not they're actually actively being
aggrieved I mean I think they want to
win I don't know my guess is that it
will it will help the Democrats
marginally I just don't think the
Republicans seem to have gotten very
excited about this Cavanaugh thing I
think a month from now if Cavanaugh is
gone and there's this sense that they're
gonna get someone else or just a month a
month from now
it may not be sustaining I just don't
know well did you see that article I
sent you about how the achievement gap
between Democrats and Republicans has
narrowed the enthusiasm gap has narrowed
yeah we talked about that yesterday
actually and and and it has been largely
you know they have been motivated by by
Cavanaugh it's unclear to me what
happens if he goes down or even if he is
if he is if he's actually confirmed you
know it's it's the white aggrievement
the white male aggrievement is just
triggering for these folks and you know
that's that's that's what that has been
I think the sort of this central driving
force behind the the Republican Party's
strategy it's gonna be interesting
Heidi's pivot now she released an ad and
it was Republicans too often sided with
those in power and Democrats too often
tried to tell us how to live so that's
like her new line going into the
election that's saying political jargon
can we explain the how the Biden
president is so stupid because it was in
1991 when Biden said that and it's not
in the Constitution and it's not and
he's not really saying what well
what was he saying was he saying what
they I don't know I bring to I don't
know if the Biden precedent is the idea
of like that
Biden rose the issue of perhaps not
confirming a an appointee you know that
close to the election but in fact they
ended up confirming an appointee or a
nominee or if they're talking about the
the his FBI quote which also just said
was no different than what anybody else
was saying which is when the FBI vets a
candidate they're just providing
information they're not making
conclusions Theo
Jaime and Michael why wouldn't Social
dem work globally as a stopgap until
socialism what's the most logical thing
to fight for in our lifetime oh I think
it would work globally as a transitional
program probably buy us a little bit of
time hopefully before the horrible
humanitarian crisis that brings on
either a successful right-wing
revolution towards neo feudalism or a
left-wing revolution toward socialism
ought to be set for it
yep I mean social democracies in play
right now it's something that's coming
from parties like podemos which are
identified as far left but they're
really fairly social democratic I don't
I mean I don't I don't think there's an
inevitability to any of it the one thing
that everything runs up against is if
there's a complete ecological collapse
within a very short period of time but
I'm not t illogical so we'll see I think
you all said sorry I think what more
purpose that it could serve like we were
having an argument about economics the
other day about whether or not basically
the capitalist mode of production etc
would support so kind of global social
democracy I think at the end of the day
the revolutionary left is gonna fight on
whatever terrain we have so if you know
we get social democracy we pay for it
with mmt everything's great we'll be
fighting from a position of relative
strength
and comfort if the crisis takes
everything to and people are in a
desperate situation will be fighting
from a position of desperation alright
going to the IMS Jules I think you're
right for them worked it out like this
em votes uh no on Murkowski on cloture
to leave stage to Collins to vote no and
Manchin can slip under the radar voting
with them's and flake lays low and votes
yes I mean III think that's I think
that's a possible scenario it's it's
very difficult to say at this point one
second let's go to the phone's calling
from a 631 area code who's this where he
calling from hi it's Maya I wasn't sure
if I like answered everything right it
was best to talk to you I'm sorry I said
it's Maya I wasn't sure how to call in
this is my first time so I'm like really
happy to be talking to you oh well
thanks for calling what's uh where are
you calling from Maya
I'm calling from Long Island I was I
wanted to call in about the interview
that I saw yesterday with Becca
Tynan about human trafficking right okay
because I I'm an actual sex worker and
I'm a doctor recipient so I was smuggled
here when I was five so interesting
getting her input although it's really
it kind of tells me everything that's
kind of wrong with people who are
fighting for human trafficking because
I'm obviously agencies like I say they
kind of operate on that whole mentality
to of like we're it worth saving people
from human trafficking and the
prevention under which they have that
are very violent yeah well I mean what
so what I mean well get more specific
about what Tim had said because I I felt
that I felt like we were going around in
circles a little bit that
the that it was problematic to go after
these outlets because if you're
successful all you're doing is making it
harder for people to track who has and
has not been trafficked yeah she spent a
lot of that time to sing like I don't
know it's very young and so you can't
really judge FASTA sista because we just
started it that's kind of the
justification every single agency that
fights trafficking kind of kids like Oh
give it a chance of so young you can't
judge it
what again just talking about how they
what's your perspective on on the
potential for efficacy by Cessna FASTA
uh yeah I know it's been having like a
really bad impact on me I actually did a
Vice special because there was a
Australian reporter that was talking
about the impacts of Rasta system
globally because it's not just impacting
women in the US but it's just global now
because these platforms that were made
in the US they reach the the global
landscape so now people from overseas
that have legalized sex work and the
criminal sex work are feeling the
impacts as well so what I wanted to talk
about okay good I also wanted to talk
about something she said she said that
she wanted to take away the tools of
traffickers which is a really common
thing that police and other government
agencies used so like a jail a prison
said that they were going to ban books
because someone might smuggle drugs so
or they're going to ban all immigrants
to prevent trafficking like we need to
take the kids away from these parents
from their parents because these parents
are criminals they're traffickers
there's things like that take away the
tools is it taking away with resources
obviously these people are just like us
but what they don't understand is that a
lot of
you know a lot of internet provider
services and stuff like that like arrows
is a full-on prostitution website escort
website and when you go on there they
actually try to screen you to make sure
that you know you're consenting to this
and there's a whole bunch of processes
they go through so they take your ID and
they make sure that it matches your face
like all that kind of stuff they really
want to prevent human trafficking and
you look after our own but unfortunately
the system has made it to the point
where we are afraid to report cases of
actual you know abusive tower because we
will be persecuted and you know it's
just it extends much more pass sex work
to you know why our labors exploited so
much why are immigrants exploited so
much it's because the system has
criminalized us as a whole well I mean I
will say this I mean I think you know
the the construct of of taking away the
tools is not I don't think I think it's
a mistake to say in all aspects in the
way that you're making analogies to
different situations it's bad right I
mean I want to restrict access to guns
because it's the tool for mass murder
and in that instance I think it's it's
an effective one but I think the idea is
that there needs to be a greater
awareness of the the need for rights for
sex workers and a just a not a knee-jerk
response to dealing with trafficking but
one that actually is more practical and
effective and it seems to me that in
terms of like those ads it it it's the
only way that we have as a society of
tracking down folks who have been
trafficked and we need to be able to
assess sites like you say that are
effective in screening you know we need
to be able to sort of recognize that
that's possible and that's legitimate I
mean and to me it starts first with what
you need I think is
to to legalize sex work more broadly so
that we can then begin to you know
regulate in a in a rational way in a way
that protects sex workers in the same
way that we want to protect workers more
broadly yeah I yeah if you think that a
whoopsies online I got all the online
places they they turn over any
information they have when it comes to
an investigation over to police so it's
not like that was never in place before
and obviously if you're going to
persecute um you know someone for a
crime you would persecute the trafficker
you would persecute the person doing the
thing not the person running the whole
website unless they were like somehow in
golf but they have this weird idea that
I guess traffickers are going to the
person running the website and they're
like yeah man I'm gonna sell children
and you'll get a cut of the profit and
we're we're all on this together
so the FBI report on Backpage the
evidence that they had of this happening
was that Backpage had rules for what as
they allowed up so if you said things
like you know child or something like
that or if you put that in the ad they
wouldn't allow that up on their ad and
they like looked at that and there was
like see this is proof that Backpage
knows that their children are being sold
on here but every website has that right
yeah I mean I think it's it's
unfortunate I'm not sure I think you
know there needs to be a a comprehensive
addressing of this issue so that you
know sessom FASTA would not make sense
in the context of a structure where sex
work was protected like like other work
well I appreciate on in mind yeah and it
also takes away the tools that sex
workers use to keep themselves and each
other safe right I mean that's what
that's her argument was about that that
particular portal I guess come from an
eight one eight area code who's this
this is Pete Pearlman from Los Angeles
hi hello hello what's on your mind you
know this being casual Shabbat I figured
I could suggest something to view not a
movie really but it's a Netflix original
series this is that legal can I do that
sure I mean yeah do it okay anyway it's
the good cop and I couldn't help
thinking of you because the main
character or one of the two main
characters looks just like you like a
skinnier version of you Sam
Josh Stephen you're familiar with him
no but that's fine he's the skinny yeah
but anyway it's with Tony Danza and Josh
Groban and it's so I mean I've never
been a huge Tony Danza fan but he's
really good in this and it's a it's well
written it's funny what's it called
again first what's it called the good
cop the good good cop all right well I
mean people will check it out not always
very fast with the Google image search
and when people point this out it does
look like you does it look like me yeah
yeah well I gotta tell you one joke and
that I thought was great was this guy
saying things that don't make sense and
he says why did the Flintstones
celebrate Christmas right yeah that's
that's okay I appreciate the call I
appreciate the call that's a good sitcom
writer yourself you can appreciate a
great joke like why didn't someone who's
been in comedy to some extent for
decades yeah I'm a little surprised you
weren't a little faster I
not the tolerance of most people for
that type of like you know pop-culture
repartee I got in this that you didn't
write it because that's so good now I'm
pissed that uh this guy Brogan is taking
my look and monetizing it Hey
well hey I have an idea what if we said
the Flintstones Christmas does it make
sense no Jesus am i right
Jesus was it there well I mean I think
there's a certain amount of a suspension
of disbelief because of course cavemen
did not have cars that they were like
there's like the idea that like like in
between like the pet dinosaur scenario
the real like you know what else on top
of it Christmas I gotta say if the
hell's goin on if the drive-thru lady
put the brontosaurus ribs on my car and
tipped it over I would be suing of
course and it will be a frivolous
lawsuit it's like the hot coffee of the
Flintstones we know we have a we have a
Matt pick this week for the video I
assume that this video number five is
that pick is that right Matt
that of course is oh yeah yeah we can do
that one yeah that's a Memphis yeah
Donald Trump is walking on two Air Force
One and here is Matt picks for the week
headed to the he's in the Minneapolis
st. Paul Airport and apparently he's got
some teepee stuck to his shoe
oh there it is oh it's too clad I mean
look leaves at the top of the stairs
here you go Brendan something I found
that first but I also favored it last
night so just marry a Brendan and Matt's
pick it's a good thing he's immune to
shame otherwise that might have been
embarrassing for him well wait for all
the maggots to come out and say it
you gotta support your president show us
your pictures of TP on your shoe now
somebody should like write something on
a napkin like he went on and say I found
what was on his shoe it's exactly he was
dropping a secret message this is
interesting the d-triple-c has put out a
new ad it's just for online so good and
you know some extent they can see the
the polling here is a a poll from
generation forward which is the martin
O'Malley pack it's all right
where you I mean like I said I think
O'Malley would want well there is your
your he's breaking down various groups
in terms of their relationship to
socialism versus capitalism
this is Millennials you can see African
Americans favor capitalism or say favor
socialism 44 to 34% Asian Americans 59
to 56 percent Latin x 48% favorite
socialism to 45% capitalism and then
whites wonder why 54% in favor of
capitalism versus 42% in favor of
socialism that's not bad must be genetic
it's not bad to tell you right exactly
exactly the genetic massage here is deny
the science but here we ran a racist
campaign based only on white issues here
is it the white people the the
d-triple-c
you know at the very least they get that
this dynamic is out there they released
this ad on the tax break for the for the
wealthy what happens when the average
Joe out there realizes that we got like
the entire Republican tax cut and we got
like all of it you know oh come on they
got a tax cut okay side table how much
was your tax cut it was uh he's not a
lot sir yeah but for someone like side
table not a lot is actually quite a bit
I bet he saves enough each week to buy a
hell I don't know a latte at Starbucks
right actually shut up side table we
okay coatrack we see what's taken the
lobster to so long you got it that's a
very good at yeah I think it's okay I
mean I but I but it's it's it's more
interesting to me that at the very least
they're getting what their messaging
should be or at the very least what you
know it's gonna resonate more with with
younger folks and that they're you know
now wading into the class war where I
think largely Democrats for decades have
been on the side of you know on the
sidelines
I don't know how sincere they are I
don't know you know I think there's a
lot of remains to be seen what they'll
do from a policy perspective but at the
very least you know if Democrats win on
this message it creates more pressure
and that they need to deliver right I
mean if they don't win on that message
it's harder to argue they need to
deliver on that message and so this is
encouraging do we have that the other ad
with the over the old folks I can look
for it here
yeah listen let's let's play this
because this is also interesting this is
I am a little bit less excited about
this ad I get the idea here but I'm not
a big generational warfare person
because the next step is when they start
to blame you know they use this as a as
a means in which to attack Social
Security but and and I'm not sure
exactly who put out this ad but this is
it is a block the vote I think it's
something like that and they are trying
to encourage younger people to go out
and vote and they're doing so by doing
this tongue-in-cheek representation of
older Americans who are happy to have
young people not vote
that was ass he's our guy tax cuts for
the rich well yeah
Richard
[Music]
minor change that's a new problem I'll
be dead soon for school shootings are
sad I haven't been in a school for 50
years I can't keep track of which lives
matter
[Music]
you young people never do but I do I do
I do
Wow there you go
bastard should feel out two votes
disgusting I'm so enraged Rebecca I am
no longer a socialist I'm simply want to
destroy baby boomers I have a blood
thirst generational warfare generational
warfare all the way replacement ITER and
sitcoms family promoting I think the the
value of an ad like that is that it gets
just people talking about the disparity
in terms of how many young people go out
to both that's true and they can make a
big difference and so you know in that
respect I think it's you know fairly
effective ad and I like the politics of
younger people versus older people not
generically speaking I'm just saying
that the the younger generation broadly
speaking tends to have more left
politics than older people it doesn't
mean that there aren't older people who
have left their politics and I say this
is someone who's very close to being a
person who could have easily been cast
in that ad but well younger people have
less capital wants which in general
that's true but I also think just that
the this this generation in particular
because of the context in which they've
grown up it's not just that they have
less capital because younger people
generally have less capital but they
have less capital than younger people
have in the past so it's it's it's
there's a certain uniqueness to the the
condition of this younger generation as
opposed to like when my generation was
the younger generation and the Cold War
is off to the Cold War is off there's a
lot of different factors yeah and
there's more than one generation now
facing this kind of uncertain future
right like people use Millennials
interchangeably with young people but
the oldest will
eels are almost 40 and that there's a
new generation of people who are about
as so it'll be interesting to see
speaking about evil empires I am NOT
going to mix sports with our program
here of course the Red Sox are meeting
the Yankees today in just a number of
hours to hopefully defeat them but this
is disgusting
the Yankees apparently we're staying at
some type of Marriott hotel and UNITE
HERE Local 26 which represents hundreds
of striking workers who are striking
against Marriott run hotels because
they're seeking more stable schedules
living wage and various on the job
protect protections have been on strike
since earlier this week on Wednesday and
here's some footage of some of those
despicable Yankees crossing the picket
line
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
good for the unions for in Boston no
better way to get solidarity for a
Boston Union than the New York Yankees
crossing the picket line in New York you
actually really played their part
they're really perfectly just in terms
of being complete and utter
sean is gonna be so disappointed when he
sees this video some solidarity they're
all yeah exactly
that's why I don't know why the baseball
uh union is not actually it's sort of
surprising in a way yeah
farmer Michael glice of fate usages also
created glice of a resistant weeds which
is now making it essentially pointless
to use fat Nixon these attacks on
victims of sexual assault by Trump
should be the final nail in the coffin
for the Supreme Court vote as a man who
as many women in my life who has not
reported their rapes or sexual assaults
voting YES after these statements
legitimizes them these statements tell
men they won't be caught and women they
won't be believed we should be putting
these statements in front of Collins
flake mansion as as often as possible
psychedelic Quaker I believe Arlen
Specter was the last senator to switch
parties was Jeffords uh Jeffers was
before it's before significantly because
Jeffords was I think like bush and
Specter was right after Obama right
remember Jim Justice the governor of
West Virginia did this last year as well
governors are I think I do it more
frequently
state politicians contagious chameleon
on the left paying attention to the
courts in Samuel on Katie Halpert show
said we need to neutralize the courts or
just get them out of the way in our
society current exactly in our society
currently that includes voting for
Democrats if there are people on the
Left who aren't thrilled with the
proposition then they should join the
other liberal cause of pushing for
rank-choice voting in multi-member
districts that will make it easier for
third parties or they could join groups
to get money out of politics all these
causes that liberals are fighting for
will build space for the left we have to
align with them this is the consequence
of the right gaining power I mean I I
don't know what what what it means
neutralize the courts or get them out of
our way I just don't know what that
means in practice doesn't mean anything
you could have a time machine filibuster
but you're corporate sellout
that's what it means but you'd prefer to
smear Tulsi Gabbard didn't invest in a
time machine project to change the
Supreme Court because you support war in
Syria you
bluster where do I sign up to get my
protester check Andrew in Olympia
writing on the assumption that my fellow
Washingtonians is not called in before
you read this I want to encourage the
listeners to go to redirect podcast com
listen to the latest episode of the
redirect podcast where Regan and co-host
interview Alyssa Milano talk about
Cavanaugh and Alyssa's activism around
immigration rights ELISA is super
fascinating in gracious peace whoa
Ronald Reagan always should listen to
redirect excellent podcast so first the
Yankees hat and now it comes hat Jesus
Christ Matlack can Brendan knock that
 off his head and please give him a
Mets at yeah the Cubs head is just
because of the story we just talked
about ID Mike Turner put out a
video on Cavanaugh I bet you can't guess
what he thinks attorney Andrew DSA
already does to does this to some extent
but the left needs to form an active
role in cultivating an army of leftist
attorneys and potential judges on the
structural issues to producing leftist
judge judges Jamie identified
they are only structural in the same way
as not having met effete care for all is
structural pushing legislators to back
public interest attorneys public
defenders and academics for judgeships
can push back on structural impediments
it is true though that not being a
corporate lawyer will prevent you from
hobnobbing with CEOs and senators which
is the main track to prestigious legal
career christen Ichi
there was a style write-up in the NRA
magazine by none other than Oliver North
wooden computers hey Sam ever been to a
tort law museum in Winsted Connecticut
founded by a good Ralph Nader no but you
know I have actually talked to the
director of that museum he has been in
this conference before I've never
interviewed him I don't think or maybe I
did four ring of fire actually I'm a
hundred percent sure that my dad has
been there III would definitely check
that out if I'm in the hood
Congressional baseball half fan base but
no congressional baseball fan some of
you guys are getting together Tobin's
house for a baseball work out don't tell
Brett he always creeps me out when he
talks about my 13 year old sister soy
Capitan
will the other Supreme Court justices
run bready boy as their inferior I don't
know yet why don't the Democrats move to
fight from a culture war to an economic
argument Cavanaugh will protect the
employers right to get mauled by a
killer well I mean there was some of
that certainly they did even more of
that during the gorsek hearing right
that was like the entire line of
questioning was big interest versus
little interests but III just the the
nature of moving someone like mansion
and hike camp and Donnelly is I think
more about process and I think you know
in this instance also about you know
something that is sort of extrajudicial
the idea that this guy's also
potentially an attempted race rapist
the DX fool hive fave lands can't wait
for Mike Papantonio is twice a year
visit to ring a fire in order to justify
being on the shows masted today the
Trump Labor Department said the
unemployment rate dropped to three to
seven three point seven percent the
lowest since 69 how much is this due to
Obama how much is due to Trump message
massaging the numbers when do you think
that fight 415 will be reflected in the
stats I don't know what you mean by the
fight for 15 reflected in the stats look
the trajectory has been the same there's
been really no change in the trajectory
that we have seen wages still tend to be
stagnant there has been no significant
acceleration of wage growth so I you
know does Trump get credit I you know
he's not screwed it up yet although I
think there's a very good argument that
the wealth inequality is going to be a
problem that the middle class has been
hurt by rising rents because of wealth
inequality and there being and I would
say also probably people living in
poverty as well because this sort of
trickles down but once you have such
wealth inequality it begins to hurt the
rest of basically everyone except for
that top 10% because of things like
housing prices going up and if you don't
have any type of wage increases then
people's buying power you know
essentially goes down and so that's the
the overall economy in terms of like
sheer numbers and maybe even in terms of
joblessness a lot of people have left
the job force but that's been you know
ongoing since the Oh a crisis if people
aren't making more money then they're
actually in some respects essentially
making less because the cost of things
starts to go up yeah tickly housing as I
understand it there is no state
in the country right now where a person
can afford a one-bedroom apartment
working 40 hours a week at minimum wage
there you have it come from a 65 one
area code who's this where you come from
Esme yep
who's this pretty car Hey oh yeah my
name's my name is John I I live in
Minnesota of Stillwater Minnesota and I
I alright so this morning I had
breakfast with the near and dear friend
of mine I say that kind of in quotes we
went to high school together we're about
neo mid-20s now and I used to be a
libertarian now I'm a socialist
you know ya fellow comrade and thank you
mom yeah and my friend he's very much on
the opposite side of the political
spectrum of me and today during
breakfast he was talking about how he
finally found a psychologist that he
likes to listen to they said and guess
what he's not from here and he's from
Canada and I asked him is that Jordan
Pearson he goes oh you've heard of him
 me should I just cut my friendship
loose with this guy yes no no I would I
would I would try and save him before he
goes too deep into that stuff look
you're a perfect example of somebody who
will come out of it give him some apple
cider
what was it let's put it this way John
what was it that made you realize that
your libertarianism was was folly well I
went through a lot of mental health
problems and I saw that the happiest
countries were socialist countries
bada-bing bada-boom right there that's
interesting
what is your reason knows the basis of
your oh yeah
what no debates is what is
the basis of your friends ideology I
don't know that's the thing I've you
know I've been trying to figure it out
I've been trying to dig I've been
digging at it for a few years now trying
to figure out why he thinks this way I
mean he's even advocated for eugenics in
the past you know he's like oh you know
there's people who are waste on society
as I was saying cut him out I mean at
that point like if you if you if if
that's the case I mean the only thing I
guess I would say is like how do you
know that you're not one of those people
that's a damn good question
I mean what makes him so what makes him
so sure that if somebody unravels the
eugenics program that he's not on the
list to go the thing is he would be to
because he was born with heart murmurs
gotta go we don't hang out we'd already
we don't need the heart murmur I've seen
heart murmuring Jordan Peterson fans
goodbye yeah yeah no it's but like you
know pushing people away just digs them
in board for their no I agree with you
listen Michael Michael saying this is
being a little bit glib I think look in
this sense yeah yeah I knew I knew
Michael gonna do that I knew you Michael
suppose predictability is one of his
best traits but I would suggest um that
you you say to him like well what if
society decided that you know heart
murmur guys who have you know maybe some
emotional issues too much of a drain I
mean I would take it that way but it may
be sort of like see if there's a hug
when there's this thing it's not always
the it's not always the conversation
about eugenics it's usually a topic
about you know the welfare state or
something like that well the point is
like that he was born
upper-middle-class right my point is you
need to try and get him to empathize in
some way but there's a way even if it's
a hypothetical but there's this there's
this Iran the example I want to use
because I think it works for this
because somebody was asking how can she
have such a mass following when by
definition not everybody who buys her
books are gonna be financially
successful or CEOs which is basically
the only people and her writing she said
her worth basically even living and
respecting right and there was a letter
that some guy wrote her and some guy you
know he was not happy in his career he
wasn't particularly successful he didn't
have any prestige er money and he said
you know basically like I feel like I
get your writing and I'm part of this
like elite group but at the same time
like you know I'm not a master of the
world so like what does that mean about
me and she said she was like well you
know what if you can read my books and
you understand them then by definition
you're part of this elite like even if
even if it doesn't look like it outside
right now she went like super woowoo on
him and I think actually uh Jordan
Peterson does that quite a bit at least
you know he does a lot of signaling
where it's like all of these people are
trash but if you have a very specific
set of difficulties and grievances they
you actually either a ironically you
actually are being oppressed and B you
are still part of some like cognitive
elite so I think it's a hard lane to try
to get somebody to have empathy through
to be I don't know a heart murmur her
brain impulse to want to personalize it
yeah I think I mean I would try that and
then if that doesn't work then cut him
loose get some new friends
appreciate the cartoon it's your family
as Chris Rock would say what's that last
word about what wasn't noticed about you
know people on the left and people on
the right is that people on the left we
will respond to you know personal
stories you know cuz we have empathy but
people on the right tend to be more
appeal to Authority like you know he's
he said like oh you know I like Trump is
better than Obama and I asked how like
why what do you like about me is like
well I
I don't know he's just better like its
appeal to Authority they like people who
yell the loudest and this is what you do
with that well like I say you try and
you try and personalize it go into what
there may be their floor their
weaknesses and say how would you you
know why wouldn't why is it not
justified that others exploit that and
if that doesn't slowly begin to create
some empathy annum then I would say cut
him loose and tell them that the voting
day actually is not Wednesday not on
Tuesday I appreciate the college's doubt
heart murmurs yes we don't need people
running around with week most important
organs in the body my mother taught
great final call for the day called from
a to15 area code who's this where he
come from - hello Mindy how are you nice
hi
you are the final power of the week
great first of all Jamie was brilliant
today I just agree with everything she
said she's just on point thank you
I don't know I've been really depressed
throughout this whole cabañal thing and
I woke up this morning and like I kind
of think we're gonna pull it out I don't
know I mean I'm going to deny I said
that if we lose but I think we're gonna
pull it out I don't know I just have
this like got five that's like mom got
five died
I don't think we're going to go there
today what do you think III you know I
tend to think that Collins I tend to
think that Collins I don't know I mean I
would say I think there's a a net five
percent chance they call it I mean I
think it's like 55 that she's gonna but
she's gonna vote no 45 that she's gonna
vote yes and then I so mentioned would
follow that but you know it's a very
strange time it's very difficult to get
get a sense of this I I don't know why
mansion would alienate the Democrats
needlessly unless he's planning to
defect that's my big word right now
right I think because I'm actually I
think besides that I think it's the lay
down but if not he might go to the GOP
no I
that's my only scare scenario right yeah
like Brendan said it would not be the
first time a West Virginia Democrat has
done that right right right
people right along are saying that's
West Wing e that to think that he might
defect but I don't think it's gonna get
all I think it's a get myself a good
meal it's the opposite of west wing
actually I mean I you know I think he's
gonna win and I think he must think he's
gonna win and so I don't know but Mindy
hang in there we'll have a better sense
in ten minutes okay
mansions worth 83 million dollars and
his daughter was the CEO of a drug
company which spiked I forget which case
it was but it was one of those obscene
likes price was epithet right his
daughters a CEO of that company so bad
yeah I don't know I mean have a good
just crush your finger I don't know I
just like have that mom you think how my
son got engaged Oh congratulations
laughs all right yes my son got engaged
last Saturday at the University of
Michigan and the law quad where they met
Wow all right well there's orbs
congratulations Mindy all right oh all
right I'm gonna hang up my phone Sam
okay
and let's take a couple more Iams and
then get going here
space space cadet bone spurs for all the
for the right it's all the football game
of red shirts versus blue shirts they
defend Cavanaugh because he's on their
team the ways way too nitpicky for the
goal of power
old school new rules Trump didn't
deserve to win the 2016 election but
Clinton deserved to lose for everything
she did in the election the primary
Secretary of State everything in the New
York Senate race and everything in
Arizona I don't know
you're talking about Trump is still the
better outcome if only for the new
energy and interest in progressive
politics but no not a very that is the a
very either ignorant and or privileged
perspective look and go as a member of
the anti-capitalist revolutionary left
let me tell you we're not ready for a
revolution we need time Democrats
winning buys us some time
blue gild Cavanaugh maybe you can help
listeners understand that simply being
as shitty as possible is an integral
part of being Republican / authoritarian
regardless of policy outcomes
Dems versus Republicans isn't apples and
oranges it's apples versus pitchforks
and the final I am of the day Sam's
tinder profile hey girl
swipe right did you see me demolish
charlie Kirk a politican kind of like
Chris Sale blown away Yankees batters
tonight am i right Kyle alright folks
see you on Monday in that cig
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will you tell get paid
for the fans
breaks news
