[Music]
time for one more call come from a four
to three
area code who's this where you come from
four four two three four two three hey
can you hear me now sir hello can you
hear me now yes we can who's this there
we go that was odd this is Bobby from
Tennessee how are you doing Bobby from
Tennessee what's on your mind
hey um well the other weekend you posted
something about ben shapiro talking
about west as best and all this other
horse
and he brought up aristotle and it kind
of pissed me off because I happen to be
an original example so when he talks
about doing science for love of science
what he's forgetting is that that was
actually Thomas Aquinas who was
attempting to reconcile Aristotelian
metaphysics with autonomous and that
Thomas Aquinas was heavily influenced by
an Islamic philosopher named avi Sinha
that was his latinized name I I don't
pretend like I can pronounce his proper
Arabic name and obviously never rose al
farabi were several prominent Islamic
philosophers that contributed to Western
society in particular Augie Senna was
was one of the first major natural
philosophers which of the real
scientists before modern science
suggested that medical ailments might
have a natural cause rather than some
sort of supernatural cause like you know
evil spirit or whatever and he used
having too many digits polydactyly uh as
the example and also he had a trees on
medical treatments that we happen to
have used in the Western world up until
like I don't know if they like the eight
century but now about me in other words
what has been Shapiro's foolish yet well
that may be true but Bobbie isn't it
practical to do medicine I think that
was his point there was a lot of like
practical use he's talking about
practical things it's one thing to come
up with ideas of human biology and
physiology but it's the judeo-christians
who come up with the stuff just for the
heck of it like you know did you know
that you couldn't yeah stand an egg on
its side or something Bobby I just have
to say I have to say this is it's music
I mean this examples you're using I
don't know if they'll make the final
edit but they are literally in the
Shapiro chapter of my book so I this is
music to my oh and there's knit well now
they are no this is a fundamental
building block of the idea of there's no
that the West is a fiction I mean like
as is the East it's it's a really Luda
it's a it's an actually ludicrous
construct and not from some like PC
perspective it's just literally not how
history works so that's awesome and I
love how you boundary what do you say
liberal Hebrew history liberal history
folks
I like how you broke it down so
eloquently and then said yeah so
basically he's full of which also
does track very closely with the tone of
the book
well hey sir if you want a good resource
for the interaction between as long as
metaphysics and modern Christian
metaphysics the Stanford encyclopedia of
philosophy if you look at something like
probably Arabic influences on the West
something like that there's an extensive
article about all the interactions
between the different metaphysical
constructs that were built underneath
the theological constructs at the times
and how they were influenced one another
which inevitably led to you know erotic
science awesome Bobby appreciate the
phone call recovery there hey you got
have a good one you too you guys in
recovery mode
after taking on so many high-level
important ideas I'm gonna call they're a
single show that has ever existed that's
Colin show that has this caliber of
collars no
