[Music]
water boat from Kashmir a lot happening
in Kashmir soldiers are forcing multiple
people out of their homes so they can
move or forcing them to rent out
portions of their homes trust me they
will not seem this money for this and
that's not a big deal for Kashmir ease
anyway in the meantime continued
destruction of food rations winters
effing cold in the home aalia's and
roads get blocked off they did the same
thing in the winter of 1990 and
literally thousands of families starve
to death except they're doing on a
bigger scale now this so much is
happening is hard to explain all I want
to say is that this is turning much more
and more into Bosnia every day but on a
much bigger scale I think that there is
you know I've been covering Kashmir to
some extent and also what Indonesia is
doing to West Papua which I I apologize
on my pronunciation but you have these
provinces that have always been because
they're primarily minority they have at
least in the Indonesia and West Papua
case they have a lot they've gold they
have new huge natural resource assets
there's an economic dimension to Kashmir
that I think people need to think about
much more closely which is that
basically if you socially cleanse
Kashmir you open up a big real-estate
investment and tourism market I mean
this is supposedly and I believe it
visually I haven't had the privilege of
visiting one of the most beautiful
places on earth and you're talking about
even things like skiing and you know
like there's a lot of opportunity to
make a lot of money there so you can
almost compare there's a Bosnia
dimension there's a China and Tibet to
mention there's a US in Puerto Rico or
the Virgin Islands or Guam dimension
when you tear up the at least partial
autonomy that this place had I mean it
still already was literally the most
militarized place in the planet in the
sense of I think highest proportion of
military troop presence relative to
population and then of course you have
China doing what the
- the euchre's and I think in some ways
I was just thinking when you talked
about people getting pushed out of their
homes like that I mean Israel is so is
the precursor of so many things there's
so many stories about Palestinians
getting kicked out of their homes for
Israeli occupations and operations and
the terror and horrifying consequences
of that and having a home garden and
destroyed by IDF soldiers and then you
know like oh yeah fill this out fill out
this form will will compensate you for
the damage yeah please
so you know hearing like food storage
their food stores are getting destroyed
that's like basically a watchword for
genocide it's it's absolutely I mean
look the if you go back to the RSS
Hindutva philosophy which underpins
Narendra Modi's politics and again not
Hinduism and people who back neuro D
just as Modi just across as I mean look
the rhetoric of identity and the
disingenuous dishonest readings of that
language is weapon
I mean balsan ro is using the language
of sovereignty to cover for burning the
Amazon and I'm talking about macarons
colonial mindset everybody can play
these games but and so we're definitely
not talking about Hinduism or the Hindu
political tradition in a whole but there
is a far right and literally fascistic
fascistic in the sense that early RSS
writers which is the paramilitary
organization that umbrellas this
including the BJP which is the party
that Modi's from you have writers openly
praising Hitler back in the day right
like I'm talking literal fascistic I'm
not saying we could find it thread line
saying like they said what Hitler what
Hitler did we should learn from they
also wanted to learn from early Israel
as well because it's ethno state
politics and an imagined past I mean
that's the that's everywhere you find it
Saudi Iran Israel Pakistan the United
States Brazil hungry that's Russia
I mean Philippines that's
always the same dynamic and it's no
exception here but she will here and it
really parallels Israel the talking
points the Tulsi did a couple weeks ago
where she talked about how it was
complicated and how there wasn't women's
rights in Kashmir and the gay rights
situation was bad this is all Israel's
stuff this is all like oh we just had to
dump a bunch of white phosphorus on Gaza
because they don't have gay pride
parades so you know it's there's very
close parallels there between the
situation's and a very formalized
partnership between Netanyahu and Modi
here is Tulsi Gabbard fresh off of
backing off of Medicare for all I guess
talking about peace and the inherent
dignity of all humans with Narendra Modi
this is an image yeah this is just no
