so Kate Ethan Kayla in the first thing
you were outlining you know some of the
changes that have been taking place over
the past couple years we're now at a
time where unions are enjoying a sort of
a bounce-back if you will of support and
Kayla we've seen really in the past year
and a half
particularly amongst teachers but also
across the board more labor activity or
more labor actions I think than we have
seen certainly in many of the years
combined leading up to this moment and
and I think even in the last segment
with suggesting to a certain extent that
the absence of political power is
leading to people to find power outside
of electoral politics at least you know
in between the elections and I wonder if
from your perspective there is we're
gonna see more labor action just writ
large yeah I definitely think this is
just the beginning in 2018 we saw the
most workers walk off their job and go
on strike in any other years since 1986
we saw workers at grocery stores hotel
workers digital media organizations
nonprofits all these places organizing
unions
and I think it really it's a matter of
several different factors which Ethan
did touch on earlier that the
Millennials make up 35 percent of the
labor force and so we are carrying these
progressive ideas into the labor force
with us and I also think that the
political climate of minimum wage hasn't
been raised in ten years people are
having their legal rights taken away
through mandatory arbitration agreements
at work they're working multiple gig
economy jobs surviving off of tips all
of these factors have really played a
big part into the new labor organizing
movement that we've been seeing you've
been talking about you talk about the
gig factor this week
uber and
lyft drivers went on strike in multiple
cities across the country and largely at
least it was spurred not just by the
decreasing wages for uber drivers but
also on the implications of the upcoming
IPO which is going to make a handful of
of millionaires if not billionaires who
are making this money essentially off
the labor of these drivers I mean how
much has that the sort of like the sheer
type of wealth inequality have have
driven this as well I mean not just the
the idea of stagnant wages but the idea
of like a lot of people in the in this
new economy are exposed to just enormous
amount or are exposed to people making
enormous amounts of wealth
Cayla yeah I think that we've seen an
unprecedented level of inequality in
this country something we haven't seen
since before the Great Depression and I
think that a lot of American families
still feel like they're making
sacrifices that they're having to work
multiple jobs on low wages and that they
can't get ahead and then at the same
time you see a handful of millionaires
and billionaires profiting off of their
labor and making an insane amount of
money while they struggle and so I think
people are starting to realize that this
is unsustainable and that they have to
take direct action and I think forced by
government inaction and by having this
unprecedented level of inequality people
feel like this is one way that they can
practice democracy in their life as if
they form a union with their co-workers
if they fight for fair pay and wages and
benefits and feel like they actually can
have some impact on their current
economic situation Katie I'm curious and
we just got about two minutes left here
but the the nonprofit professional
employees union involves obviously sort
of the organizations that are involved
in activism
or presumably you know putting out you
know with some form of communications
there's also been a lot of online
publications that have unionized as of
late including like podcast companies I
wonder is it your sense that having
unionization density at institutions and
enterprises that are involved in
communications is going to be is going
to create sort of like an exponential
unionization movement in some ways I
mean it's different to have 30 reporters
or writers unionized you know who put
out material every day is different than
having maybe 30 electricians unionized I
mean both are good but in terms of like
spreading the word in influencing the
perspective on unionization these people
have an apparatus is that do you
anticipate seeing some some some impact
from that yeah I do think that that's
especially in digital media that's
helped build momentum you know we saw
Gawker which is now Gizmodo unionized
and then a post and there's been like
you know it feels like a digital media
outlet every week or every month
declared that they are unionizing and I
do think a lot of the writers not only
do they write article like a lot of a
lot of content but they're also very
active on social media and they talk
about their union and I talk about why
they're bargaining I think it was a box
they did a whole thing on Twitter that
advertised are that that that recorded a
meeting about what they were going to
bargain for and I do think that has
helped you know shed a new light on the
labor movement and I think it's really
brought the broad unions to the
attention of younger people and people
who are on social media I mean
our members are pretty active on social
media as well and I really just think
amplifying the message of labor unions
and what we negotiate for is has been
helping build and I can increase
organizing I mean we do a lot of cool
things with our contracts like a lot of
our organizations have negotiated for
diversity commitments and you know
process for diversity hiring I know the
digital media outlets have been doing
that as well so I do think that having a
platform online and and on online
publications has been helpful
interesting well it's the Millennial
ization of the American labor movement
and Katy barrows Ethan Miller Kayla
Blatt oh thanks so much for talking to
me about really really fascinating
