[Music]
like I say today is a very special day
for me it is the anniversary of the day
Mike Tsarevich provided for me one of
one of the more enjoyable experiences I
had had in an extended period of time
and at the same time essentially took a
hammer and smashed his own fingers
that's a metaphor of course he didn't
really do that although he may have for
all I know so let's go back a year to
the day sometime before November 28th
2017 we had looked at this video of Mike
Serna vich in a basically a live
audition on Infowars this was a show
many of you probably don't remember
there was this guy Alex Jones and he
used to have a big show that people
apparently I don't know if they watch
anymore but when was the last time you
heard Alex Jones name talk about the
value of D platform but anyways here o
is Alex Jones and he Mike sort of it was
in a big opportunity for him looking for
legit work and well he didn't do so well
I think this is an executive order
outside of law just legalizing everybody
there but then that was ignored what he
really said but think about the takeaway
of this with this mayor where you can
say okay and also not welcome law and
order also not welcome safe society also
not welcome a property tax base that
isn't being eroded I mean these Democrat
run cities are sinking into the mud and
here is Rahm Emanuel demonizing the
president trying to save the economy
right because he has no answers he has
no answer for violence he has no
leadership while there how many people
are shot every weekend in Chicago 30 to
50 people some weekends are shot record
numbers of murders I posit for one
second
I want to go back just do I just take it
it's just seconds before Alex Jones tees
up the the audio from rahm emanuel and
instead here's mike Serna and you
could see the anger on Jones into the
mud
and here is Rahm Emanuel demonizing the
president trying to save the economy
right because he has no answers he has
no answer for the violence he has no
leadership while there how many people
are shot every weekend 30 to 50 people
some weekends are shot record numbers of
murders in Chicago and rather than deal
with those real problems he virtually
signals which is all this is why Hillary
losses oh it's ready okay well let's go
to play that clip thank you for shut up
shut up shut up now obviously a lot of
people would just Slough it off and they
say okay maybe I'm not cut out for this
or you know Alex Jones got his thing I'm
gonna start my own thing or whatever it
is but this must have really really hurt
Mike Stern of ouch sir Novick Serna
 I can't because when we watched it
and laughed and laughed and laughed I
mean it was very very very very very
funny Mike Stern of it very upset and
what he did and maybe we have the
original tweet that he what he did was
he paid I think it was Jack Prabhas II
presume I act the guy who ended up
getting caught on bumble cheating on his
pregnant wife and then ostensibly said
it was some type of miss there's an FBI
investigation Sam yeah I don't want to
say anymore because they're still an FBI
investigation that's been going on for
months the FBI very slow on this one but
he dug through my tweets and nine years
ago he found a tweet that I did in
response to a
an attempt by people in in the
entertainment business
a hundred directors or you know
filmmakers had signed a petition saying
we want Roman Polanski to be allowed
back into the country to get some type a
Lifetime Achievement Award because he of
course had left on the eve of a
sentencing with a plea deal for
statutory rape decades ago and I found
that to be pretty offensive the idea
that you would excuse a a fugitive who
had been convicted of statutory rape
because he's a good filmmaker and so I I
fashioned a tweet you can decide for
yourself if you think it's legitimate
satire but I did I wrote don't carry
Polanski but I hope if my daughter is
ever raped it's by an older truly
talented man with a great sense of meson
sin meson sin of course is a basically
just like a sense of scene you know an
ability to to shoot a good cinematic
image and so that was the joke and then
Mike Serna well but he tweets out
he goes I just published MSNBC
contributor Sam cedar endorses
Polanski's sex crimes in now deleted
tweet and that was a medium post that he
had done and so so what happens is on
this day November 28th 2017 I take the
rush home was before I was aware of this
and I and I get off the subway and I was
rushing because it was my birthday and I
was going to the to the the local key
food to get some paper plates because I
had a bunch of friends coming over a
bunch of friends like three people and
we were having Chinese food celebrate my
birthday and and so I'm in the
supermarket and I get a call from MSNBC
and I think oh there I can't do I can't
go on Hayes tonight I mean it's my
birthday and but it turns out to be some
other
guy who's from and he's like do you know
who Mike Tsarevich is and I'm like yeah
I do and he goes oh oh no I should say I
just go back as I get off the subway I
checked Twitter you know cuz this is
when I pull stories whenever I can and I
noticed that some somebody had retweeted
this tweet of mine from nine years ago
and I thought that was weird
it was the Polanski one and I looked at
it it's like some guy who had just like
three followers and followed like 300
people and I thought some type of bot or
something so I went in and I just
deleted the tweet I didn't have time to
look at it I was rushing to the
supermarket and when I get into the
supermarket I get a call do you know
Mike Serna and I'm like yeah I
make fun of him on a regular basis and
the guy said well are you aware of a
tweet that you made about Roman Polanski
and I'm like I just saw that someone
retweeted it and he goes yes well
certain of its retweeted and this and
that and that's basically started the
whole thing and she said and I explained
it to him I said this is what it was and
he said let me know and then over the
course of the next week things developed
at MSNBC and by Sunday four or five days
later MSNBC basically spoke to a press
person and said that I had been fired or
at that you know I think there's some
questions the way they were trying to
fire me or just let me fade away but it
all came to a head and then Mike
Tsarevich was very very happy this is
what he said Emer back my discernment
servants calm big breaking news Sam
cedar who is MSNBC contributor he is no
longer in MSNBC News contributor after
tweet of him making a joke about child
rape and Roman Polanski was reported by
Mike Tsarevich and was made publicly
available thank you to everybody who
emailed MSNBC thank you to all of you
you're heroes you're heroes because you
emailed MSNBC and you let them know
about
tweet you let them know the people when
the people will be heard we are the
media now we are the media now and if
you endorse or you can call it satire
same goes its satire whatever MSNBC
ain't laughing who's laughing now Sam
everyone in this office is I think the
rest of the story is well known after a
couple of days MSNBC reversed their
decision
Mike Tsarevich became very depressed and
desperate he attempted to to dig himself
out of a hole by getting Chuck Schumer
by smearing Chuck Schumer and turns out
that he got sort of rat EFT and used
documents that were fake and then we
haven't heard much of Mike's er Davich
the gorilla has gone back into the cave
and has been hibernating so to answer
this question what was the question
again
Matt could you play those laughing now
Sam who's laughing now Sam who's
laughing now Sam who's laughing now Sam
who's laughing now Sam who's laughing
now Sam who's laughing now Sam
who's laughing now Sam announced this
she knew ringtone yeah I encourage
people go back and use that as a
ringtone
and so Maui laughing but also growing
significance as a show oh absolutely
it's been great it was really the whole
experience I was just explaining to
Brendon it was it was it was fun for me
in a lot of different ways I felt very
confident that I had not done anything
wrong I didn't know that it would turn
out so well at the beginning of it but I
enjoyed every moment of it both
professionally and personally
we reintroduced the mic Serna vich can
kiss my ass membership which people love
and which you can find that join the
majority report comm just head there so
I want to wish myself a happy birthday /
Mike's urn of each day as we call it
around my house
[Music]
who's laughing now Sam alright so
