Donald Trump of course as we pointed out
He gave His life illed but sedated
nonsense national propaganda broadcast
the other night and he didn't declare a
state of emergency he didn't try to push
the authoritarian envelope but here he
is Wow it must have been really windy
out because he's wearing one of his
silly ball caps which looks it looks
very presidential I'm gonna Kenya I'm
wearing my hat in 2019 that guy just
like yay
just like yay here is Donald Trump
reminding everybody that he's still
thinking about the broader
implementation of clown fascism in the
United States I have the absolute right
to declare a national emergency the
lawyers have so advised me I'm not
prepared to do that yet but if I have to
I will I have no doubt about it I will I
have the absolute right to declare this
was passed by Congress so when you say
was it passed by Congress it was other
presidents have used it some fairly
often I have the right to declare a
national emergency I haven't done it yet
I may do it if this doesn't work out
probably I will do it I would almost say
definitely imagine Lincoln Vinick I have
the absolute right to declare
emancipation if this doesn't work out
I'm gonna do it I haven't done it yet
but if I want to I can do it I noticed
that right wing people still do a lot of
bitching when we do segments where we
play Trump or somebody like that saying
something this ridiculous and we just
laugh at it and they say well you
haven't actually responded to the
argument sir and the answer is is like
look sometimes actually we do respond to
the arguments and we make jokes and
you're just too sensitive and too
distracted by the jokes to understand or
look at where we respond to the
arguments but there are other times
where it's like what do you want me to
say to this
I mean almost every actual legal expert
in the country says he certainly does
not have the authority to unilaterally
deploy the military to construct a wall
at the Mexican border in a massive act
of eminent domain that would kick
connie's of people out of their houses
it would destroy local ecology it would
be perceived of accurately as an
aggressive move towards a you know an
important neighboring state
there's Congress didn't pass this as we
already can see because the government
shut down because they haven't passed
this right and on top of it look if you
want to have a serious conversation
I think of FDR was president he might
declare a state of emergency in Ohio and
demand a nationalized GM to save
people's jobs I'm actually quite
receptive to an argument like that to be
honest with you I think when FDR tried
to go in to save people's jobs back in
his time I think that was a good thing I
think at some point and other people
have pointed this out there's basically
I mean conservative nerds have said oh
well if Trump uses this a state of
emergency to get around Congress and use
eminent domain to build a wall you know
a liberal president will do this for
climate change and I think the only part
of their statement that is is
questionable I don't I think very few
Democratic presidents would actually do
that even still but the reality is we
actually are again climate and ecology
is an actual not make-believe state of
emergency and I don't like eminent
domain I don't like that kind of move
frankly I'm very wary of it and it's
used in very regressive ways and I
actually think there's some real innate
problems to it when it has to do with
you know not companies all major
companies and industries like oil or
like GM if they're getting rid of
people's jobs as far as I'm concerned
should be immediately nationalized and
brought into some type of more
collective corporatized leadership
corporatized in a Swedish or German
sense
but you know there are going to need to
be radical measures to deal with climate
for sure
now those measures need to be focused on
companies and not on people's homes
obviously but you know short of that
what do you want me to say the guy is a
jackass I mean the syntax is funny and
it's hilarious but he's rambling
nonsense on the White House lawn saying
that he has extra judicial extra you
know dictatorial powers thank god
they're so incompetent and stupid that
they probably can't pull something like
this off so I gave you a little bit of
substance but if you actually think
there's a serious argument here I don't
know I guess read somebody with a legal
opinion that isn't Alan Dershowitz or a
Trump advisor and we're then we're gonna
laugh at it because the only good thing
about it is that it's funny
