[Music]
you know what let's show the video that
do we have that video I was walking to
work today and walking by Barclays
Center which is a big stadium as it were
glowing spaceship on by Jay Z indeed and
it's actually a very good documentary
about the fight that brought us that and
it was a classic classic Jesus I can't
yeah you know you remember who was
during a Bloomberg era stuff where they
basically did this huge giveaway to a
developer and sort of forced a whole
area into blight as a way of condemning
it I think it was I can't remember
battle for Brooklyn
I think was the name of the documentary
so worth watching
and actually in maybe in the deep
archives I think we have an interview or
maybe it's on this show I can't remember
nevertheless I was walking by today and
this is the first picture I took because
I saw these cops with a chainsaw and
they were sawing a chain off of this
this post there and there was an
installation its cage that said no kids
in cages and it had a child I think a
replica of a child wrapped in a blanket
in the cage as far as I can tell it was
it is a there are many of these being
put around by an organization called
races ri-ra I CES you can follow them on
Twitter I think it's racist for Texas or
racist Texas good organization actually
that I think is worth your support
coincidentally I've supported them in
the past
and I think you should check check them
out they they haul this and put it away
what I did not what I was not aware of
was that there was sound initially
associated with these I believe in the
cages but maybe they had I'm not sure
that the the sound had run out or what
but here is an image that must have been
taken an hour or two before I got there
when they had set this up and here it is
yeah this video here
[Music]
[Music]
so there's hashtags no kids in cages I
mean you know we've just you know got
reports that they're moving kids to
detention centers so-called detention
centers on military bases it's just
getting worse and the more attention we
can drive to this the better
