[Music]
you're calling from a three two three
four seven no oh I think this person get
hung up on or hanging up now I see
nothing okay you're calling from a three
two three area code who are you where
you calling from hi my name is Andrea
I'm calling from Los Angeles is that me
yeah Andrew it's you what's on your mind
great I I'm just calling with a little
bit of that good news that you guys were
looking for yesterday with the the the
he had a caller call in about the
narrative with Bernie and all that I
think if you guys just go to a Bernie
Sanders calm slash call right now you
can see that we're actually doing a 1
million call campaign in ten days we're
trying to do a million calls it's been
four days so far and we're doing four
hundred and fifty thousand calls up to
this point so we're actually doing
really well and you yeah and the way
it's set up this time you're able to
work remotely if you want so if you're
at Bernie Sanders calm slash call
everything you need is right there and
we're only asking for people to take one
two-hour shift and you can do it from
anywhere you just need a laptop and a
cell phone and I've been calling a lot
of people in Iowa and as of right now
for the most part people are a blank
slate and they are receptive to a pitch
so it's not a thing where you're gonna
argue with people or anything like that
most people are really open to listen
and if they're really saying anything
about Bernie at all what they remember
is that he kind of got screwed last time
so it's not this combative field where
you're gonna have to like break somebody
and like win hearts and minds for the
most part if you've got a clear concise
pitch about why Bernie's different from
everybody then you can at least get that
message across and I've had tons of
engagements with Colin you know you get
a lot of hang-ups you get a lot of I
don't have time for that or less than
they did you get to talk to people yeah
if you get to talk to people and you let
them know that we're trying to come
sweetly eliminate student debt and you
only get that with Bernie you know like
we're going for Medicare for all again
like you guys know and we're completely
eliminating medical debt and you only
get that with Bernie you know his green
New Deal proposal I I bring up the
five-year just transition for fossil
fuel workers and I also bring up that
we're the only campaign talking
seriously about bringing fossil fuel
executives to justice for causing
climate change so these are things that
it's like really quickly you can lock in
on the differences between Bernie and
Warren Bernie and Biden Bernie and
anybody really because he has the
boldest vision so if you just lead off
with that even if you don't change
anybody's mind you can get that message
across and you don't know what people
are gonna do but I'm telling you
everybody is a lot more open than what
because I have friends who are Bernie
supporters and they're kind of looking
at the polls and going oh elizabeth
warren's up and i'm telling you if you
call iowa right now
most people don't know how they're gonna
vote yes it's the Adolf I'm sorry it's
the Adolf Reid thing yeah please
everybody go watch that Adolf Reid
interview and current affairs like he's
look yeah it's and this is the delicate
balance in this businesses of like it's
really important to hopefully educate
and entertain people but the dynamic
especially if you're working on a
movement which is what the Sanders
campaign is I mean it's about that it
makes that call knock on that door not
that up and down daily neurosis and
hopefully look I I would like to see you
know I do I want the campaign itself to
get a lot more aggressive and sharp but
people can't yeah I'll take on all of
that burden you know what I mean so you
know look at the polls get on the phone
yeah I would love just cutting real
quick with that again is that again if
you just go to Bernie Sanders calm slash
call right now everything you need is
right there and I think this is another
chance to it's like the the New York
Times donor map when that came out this
is our chance to really solidify our
narratives because the mainstream media
narrative it you know they try to push
Bernie out right in every way possible
but we keep seeing these signals from
this you know a million donations a
million volunteers and now we're going
for a million
calls and I think we're gonna hit it
yeah and I think if more people
participate we're actually going to
crush it we're gonna go beyond and it's
going to start to be a thing where this
is a force that you cannot ignore you
can make up whatever story you want
about it but we're here we're making the
most phone call and that's it right and
so that one and also that one warned
replicates the rhetoric of movement you
can really start it put some metrics of
like well what are we talking about yeah
yeah yeah yeah Millennials get over your
fear of the phone Millennials yeah yes
it totally is that I have friends who
just don't want to pick up the phone
it's really that and super again even
when I talk to Warren supporters they
will listen to my pitch and if you
really make clear what the differences
are between Bernie and even Warren who's
the closest to Bernie they're gonna at
least hear what that is and you can get
off the phone with that person knowing
that you at least got that message
across and it feels good I'm telling you
like like all of us we all feel like the
the despair and all that but you can
really talk to Americans and Bill at
least here we have to say so yes so
appreciate the call now do you think
like cool absolutely I mean the reason
why I do most of my activism is like I
don't know if it's ultimately gonna do
anything I don't know if it's ultimately
gonna work I don't know if we're gonna
win but I want to be able to say that I
did everything that I could to help no
doubt get on the phones guys you know he
mentioned the student loan cancellation
thing is one thing that gets through to
people but I also I was thinking about
in terms of Iowa like if you want to
talk about especially any actually any
red state or rural DSA this this story
came out in the conversation looks like
more than twenty percent of our nation's
rural hospitals or 430 hospitals across
43 states are near collapse this is
despite the fact that rural hospitals
are not only crucial for health care
would also survival of small rural
communities now Bernie it's the only
candidate as far as I know with a twenty
billion dollars for a hospital bailout
plan so if you need to get the olds in
Iowa for specifically folks work that
into your pitch the thing I will say and
this is partially where some of my
frustration does come from with folks
who you know frankly should be they
should they're high information
consumers like
ironically and I mean he in this
election cycle he not only has a plan
for that he has something that's like
jaw-droppingly ambitious something that
like the details of the green New Deal
alone are not something that I expected
from a campaign that I like in support
I mean he's putting incredible points on
the board here even with something like
that you're calling from a to one for
area code who are you where you're
calling from
