you know Donald Trump did not descend
from a spaceship I mean he most of the
people who voted for him overwhelmingly
like you know into the 90s in terms of
percentage voted for Mitt Romney they
voted for John McCain the Republican
Senate enables this guy any two or three
senators on the Republican side could
shut everything down
they haven't they have done a poor job
of oversight they have done a poor job
of containment in the public realm I
mean they are culpable and what is
curious to me you know and every time I
see this we're hearing now a lot about
Bill bar right the the the president's
picked to be the new Attorney General
this guy has been going on television
basically saying that you know the
president should be above any of these
criminal investigations and yet there's
a lot of like thank goodness we got
somebody who worked in the in the bush
administration are you as comfortable
with this guy is everyone else seems to
be or is it just like oh we could have
done much worse it could have been judge
Jeanine or whatever her name is Virginia
Perot on Fox er well I mean there is
that yeah I mean he could have done
worse he did do worse I mean Matt
Whittaker is far less qualified to do
this job for instance than then bill
Barr is I mean bill Barr is you know as
far as a resume is concerned he's
someone who has the qualifications he's
been the Attorney General before so yeah
I mean he is a better choice than Matt
Whittaker just in that regard but no of
course I'm not you know in any way
comforted by this because of the fact
that Barr was chosen for the same reason
that Matt Whittaker was because Trump
knows that he's been writing op-eds and
going on TV and being quoted in the New
York Times defending him that's the
whole point after Trump is he wants his
roy cohn he said it you know he says I
will he wants somebody that's why he
fired James called me because Comey
refused to you know sign on to his
loyalty oath and he believes that that
job of Attorney General is there to
protect him that's what he's supposed to
be doing and he demands that whoever is
in that job that that's what they do I
mean he never forgave Jeff Sessions for
that so this is obvious to me he would
not pick Barr if bar hadn't been in some
respects doing exactly what Matt
Whittaker did which is which is you know
audition for the job in the media and
bar you know also apparently was was you
just was asked or you can consider to be
hired as Trump's personal legal
representative he was supposed to he
came in and they they wanted him to come
on board to represent him in these in
these various matters and Barr said no
which is interesting that he said no at
the time maybe he was angling to be
Attorney General again I don't even know
what the reasoning there was he didn't
think he was going to get paid it may be
Galan that was actually one of the
stories that going around that no
lawyers want to work for Trump because
they don't think they're going to get
paid and it's certainly not going to be
great for their resume
yeah and they're right and Barr didn't
need anything on his resume he's got a
fine resume that readiness so you know
who knows but you know it for whatever
reason he didn't do it but it does show
that Trump has had him on the radar for
a long time he wants him on his team he
thinks he is a Roy Cohn for him and we
have good reason to believe so and it's
not just because he you know a he has a
long history of backing pardons he back
he was the Attorney General when HW Bush
pardoned half of his cabinet and
basically pardoned himself in the
process although not technically on
Christmas Eve in 1991 or 1992 and you
know Barr backed him on that and said he
was perfectly legal he's also got an
expansive view of executive power and
executive privilege all those things are
part of this it's also true though that
he's been saying some weird stuff about
you know Clinton and the uranium scandal
and those need to be investigated so
he's got some right-wing fever swamp
stuff going on too
I don't know how much he watches you
know FoxNews but it sounds like maybe a
little more than the Attorney General
should be doing so that is concerning on
the other hand let me just throw this
out here you know when Nixon fired
Archibald Cox was big brouhaha and he he
ended up being forced to replace him
against his will and he replaced him
with Leon Jaworski who had who was a
Texas you know a right-wing conservative
Texas judge who Nixon had called on
earlier as well to come and be part of
his defense and to do the job of does
the Special Counsel at the time and
jaworski had turned him down and then
after they fired Archibald Cox he gets a
call from Alexander Haig who said you
know Leon he needs you that's the line
that's quoted and so Leon Jaworski came
to Washington and he had given you
donated to Nixon twice he was very much
a doctrinaire republic right winger he
was technically democrat but he's from
Texas so in those days it was right-wing
and and he ended up once he saw the
evidence he no longer could justify even
to himself that he could do that so I'm
not suggesting that bars that person
Republicans aren't like that anymore
they're all just you know tribal
partisans but you never know I mean I
guess it's possible that if he sees what
Muller has he'll go whoa you know this
is too much I don't want to pin my
reputation on doing that and maybe
that's all we can hope for at this point
that somebody says you know you know
treason maybe not maybe I can't really
roll with the trees and things so you
know I'm out but that's about it you
know and I think you know Barr is not
gonna be he's not my idea of a good
attorney general that's for sure well it
definitely feels and and maybe I this is
just my own projection but it definitely
feels like the urgency to get
information from the Muller
investigation has receded a bit that
there is a sense that like he cannot be
fired or won't be fired in the short
term I
and I think that's a mistake maybe to
assume that Donald Trump is pretty
erratic but it does feel like there's
enough stuff out there that people are
taking a half a step away from Donald
Trump and that you might have trouble
finding more people like a bar to go on
television say this is this is a joke
right
I mean that we're seeing like the the
deployment of the lower end of the
spectrum in terms of quality of pundits
let me say and and part of that is I
mean just think about the like the past
two weeks what we learned about Michael
Kohn what we learned about mana for it
with the alleged Russian spy
boot inna being you know supposedly
cooperating and her relationship to the
NRA which we're gonna be talking about
we talked about in this show the there
it it's starting to get to look a lot
like fits myths if you'll recall but I
guess we're gonna have to wait and see
as to whether Muller has more stuff to
drop on us over the next couple of weeks
or is everybody gonna take a little
vacation for Christmas and come back but
a lot of the stuff seems to be released
in anticipation of a democratic house
and it'll be interesting to see what
that means but Heather as always a real
pleasure thanks so much for your time
today
