[Music]
we've got some bad news ladies and
gentlemen and in some ways we have not
we have not been we have not had we got
dared to push the stretch of our
imagination yes
America is clearly not the place that we
all want it to be or maybe it is
actually we all remember this moment
when Bill Burton who probably got about
two to five million dollars to basically
say this on television and then spend
the rest of his time also just like
telling Howard Schultz that he was
really good this was gonna kick ass this
happened in January can you believe it
nine months ago in social media there's
a certain op-ed you wrote in 2016 for
the Sacramento Bee that's been making
the rounds let me put up a piece of it
if Steiner libertarian candidate Gary
Johnson eat into Clinton's support even
a little that could matter in a close
election and in the same way I would bet
that Ralph Nader or at least many of his
supporters wishes that he didn't help to
make George W Bush our 43rd
commander-in-chief I suppose Stein
supporters would not want to be in the
position of explaining to their kids how
they helped make Trump president why
should you not eat those words today a
couple of things number one Howard
Schultz is not Jill Stein Jill Stein was
in that race because she thought that
the two parties were too close together
the two candidates posit for one second
he starts at number one but really he's
starting at number two because number
one is well Todd Chuck Todd rather I'm
making a lot of money I'm making so much
money Chuck that like you're gonna work
this year and next year and probably
like multiple years before you get to
make when I'm making for what I imagine
is going to be maybe 16 months
what Howard Schultz thinks is that the
to the the polar opposites of the
parties are so far apart but the
American people are close together and
maybe what we need is a choice for the
American people to choose something
different a different path a different a
different kind of politics in America
and secondly I just think that the first
of all hasn't made the decision to run
but if he did I think we can agree that
would it would be a more serious effort
than what you'll sign put together well
fair enough and we're still don't know
how much help Jill Stein had from
outside actors given given where she's
spent December of 2015
well let me ask you this he obviously
you're using this book tour to launch an
exploratory bid as well as any book to
her launch for a presidential bid as
I've seen in a while so it's clear you
want this to be the front why what's his
what I'm trying to figure out is I don't
understand why he wants to run other
than he's not them and not them what is
the big idea beyond not a Republican and
not a Democrat well the book tour he
wrote the book whether he was gonna
think about this or not because he has a
story to tell and he wanted to get it
out there you know he's a guy who grew
up in the projects and was self-made he
he worked his way through college he
went on to to build a great company that
did the right thing by the folks who
worked for it and now he just he wants
to continue to serve in terms of what
his big idea is it's that politics is
broken and maybe we need a solution to
it that risks the imagination of a new
kind of possibility
you know I I forgot that he was
off-camera because there's no doubt in
my mind he is reading it like go back
just just go back like 20 seconds you
know that he's reading it because he
can't even like there's you you can't
he's just like literally going like that
risks the possibility of a new day and
he's doing that and that's probably why
they've got this b-roll over him good on
to build a great company that did the
right thing by the folks who worked for
it and now he just he wants to continue
to serve and Trentino district idea is
it's that politics is broken you can
hear papers rustling well I don't know
if those are those Canucks yeah they
could be chucks but I also forgot this
part about like where he says like he
started a new company wants to continue
to serve yeah being a CEO was really
being called to service yeah he was
involved in public service can I just
say I mean whatever always F Jill Stein
but seriously dude Chuck Todd has to go
with the deranged Russia stuff with her
yeah I think it more likely they got him
money from the Republicans but yeah like
they did it and in Pennsylvania but wait
just finish it
politics is broken and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
he asked for b-roll because he was
laughing while he did he's like guys
Howard insists that I read this and what
I'm asking you as a friend as if the
camera not be on me while I read it's
like look I don't there to be evidence
how much I'll give you 10 grand right
now let's fall in 10 grands fallen out
of his pocket he hands in 10 grand he'll
put a little beer all over throwing meat
eggs I'll throw you ten grand you could
have a couple of shots so Howard Shore
does a Starbucks board meeting Howard
Schultz is dropping out of the race
because apparently after his extended
he's maybe has some illness that's going
on which I yeah maybe that's possible
too much money too much money he's got
happens awfully
deepa his deep affluenza and that's one
diagnosis I'm comfortable even this this
Washington Post his letter announcing
his decision not to run was tinted with
an irony Schultz maintained that the
window for a moderate reason third party
candidate was wide open but he could not
figure out how to grab and hold voters
attention in an electoral cycle
dominated by angry partisan voices in
other words there's a huge market for
what I'm doing out there but somehow my
millions of millions of dollars in
access to sixty minutes and every cable
news station and every newspaper in the
country I couldn't find those people I
had unlimited press coverage for a
campaign that had absolutely zero public
interest and I was able to hire two of
the top pundit political consultants in
the country but somehow no outlet I
could not get and it was weird because
there's a market that's just hungry for
this I was in The Times I was well I was
on the cover of you know a magazines and
I couldn't get a single and he
supposedly sent this to all his
supporters and honestly like do you
think that they spent anything on post I
mean like like they didn't even need
they didn't even need to get one of
those email programs that emails
everybody because it was so few they
could just do it out of gene Tom stires
like the the Marty Funkhouser candidate
it's like you don't get it you got to
get a whole bunch of emails for a fake
cause right and then you run for
president you risk too much
imagination supposedly he's going to do
something that is good for you know like
he's like there was some I can t
remember what it was like he's gonna go
he's gonna promote democracy or
something good good honestly
pour your money into Senate races okay
and into State House races there's two
or three states you could make a big
difference if you really care give us I
should have mentioned this before
Christian piccoli knee is on Twitter
basically asking to crowdsource a
significant amount of money so he can
keep doing the work he does exiting
people from hate organizations aren't
you bright him a million bucks
no kidding so there it is
Howard Schultz we don't have him to kick
around anymore now folks this is
important
