the majority report with sam cedar it is
Monday October 14 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live wish steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA folks it is Columbus Day or
indigenous peoples day however you
celebrate that we are not in studio per
se today although Matt may be playing
this right now yep I'll be in here and
instead we have for you
two great interviews one is with Naomi
Klein she of course is the longtime
economic justice at activist
best-selling author of course of no logo
[Applause]
disaster capitalism fighting about
disaster capitalism I should say she has
a most recent book on fire the burning
case for a green new deal I sat down
with the Shock Doctrine not the disaster
capitals of the Shock Doctrine was about
that sat down uh or I should say I spoke
to her on the phone a couple of days ago
because it was last Thursday and we
spoke for 47 minutes about the green new
deal and about the changes in the
climate movement and to some extent the
how the climate movement itself has in
some ways achieved what it could achieve
and that the battle is actually sort of
larger now
and part because it maybe it always had
to be to some extent but largely I think
because we didn't have this conversation
30 years ago very interesting stuff
before we get to that on Friday I spoke
to a leaf sara khan she is a an activist
with the kurdish women's movement and
she is in touch with people on the
ground in northern syria and i spoke to
her for about 20 minutes
to get an update as of friday on what
the situation was in northern syria what
the asks were of the kurdish people and
the affiliated people in the in this
autonomous region of northern syria and
her perspective on why this was
happening
etc and of course to some extent we
talked about the unique dynamic that is
taking place there in terms of women's
rights and their power within this
region and there it's sort of the
administrative body so we'll play both
those first we will hear from a leaf
sara khan and then a couple of ads and
then naomi klein we will be back live
tomorrow we will also tomorrow be
covering the democratic debate at night
and also if you want to get a little bit
of news from today check out the a.m.
quickie you can you can sign up for it
at am quickie dot-com it is five minutes
of headlines and brief like little news
stories that will give you a sense of
what's going on we try and give you some
of the stuff as the you know mainstream
news is reporting but also stuff that
maybe you would miss by listening to
mainstream news so check it out a.m.
quickie we
do it every morning it's usually put out
by 8:30 in the morning sometimes earlier
so subscribe to that right now big help
to us you can do it through Spotify you
can do it through stitcher you can do it
through iTunes you can do it on your
Android just go or you can do it on your
computer I guess it go do am quickie
com2 subscribe if you're not going to go
right through those systems here is
first interview with a leaf sara khan we
are back
sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone pleasure to welcome to the program
Alif sara khan she is a Kurdish women's
movement activist
Alif welcome to the program hi thank you
for having me so I mean will you please
you know explain for us just before we
get to the situation that is on the
ground in northern Syria explain to us
just give us some of the the basic facts
in terms of the Kurdish population there
what the area is is it is it all
considered row Java just I mean explain
this just for us to give us just a
little bit of a sense of the sort of the
the the the material situation sure
so Roger literally means West and
Kurdish and it's kind of like
historically referred to the western
region of you know like the the mass the
land that the Kurdish people inhabit and
you know the situation that unfolded
especially since 2012 with the
declaration of the Roger of Revolution
which has now you know because it has
evolved into a much larger coalition
including Arabs many Christian groups
like Syriac caesareans Armenians and
Tuckman's and Yazidis and so on it's
it's evolved into something called the
autonomous administration of north-east
syria and so right now the the
administration encompasses a population
of five million people in which about
just under 3 million are Kurds and so
these people while fighting Isis over
the last year's and having sacrificed
11,000 fighters in this battle have also
been implementing a very inspiring
system based on the principles of direct
democracy ecology and women's liberation
and the women's liberation aspect is is
incredibly important very central to all
of this because every level of society
and an administration is organized
around women's liberation and therefore
there must you know visit that there's a
few rules to make sure that you know
essentially there's an
institutionalization of women's
liberation including a 40 percent quota
for women at every level of society in
administration and also a co-chair
system where again every level of
society and administration from the
commune level up to the Canton and
Federation Confederation level has a man
and a woman as a co-chair and and you
know this was this isn't just the civil
aspect of it but also as many people may
of her may have seen or heard women were
at the forefront of fighting against
Isis as well and and in achieving the
defeat of Isis particularly in
liberating the de facto capital of the
Caliphate in Raqqa in 2017 women were
women spearheaded this liberation and
the declaration the main declaration was
also mean made by fighters women
fighters we know we've we've talked a
little bit on this program over the
years about this really in many ways an
experiment that's going on in rojava
let's just for a moment before we return
to that I want to just talk about sort
of the more of the the the specific
situation that we have on the ground
so this has been a region that since the
beginning of the Civil War and I I mean
presumably prior to this but since the
beginning the civil war in Syria has
been largely fighting Isis how many
fighters are representing that and I'm
sorry the the name of the region now not
ro Java but you had said the it's the
autonomous administration of Northeast
Syria okay and so how many fighters are
were engaged in the the fight against
Isis over the past several years I mean
it's difficult to say exactly how many
fighters were engaged in the fight we do
have the we do know that 11,000 fighters
were killed in the fight against Isis
you know who were always him a lot of
there were many Kurds in this in that
are part of this figure it there's many
Arabs and other groups as well Yazidis
who were who are incredibly important
and spearheaded the liberation of Raqqa
and also there's 22,000 wounded who you
know in in the fight against Isis now
including a good including tens of
internationalist fighters many from the
US there's eight international fighters
who sacrificed their lives from Britain
and many from many other international
countries including Spain Italy Germany
and many other places okay and so at
what point was there my understanding is
that there was an agreement at one point
I know if it was actually formalized but
certainly it was it was implemented at
what point was the agreement between the
the autonomous administrative northern
Syria and the the US and I guess
presumably Turkey that created that
5-mile sort of space you know safe zone
as it were that can you give us the
background on that situation
the question discussion and negotiations
around the safe zone have been going on
for a while now and there was a
back-and-forth or was in direct
negotiations between the SDF and the
Turkish authorities particularly through
the US and so you know there was a
discussion around whether there would be
five kilometers 10 15 and so on and then
there was a settlement or that's how
that's well especially in the Syrian
democratic forces assume there was a
settlement at 5 kilometers and that
there would be some joint patrols with
the US and Turkey and some of the at
some points of within this five
kilometers and the Syrian democratic
forces implemented their end of the
bargain they they were asked to destroy
some of their fortifications on the
border which they did and then all of a
sudden as as the whole world has been
speaking about you know in this past
week Sunday night and Monday morning
fourth UK time but I think it was also
Sunday night for the US Trump announced
that he was withdrawing from Syria which
came as a shock to many people including
his own army they I think as far as we
know and according to what they have
said people in the Army personnel on the
ground they got a call at like 3:00 a.m.
saying yeah we've just got to leave so
they have no clue from before as well
and we should be clear there had been no
US troops withdrawn from Syria they have
just simply withdrawn from that region
and have moved to a different area as my
understanding so this is not a case of
US troops coming home
it's simply basically allowing the
exposure of these folks that you know
had served in many respects as proxy
fighters for the US and in fighting Isis
obviously they have their own you know
incentive and reasons to fight as well
when were these fortifications that were
on the border with Turkey when would
they when would they basically uphold
apart I mean just just to give it some
context about you know about the border
situation as well
you know the the u.s. the US soldiers
that were on the board this was accepted
by all sighs were essentially then there
were many of them I think some something
it's a fifty something it's a hundred
but I definitely haven't seen figures
over a hundred there were you know some
hundreds soldiers there stationed
literally tacked as human shields to
prevent a Turkish invasion and the
soldiers themselves are very much aware
of this and you know the history of the
fight against Isis it's important to
understand that the fight against Isis
didn't start with the US the Kurdish
forces the ypg and ypj were already
fighting against Isis when kobani was
sieged
it was under siege the Kurdish forces
were already fighting against there the
US was the one who then came after and
said we would like to assist you with
air support and this according to Brett
McGurk who was the presidential envoy to
Syria who spent a lot of time on the
ground he said this decision didn't come
because there were any other realistic
alternatives because they tried to speak
and have discussions with the Turkish
forces and Turkish authorities to see if
they could fight against Isis with
attacks but they he says Brett McGurk
that they knew very very early on and
immediately he that the Turkish backed
opposition in Syria was riddled with
extremists including Syria's al-qaeda
memnos al-nusra but also some Isis
remnants as well so it just wasn't a
realistic option and it's important to
understand because I think when the
discussion is kind of framed in like a
proxy way it kind of takes the agency
away from the Kurdish forces who were
already engaged in this fight they were
already fighting and Sally Muslim who
was the former co-president of the PYD
which is one the main political parties
Kurdish political parties in Syria said
you know we never invited the US and
we're not going to ask them to stay so
this this situation is actually less
about the US but more about a Turkish
invasion and therefore it was just the
US soldiers who happened to be who
happened to be acting as human shields
but we every one knew the Syrian
democratic forces knew that this was a
strategy that away
always bound to expire and therefore
have been pushing for many years from
the beginning of the fight against Isis
but even before that because the Kurdish
forces had to fight against al-nusrah
before Isis came about as well and had
to fight against other extremist groups
had to have certain clashes with the
Assad regime even though you know the
withdrawal from the north of Syria was
prayer was relatively relatively smooth
because I such felt like he needed his
power and his force more in the south of
Syria so he kind of you know withdrew
from the north relatively smoothly but
they were still clashes and periodic
clashes even until recently they've kind
of like calmed down because you know
obviously other interests at the moment
especially of the Assad regime but
that's really important to understand
and so about the fortifications they
were destroyed literally a few weeks ago
to a month you know over the summer
basically and a few weeks after the
fortifications were destroyed this is
what Trump announced after a phone call
with President Erdogan and I appreciate
the point you're trying to make in terms
of a proxy I guess you know to a certain
extent this is there were aligned
agendas here and the the bulk of the
fighting like you say has been done by
the the Kurdish forces in the the
broader forces of the autonomous
northern Syria and it you know the point
being that these are not losses that the
United States have had to suffer and it
it appears at least from from from my
perspective and I'm curious as from
yours that it is obviously the Turks who
are invading and and and I want to talk
just a little bit more about that in a
moment but it does appear to do it
appear to me that they're doing it with
it's completely sanctioned by the United
States that it had the United States
said no had Donald Trump not said you
know had said we're not we're not taking
those small handful of troops there that
this would not be happening
yeah so it's it's unclear exactly what
the conversation was between aired on
and Trump on Sunday but somehow aired on
who's been trying to convince Trump for
many many months if not obviously a few
years to withdraw from that part of
Syria somehow found some leverage to be
able to convince Trump now some say and
I think you know this is obviously
speculation
some say that ads on is somehow promised
Trump that he will give him some
information on Biden but again no one
knows exactly what the conversation was
some of his own staff said that Trump
was quite weak in this conversation and
unfolded quite quickly but you know
everyone's been trying for a very long
time and finally he got why Eve's been
wishing for for for actually for many
years even before even before there was
this tactic alliance between this Syrian
democratic forces and and the u.s.
because even during the resistance of
kobani you know the US air support came
in you know slightly into this into this
battle he wasn't there from the
beginning our dong would make and
statements every day on publicly on
Turkish media saying kobani is about to
fall commander and essentially welcoming
an Isis invasion of kobani and obviously
we saw what happened in January 2018 in
afteron when he invaded again with gret
and his allied ground jihadi forces in
two months about a thousand people were
killed 300,000 are over 800,000
population was displaced and there was
wide reports and you know what reported
by many many different groups and media
outlets of looting and looting by his
particularly as jihadi allies on the
ground but also of you know you kind of
like a re reacting or re-enacting Isis
war weapons of sexual slavery and
and harassment against women the my
understanding is that the Kurdish forces
are holding about 10,000 11,000 Isis
prisoners and then perhaps a multiple of
that of or at least we are in the area
of families of the Isis fighters I don't
know if that's that that figure is true
or not you might have a better sense of
that can you tell me what you know about
those prisoners and what the what the I
mean how are they going to be what's
going to happen to them in this context
so the figures you say are pretty very
accurate and so you know and this figure
is across several prisons across again
the region that is under Syrian
democratic forces control but there's
much great big when we talk about
prisons these must be big like what
looked like refugee camps right I would
imagine right I mean these are these
aren't the cap they don't have sells for
12,000 people they these are like big
camps is that not right so some of the
mainly the families the ISIS families
are are in camps the the prisoners
mainly are in the Isis fighters are in
you know more prison like structures
okay but there's already been riots in
some some of the camps particularly now
whole camp we saw videos of that today
of people burning tens and and beginning
to riot there was a one of the prisons
that is in commissioner which is again
one of the border towns which is in the
very north east of Syria there's again
been riots in that prison there's been
some escapes from that prison as well no
one knows exactly what figure is because
it's it's just an incredibly chaotic
situation because these people now the
Syrian democratic forces have to
obviously resist and fend off a Turkish
invasion but also still continue to try
and keep keep these Isis prisoners
you know imprisoned because they're
obviously a threat to the whole of Syria
not just Northeast Syria and potentially
the world and so what has happened in
terms of on the ground of as far as
bombings I mean how much in how much of
an incursion have the where are the
Turkish forces what have they
what if casualties been like at this
point and what are people anticipating
in the region I assume you're talking to
folks on the ground yeah so at the most
on Wednesday when they began the actual
invasion there was they began with six
coordinated attacks across the border
they have they have tried they've been
trying to take as many villages as they
can particularly on the border and and
the civilian casualty is what we had
yesterday again it's difficult to get
exact figures especially in a chaotic
situation like that but there it's in
the tents you know yesterday the figure
we had was was over 10 civilians killed
and about 20 injured but today has been
a very fierce day of fierce clashes and
so we know that the figure is much much
higher right now but we just don't know
exactly what it's definitely in the tens
if not hundreds at this point but it's
even more scary that you can't get exact
figures because the situation is
escalating every single moment and so
what I mean what are what is the ask
here I mean if if folks in this region
could have you know had the ability to
waive they want what would they what
would that look like in terms of I mean
obviously it would be the cessation of
the the invasion by Turkey but by by
what means is that are people hoping
that will happen so just to summarize
and put it you know put the demands in
context it's the destruction basian an
illegal touch mission because an
unprovoked attack is the
war crime and Alderaan declared this
beforehand that he was intending to
commit ethnic cleansing when he was at
the General Assembly of the United
Nations just a few weeks ago so he's not
even making no secret of what he intends
to do and what it will do is four main
things which is there cause the
resurgence of Isis we've already seen
that it will it will essentially be a
Kurdish genocide and it will contribute
to the international refugee crisis
there's already been 70,000 people
displaced literally in a few days and
it's important to mention because when
people speak about the refugee crisis
they often speak about it as if it's the
burden for four you know Europe and the
US but these people don't want to leave
their homes they leave because they have
to and so this is just gonna add to
their pain of trying to find somewhere
that they can be safe but also and
perhaps equally as importantly it will
crush the Democratic ecological and
women's liberationists system that that
has been built there over the over the
years and this is one of the things that
airs or sees as one of the biggest
threats because it's not just about
Kurdish gains but it's about what kind
of Kurdish gains and he sees as that as
a deep threat to his own power and his
own authority particularly domestically
but also across the region as well and
so the ask is obviously as you said to
reverse and stop this Turkish invasion
but one of the things that will that
would make it a lot more difficult for
the Turkish state to be able to carry
out what they intend to carry out is for
there to be a no-fly zone so if they
can't use air force then they they are
considerably you know their power and
their strength considerably decreases of
course but also you know there's been as
quite a good and effective sanctions
bill that has been put together by you
know by a bipartisan sanctions bill in
the US for obviously that to be that's
we passed and implemented and enforced
but also for other countries like
Britain like you know in the UK but also
other NATO countries to also carry out
sanctions you know impose
on Turkey until they stop this invasion
I saw that yes not yesterday two days
ago Finland already stopped their arms
sales with turkey I saw this morning
Norway today and Holland is also
suspended their arm sells to Turkey and
this is what we also need we need
internationally for the arms sales stop
but also on the ground for people who
want to express solidarity it's really
important to follow the work rise up for
rajala is doing and even on an
individual level to boycott turkey
culturally academically and touristic ly
no one should be holidaying in Turkey
ever until until they basically stop
massacring Kurdish people because a lot
of there a lot of the companies that own
and produce their arms are also the very
same companies their own the major
holiday resorts in the south of Turkey
that a lot of people like to holiday and
cheaply but this any spent any penny on
pound you spend in on holiday in Turkey
literally directly translates to four
into ammunition against the Kurdish
people I'll leave sir akan thank you so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you very much hey
folks babel will get you speaking a new
language quickly and with confidence you
can choose from 14 different languages
Spanish French Italian what else did
they have at Babel Russian Portuguese
tons of languages and the teaching
method and speech recognition a
recognition technology has been proven
effective across multiple studies
babbles lessons are lovingly created by
over a hundred language experts in other
words they're created by real people
these are not algorithms lessons are
engaging and convenient they last only
10 to 15 minutes you can learn through
interactive dialogues so you per you'll
perfect your pronunciation you'll
perfect your accent Babel is available
as an app it's available directly online
Babel will sync your progress across all
of the platforms so you can go from the
computer
to your iPhone to your iPad to your
tablet whatever it is you'll get synced
across the the entire platforms and
we've got just about everybody in the
office is now gearing up maybe for a
major competition I'm gonna learn
Spanish to me it just seems like the
most obvious choice but I can understand
if people want to really learn Russian
or Portuguese or French or Italian my
sister speaks Italian trying to get Milo
to use Babel so that she can excel in it
at school if you haven't used Babel
folks you got to try this out now and
because you listen to the show Babel has
a special offer for you go to babble
comm select the language of your choice
once you try for free you get a sense of
it you're in you're ready to sign up you
select the three-month option and Babel
will give you three additional months
for free with the promo code majority
that's six months for the cost of three
with promo code majority go to babble ba
b b ee l ba BB al.com and enter promo
code majority babble speak a new
language with confidence and folks
recently over a hundred million people
have had their personal information
stolen in a major data breach I'm not
even gonna tell you what happened to be
on the subway the other day but you know
you don't always know when you're
connected to folks whether it's by
Bluetooth or by whatever it is you got
to be careful Social Security numbers
contact details credit scores and more
all taken from Capital One customers
these kind of attacks are getting more
and more frequent they're getting more
and more severe and it's not just
Capital One Equifax Facebook eBay uber
PlayStation Yahoo they all have leaked
passwords all have leaked credit cards
all have leaked Bank numbers belonging
to billions of users
that's why you need Express VPN look you
can't control how big corporations
mishandle your data but you can protect
yourself Express
is an app for your computer and it's an
app for your phone that encrypts and
secures your data if you care about your
privacy if you care about your safety
you shouldn't go online at all without
expressvpn expressvpn connects with just
one click
it's lightning fast in the cost less
than seven bucks a month that is nothing
for your peace of mind that your
information won't be stolen your
accounts won't be hijacked expressvpn is
rated the number one VPN provider by
TechRadar c net the verge and countless
others go to express VPN dot-com /
majority right now to arm yourself with
an extra three months of ex expressvpn
for free support the show and protect
yourself that's Express VPN com /
majority for an extra three months free
hey what makes a better toothbrush is it
industrial strength power multiple modes
if you ask your dentist they'll tell you
it's less about the brush and more about
how you use it and this is what I've
been on I'm not a professional dentist
folks I'm not even an amateur dentist
but I have done extensive reading on
dental hygiene because I got completely
into it a couple years ago the bottom
line is you need a toothbrush that fits
your mouth that you use on a regular
basis Equipe has sensitive vibrations
has a built-in timer they guide the
gentle brushing for the dentist
recommended two minutes thirty second
pulses ensure and even clean equip
automatically delivers brush heads to
you every three months for a clean new
bristles right on schedule that's what
you're supposed to do change your
toothbrush every three months but you
forget to do it you can't remember this
is perfect for that because you don't
have to sleek intuitive design is simple
to use it comes with a travel cap that
doubles as a mirror mount - let's put it
this way quip makes brushing something
you actually want to do twice a day
and the bottom line is forming a habit
brushing consistently brushing for the
right amount of time is all that it
takes here's the dirty little secret you
don't even need toothpaste the
toothpaste is just to freshen your
breath the fact of the matter you want
to keep your teeth at their best
you've got to brush I love my quip gave
it to my sister her dentist her dentist
said thank you to me
not directly I mean through my sister
but he was like your teeth look much
better what are you doing my brother got
me a quip there it is folks everybody my
family now is equipped they have them
for kids to saw loves it these are not
big clunky machines that are gonna fall
off your sink and then drop down on the
floor and then you're gonna have to
clean it no they basically the size of
an average toothbrush except for these
are ones that are electric and send
pulses this is a simple way to support
our show and start brushing better quip
starts at just 25 bucks and you get the
first really refill free at quip dot-com
slash majority quip dot-com excuse me
get quip dot-com slash majority it's get
quip comm slash majority like I say
simple way to support the show and start
brushing better but you have to go to
get quip GE t qu IP dot-com slash
majority get quip dot-com slash majority
to get your first refill free now we're
gonna go to interview I did just on
Thursday of last week with Naomi Klein
about her latest book on fire be right
back after this so Naomi the your latest
book the on fire the burning case for a
green new deal this is a book that is a
compilation of things that you have
written or talks that you have given
over the course of almost I guess
ten years with a with an introduction
that in and of itself I feel like could
have been its own short book and let's
just I just want to talk just a little
bit about what what what's the idea
behind the this sort of I guess the the
the being able to watch this argument
lay out over the course of ten years
well so I've been making the case for
why responding to the climate crisis is
actually an opportunity to fix a truly
broken economic system for for a long
time now and so you know as momentum has
built for further green new deal and
I've been writing about about that and
speaking about that over the past year
it just seemed useful to to put it in
the context of where this idea comes
from it is not a brand new idea it's
it's been part of the climate justice
movement for a long time
and you the other reasons I guess to
sort of have that ten-year arc for me is
it also shows what what's at stake
because in that short decade we've lost
a lot of ground we've lost the Great
Barrier Reef we've lost a hell of a lot
of Arctic ice we're losing the Amazon
it's a reminder that even though we
think about we still tend to think about
the climate crisis as this sort of
slow-moving you know disaster that we
have some time to deal with it's really
really speeding up and the more we stall
the more we lose and it's also just
speeding up I mean as we speak
you know a million and a half people in
California don't have electricity
because we we are in this we heard this
is not a future disaster we were in it
how has and I have to say that you know
one of the things that I think maybe you
know I mean I think I was probably
primed for this on some level but one of
the things that I think
that I that I came away from your book
was sort of the the and maybe part of
that is just the introduction of the the
green new deal is that is to understand
that climate crisis is not something
that is siloed and is in fact even more
connected to all the other issues that
we talked about then I think maybe we we
give it credit for
to what extent I mean to what extent
over the course of those 10 years what
was your I guess what was your
trajectory and understanding it that way
so my trajectory is that I don't come
from the environmental side of this you
know I think you and I first talked
probably you know 15 years ago or more
when we were talking about the invasion
of Iraq disaster capitalism the Shock
Doctrine and so you know I'm more of an
economics person a human rights labor
rights person and so that's my
background and and I can it's not that I
didn't think climate change was an
important issue but I think I told
myself like a lot of people who are
focused on those sort of immediate kind
of emergencies like lives on the line
right now you know I kind of told myself
a couple of things one that climate
change was less urgent and whatever it
was that I was focused on and I also
told myself that
yeah the environmentalist kind of have
it in hand they seem to have a lot of
money compared to the other groups that
I tended to be coming across and so I I
just sort of triage because we live in a
time of multiple intersecting
emergencies and we can't all focus on
all of them you know so I sort of
triaged that one and said well let other
people deal with that right
and my wake up call about the sort of
intersections of all these crises was
when I was in New Orleans and I was
there in the aftermath of Katrina the
city was still partially underwater I
was working on the shock
doctrine and I was covering the fact
that this whole through private military
infrastructure that I had reported on
from Iraq the Halliburton for the back
tiles and the black waters had just
immediately descended on New Orleans in
the aftermath of Katrina as a kind of
new frontier for profiteering and and in
addition to that you had all of these
opportunists descending on the city
which had been evacuated going wow this
is a great opportunity it's a blank
slate let's privatize the school system
let's get rid of public housing and put
up condominiums and much of that
happened so you know what I saw in New
Orleans was the intersection of what
happens when you systematically starve
the public sphere right those levees
should never have broken they broke
because of infrastructure failure just
like by the way the electricity's grid
in California is so vulnerable because
of years of neglect and privatization
and and then and then this heavy storm
comes along breaks the infrastructure
there's no real response and and you
have this overlay of white supremacy and
vigilantes coming in and and and and
there was and the response is not not
let's figure out why this is happening
and try to prevent it from happening
again it's Oh actually let's build an
even more unequal society that's going
to be even more brittle in the face of
storms so that's when I realized like
wait climate climate isn't separable
from all these other issues and it isn't
just about things getting wetter and
hotter it's about things getting meaner
more divided uglier and I think frankly
that that's what we're seeing at the
border you know I think we're seeing
that writ large globally right now with
the rise of xenophobia and and strongmen
figures like Donald Trump so okay and
and I'm you know like I feel like
there's about seven questions I want to
ask simultaneously but so with this
understanding that you know it's sort of
like the the aftermath of a
event that has been that obviously we
didn't prepare for that is a climate
that is a climate issue didn't prepare
for it in terms of like a certain change
in the climate we didn't prepare for it
in terms of attempting to slow the the
changing climate and then there were
implications after the climate and on
some level like that is you know you
talk about climate bar barbarism let's
talk about that because it feels like we
are now at least in terms of folks
awareness and in and maybe the
development of the climate movement that
we are in a different stage because we
can look around and there is at least to
the extent that you know we're talking
about normal people some recognition
that climate is impacting all of these
things it may not be creating all of
these things but it is intensifying the
implications of all these things and so
I mean talk about barbarism and yeah I
think I think what one way to understand
it is like when you're turning the
temperature up right when when our house
is on fire as Greta tomb berg says right
everything inside that house gets worse
so if you already have inequality and
intensifies inequality if you already
have Valle neural populations they
become more vulnerable and this just
stands to reason you know it's almost
been a year since the Paradise fires in
California and if you look at who died
in those fires it was elderly people it
was disabled people we see Assad this
after after superstorm sandy in New York
who was abandoned in public housing on
the 20th floor when they couldn't get
down I mean it is people who are already
vulnerable it intensifies those
vulnerabilities but we happen to live in
a society that is pretty okay with it
with with an intense hierarchy of life
this is why you know who is impacted by
police violence is so unequal it's why
who is thrown in prisons is so unequal
it's why who does
have health care is so unequal and on
and on and on and so what I'm calling
climate barbarism is really just what
happens when societies that are all read
that have already found justifications
for certain people being sacrificed
suddenly finds itself facing these mega
disruptions and so I don't think it's a
coincidence that at the moment that that
climate change becomes pretty impossible
to deny we have the rise of you know
figures in Europe who justify allowing
thousands of migrants to drown in the
Mediterranean why you have a Donald
Trump who becomes president promising to
build a wall why you know figure like
junior Boston ro comes to power just
running on straight up hate I mean
there's a sense even if people still
claim they deny climate change people
know that we are in a period of
unprecedented mass migration people know
that things aren't getting better
they're getting worse there is a sense
of scarcity in the air and so it's very
easy for these guys to use a formula
that I think we're seeing in many
different countries not just in the US
where you have you know a figure a
strong man figure who says I'm going to
protect the sort of real
fill-in-the-blanks like America's
Israelis Italians Brazilians and and
define these out groups right and pit
people against each other and and talk
about invading armies and so on and we
are also seeing some overt eco fascism
of these are and these are people who
say yes climate change is happening yes
more and more people are going to be on
the move and that is all the more reason
for us to not just fortress our borders
but inflict tremendous violence on
immigrants and so in New Zealand the
Christchurch a terrorist attack at two
mosques where more than 50 people were
murdered at prayer on March 15th of last
year sorry of this year that was that
bad shooter said
he called himself a national nationalist
eco fascist and that is why he visited a
mosque and he then inspired the el paso
shooter who went to a Walmart and wrote
in his manifesto you know I don't think
Americans are going to change their way
of life but not everybody can have the
same way of life as Americans so that's
why he went to a Walmart which is
frequented by Mexicans like literally to
say American Mexicans can't shop like
Americans so this is this is what I mean
by by by climate barbarism this is what
it looks like to adapt to the reality of
climate change without challenging these
systems of white supremacy and other
forms of supremacist logic they just
intensify you know I actually think that
we may someday soon look back with
nostalgia on the days of right-wing
climate change denial well okay
yeah that I mean that's or have we has
the climate movement on some level to
the extent that it's been constituted in
the extent that we have we have known it
for the past I don't know 15 20 years I
feel like we you know people have been
talking about it and this notion of like
you know divestiture and making people
awareness and you know arguing for the
existence of climate change has that
moment I mean it is the climate movement
obviously necessary but is it now like
insufficient insofar as we are too close
to and and already I mean too close but
also to some extent already in the sort
of like problem zone if you will to
simply address the question of people
acknowledging that it exists right
because the Christ Church like you said
the Christ Church shooter he
acknowledges it exists I'll pass it so I
mean what is the next iteration and to
what extent is it unhelpful to look at
it as climate and more as I mean and
this is where weary there's what your
book is many respects is about is you
get to the green new deal
but to what extent is it what has to
happen to that movement both both in
terms of like in real terms but also in
the way that it projects itself to the
rest of the world right so this has
always been too big for the
environmental movement right because it
isn't if this isn't a problem that can
be solved by banning a substance or
protecting a river you know it's much
much broader than that the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change the the report that they this
fateful report that is often cited that
came out last year where they said we
had 12 years to cut emissions in half
right I mean in the summary of that
report they said it is technically
possible to cut global emissions in half
in 12 years but it would require
unprecedented transformation in
virtually every aspect of society and
then they went on to listen because our
whole economy is built on fossil fuels
so no the environmental movement is not
equipped to pull off the momentum
required to transform every aspect of
society that's something that is
actually going to require you know
everybody if you know every aspect of
society at the table whether you know
its farmers its workers its its every
possible constituency so I think what's
exciting about the green New Deal
framing is that it reminds us of a time
in US history when there there were
transformations in pretty much every
aspect of society in the face of the
twin threat of that that the Great
Depression and also the Dust Bowl so you
know when we talk about the New Deal
that it's worth remembering that this
was not a couple of policies this was
reregulate in the banking sector it was
it was the Civilian Conservation Corps
that planted 2.3 billion trees it was
electrifying rural America was a massive
Renaissance of public funding from the
art it probably bill your local library
at Bill public housing I mean so it
reminds us that it is possible in the
face of grave threats to transform
society on a pretty short timeline I
mean it was nine years when when these
transformer
happened and followed by that the
transformations of the Second World War
which which transformed American
industry and turned it into a war
machine and that's not the code
transformation we need but it is
important to remember that there is that
in the history of the United States
because I think the biggest problem we
have at the moment is not climate change
denial it's it's sort of liberal doom
ISM it's kind of like yeah I get that
it's a problem but there's no way we're
going to get anything done and and plus
people are too short-sighted in too
selfish to change anyway so you know
let's just throw in the towel and
there's a lot of that going around these
days
I don't want to get like two Quigley
here but but but but just from a
conceptual standpoint um what would it
have made sense and and I don't know I
guess people could argue about the
political efficacy of this and maybe you
have a thought about that as well but it
just the green New Deal being called
like a new New Deal I mean as opposed to
sort of like you know because when it's
announced as the green New Deal people
are like why giving job guarantees I
mean is it is it is part of the value of
that that it teaches people like well
these are the implications of our
climate catastrophe or is it or does it
does it limit the people's understanding
of it because they perceive it as like
oh this is something about climate
change which is sort of siloed like I
mean I get like the idea that it's you
know the green new deal as opposed to
the new green deal right agreement a lot
of people say new green well but that
limits it right I mean because that
limits it to a new deal that deals with
the green thing and doesn't necessarily
signal that well no this is a societal
problem that in many ways is like a debt
that's like you know 150 years overdue
we started with a premise that was
problematic in capitalism that we
thought like this could last forever but
it can't get right well I mean the way I
often talk about it is I mean it's it's
a vision for the next economy because
our current system is failing and it's
failing us on
multiple fronts and climate is just the
biggest one is just the sort of meta one
that affects everybody but but it you
know it's also failing workers it's it's
it's you know it's it's failing it's
failing young people on so many friends
you know I did but I launched the book I
did the event at the event with varsity
Prakash who's the executive director of
the sunrise movement and he has done so
much to put the green new deal on the
map and she was saying that there is
such a huge generational gap around the
appetite for for this kind of change
because her generation has you know came
of age in the rubble of the 2008
financial crisis and they see this
system failing them on every front right
whether it's whether it's jobs you know
whether it's guns in schools whether it
is you know tech companies that don't
protect them from online hate and
misogyny it's just nothing is working
and so the idea that you could have an
an infrastructure for a neck system like
a overall system upgrade is actually
really exciting now your question about
whether or not calling it green limits
it I mean maybe but at this point you
know I think that the real truth is that
the reason why there's pushback is
because there's a lot of money on the
line and this is this is going to cost
fossil fuel companies and the banks that
fund them many many billions if not
trillions of dollars in wealth that they
had planned to exploit as the planet
burned so no matter what you called it
they might be slinging mud on it edit on
fox news plus the fact that the entire
right-wing infrastructure you know the
entire think tank infrastructure exists
as a counter-revolution to the original
New Deal so they're going to hate
whatever New Deal it is because what
they hate is public funding and they
hate getting taxed and they hate having
to take responsibility for anything so
the idea that we have a kind of a
branding problem I don't really buy I
think this is ultimately about power and
whatever this was called you know we
would be in the fight of our lives
I mean and and III mentioned that more
just less we're about a branding
question and more just like conceptually
in terms of like you know what needs to
happen and to what extent we need to
educate people of this dynamic that you
know our capitalist system was built on
a premise that was faulty and and you
can't you know we went pretty far down
the road till we figured that out on
some level which is that you're we just
don't have these infinite resources
we're not going to be able to you know
innovate our way out of this on some
level to what extent though to is there
this question of you know this sort of I
guess I mean I remember was it Koval the
he was a green candidate and maybe 15
years ago watching his response to to Al
Gore's movie a more inconvenient truth
or something to that effect was his
documentary which was basically saying
like you know we got a people are gonna
have less I mean on some level like it
would talk about that that notion I mean
it it reminds me on some level with a
caller that we have on this program who
called me years ago when in the wake of
the Affordable Care Act and Vermont's
attempt at going for a medicare-for-all
there where it's like we've got to tell
people there's gonna be more taxes
because we don't want to surprise them
and it's still a benefit but what about
that notion of just like explaining to
people like yeah I mean we're not going
to get rid of hamburgers but we're sort
of going to get rid of hamburgers yeah I
think in the book I talk about George
mom BIOS British author and he talks
about the idea of private limits and
public luxury which is the idea that
when it comes to our individual
god-given right to just shop as a way of
life and buy as much disposable crap as
we want and
be free of any kind of limits whatsoever
yeah that's not that that it that is the
problem and we are gonna have to be
honest that there are going to be limits
to how much over consumers can consume
and I stress over consumers because it's
not everybody it's it's you know seventy
percent of global emissions come from
the 20 percent richest people so it is
you and me but it isn't everybody and
and and and the reason why I like the
framing of private limits in public
luxury is that it is that what I think
is exciting about really really fleshing
out what a green ideal could mean is
that there are areas where we can have
abundance where where we can have
conditions that are better than what we
have right now which is why I think it
is important that Medicare for all is
part of it
the right to child care as part of it
that jobs guarantee is part of it a new
rebooted Civilian Conservation Corps
which is about you know this original
Civilian Conservation Corps created
eight hundred state parks and about the
right of people to have access to nature
it's why I talk a lot about the original
New Deal's support for the Arts and the
fact that it led to a Rena Renaissance
and American art and tens of thousands
of new works of art in the country we
can have abundance in those areas
they're actually low-carbon and and you
know not necessarily touring art but but
if you say everybody has the right to
art in their local communities that that
that can be done in a pretty low carbon
way I just did an event with a called
care workers climate work where I
brought together nurses and teachers and
home care workers you know pointing out
that part of the reason why we don't
think of this as green jobs is because
it's done by women but it actually
doesn't burn a lot of carbon to to take
care of each other and and so we can
have big investments in those sectors we
can pay those workers better this is the
fastest growing sector in our economy
actually is it is is home care workers
because there's an aging population and
this
matters because you know I mentioned the
paradise fire and the fact that it was
elderly people and disabled people who
died this happens in disaster after
disaster so we are going to face more
disasters we we have emitted enough
carbon that we're that things are going
to get hotter even if we do everything
right now things are going to get worse
when it comes to climate change we can't
avoid that and so these investments in
health care and and in that sort of
infrastructure that builds stronger
communities and make sure it makes sure
that that our our public infrastructure
is stronger when the disasters hit it's
not an add-on it's actually how lives
are saved in these disasters I mean
think about Hurricane Maria and Puerto
Rico and the fact that you know
somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000 people
died and in the months after after Maria
it wasn't because of falling debris it
was because of neglected infrastructure
and a broken health care system and
people not being able to plug in their
respirators that's what actually kills
people so there's a lot that we can do
that will make people's lives better in
the day to day which will also save
lives in the context of climate change I
mean just as you describe that notion of
like you know more parks more sort of
like families getting together taking
care of them you know you know more more
more personal care on some level it it
sounds a little bit you know Leave It to
Beaver ish like I mean it seems like
there is room for sort of a simpler time
you know get back to when it was when
things were a little bit less
complicated I mean on some level that's
that's part of the pitch right well the
truth is that there's a ton of data that
shows that what actually increases
well-being is these types of public
investments like there's a reason why
people are happy in Denmark even though
it's like cold and dark a lot of the
year it's because they have massive
investments in your public recreation
and there's these incredible sort of you
know indoor swimming parks that people
can take their families do and things
like that so I don't know his leave it
Leave It to Beaver exactly because in
some
that's the antithesis so this is
suburban nuclear family everybody in
their own little box you know I think
what actually makes people happy is a
sense of community and and and and and
deriving our joy and identity from
things other than just going to the mall
which actually doesn't make people happy
I mean we're in you know a and opioid
crisis an addiction crisis and isolation
and lonliness crisis so a lot of what
was promised as being you know the
American Dream and and and the route to
happiness doesn't actually deliver which
is great for capitalism because then you
just go shopping some more and hope that
this time well this will really do the
trick but that's sort of those
investments in access to nature access
to art stronger communities less work a
shorter work week so that people have
time to spend with their friends and
family you know I don't know if I'd call
it Leave It to Beaver it's kind of more
of a you know a Mediterranean with his
life which which isn't half bad
well I don't want to get too deep into
an argument about Leave It to Beaver
what I what I think okay because what I
think about it I just think of like kids
riding their bikes and just walking
around and it being sunny and everybody
seems to be relaxed nobody's rushing
anywhere I don't have that quality of
like where life was simple you don't
need both parents necessarily working
there was no you know talk of like what
are we gonna how are we gonna pay the
electrical bill I mean everybody's just
seemed to be content I mean there was
obviously a lot of problems that Leave
It to Beaver was was hiding but just I
guess as a as a kid that was my
perception of that world and on some
level you know that is the that's the
type of sentimentality that sells at
least on its surface in this country I
think there's some darker things
underneath it a lot of times but it
would be interesting to see if the left
on some level can at least sell the
wrapping of that and so alright let me
ask you sort of the UH maybe this is a
the the converse question on some level
you talk about Christchurch and you
wrote this obviously before what
happened in El Paso to what extent do
you think that there is and so part of
this is like you know part of what what
what you argue in the book is that that
we need to have an answer for this sort
of like you know we need to have the the
post Katrina answer before Katrina hits
essentially do you think there is and we
need to do that because we don't want to
leave a vacuum for what took place post
Katrina in New Orleans which was you
know some type of like paramilitary
coming in and then all this
privatization there's not a public
school I think in New Orleans that
exists anymore a lot of people were
displaced a lot of uh people you know
never came back and it just ended up
being you know hedge funds going in
there and privatizing a lot of it to
what extent you know and and I think you
know it's pretty clear that we need to
have a solution even if we're not ready
to implement it yet but to what extent
do you think that there is a I don't
know if I want to call it eco fascist or
a soft eco fascist I mean to what extent
do you think that there is another
solution that the neoliberal regime or
whatever you want to call it has already
started to work on like I mean you know
if the idea is that we need to fill the
void with a competing narrative what do
you think the other narratives are are
out there I mean there's the Eco fascist
one I mean is there is there a soft eco
fascist one that's happening I mean I
guess I say that just cos like it occurs
to me like why do we need a passport now
to go into Canada you know as opposed to
a driver's license like if somebody
marieee lies like this it's probably
good to do this now because Canada might
get filled up later I can push the
conspiracy even further but I mean I
don't I'm just using that as an example
but you know the wild-eyed 3:00 in the
morning when I I don't feel well it's
like of course we've done that because
we're gonna take Canada over and we just
want to make sure that we get to choose
who comes in but
oh gosh you know it's you know I'm
Canadian I've been living in the spur
for a little while now and one of the
things that I find interesting is like
those am the role of Canada in the in
the in the imagination here and I don't
think this okay The Handmaid's Tale you
know the sort of narrative in The
Handmaid's Tale where everybody gets to
just go to Canada and they get there
like you know free health care in their
care package not so share Canada is
going to play that role but that's
another conversation well but I mean on
some level it's conceivable that if we
head down this road Canada is going to
be to the States as the states is on
some level I mean obviously there's
different resources and as you know the
United States is - because there's a
little bit extreme that way but I mean
is there is there a another plan that is
out there I mean the Eco fascist has
there's we're gonna just shoot we're
doing it literally just okay exactly but
I think that the Eco fetches but I think
this soft quote-unquote plan is is just
a kind of eco apartheid or climate
apartheid which is just the sort of
fortress borders and you know the
discourse of of legal illegal cute
security threat you know not security
threat that that has risen up in
Australia the European Union the US and
and and the the mo actually comes from
Australia where I think about a decade
ago the Australian government introduced
this I their Islands solution
plan to how to deal with migrants coming
to Australia and the idea was we're not
going to let the boats land we're going
to intercept the boats and we're going
to send migrants to offshore detention
camps on these remote islands they had
one and Maori which is a very small
Pacific island and another on Modest
they are privatized camps they're run by
for-profit companies and the idea is
that you pay these countries who are
poor and it's a new model of economic
development of for desperate countries
of like we'll pay you to be our jailers
and this is sometimes referred to as the
Australian solution and and the European
Union has started to adopt it and so
that's why it became become illegal for
humanitarian boats to rescue people off
the off the coast of Italy and and and
Greece because now the European Union
has outsourced the patrols to what they
call what what is the you know it in
quotes this the the Syrian Coast Guard I
say in quotes because they're basically
warlords and they they intercept the
boat or they don't and many people are
being left to drown but when what but
when there is a distress signal it is
the Libyans that go and they take them
to these camps that are concentration
camps where murder where it where rape
and torture are rampant and now what
we're seeing with Trump is is it's
something very similar right I mean
water is a safe third country
essentially or making it New Mexico make
a deal with Honduras make a deal with El
Salvador first you cut aid right so you
increase the desperation and then you
say here's your new model for economic
development you can be the jailer for
migrants and you will give you some
money for it and you'll use our private
contractors for it so I mean this is not
off in the future that we are seeing
this take shape right now
yeah that's uh disturbing um so
well let's I know you just got a couple
minutes here so let's let's let's finish
with something that's maybe a little bit
more hopeful you know at one point I
think it's in the book you write that
we're live and I don't know the exact
quote but to something to the effect of
like we're we're here at the last
possible moment to really basically slow
the roll as it were or to address it is
that that optimistic I mean is that
positive I mean what's the sense I mean
I think I think we should all feel the
weight of what it means to be alive in
this moment in history because we do
have a window and it's not a window to
stop climate change we are in climate
change it is going to get worse but if
we are lucky we have and we do
absolutely everything within our power
we we should be able to stop truly
catastrophic unraveling and that the
space in which humans are going to be
able to live on this planet is going to
contract that is part of what we're
dealing with
there's course you know we're going to
be living on less of the globe but we we
have this window and there is something
that is happening out there because
there is a massive generational shift 7
million people participated in the
climate strikes a few weeks ago I think
grete Jim Berg may well win the Nobel
Prize well you'll know I don't know when
this is airing but we'll find out
tomorrow probably I said that but you
know it's the kind of numbers that we're
seeing at very very short notice it
speaks to the fact that people really
will really want to do something and you
know we're also seeing it in the polls I
mean I've been writing about about this
issue for a long time and one of the
most frustrating things is that even
among people who say the
care about climate change if you ask
them to rank you if you ask them ask
people to rank their concern they'll
reliably place it last after pretty much
everything else now
in the Democratic primaries you know
people are putting it up there with
health care is their number-one concern
so there is a shift and and and for the
first time we are talking about the
scale of change that the crisis actually
demands which isn't to say that every
candidate you know vying to lead the
Democratic Party gets it but but a few
of them really do and so this is a game
changer it's never happened before we've
only ever talked about you know what's
better a carb no cap-and-trade or a
marginal carbon tax we have never talked
about the sort of transformation that
the crisis actually demands
understanding that actually this could
be you know a historic job creator you
know we actually have an opportunity to
address many many crises at the same
time if we do this right if we design
this right so you know I wouldn't say
that it's like sunny optimistic but I do
believe we have a chance to do something
that isn't just better than enough talk
a future of you know apocalyptic climate
breakdown I actually think that if we do
this right we have a chance to do
something that's better than Tuesday the
book is on fire the burning case for a
green new deal we will put a link to it
at majority dot F M and Naomi Klein
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it
thanks Sam it's always a pleasure to
speak with you take care in that
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm going
I was
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
rubber bands
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
