we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
proprietor and host of the Benjamin
Dixon show available on iTunes and
stitcher and at the Benjamin Dixon show
calm Benjamin Dixon hello Ben
so yeah I'm doing Gracie I'm always a
pleasure to be here with you all how's
it going over there it's gone great
thank you so much for joining us let's
just briefly talk about this I mean it's
sort of I don't know maybe I you know on
some level I feel like I'm not doing my
job as a plumb assist and as a sort of
you know propagandist in the most a sort
of value neutral expression but there
have been 12 bombs now sent to
Democratic leaders and and you know one
guy associated with the you know and and
a couple of like administrative people
like Brennan and hold right and you know
I don't know why these bombs didn't go
off I'm not a bomb maker or a bomb
defuser and but they could have and
maybe those people wouldn't have been
killed but it would have been other you
know people but the idea of like bombs
being sent to the top leadership of the
opposition party seems a little
problematic and you would imagine that
like everything would stop right and
they have found the guy here's a picture
of his van it is adorned with pictures
of Pence and Trump and pictures of like
Michael Moore with a target on it
Hillary Clinton with a target on it Jill
Stein with a target on it others and I
mean it's
and now I don't know maybe it's all
false flag maybe this is maybe when they
get in there it's gonna be you know I
don't know Tom Perez is going to be
that's his van and whatever but highly
unlikely well just give me your sense of
how underplayed this is in like the idea
that Donald Trump you would think that
that Donald Trump would like sake all
the other the former president and say
hey just want you to know we're doing
everything we can to protect you yeah
yeah that's that's the most one of the
most notable things outside of the the
insanity of bombs being sent itself I
feel like you like I gave the same
disclaimer on my podcast this morning
like I I mentioned it but I didn't want
to stay there because there's just too
many variables there that we don't know
except for the ridiculousness that we're
getting from Donald Trump and the
Conservatives this perfectly sealed her
medical they exist in they have accepted
in their minds even the president he's
floating this idea that it's it's a
false flag that's clearly a possibility
but to have that spread by the president
before the FBI can actually resolve that
that is the case just shows you just how
ridiculous I mean how far going we are
to the point where that that behavior by
Trump is the exact same thing that
drives our news cycle that it's just
constantly day after day we can't even
keep up with this so now that twelve
bombs have been set our packages that
are suspected of being bombs or whatever
they are you know it's it's not nothing
shut down nobody's moving any slower the
news is still going just as fast as ever
but I mean let's talk about this notion
of people floating that it's a false
flag right like look I think I saw that
guy
Brett Weinstein you know making some
argument about like it would be
irresponsibility the idea of raising
this question shouldn't be criticized in
some way right and Bert I do not
remember a single instance when any of
these people when anybody ever
said it was a false like like
hypothesized that it could be a false
flag when we had any other type of like
the Time Square bombing or other stuff
because I mean let's be honest here it
is a possibility that it's a false flag
in the same way that it's a possibility
that it's a false flag of a false flag
of a false flag of a falls exactly like
the idea that someone's gonna send out
12 bombs and it's some type of
democratic operative okay and they're
gonna send this out and not get caught
right they're so good at this that they
can send out 12 bomb packages and not
get caught is highly highly unlikely it
seems to me like beyond unlikely it is
almost to the level of absurdist now
it's possible yeah you could have a
crazy person who sends this who is like
I'm supportive of all these people and
therefore I'm sending it and I won't get
caught and they're completely crazy but
it's not really a false flag as much as
it is it's a crazy person who has been
driven to do something crazy and you
know no doubt this guy has some some
some some mental issues if it's a guy
who sent these out but this is like you
know there are certain the the idea of
entertaining this as a false flag like
it's an operation right like the right
um is just absurd and it is I don't know
to me that's just it it's absurd it's
but it's it's to be expected from
certain circles like Dinesh D'Souza this
is right par in course this is this is
how he makes his money right to have it
coming from the White House I don't care
if Donald Trump is the president I don't
care how ridiculous Donald Trump is to
have that coming from the White House
absolutely undermines the entire process
right and I'm not surprised that Donald
Trump is doing this but we still can't
like let that be an excuse for how
absurd this is at some point we have to
grab hold of one of these new cycles and
and not just be flung around with the
with the madness all day and cling on to
the fact that this is happening right
before our eyes and and it's being
spearheaded by the President of the
United States I think one of the reasons
we can't make anything stick to Donald
Trump it's because we're spinning so
fast and he knows that and he's
contributing to that and I think that's
why he floated the false flag notion
this morning and I don't know if it's
this morning or last night but when he
floated it he knows what he's
contributing to he's contributing to the
chaos let's listen to this clip from
what's her name trish regan she is on
Fox Business and she has an interesting
take as to what caused this the
situation with these bombs but also sort
of like you know there is a a chyron
underneath that the breaking news US
troops are deploying to the border
because been as you know and I'm sure
you know you are I believe down the
Atlanta area so you were south of us and
I imagine this makes this that much more
harrowing for you but approximately two
thousand miles from you
there are almost 2,500 families with
children who terrifying who are
obviously looking to take over your home
so but let's listen to a Treasury can
break this down for us night plus new
tonight a nationwide manhunt under way
for the suspected male bomber we have
fresh Intel that Florida Maryland and
New York are key areas of interest
meanwhile the media is ratcheting up its
attacks on the president saying these
heinous acts are all his fault
the media refusing to take any
responsibility for themselves it's the
victim mentality all over again Geraldo
is here and he is my guest on that
Geraldo right yeah which part of that is
the most absurd the Jurado part hands
down
he's gonna be the expert on this issue
but no seriously the entire framing is
asinine Sam I don't even know what you
want to say about that well I mean CNN's
taking a victim mentality probably
because they had two bombs sentences I
mean there's that there's there's that
you here's here's a bigger problem that
you speak to all the time and and I
always like to cast it in this in this
framing right
this is strategic this is not an
oversight this is part of the
programming it's not a bug it's a
feature they know what they're doing is
the victimizers playing the role of the
victim it's calling the real victims
people who are having the victim complex
is the oppressor trying to maintain
power by feigning as though they are the
oppressed and anytime they can find a
scapegoat that they can fulfill that
victim complex that they are projecting
onto us through right now it's the the
migrants that are coming north they they
execute it flawlessly and they do so
where here's the biggest problem they do
so through this massive propaganda
machine that is funded by billionaires
that we don't have anything remotely
close to on the left and that
combination makes them successful over
and over again we felt like we had one
step forward I guess you know with Obama
but now it really feels like we've taken
ten steps back that's because we never
really took a step forward we just kind
of had an anomaly but this this
conservative machine that is able to
project this victimhood this victim
complex that they are operating in
they've been doing this masterfully for
years so this is just an extension of
that you know the there's along those
lines there's a new book out and I think
we're gonna have this one of the authors
on but and and in it I mean it it's
nothing you know it's not huge news to
you or I or probably to most of the
people who listen to this program and
certainly there has been advances since
2004 and in the early aughts but a
professor at Harvard Law School has
written a book network propaganda
manipulation disinformation a
radicalization in American politics
basically saying that you know you know
if you had removed Rupert Murdoch from
the equation 25 years ago the world
would be much nicer place and so I guess
maybe that's you know maybe that's folks
goal you know you want to you want to
have impact on the world and if you
can't do it if you know as long as
you're superlative
it doesn't really matter which way it
goes but just to your point about what
you know as we sort of pivot to look at
the the elections that are you know now
about eleven days away here is a clip of
martha mcsalley which i think and and
this is taken from i think they played
it on an MSNBC on may be a morning joe
but it's it's it's a local news coverage
of the arizona Senate race martha
mcsalley is running against christian
cinema not necessarily my favorite
candidate of the Democratic field but
it's better than John McCain or Jeff
Flake and but here's martha mcsalley
this clip captures the dynamic of what's
going on in the country right now in
terms of the races there was a report
out by the Wesleyan Media Studies group
that showed that Democrats paid
advertising at least which is the
easiest thing to measure uses the word
or reference to Trump less than any
Democrat any political party has in a
midterm election in fifteen to twenty
years and on top of that they have found
that that Republicans are using
immigration more than they have in also
similar period of time and here is that
that dynamic distilled in a series of of
quick sound bites from martha mcsalley
as she's being questioned by a local
reporter in arizona will you fight to
retain pre-existing conditions as they
are today from i have fought for
pre-existing conditions I voted
to protect prizes and conditions you
voted for something that would weaken
pre-existing conditions you voted for
something that would weaken pre-existing
condition right now from it's not true
you know press release comes out and
something that's processing and you guys
are asking me about it and this top race
in the country it's just it's just
ridiculous without an economic
opportunity you know if any of your
staff is getting their health care
through the ACA Denis can we please talk
about the things that matter to most
voters instead of repeating the Arizona
Democrat Party press releases I mean
this is man you from the party is
ridiculous honestly you have anything to
talk about like the caravan there you go
do you have anything to talk about like
the caravan the thing that's on people's
minds I mean it's amazing that's
staggering
you know that that she can get away with
that this there has to be a new style of
journalism or maybe just a heart hearken
back to other ages journalism maybe
because you can't let them get away with
that I mean don't get me wrong when it
when it politician is intent on
weaseling their way out there's almost
nothing that you can do but you can
really expose the fact that they are
reasoning their way out I don't know how
the rest of that clip laid out but that
attempt to pivot was so transparent that
it should have been caught on the fly
and that's really the only way we're
gonna be able to hold these people
accountable but to the bigger point I
mean they the fact that Republicans are
running on the dog was so and the the
bullhorn of racism and xenophobia and
the fact that that Democrats are are
timid about attaching this to Donald
Trump I mean I don't know it's is it
possible for them to really be this
genuinely incompetent Sam I'm Ginny I'm
asking that question it helped me out
here well all right all right let me
address that let me let me address that
second first I will say like these local
reporters they were hounding her about
the about you know the pre-existing
conditions and I thought they were doing
a pretty good job it's almost that the
problem is is that we know what she's
talking about when she says the caravan
right like the problem has been all of
the coverage where people were sending
people down to the caravan
because that is to me it's the
functional equivalent of a meteorology
report that is focusing on a rainstorm
that is you know off the coast of Hawaii
and it may implicate you know California
I mean it's not it's just it is is so
irrelevant the story really is Donald
Trump seems to be focusing on something
that's completely irrelevant and we we
shouldn't even know we shouldn't be able
to know what she's talking about when
she says the caravan but the second part
I think like I I think is I I don't know
I think there are Democrats who are
afraid of who are perennial II afraid of
racializing things and on some level
that's what's sort of fascinating but
what's going on in Florida to pivot to
that because I think everybody's seen
the clip we certainly played it
yesterday in it Laurie they live really
viral where Andrew Gilliam is the
Democratic nominee for governor and he's
running against Ron DeSantis and we
should just say as a back story Gilliam
was not expected to win the Democratic
primary right or was I can't remember
her name now it's been there's somebody
but he was not expected to win he had a
late surge and he is the most
progressive candidate of that Democratic
primary field he wins he's
african-american if people have not seen
this clip are not familiar with him and
DeSantis is you know there are
Republicans like this like you know in
New York we had that guy Carl what was
his name pavulon or I can't remember
Palumbo who you know was famous for
sending around Obama as you know as a
Canyon faxes and ran for prefer for
governor in this state but DeSantis is
like that but was you know people
thought he was going to win and he still
may but it's highly endowed and Gilliam
basically just went right at him
yeah or his racism and said something
that I thought was really brilliant he
said I'm not calling you racist I'm just
saying
racist seem to think you are and that's
a brilliant construction I think yeah
that it's go ahead you don't reckon you
don't recognize that though do you that
it's it's totally from The Simpsons
FoxNews not racist but number one were
racist and when I heard him say it I was
like you know what that is a brilliant
use of that meme that's been going
around but I I was a little I was I was
surprised that he went head-on into it
for the same reason that you outlined in
your setup because you know there's a
lot of Democrats who were really afraid
of doing that I mean what what's also
interesting about this race in Florida
is that if Gilliam wins he's winning
he was an unprofitable winner in the
primary and he's running in a way that
is embracing a very progressive values
in a you know a genuine swing state this
is state that went for Obama big in 2008
went for Obama not so big in 2012 it
more or less flipped by a couple hundred
thousand votes for Trump versus Clinton
and if Gilliam wins in the swing state
he's also gonna be basically gonna drag
Bill Nelson across the finish line
yes it seems I guess yes and that's so
critical like i i've i'm from florida or
one of the states i'm from his Florida I
lived there through high school in most
of college and I'm just encouraging
everyone if you're going out to vote for
Gilliam I think the last poll I saw he
was up by seven or eight pointing
they're gonna couple I've seen three
I've seen nine I've seen seven but he
used to be up he's going to be the one
to carry Bill Nelson so I'm employed but
pouring the please we don't need Rick
Scott of the last person like we don't
need any Republican but Rick Scott who's
thrown 52 million dollars of his own
personal money because he's made that
money off of Medicare fraud I mean for
him to be able to go to the Senate it
would be obscene but Bill Nelson is in a
tough fight there so you're absolutely
right
Gilliam would be bringing
the more centrist the more senior
establishment Democrat pulling them over
the hurdle which we absolutely need
right now because the last thing we need
is Rick Scott to take a Democratic seat
and turn it red and and and the the
implications though of that dynamic
right where you have someone who is
young african-american unabashedly
progressive basically carrying this old
white guy centrist across the finish
line in a genuine swing state to me is
has huge implications there are other
races obviously we want to win but this
one seems to have like big implications
as to what forms the narrative within
the Democratic Party as to where you
need to go to win yeah yeah yeah it's
critical I think you know in a way it's
going to be far more significant than
Acacio cortes not that we have to make a
comparison but Acacio Cortes was kind of
like the flash point where we realized
wow there's going to be a new generation
of Democratic leadership across the
country but now we're seeing it play out
in a very substantive fashion in a very
difficult state like you said a swing
state in a race that in the first place
I ever got called the n-word was Florida
I mean I'm telling graduation yeah it's
an achievement right it's the North
Florida is is the South it is the
legitimate south and that that Gilliam
is able to call out this racism so
directly and I don't think he's going
down on the polls yet I haven't looked
at him this morning it really speaks to
where we have to go I mean it's not
Nelson it's not Nelson who's put like
this Joe Biden who is looking for some
type of way for us to get past the
incivility that is not the person and
the brand that's going to be able to
take us into this next fight yeah and
we're seeing that similarly play out in
Florida I know that the Republicans are
not as afraid of Joe Biden as they
pretend to be because because Charlie
Kirk told me they were and I know
I'm quite convinced that can I ask you
something yeah did does it not frustrate
you that a scumbag and like
Charlie Kirk is even put on the same
stage as you I mentioned this on my show
a couple weeks ago and I was like I'm
going to ask him about it and you just
reminded me for bringing him I mean the
guy doesn't really know anything he
simply has millions of dollars behind
him which is completely reflective of
the thing that we always talk about
media and money / conservative money in
media just making stars like you know
not that it's important but if fred has
frustrated me for you like I mean look I
you know I feel like I have a job to do
and you know I think you you certainly
you know more than most people can
understand it's like you have a certain
skill set and you know I would have
liked to have been you know a better
student maybe and maybe be in a more you
know had or the capacity to have more
academic pursuits but these are the the
skill sets I have at this point in my
life and if I can go and in any way
inhibit the trajectory of any of these
people I am more than happy to do it
frankly I mean so well you did that that
you did but it was just just the fact
that this guy from nowhere gets some
millions of dollars from some donors and
and instantly is inserted into the
national conversation for the purposes
of propaganda is like it's like our life
story right now like this happening over
and over again all around the country
yeah i mean i i i i'm not-- i don't
think about it that way i don't feel
like you know i don't know who else I
would go you know be on a stage with I
mean I think like if they want to do
some type of academic debate with good
faith people I think there are people
who are better suited for that and then
then I but I think I'm pretty well
suited to go up on stage with somebody
who's not a good faith actor and and if
you know I mean that's so you're the met
your if they're gonna put these morons
up there you're the man to take them out
I sort of feel like that is
you know for better for worse you know I
think I was probably genetically
engineered for two things one fairly
lame sitcom sitcoms to play the lead who
is put upon and when that sort of ran
its course then I think this was the
next thing for me ask you this just
stick them before it for one more minute
the interesting thing too about Gilliam
is I mean this is why this race to me is
so so fascinating has so much importance
in addition to what we've already said
about the the narrative that it sets for
the Democratic Party this is also like
the the ability for a Gilliam to impact
the the the electorate of Florida is
also super he's right like you know he's
gonna have the ability to enfranchise
like literally tens if not hundreds of
thousands of people and this to me is
huge because so often we see we see and
and we should also say simultaneous is
there's a an amendment for which would
basically you know Riaan franchise like
1.5 million voters you know for you know
people who had been convicted of a
felony in florida and and you know right
now rick Scott's been doing it literally
handpicking the voters you know
yeah but the gillum's going to impact
that amendment as well right and yes
and vice versa so like turnout it's
gonna be fascinating the the exit polls
in Florida gonna be fascinating and and
the implications of him winning are
gonna be huge but you're in in Georgia
what's what's going on there Stacey
Abrams
I think she's she's up by two points
which means that she's not up we're
going to knock on doors
my friend Inoue chunga she's really
active here we're going to knock on
doors on Sunday for her just because the
turnout is so critical especially when
you have this Secretary of State running
for governor who has the ability and is
utilizing that ability to disenfranchise
so many people purging voters across the
state particularly in black counties
we're seeing it over and over again
the ACLU we had a quick win this week
we're not a quick but it important win
this week with the ACLU determining that
individual poll workers cannot reject
signatures ballots because they've made
an individual call and in the case that
they do reject balance they have to
contact the person this was the craziest
part about this Sam was that they could
reject your ballot and not notify you
now they have to notify you in this
upcoming election so there's some
critical wins of the ACLU it's been in
the front of that that are going to make
the difference but still like no one is
even batting the high that we have a
Secretary of State Republican running
for governor who's creating this
situation in the first place and
everyone is still acting as though he's
a good faith actor and and I guess I'm
just not sure how those two things can
coexist when you literally see him
targeting targeting communities of color
in this race all right is there anybody
there talking about like hey this should
be a good thing to do regardless of who
wins to reform this in some way have the
concept of recusal in certain instances
or something to that effect
um you know I think it's gonna take a
Democrat doing this for them to actually
say okay we want to put it into this
because previously you've had other
secretaries of state run for governor
here in the state and then generally
have been Republican if my memory serves
me correctly so no but that that kind of
goes back to that questionable
fecklessness that we occasionally see
from Democrats because that should be
something that happens every you know
even if they're not in power that has to
be a war drum that they beat because we
go through this you know Georgia has
gone through this many times apparently
is there do you have any sense that the
that there's been a good enough job in
talking about
the voter suppression to drive votes
like their habitation yes you know what
I'm talking about
yeah I know what you mean I noticed it's
so I do this thing now where I actually
I go to church now which is different
but they're talking about it all the
time in church and churches like I'm
hearing it everywhere and like the
barber shops so this is having the
reverse effect it's like you want to
take this from us we're going to show up
and make sure that you don't take it
from us so that's that's a net positive
but you know these are all anecdotes
it's actually going to be a number
significant enough to overcome that the
the purge
