[Music]
imran khan was on Morning Joe this
morning he's the what are the Prime
Minister's presidents the Prime Minister
Pakistan and as you know there are
there's problems in and Kashmir he we
don't have a clip of him addressing this
there was just one moment of levity I
guess for him
he's here hopefully he is trying a lot
to stop the war in Afghanistan that's
because people have to remind themselves
and Pakistan plays a double game and
everything but there's a huge cost to
the war in Afghanistan in Pakistan from
even just like environmental pollution
from setting up like landing strips and
transports and stuff like that but he is
with Joe and Mika morning in there
obviously here at the UN this week and
he's making a very good point why are we
wasting so much money on relentless wars
Mika and Joe know what he's talking
about - with the bumpy road oh it's so
bumpy for them I like that though that
is that is somebody I forget who made
this point to me first but they were
saying like even when someone like
Thomas Friedman would like
you know scratch out a third of like
some type of decent infrastructure
column it would always be like oh he
just took the Amtrak from DS right you
do exactly New York okay
exact thats why all of a sudden we don't
really broadband in rural America oh you
know what that's true
the Midtown commute is getting super
bumpy really tough Thank You Prime
Minister come from a 408
