[Music]
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in that hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar Wednesday April 10th 2019 my name
is Michael Brooks and I'm Michael
Wednesday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program the crew
discusses the news while Sam gears up
for his Vegas conference sure you'll
hear all about it tomorrow
it's whip them hello I'll definitely do
that bit soon the Sam in Vegas bit on
today's program Bibi Netanyahu retains
power in Israel and it's time that we
get serious about how politics actually
works there trump's obsession with
framing iran as a terrorist threat and
the shia sunni split we'll get to that
how that actually looks in reality the
trump administration continuing to
strongly suggest they're going to return
family separations as a matter of policy
Theresa May is speaking with EU
officials today in a request for a
brexit extension to June 30th as that
process grinds on McCrone appears to be
softening a little bit YouTube had to
take down its livestream of the
congressional hearings on white
supremacy and hate speech on Facebook
because Taylor too many
anti-semitic and racist comments on the
stream well I mean to be fair there's
too many on a lot of videos that one was
just exceptionally visible right true
that Texas bill would make it possible
to put women to death for having an
abortion
as the extreme continues to migrate to
the center in the Republican Party
Virginia drug company is charged with an
a billion dollar opioid marketing scheme
targeted at addicts Amazon is not going
to hit its sustainability goals there's
something shocking and former CBS News
reporter Laura Logan is joining Sinclair
in another incredibly unsurprising
headline and unstability wears on in
Guyana
potential sort of oil related political
change in the works there what happened
to the Venezuela coup maybe there wasn't
any organic support for guai dough
that's interesting
and Charlie Kirk and his fellow band of
idiots have a very interesting concept
of what the Kurdish rebels the Kurdish
YPG rebels are and we might need to
dispel it a little bit all that plus our
ap to the free exchange of ideas and a
lot more on today's majority report oh
and of course I should mention socialist
surge in the city of Chicago the four of
us are here tomorrow are we saying in no
time you'll be hearing Sam say like
Sheila I woke up he gets in his like he
gets this kind of like drinking voice
going on because it's like Rat Pack
intonation just like I was she I was at
the craps tables and and it was a friend
of mine who was actually friends with
Benjamin and I we wrote a pitch together
for ABC but the pitch was a joke we
didn't actually want to sell the script
but so we met writing that and he
recognized me because he saw me on haze
and in anyway so I'm up 15 and joining
me now is a guy from a John Grisham book
Sam's trips to Vegas are like his
solstices totally they're definitely
like his yes it's a very important time
for transition reinvent
rebirth yep I go to the 24-hour drone
festival and Sam goes to Vegas I talk
about doors we all need to restore
ourselves on our own way no it's
beautiful turns out that the baby
formula company decided that it was it's
just cheaper to kill people so let's
just kill it is cheaper to kill the baby
Wow see you have to see documents yep
the document right here for Mayfield
says it'll be cheaper to just kill these
kids with a bad formula source from
China than give them formula okay that
really is just stunning indeed in
discovery we found a document that said
on the one hand we can make our products
safer for people in other hands we can
make lots of money and kill people we
decided to do what's that it would do to
ladder and that is true they actually
really do find stuff like that and
discovery from these companies I guess
if you have any understanding of how
American business works this should
never actually be shocking but it is
just on the pure like it's like that we
were joking about Rob Blagojevich last
night how like Rob Blagojevich is in
jail for doing what basically every
single politician do does except he like
insisted on spelling out the last part
of it and like officially making it
illegal on a wiretap so these companies
do like companies all the time calculate
that they will put their margin over
safety that of course but it what it
what is different is when you literally
have it in writing like hey does this
machine gun work no most of the time
yeah most of sound but I mean obviously
it would be a super pain to fix it all
right let's put that in writing you're
getting everyone so horny for torts that
really is just stunning
[Laughter]
yep you can find that all there at our
dead baby formula dot-com and you can
track her case over there at the foot
yet incredible it really is just
stunning house mice yeah my next guest
is right here I so get you gotta get out
Jake's here hi Jake awesome yeah people
need to be progressive we all got sued
the collector t-shirt no one would be as
good as that guy he was extremely on his
 and I wear this shirt in his honor
every night that you call you past 2:00
p.m. you need a Queen's mark because US
debt collectors are actually subject
Commonwealth law I know I know if it
turns out I'm suing them now but debt
collector calls you after 5 p.m. baby
basically owe you a million dollars
that guy was amazing please please
listen that interview that will make
like everybody's life better that's all
time to get a credit card and put on it
apparently it doesn't matter
basically Sam could just take tomorrow
off too I think we've got towards
coverage coverage that's what we should
do for the next April Fool's we're all
in Vegas and Sam's and Brooklyn jam Sam
he's all like he's like yeah next we
have rod Covington from Covington Berlin
and Co it's a Tallahassee based firm
suing diaper makers guys when we're not
responsive in the studio I think Sam
feels like a astronaut like outside of
the space capsule a little bit and to be
fair you know he's he's discovering like
the greatest corporate malfeasance in
the world and we're like back in the
studio being like who's bobblesberg
popular no hey Brandon
oh that's pretty great
I really is just stunning so I wanted
you know what that is such an awesome
idea that I really want us to do I want
to be Sam hosting the torch show I'll be
the lawyer yeah so uh so Bob mcLaughlin
uh and when did you first get an
intimation that the baby formula was was
not what it was said to be it didn't
have extra vitamin B head led well I was
hearing from a local doctor that like
seven straight babies had died and that
I begin to draw a parallel between this
baby formula they've been given out and
I called the company and they acted very
suspicious they hung up on me
immediately and all of a sudden I saw
private detectives outside of my house
so I thought maybe I'm on to something
so seven babies that really is just
stunning good part of it that's actually
pretty gold but so is this L on Omar
continues to hopefully I mean the
best-case scenario with what she does to
all of these ghouls and goblins of the
right wing is just shoot a bunch of
cortisol in their bodies they continue
to freak out about her this isn't a
segment and we'll get to the Netanyahu
reelect shortly but you just had a prime
minister who is formalizing ran a
campaign on formalizing an apartheid
state in contradiction of any type of
law if you take that seriously any type
of sort of basic human progress that we
theoretically supposed to have sort of
achieved and this segment turns into a
meltdown about alon omar talking about
the atmosphere in this country targeting
Muslims after the terrorist attacks of
9/11 and Brian Kilmeade is he's a he's
worked up alright meanwhile let's talk a
little bit about congresswoman Ilan Omar
she was last month at an event
supporting care which is the Council on
american-islamic relations
and there's somebody we're about to play
for you that has got some people upset
because of how it trivializes September
the 11th the greatest terror attack in
our nation's history which was conducted
by terrorists and here she is talking
about how Muslims in this country are
scrutinized these days and then listen
to how she describes September the 11th
far too long we have lived with the
discomfort of being a second-class
citizen and frankly I'm tired of it and
every single Muslim in this country
should be tired of it here was founded
after 9/11 because they recognize that
some people did something and that all
of us were starting to lose access to
our civil liberties if some people did
something like an unprovoked attack
killing people in the Pentagon thousands
of the Pentagon and that fight 93 as
well as in the World Trade Center really
there's some few people did something
you have to wonder if she's an American
first she could Dan Crenshaw tweeted
this out first member of Congress to
ever describe terrorists who killed
thousands of Americans on 9/11 as some
people who did something - unbelievable
it is unbelievable and can you imagine
if she was representing your community
you are and you were in her district how
embarrassed you must feel today many
people are upset because they just said
she was flippant about it some people
did something it was a attack that
changed the changed our entire country I
wrote that someone tweeted this out they
said some people did something sounds
like a bake sale but it does not really
sound like a terrorist attack that
killed 3,000 people and altered the New
York City skyline forever so as a Muslim
American you should be more outraged
because they solid your religion in the
name of religion they kill Americans and
still do it on a daily basis there's so
much to pick apart here and what I find
that Rana cos is part of to pick apart
is you know and I'm so burned out on all
of these tone conversations but these
are the people that are all you know oh
my god people on the left here - upside
they need to take a joke by the way
sometimes that's true and sometimes
people are reaching for straws and
trying to you know I I get with when we
get clips like that of right-wing
figures saying something that's like
okay that's slightly and elegantly put
but we can do better than that they
built a whole segment on a primary point
which is objectively true which is that
Muslims were both targeted and focused
on by state agencies through policies
like the Patriot Act as well as through
vigilante violence after 9/11 so groups
needed to form to protect a persecuted
category of people that had nothing to
do with the September 11th attacks
that's what she's talking about this is
also on the heels let's just the third
thing of a couple of days ago a guy
being arrested with plans to assassinate
her as they continue to try to amplify
the conspiracies and nonsense about her
and then that brings us to Dan Crenshaw
I will never forget here's a good
example of some of an other unpin icon
live with I don't care that some guy
incident live made a joke about his eye
patch I do not and if you do care and if
it was offensive here's what you do on
the next Weekend Update you say hey
maybe that joke was in poor taste I'm
sorry
although by the way check out our back
catalogue of every single joke we did
about David Patterson the entire premise
of which is he's blind okay that joke
went on for years
I apologize not let's give a national
program a platform to a fascist member
of Congress and here Matt what we have
up on screen here Dan Crenshaw Allah
alongside a few other tea party people I
can't remember any names off the top of
my head but some not great people was a
member of as Mike Michael says the
oldest and largest tea party group
here's I'm just gonna read from Mike
Michaels the oldest and largest tea
party group on Facebook would like to
congratulate Daniel Crenshaw one of our
tea party group admins for his
impressive win in yesterday's Texas
district to runoff dan will easily win
in November and his
to make a superb congressman now another
tag manga another post you might like to
see from a Mike Michael's here inside
would get an idea of what this what the
moderators you know I would like to an
idea of what kind of ideas were being
exchanged how well was this
administrator oh here's Mike Michaels at
least the KKK was white supremacy run by
whites now on the other hand the BLM
vermin is nothing but black supremacy
with white masters so that's just the
type of people that Dada Crenshaw likes
to hang out with there we go and so he
gets to be synced and this is another I
mean but again this is a perfect example
if you want to take the the angle of Dan
Crenshaw Dan Crenshaw is a far-right
extremist who was part of this group who
ran on the wall who ran on a pure Mogga
platform some I don't even remember who
was it was a Pete Davidson made some
eyepatch joke about him honestly I'm
sorry okay didn't even really make sense
cares be an adult who cares but because
of of a certain set of sensitivities
this guy and again it's totally it isn't
like hey I'll issue an apology sorry
about that one specific joke or I'll do
you another one okay Dan Crenshaw can
come to studio I'll apologize to him and
then I'll say hey my bad sorry to uh to
mock your eye patch incidentally why are
you running on white supremacy maybe
you'd like to answer that on Weekend
Update so who knew booties you know this
is this is a micro version of the
Samantha B Glenn Beck thing it's like
this incredible
weird contradiction inside certain types
of liberal and centrist types where this
is extraordinary up tightness and over
sensitivity but then at the same time a
total inability to see what certain
people are for who they are and this guy
is someone who is out trying to exploit
uh and and demonize Ilan Omar when she's
getting when someone was just arrested
for trying to assassinate her and you're
clutching it and you're reaching for
straws for
her an inelegant phrase in a speech on
an important issue which you're on the
wrong side of yep the speed with which
they pivoted from the topic at hand
which is Islamophobia and Muslims being
unfairly targeted to UM 9/11 was really
really bad and it was done by Muslim
terrorists kind of implies that the
Muslims in this country he deserved what
happened to them after 9/11 I don't
think it kind of does it all directly
does yes it's also shows like how
everything these people say is a hundred
percent projection right because Ilhan
Omar never even said the dual loyalty
thing they only said that she said it
and you know that's because they were
thinking of saying it about her
virginia's Corey Stewart we on the
subjects fear was another one of those
admins of that Facebook page down
Crenshaw when asked about this was like
I barely even knew I was a member that
how is this news so he doesn't think he
should ever I have an actual legitimate
question here because I don't do this
dual loyalty stuff for anybody because
it's mostly just nonsense in general
even when marshaled against other
because it's just the wrong way of
framing the issue you could say hey are
you lobbying for the Emirates that's
like an actual question but Dan crunch
had you of dual loyalty to the
Confederacy in the modern United States
and that is like my legitimate question
to most frontline Republican leaders
it's a fair question also you know the
mention of care and people call that a
terrorist organization not according to
the State Department one that is
associated to this according to the
State Department is the one sub Cork is
affiliated with but Dan Crenshaw doesn't
seem to be too worried about that no I
don't see no wonder we don't see any
tweets about I wonder how Dan crunch is
making the selections of which terrorism
alleged terrorist ties he's upset about
I know but by all means establish an
Instagram friendship with him and
definitely apologize if you ever been
rude to him a comedy show that's really
crucial really strategic I mean I mean
in ma I mean honestly like look let's go
absurd for a second the equivalent of
this is some you know being absurd
drawing a direct parallel calm down but
you know SNL of 1930s Durham
oh my god Hitler's mustache is so
disgusting you know my feelings and I'm
a veteran okay why don't you come on we
can update we can become pals
they were also eyepatch Nazis - all
right that's true
yeah I mean you gotta ask yourself are
people being systematically
discriminated against for having eye
patches in this country I think the
answer is no sure and again it's not
even like if you want to apologize do it
cool that's not even like the point is
the it first of all it's a joke and that
in general I'm sorry
calm down but the other point is like
the Gulf in between a throwaway joke
and we're gonna go all the way to flying
this guy into New York and making his
hit his most prominent outside of right
wing echo chamber media exposure is oh
look at this nice veteran that's budding
repeat Davidson after Pete Davidson made
a joke about his eye patch yeah that's
how that's what they did I tell you why
they're white supremacists add to the
mainstream that's it and then all of a
sudden that turned into a nothing story
- a very real story or sorry I'll say
white nationalist oh yeah no I don't
have to invite Dan Crenshaw here to
apologize I'm just gonna say
nationalists so you know we can really
be in the clear I'm looking at math
computer screen right now it's just a
rogue's gallery of Nazis with eye
patches and I was know I'm not gonna say
that everybody we're sorry
majority report is supported in part by
simple habits simple habit is a mobile
app that provides massive and diverse
library of five-minute guided
meditations and the majority report
audience can try simple habit totally
free for an entire week when you go to
simple habit calm slash majority there's
a growing body of scientific evidence I
would primarily look at Richie
Davidson's work at the University of
Wisconsin but it goes back to Herbert
Benson at Harvard I think he started
documenting the stuff in the 70s at
least the 80s
stress relaxation focus depression
anxiety meditation as a myriad of
benefits simple habit is over 2,000
guided meditations specifically designed
for different parts of your day and just
about anything you might be dealing with
in life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression for and you're having trouble
falling asleep meditations for when
you're wanting to overcome
procrastination or when something
important is going on at work and
meditations designed for parents they
have meditations made specifically for
when you're waking up or on your lunch
break or when you've just gotten home
from work or when you're going to bed as
I always say the one that helps me go to
sleep is the one that I have come to
rely on incredibly helpful and but I do
love I mean I have a background I've
practiced different meditation
techniques primarily mindfulness for a
while and I actually I sort of love the
menu I love the different options there
really are a lot of different ways to
meditate different people are trying to
accomplish different things with
meditation and simple habit is able to
cater to just about anyone regardless of
what your goals are with meditation or
how much past experience they have with
meditation the variety of guided
meditations and simple habit is what
sets is part of what sets it apart
simple habit just won the 2008 Google
Play award for well-being app it's
available on iOS Android and web browser
and the majority report audience can try
it for free by going to simple habit
calm slash majority if you're watching
on YouTube we've put a link in the video
description so Benjamin Netanyahu has
hung on to power in Israel
and this really shouldn't come as much
of a surprise to anybody it was a very
tight election and his primary you know
opponent in the election was not running
with any kind of fundamental strategic
alternative a to Netanyahu's position
that's a really important thing to
highlight here because the stylistic
concern that Netanyahu is totally
alienated as an example cert like the
center-left broadly speaking or that
Israel should sort of pretend to have a
of more respectful relationship to the
United States no matter who's in power
that's the standard-issue position of as
an example even just like the security
establishment in Israel you're much more
likely to hear a former Mossad leader or
defense official even potentially more
substantively say acknowledge that as an
example the Iran deal was working that
it was effective even though they had
problems with it they shouldn't
undermine it or even make a sort of
occasional tip of the hat to doing
something about the Palestinians this
was not in the election but was in the
election was Netanyahu running clearly
on essentially formalizing apartheid and
I and also most likely exchanging a deal
with prospective coalition partners to
make himself immune from criminal
prosecution because he's under
indictment right now let's go to two
different reactions to his win we'll
start with Trump and then we'll go to
the Palestinian analysts Diana Bhutto
and we'll come back and go from there
say it so the fact that bp1
I think we'll see some pretty good
action in terms of beasts look everyone
said and I never made it a promise but
everybody said you can't have peace in
the Middle East with Israel and the
Palestinians I think we have a chance
and I think we have now a better chance
with Bibi having one yes wait so there
is a possibility that as Professor Juan
Cole talked about that there is a new
Saudi initiative and it's very different
from the one in 2003 the one in 2003 was
a Saudi proposal that ended up going
nowhere essentially if the Israelis
withdrew from the West Bank in Gaza if
they created a genuine two-state
solution along 67 borders and the Saudis
would lead the rest of the Israeli of
the Arab world in recognizing Israel the
dynamic were in now is that Israel
informally has very tight connections
with Saudis with the Emirates obviously
they're already of diplomatic relations
with Jordan in Egypt and the
preoccupation and overwhelming focus of
both Israel and particularly the Saudis
is Iran and there's really no problem
with selling out the Palestinians in the
process it's not like there's any
sincere concern from any of these
parties about you know liberating the
Palestinians from the Israelis so this
is the so a peace deal could mean you
know some type of you know I don't even
know how they'll phrase it but it will
be no delivery for the Palestinians it
might will just be a sort of formally
formalization of subjugation even if
it's called
a state which is point evened out and
then it will be well no we delivered a
region-wide peace deal and that can of
course be sold to something bigger and
better and more bold and ambitious and
so on now
it does remain to be seen because I
think a deal like that actually could
set off another wave of political unrest
across the region this is Diana Bhutto
on bhutesu on Democracy Now and we're
also joined by Dianna butsu
Palestinian attorney has been an advisor
to to President Mahmoud Abbas in
negotiations with Israel your reaction
to the elections and also to what
appears to be a historically low turnout
by the Palestinian citizens of Israel
what the significance of that is in
terms of the reaction visa fee the the
outcome that we've seen this was in
effect for Palestinians at least this
was an election in which you either
choose Trump or you choose Trump the the
positions that both Likud took and
Bennigan's took were virtually
indistinguishable particularly when it
came to Palestinians they bragged about
how much they were going to beat up on
Palestinians and and then took their
voters to as a result so it's not at all
surprising that we see this outcome
given that we really had two candidates
that were quite mirroring one another
when it came to this election in terms
of the the voter turnout there were a
number of factors in terms of low
Palestinian voter turnout one was the
fact that a number of people have
ideologically chosen to boycott and then
others was because there was a level of
voter intimidation and people also
believing that their MKS their members
of Knesset were unable to deliver the
big problem however is that that we've
seen a rise in fascism in Israel and
instead of people boycotting we were
hoping to see that people would have
come out in greater numbers to try to at
least push back against that tide as it
stands right now although the vote the
the ballots have not been completely
counted we really only have about 15 out
of 120 members of Knesset who believe in
equality and who believe in an end to
the occupation and that's a very sad
indication of where Israel is Deanna
Bhutto can you explain who can vote in
the Israeli elections and who can't and
also respond to these 1200 cameras being
put in the election booths the polling
places of in Arab neighborhoods
yes definitely in terms of who can vote
it's only citizens of Israel who are
allowed to vote and so of that citizens
citizenry about 16 percent of the people
who are eligible to vote are
Palestinians who are citizens of Israel
but then that you look at the vast
remaining of remainder of people that
Israel controls whether it's people who
live in the West Bank in the in the Gaza
Strip or in Israeli occupied East
Jerusalem you're looking at close to a
six million individuals who are who are
ineligible to vote in Israeli elections
and yet are being governed by Israel in
terms of the cameras this is not only a
violation of Israeli law but it was
something that the Israeli prime
minister brazenly is supporting it had
came out and said yes we shouldn't be
worried about this they should there
should be cameras in all polling
stations
the reason this of course is so alarming
is the fact that this leads to voter
intimidation there are a number of
Palestinians who are working either as
teachers as hot as in other ministries
and who seeing that there is a camera in
place are going to feel rightfully so
that their that their votes are being
monitored whether they show up to the
polls or who it is that they're going to
be voting for and so this type of voter
intimidation is the type of action that
Netanyahu has done not only when it came
to this election but in previous
elections where he tried to claim that
that Arabs were voting in droves
he's an ideologically opposed to
Palestinian freedom ideologically
opposed to Palestinians having equality
and will do anything that it takes to
try to intimidate and to try to make
sure that there is perpetual control
over Palestinian lives that's absolutely
true that's an objective statement and
the parties that are rising in Israel if
anything are even more extreme than
Netanyahu and certainly synchronize with
him but I think it's really important
and well loop back to some of the
results in a second but this is not just
Netanyahu so it's encouraging that a
beta will Rourke or a Pete Buddha jig
have criticized him obviously Sanders
has led the way in this but now there's
you know and again several candidates
then go to AIPAC Sanders was the only
one who specifically identified
henan go to a pack so he still stands
apart and is better than the other
candidates on this vital issue but if
you frame it and I mentioned this
yesterday Netanyahu yes is is a monster
he's a leader in the authoritarian trend
he's an apartheid asti's a bigot he's
he's a repugnant individual to anybody
with human values but unfortunately he
is in the center clearly of Israeli
politics he's going to surpass David
ben-gurion in terms of length of
leadership of this country and I'm gonna
quote now from the New York Times
because this write up is an accurate
reflection of how a primarily very hard
right
very unconcerned about these issues that
we might be concerned about in terms of
justice or equity Israeli electorate is
voting and also the dire state of and my
unbelievable sympathies for any part of
the Israeli left which yes the jointless
still did manage the sense in people in
Parliament I'll get to that in a second
but quoting now from the New York Times
though in many ways they have Benjamin
Netanyahu's apparent reelection as Prime
Minister of Israel attest to a starkly
conservative vision of the Jewish state
and about its people where they are and
where they are headed they prize
stability as well as military and
Economic Security that mr. Netanyahu has
delivered they are in many ways never
been safer though they remain afraid
especially of Iran that's influence over
their neighbors against which mr.
Netanyahu is relentlessly crusaded they
are persuaded by his portrayal doses
challenge him whether Arab citizens or
the left as enemies of the state and
they take his resemblance to
authoritarian leaders around the world
as evidence that he was ahead of the
curve they credit mr. Netanyahu's true
whose strategic vision values power and
fortitude above all with piloting Israel
to unprecedented diplomatic Heights and
they believe still more as possible and
they loathe to let any one less
experience take controls let's be honest
with ourselves said Michael Bjorn a
former Israeli ambassador to Washington
our economy is excellent our foreign
relations have never been better were
secure we've got a guy in politics for
40 years we know him the world
knows him and even our enemies know him
so that is a really perfect reflection
of most of again still the majority of
the Israeli electorate this was a much
tighter race but as Diana Bhutto pointed
out I mean Benny Gant's it's a former
military chief he presided over the
atrocities of Gaza of 2014 he bragged
about his a brutality against
Palestinians there's no daylight here
there isn't even the old sort of like
two-state quasi peace process versus
full apartheid daylight and even then
was all that was always suspect because
settlements had always expanded under
Labor Government's so the next step of
how to actually talk about this and
figure this out is gonna mean that
Netanyahu actually can't just be a
stand-in for a fuller and honest actual
accounting of what Israeli politics is
and there's a reason he keeps winning
there's a reason that the left is
totally marginalized there even the
center-left like Moretz and that Labour
you know is essentially irrelevant and
offers critiques on the economy which by
the way I don't know how strong the
Israeli economy is it's built on a lot
of the same fundamental inequalities and
bubbles that the rest of the neoliberal
world is Israel tracks the whole Western
order with that and part of the reason
the last thing I'll leave you with is is
that the broader critique of Israel is
harder not just because of all the
things that people talk about that are
real of course there's an Israel lobby
like there's a Saudi lobbying and all
sorts of other lobbies that influence
power and exertion and of course there's
people as absolutely rightful concern
about the history of anti-semitism and
how we discuss and talk about Israel but
there's also the reality that someone
like Geoff Halper will put forward that
Israel is a microcosm of how the Western
world for lack of a better term is
managing the fallout of today's global
economy and power relations so that if
you start to look at the US role in
Afghanistan that continues to this day
if you look at Iraq if you look at all
sorts of insurgencies and
counterinsurgencies and drone programs
and the merging of military and policing
at home and internationally you can
start to look at the savagery and
management of Gaza as a microcosm and a
showcase for how all of those
relationships work and it's very literal
I mean Israel there's a reason Israel's
of prime security systems and weapons
exporter in the world that oppression
that dynamic is an advertisement for
security policies for weapons for
population control this is gonna there's
a reason that Israeli companies are
involved in things like detention
centers there's a reason that going back
to the 1980s some of the things that we
talked about that Reagan supported in
Central America some of the death squads
and mass killings in places like
Guatemala and El Salvador also included
flying in Israeli trainers so Israel has
also become a showcase for this broader
barbarism of this relationship and that
critique is gonna go far behind
Netanyahu and it's going to implicate
all of us so that's a sort of big
picture in that election do you guys
have anything you want to add to that I
think that was all pretty good um I
would just reiterate that Israel like I
feel like it's mask off time for Israel
you know like they can't keep playing
this game about how oh it's the only
democracy in the Middle East and we have
just such human rights and gay rights
and stuff like no I think more and more
Americans are waking up to the fact that
that's not true it is a ok it's
complicated definitely but I feel like
sometimes people use that as a cop-out
to avoid taking a position on it and
some aspects of it are not that
complicated like if you have a
population of people that is subject to
your domination who don't have
citizenship rights and don't get to vote
it's not a democracy period and nothing
complicated don't let people use the
complicated evasion with you on this
it's not I mean how you actually solve a
problem like this and the logistics of
it and the culture of it and the Paula
in the economics yes that's complicated
but the basic analysis of this situation
anybody says that it's complicated
they're either totally ignorant or
they're trying to hustle you it's it's
nonsense
the actualities of the reality are quite
clear and again I mean look if you put
the shoe if you if you flip the
situation and there was a group of
Jewish people that lived in two
disparate pieces of land they were
kicked off hundreds of thousands of
people were kicked off of their homes to
begin with they're in these small slots
controlled by another state and
regularly killed and have second-class
citizenship we would be rightfully
appalled at like the greatest currently
existing act of anti-jewish violence and
and and oppression on the planet I mean
there's nothing complicated about that
basic analysis nothing and it makes you
know I mean I know that obviously the
Democratic Party and Democratic
candidates even the best ones not gonna
be where I am on this issue yet of
course not but I gotta tell you like I
mean look in some ways Bill de Blasio's
just such a delusional buffoon I don't
even know what to say but he's the one
who's trying to make himself a thing in
2020 and obviously he'll never be but
the notion that he and he still is the
mayor of New York City that's an
important position goes to AIPAC and
attacks BDS while at the same time you
know discourse saying that he's like the
real social democrat candidate whoa yeah
and for people to rail against Trump's
racism while totally ignoring the racism
of Netanyahu and the Israeli state is
ridiculous like people could say oh it's
not about race it's about you know the
Jewish people but like how do they treat
Jews who are not white in Israel
absolutely that's a of course of course
we'll get to actually more of this stuff
in the in the fun half some of it won't
be so fun because we'll talk a little
bit about Iran we have some
fun stuff about Trump's trip to Mount
Vernon though okay but I want it but I
want to actually I love that alright I
want to actually end and a slightly
proper time here the first half of the
show get to the fun half the comma
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
it's how this show happens it's how we
have an independent voice for
conversations for debates for different
perspectives inside the Left ideas ideas
in exchanges of ideas and some of us are
actually committed to this we got a
source our ideas folks idea suppliers
yeah ideas don't come and use do you
think I'm from here and I think I'm on
something here where do ideas come from
um so become a member of majority dot F
M slash become a member
less than a cup of coffee day just
coffee co-op Fairtrade tea coffee or
chocolate yet the majority report blend
it's a win for everyone
last night on the Michael Brooks show
Sonia Shankar broke down the Indian
elections for us why the left over
performs in the state of Kerala and then
Felix Peterman and I had a great time
just actually dunking on Dave Rubin and
in the postgame we had a really great
discussion of what the psychology of
Democratic and Republican fundraising
emails reveal about the different
parties so why is it that all the
Republican emails are just looked hey
there Michael they tried to end the
white race
well proud to tell you we didn't let him
but can you believe that Rosie
O'Donnell's still coming for us and then
like all of the Democratic your emails
are like dear Michael this is Barack
Obama and uh freaking out
here's oh yeah we use this family from
Nancy Pelosi kiss Alec hope goodbye if
Bainer has his way we might as well yeah
Paul Begala I'm bleeding so some of the
problems with loser and winter attitude
update d-triple-c dart orc
crushing blow daddy trip you're like a
bad ex I know it's not good tough stuff
so that was very fun patreon.com slash t
MBS we're doing a Sunday show because
the last week
of the month we're in LA and we're off
so we want to make sure everybody gets
their full shows this month dome catchy
at you is joining us to talk about the
end of empire in the creation of the
third world and then a bunch of other
stuff as always Michael Brooks show on
YouTube patreon accomplished EMBs get
your tickets the surge is happening I
saw it today in the numbers so now we're
actually a very few left get your
tickets to the bootleg theater April
20th Michael Brooks live show with Ana
Kasparian big wasnít Avila and the whole
crew Jamie what's going on so this week
on the anti Fattah we have an episode
that is out now that is free for
everyone we had on Bret and Bryan from
street fight radio nice or a very cool
very fun exciting show there very cool
very legal very cool we definitely did
not say anything treasonous it was all
satire they're just like chill and our
kiss dad's from Ohio who do a wonderful
show out there one day a week they just
listen to people talk and complain about
their jobs and I think it's a really
good way to build solidarity and class
consciousness and sometimes they hook
people up with like organizers and stuff
which is very cool so we talked with
them about drugs and parenting and
politics and all that good stuff and
then out on Friday we have a bonus with
Leslie Lee the third from struggle
session where we all talk about the
movie us which is very good if you
haven't seen it yet I like Leslie the
third and I'm bad at promoting other
shows I've been on but I will say I was
on struggle session to talk about
Scarface recently and that was actually
a great conversation and that's a really
fun show I know you were on there
recently too yeah yeah we talked about
interview with a vampire Matt what's up
the new literary hangover episode the
soul of man under socialism by Oscar
Wilde is available online now I have
this is the if you have the YouTube up
Jamie it's got you can see that the sort
of design on the cover there's two
things you can notice one is that under
socialism was omitted even in Oscar
Wilde's lifetime didn't want to have
that part on let's just call it the soul
of man be
to sell that sort of pattern with the
leaf but it's sort of geometric that
comes from a guy named William Morris
who was like a sort of early libertarian
socialist that he was like a print maker
made wallpaper famous for making
wallpaper and also was like we need to
go back to sort of feudal ways of of
having meaning and work sort of Mercante
early McCandless sort of a nostalgic
type of thing that was very influential
to Oscar Wilde check that episode out
yeah and subscribe to the YouTube
channel if you haven't that's awesome
what I told you that the guy there was a
guy at an event who came up to me and
and was and he was like he's like I'm
legit like I'm a fan of all the shows
you guys are like the wu-tang of
left-wing podcasts and that's actually
not a bad analogy I kind of buy it
alright guys we'll see in the fun half
you
[Music]
you
you
going into the system to the
everybody calling into the system now so
there was some pretty disturbing super
disturbing news that came out yesterday
and you know I make no secret of the
fact I think everybody in this office is
a Sanders supporter correct I think so
and and uh so I know I think we're all
you know transparent about who we
support for president um I think there's
you know probably maybe different
degrees of Sanders support but I think
all of us are basically on the same page
and I but and the only reason I'm doing
this preamble is because I think like
I'm you know I'm a hundred percent I'm a
Bernie lad and I support the guy a
hundred percent but Bernard brother I'm
a Bernard brother so when you hear
something that is just so disturbing
about your candidate I think I have to
be intellectually honest enough to
acknowledge that to the audience and I
you know in some ways I was not thrilled
that I was in the chair today because I
didn't want to confront this but here I
am we have to confront it Bernie Sanders
and I'll just hate to do this but I will
put on person
Bernie Sanders wrote a book it sold well
he made money on them there's other
pieces of news that go along with this
apparently Bernie has winter coats as an
example he's been known to buy groceries
and live in a home and obviously for
those of us whose understanding of
socialism is not delivering single-payer
health care or free college or federal
jobs guarantee or aggressively
confronting the climate crisis or even
restarting the nuclear deal with Iran or
dealing with gentrification or not
interfering in Latin America or any of
the other things that Sanders has been
campaigning on for those of us whose
idea of socialism is some type of like
knock off Twitter mediated version of
like attenborough's Gandhi movie this is
in profoundly upsetting and disturbing
and a lot of people on Twitter I have
been making a big point of like oh my
god
because of course you know all politics
is simply lifestyle politics so of
course like somebody who has a
congressional salary and then in 2016
became one of the most important
arguably the most important politician
in the country and whose books sold well
clearly his making money from it I mean
I mean look it's it's frankly as
ridiculous as those of us who promote
higher taxes on wealthy people not
personally writing checks to the
Treasury obviously that's literally as
ridiculous as being concerned about
Bernie's book sales but I just you make
you sign a vow of poverty when you join
the DSA so we're going to take a hard
look at our endorsement of him right I
mean concerns about Bernie with DSA
we're obviously nothing on a on a policy
level it was obviously like I heard that
Bernie owns a home so we might really
need to look into that what a spirited
back and forth about his home ownership
and I'm assuming also the fact that he's
an old man
as a winter coat mm-hmm that would also
be pretty controversial also I hear he
has a cell phone
whoa I mean Jesus I'm think I'm very
much a pragmatist but if you're telling
me the guy's a cell phone I don't know
if I might need to vote for Jill Stein
so but unfortunate this is actually
really disturbing cuz this makes me
think of Bernie's whole history in a
completely different manner and we have
the music and I guess some found audio
explaining how he got this Bernice
where's he 77 years old all right
welcome to how to build generational
wealth with Bernie Sanders while the
rest of the young go-getters were coming
out and going into Wall Street where
they could work for the bankers the
millionaires and billionaires I had a
different more long term plan I moved to
roll Vermont and bummed around until I
was in my 30s and Rand third party
candidacies on issues this is the first
step in my patented system of guaranteed
intergenerational wealth the next step
they come the mayor of a small New
England city where you promote public
parks and meet with the Sandinistas this
will be the next step in your plan
you're still making probably about
$50,000 a year you know almost 40 years
old but you just wait because the Bucks
are coming then you run an improbable
third-party campaign for Congress now
you might be thinking to yourself this
isn't so bad I make over $100,000 a year
I'm solidly in the middle class but I
know that you didn't move to Vermont and
become a socialist to make chump
 change like 50 like 150 grand
to here working for Congress no you want
millions my friend and so did I which
takes us to our next step
declare your candidacy for president in
2016 too little and no fanfare have a
hunch Silva posture rant about
single-payer and against Hillary Clinton
piss absolutely everybody off and write
a best-selling book poem you're a
millionaire
and that is my patented system for
intergenerational wealth so that you too
have become at the very least a
millionaire you might not wait have to
wait until you're in your at least you
in your 70s but that might just be the
way it shakes out and that was the
purpose of my entire political career
plan down to the date of what I would
run for president thank you so basically
if you're planning on calling and asking
about this I think I've already
preemptively called you an idiot
and I mean this is one of those things
that is just self cancelling like if you
are making this as like a serious and
anything other than an ironic appoint
you're dumb you're showing your ass on
this one folks I mean you're showing
like a little void where your ass should
be like just embarrassing that's dark
oh it's a it's a good bit for him to act
like to act like he is a like rags to
riches sort of like her age horatio
alger was that the guy yes work as hard
as and you can just make money this is
against the meritocracy where the
meritocracy work started from the bottom
now we here was in the basement in
Putney doing a teach-in now we hear he
did it without exploiting anyone else's
labor even oh you know if Bernie were
miners yeah there's a company they might
have a like to stand on but like no he
did this with his own labor only well no
that's I mean that's technically not
true right cuz he's publishing a book
and there's exploitation in the
publisher sure sure yeah but like he's
not like the CEO of a company or
anything right but it's also I mean this
is actually where I don't I don't have a
problem necessarily with ethical
consumption like I think if you can make
a relative choice that you can have a
sense of a supply chain being better
than another supply chain obviously like
the extreme example is it's absolutely
better to buy just coffee than Starbucks
coffee right like that is objectively a
better use of money and one should use
money that way but like
this is where the notion that you can
consume your way out of the predicament
of our system actually really starts to
show up in these lifestyle damaging
destructive profoundly stupid ways
because people really I mean again
anybody's making this point is an idiot
but they think they have something here
like they they they are reducing a
venerable political tradition which is
about delivering universal benefits to
all people and democratizing the economy
to I mean literally yeah like some
version of like an ATM ooh 80s movie
about Gandhi like that that is literally
what they're doing and it's embarrassing
and they don't even know it's
embarrassing I think it was Matt Bors on
Twitter said like oh we can't we can't
have health care now because Bernie
Sanders made a million dollars sorry I
guess Ben Shapiro logic yeah sure pure
oh just yeah well the probably doesn't
even been Shapiro I mean though there's
there's plenty of you know Hillary denon
there's that are trying to logic or do
not even need to go to him James
Surowiecki of The New Yorker said
Bernie's Bernie's it's totally fine that
I'm a millionaire underscores the
problem with the whole it's wrong for
billionaires to exist position first of
all there's a big difference for a
millionaire and a billionaire not the
millionaire's necessarily need to exist
either but there's a huge mess a hundred
times right yeah thousand times you can
quantify the difference and also no look
frankly before we we can get into like
bigger scenarios about how we engineer
the economy but in today's world
absolutely if you can't understand the
difference between somebody pulling in
like to a million point five a year and
having a billion dollars then you don't
have the cognitive capacity to write for
the esteem New Yorker like one
definitionally a one is here is a group
of people that should be taxed more and
Bernie would be the first person to say
he's running on taxing himself their
baby exemptions for publishing you know
they should be exemption for publishing
books maybe you should be the only
presidential candidate
it's endless props row I mean he's
basically running the OTT like Howard
Schultz is a billionaire who's running
to give himself money and
self-aggrandizing Bernie's a self-made
millionaire who's running on taxing his
profits away so maybe that's another way
of framing it but if you can't
understand the difference between like
people who are doing well who need to be
taxed more versus people who's just
basic reality of their wealth is a
structural threat to democracy then you
don't know how to think also like I
don't know that there would be ever a
viable candidate for president who
doesn't have a million dollars so what
they're saying when they say that is
basically you don't get a social
democrat ever well they're saying it I
mean 2016 and James Surowiecki also said
that Bernie could have published his
book under Creative Commons license and
it's just like it's so it's how can how
can my supposedly intelligent people not
understand the difference between doing
this through policy and doing this
through like selfless personal
initiative because they're either
disingenuous or stupid and our politics
has been so stripped of analytic
capacity it's turned into a gross
pathetic little moralism game which is
absolutely a not even a Trojan horse
because there's nothing not stealth
about it the upshot of all of these dumb
dumb embarrassingly dumb points about
the book is yeah well too bad I guess
we're gonna gentrify your neighborhood I
guess your kids not gonna get health
care I guess you're not gonna get health
care I guess we're not gonna do anything
about the climate crisis because Bernie
sold a book
I mean honestly like I almost wish
somebody would call in cuz do you like
you here I really actually don't and it
won't end well for you
but like James Surowiecki is supposed to
write like he's supposed to write for
the New Yorker yeah well like
this is embarrassing
on its face one of the things I've
noticed since I got super political is
that there are people that I respect and
have respected as writers and as
thinkers who are still really dumb about
politics
did you know that I mean this this is
this is Tucker Carlson Tucker Carlson
had this a couple weeks ago if Bernie
wants to do something about climate
change why doesn't he walk from
Burlington and I'm sure a bunch of
liberal idiots that are trotting this
out a couple of schools ridiculous oh
right it's ridiculous
exactly you morons Jesus Christ
these are the same people who think he
should like walk from appearance to
appearance that's what I'm saying
taking out that's exactly what I'm
saying that's what tucker carlson said
and all of these same people were you
know I'm sure okay I'm sure there is a
grid between people that are trying to
make hay of this book who were laughing
at Tucker Carlson I mean yeah I mean I
don't know it's like we just shouldn't
do anything because there has been an
act of hypocrisy in everything Bernie
should just live by his wealth and say
I'm actually more wealthy than Howard
Schultz and just wink at the camera yeah
buddy and this is funny because like I
don't I've never thought and again we'll
wait till they're released that's you
know good best practices but like I'd
never there's no there's no terrible
secret in the guy's tax returns it
probably is some Matt I mean he probably
is actually someone personally
embarrassed about this which I don't
think he should be frankly I think it's
totally besides the point but he but
they knew that a bunch of morons
and I bet some MSNBC segments will be
just built around like he says he
doesn't want anybody to live in extreme
poverty but he ruined a bus Siller on
the bright side didn't hurt Trump right
well the Trump didn't also have like
yeah that type of like you don't have
those types of weenies on Republican
Twitter so like yeah he's so what if
he's din crimes that means he's smart
right speaking ill about millionaires
and billionaires and yet he is one hmm
well okay as I know you guys aren't
gonna like this but it's just like a
devil's advocate okay it does show some
of the failures of left populism when he
constantly blames the millionaires and
the billionaires instead of you know the
bosses and the landlord's and the
exploiters
I don't think we're at the point yet
where we're gonna use that language and
popular it's just like the domain disk
the dialectic from he's right positive
also like we're this is we're very much
a post occupy presidency and that's like
I mean technically I agree just in terms
of if you're writing messaging for DSA
you want to focus on like relationships
to means the production I get that but I
mean I think millionaires and
billionaires it that's just off the
tongue yeah that's it's simple just it's
a much wider yet simple no you're not
putting up any obstacles like you know
people don't need to have any sort of
ideological priming to get on board
again exactly because you know why when
you say landlord like I know what you
mean I agree with you but then it's like
oh well I don't know like I own like a
modest duplex and rent out part of it I
guess I'm a landlord what does that mean
I own a little pizza parlor everybody
gets millionaire billionaire simple no
keep to it and and frankly all of these
idiots trying to make Haven anything
like keep doing it because they're
bizarre weirdo fixation I'm not talking
about like look I've been super
transparent I think if you're on the
left you're gonna have to work really
hard to convince me why you wouldn't
support Bernie Sanders I just don't buy
any arguments I've heard but I but again
you have I disagree with him on this or
that I don't like the way he frames this
whatever that's all fine that's great
beautiful but the types of people that
are making hay of this have such a
bizarre I mean they're actually starting
to sound like how some people did sound
about Hillary Clinton like there were
some people who would have like you know
Hillary said good morning at this event
I hate her right and even people
like us were like Jesus Christ like of
course we don't like Hillary because
she's done all sorts of horrible things
policy wise and yeah like nobody's gonna
pretend that she's like some great
charismatic leader but like calm the
 down
like did what do you were like why
obsessed with her and these people are
starting to demonstrate and again for
literally a nice old Jewish man who
wants you to have health care they are
running around with this bizarre petty
weird obsessive hatred yeah and I think
that that actually will help because
it's just so weird
yeah the level of personal animosity
I've seen towards Bernie on twitter is
like effing ridiculous like oh I'm gonna
savor it so much when that egomaniac
loses like they're way more obsessed
with him than we are it's weird to call
my egomaniac too I just don't understand
I mean maybe maybe who knows like he
might kind of suck I don't know I don't
love politicians in general affection
for him but you below you do on some
level you do know I'm not talking like
do we know could he be like rude to
people
we're not obsessed with him on a
personal but we also do know that if a
guy was literally for his self
aggrandizement he wouldn't have spent
decades looking like a rolled up
used suit talking about the most
unpopular political issues I mean when
he was talking this stuff in the 90s it
was a it was it was thought to be
crackpot nonsense like I'm sorry like
it's it's both like to say that he's an
egomaniac is both just okay who's
running for president that doesn't have
a healthy ego that's that's a irrelevant
point to make about any of these people
on one well yeah my point is and then
the second point and well you know in
some level I think it actually does
matter because they're going after like
this sort of core rationale in some
parts of his candidacy which is that
there actually is a commitment there
which he's clearly demonstrated and
they're going after him in a way that is
like and again just pure projection
because the people that I see talking
about his ego are like the most ego
identified politics as entertainment
people on earth who's you know they love
Buddha jig because he tests well well
that's where all of this other kind of
silly stuff but like my donator you
don't have to like Bernie on a personal
level in order to support Bernie right
because that's not what politics is
about or that's not what it should be
about it should be about power and you
know voting for our material benefit
absolutely without a doubt what was that
that you just put up around
just dumb do we have that story of Trump
at at Mount Vernon okay that's pretty
funny what is this story Trump was at
Mount Vernon Matt yeah so I mean it's
it's a kind of a short story here but we
can just look at a president Trump
reportedly wondered during a visit to
Mount Vernon last year why George
Washington did not have his historic
compound or did not name his historic
compound after himself if he was smart
he would have put his name on it Trump
said direct or domestic that he shared
with French president Emmanuel macron
three people brief exchange I'm sure
anybody could agree with that sentiment
as a Manuel macaron we you've got to put
if you are smart you would have them do
that himself you get to put your name on
stuff or no one remembers you yeah
nobody remembers George Washington yeah
by the way Matt your list Dorian who's
George Washington I'll get to that a
second okay please yeah well circle back
yeah history who was George what a keep
American politician you've never heard
of because he didn't name stuff after
himself according to sources Trump was
disinterested in the first president
during that's uninterested I don't think
it was in the first president during the
tour and said McCrone and his wife had
far more knowledge about the history of
the compound
Bradburn later described a 45-minute
tour with compass truly bizarre
Bradburn quote was desperately trying to
get Trump interested in the first
presidents house one source said Trump
also asked where the first president was
quote really rich that is what Trump was
really the most excited about source
added awesome oh and he looked at the
bedpost is like that's a good bed to die
in Trump said according to political
beliefs is thinking about that yeah and
I actually have yeah I'm gonna try to
look for this quickly because somebody
had a good tweet which is basically like
Trump if he actually did understand the
history I was there Patrick bland feel
on Twitter said it's worth noting here
that most of Washington's real estate
came from land schemes that flagrantly
violated British colonial law against a
choir in native land west of the
Alleghenies and he concealed them from
scrutiny using various tax tricks and
shell companies Wow Wow maybe he was a
smart guy that was us not Saudi nuts
that's a dumb after all you're calling
from a nine one seven area code who are
you where you calling from hey good
afternoon this is water boat from
Kashmir but am i stepping in Queens New
York
how are you water bow from Kashmir
currently stationed in Queens New York
what's on your mind first of all a big
fan of your show both of your shows Mr
and TMDs I haven't heard the other ones
yet but just want to call and say hi and
I saw your well the interview with Sonia
Shanker last school was wonderful
excellent and I think it covered the
Indian election really well I I do hope
that next time when you have wrong you
can perhaps ask a little bit about the
elections in Kashmir okay because it is
a little bit more complicated because
the local assembly was dissolved last
year so right now they have basically
governor rule which Modi hence all the
points so there's like no local
authority that's elected it and in the
upcoming election they have no state
elections like there are no candidate
they're not just having them at all
so yeah it's going to be quite
interesting considering a fascists are
in power
I'll definitely but ride I will
endeavour in general to do more on
Kashmir for sure and uh yeah I I know
you're like a million topics to cover so
but you did more than I expected so
thank you push it on a more serious note
I mean I'm totally serious yeah oh yeah
more serious Kashmir Hobie yeah sorry
well yeah we change that that's because
I grew up there and because it's mirin
affects the whole world but the water
crisis in Asia so I lived there till I
was about 11 years old
we moved to the US and what you guys
mentioned I think it was Monday's
interview with the Hindu Kush melting
ice yeah darzee mall yeah yeah yeah yeah
well I can tell you in my lifetime I'm
30 now as when we were kids we would
have an example for your listeners we
would have the area where we lived we
would have winter vacations for three
months and two weeks off in the summer
you know the office little nurse the
world or you know India and Pakistan
have because their normal weather
because it's a very cool place well my
little cousins starting in 2013-14 have
summer vacations for three months and
two weeks off in the winter regions it
has gotten so warm in a little
over a decade I mean it snows a lot but
it manages no but that is a total I mean
that's yeah that's that's I mean cuz I
mean here you can invis where you were
kids
nobody had fans we had electricity but
you don't need a fan summer but now you
need fans everyone has a fan in the
house you know like it's not it like you
know those fans that rotate there are no
mosquito bites Muar kids throw mosquitos
but not enough of them but now it's just
like you know humid it's it's insane so
because that will I do believe
potentially cause the next actual world
war because between India Pakistan and
China which also gets its water from the
Himalayas in about 50 60 years when
actually a few billion people are
fighting over water yeah I I don't know
I think we can there's a really honest
it's kind of dated now just cuz like the
examples he was using but there's a book
that came out I think in like 2003
called resource Wars by Michael Claire
and yeah I mean he documented even
already not not at the scale that could
happen and what you're talking about I
totally agree with you but just that
most conflicts across the globe
including ones that are you know of
course they overlap with other things
they overlap a religion ethnicity and so
on but very much in keeping with how I
generally look at things it's like
mostly though if you peel it back it's a
diamond conflict it's a timber conflict
it's a water conflict and those are the
engines of most modern conflicts I mean
there's even a big dimension to Israel
Palestine that's definitely about water
aquifers for what first for sure so yeah
man I'll be tuning in on it mourn in
general I'm trying to figure out how to
do more climate change coverage that
strikes the balance I mean you really do
have to figure out in how to cover that
the the balance of and I know some
people say there isn't a balance but I
think there is because I think honestly
like just conveying how catastrophic it
is I think is immobilizing for people
frankly so yeah you have to sump but
then at the same time you can't
sugarcoat it you can't just say like oh
but no like you know these scoop there's
all these energy efficiencies like no
we're in a we are and not just climate I
mean I think you know the elimination of
other species deforestation I mean it's
it is it is the defining crisis of our
world so I just I still haven't figured
out the way to talk about it I've liked
Joshua Kahn who I work with on my show
who's you know his primary work has been
in climate and First Nations activism
like the way he talks about it and I
like that there is a sense of actually
how to like do strategy in response to
it but you know it's like yeah I thought
like dar Jamal's interview was essential
I wish everybody in the world would read
in his book and listen that interview
and at the same time it was just like
this is where I think utopian sci-fi is
a little bit helpful yeah because we
when we're just covering the news it's
very hard to envision how we're actually
going to deal with these things in the
medium to long term right so one reason
I really like the Mars trilogy by Kim
Stanley Robinson is it's hard sci-fi
there's nothing like magic in there it's
a very realistic envisioning of what's
gonna happen to the human race in the
next 100 years and it's like a very
political conception of how people are
going to deal with it and what's going
to happen Rabb
like everyone just dies no I probably
not how it will happen
I'm listen I think people do need yeah I
mean that's definitely like culture is
the antenna so it could be the end
if I may just yeah going to leave on
this note I think at least for now what
we can do not just here I think around
the world Mother's what climate change
but all these major problems is well
ripen guys ashes in general don't really
care about people or these problems
because there's a tunnel vision that
they're you know own objectives so
Paulson are not gonna care about trees
in Brazil not gonna care about you know
a billion people with lack of water so I
mean to get these people out of power I
mean to call out fascism wherever we see
it is and you know other biking extremes
because that is something we can all do
you know and get people in that actually
cared you know people like Bernie
Sanders you know or I'm going Mexico as
you guys keep talking about these guys
so definitely mobilizing people is
important well hey it was very nice
talking to you guys thank you very much
and in about a year hopefully one if any
school all you know become a member for
all your shows for now well first first
of all you can become a member of
majority report for free that's number
one just send them an email to majority
reporters at gmail.com and if you hit
TMDs account we can we can there's low
key can figure stuff out for students
all right mom thanks man every single
one of the literary hangover is
available for free every single one all
right this is the people it's great its
septa it's like you have them look I
love how you have the most accessible
slash most exclusive content you're like
oh it's all free but you have to be a
genuine intellectual no gauge it's not
true not true at all fat thickness thick
Donald Trump jr. could get something out
of my show that's true probably a lot of
these show you might be able to reset
his whole life dude is really good at
the drops I think we gotta give credit
where credit is due
all right this is gonna get a lot of
YouTube and enraged YouTube and Twitter
comments this question I actually was
considering I might do this in some
version on Sundays TM vs the mad mailman
can you weigh in on the Tulsi camp
keeping Anna off of the Gabbard TYT
interview yes I can if I'm gonna let you
that's the that's really the big
question yeah go for so if this video
goes up and IMD platformed as I was so
rudely around Dave Rubin a hold Samm
accountable for the violent suppression
of speech no but look Anna did a video
and I look everybody knows I mean and I
work together I think Anna does awesome
work a lot of respect for each other she
did a video that focused on the obvious
questions in Tull cease record just
obvious ones if your progressive you
would have a question about her support
for drones you'd have a question for her
ambiguity on torture you'd have a
questions about her voting against
refugees now she did an interview with
jank
I watched it some people think that the
answers were great
I thought the answers I'll give her
credit I thought she was quite
transparent in her answers I think she's
quite clear about who she is and I like
some of that I like the anti
interventionist message I like the
environmental message I like the message
on Venezuela but she reaffirmed what
Janke even just like framing on there
being like serious you know like
security questions at the border no
there aren't there are not
that's a inaccurate way of looking at
that problem she said when she voted
against the majority of Democrats and
even against you know James Comey then
director the FBI kind of suggesting that
these additional procedures would be a
burden she indicated that Obama
supported what she voted for I'm sort of
an unclear about what she's referencing
there but she voted against most
Democrats for far more onerous burdens
on Syrian refugees now if you understand
how this vetting process actually works
you're talking that even before that
bill was passed
probably at least a year before and this
is pre Trump mind you at least a year
before somebody could even get to the
states to complete that process the
vetting was rigorous as hell
the only reason in my mind that you
would vote for that is if you are
genuinely buying into some version a
really deep paranoia about Muslims or
people coming from Syria and again I
disagree with that
we have different positions
I appreciate that Tulsi is not spinning
and equivocating I think she's providing
pretty clear answers there clear answers
that I and most people who have
left-wing politics would disagree with
just as I agree with what she said about
Maduro and i agree generally about
cutting defense spending and investing
in the country that's great cool then
the other things she's stand by her use
of Islamic terrorism as a moniker the
obvious reach and then what was
incredible is that in the interview she
actually pivoted to well there's this
war hobby strain that's funded by the
Saudis I wouldn't necessarily I think
strategically and morally I would
decouple terrorism from any rhetoric of
Islam as much as possible just as a
practical matter for even just civic
realities in the United States and
Europe that being said when she pivoted
to Wahhabism already way more specific
and way less problematic than the
insistence of Islamic again I don't
understand how somebody with left-wing
politics would not see that a democratic
congresswoman intervening against Obama
not on anything of substance Obama's
bombing Syria Obama is using drones
extraordinarily aggressively and killing
plenty of civilians in Yemen and
Pakistan to intervene to say no no to
literally make the Sam Harris argument
that you need to call it something
what is the upshot of that what is the
upshot of that in a whirl
we're Muslims are surveilled we're
Guantanamo isn't closed and there's a
global drone campaign and there is and
if you think that you need to use that
specific word to condemn Isis or condemn
al-qaeda or deal with the intricacies of
foreign policy with Saudi Arabia you
need to make a case that nobody has made
because any time I hear it from a
Republican freaking out on TV or sam
Harris whining on his podcast or Tulsi
Gabbard articulating herself well to
jank it never holds up ever and there is
never an answer as to how this wouldn't
in fact put Muslims in the United States
in further harm's way culturally in a
place where there's a rise in hate
crimes so Anna did a video that again
especially if you're a Tulsi supporter
you should want to get out in front of
and not respond like some you know
lunatic dingbat cultist on Twitter you
would say okay either you're
misrepresenting her position and here's
how they always say that they're
misrepresenting your position but then
always just basically say what Trump
would say which is like no need to know
that that is my position but it's the
nice version that's not me you have not
demonstrated in order to say that you've
misrepresented her position you have to
say no no she actually took the
different vote on refugees you
understand how that works that's what
you need to do so Anna did this video
and Anna who I trust completely said
Tulsi agreed to come on The Young Turks
but one get interviewed by her and I
think that that's a bad call I think
Jang did a good job and I think that
Anna absolutely would have treated her
fairly and respectfully but asked her
tough questions and maybe some
follow-ups
when I was strongly supporting Bernie
Sanders in 2016 I said immediately the
way this dude is responding to black
lives matter activists is bad and he
needs to up his game
that's what you do for a candidate that
you actually want to see win and
not saying except obviously I
don't accept about Bernie but
none of these issues
I back and forth that summer I said hey
I am I'm I would be happy if Tulsi could
be my second choice do you know I mean
let's be stylistically this she does
yoga she's from Hawaii
she's opposed to intervention and in
Venezuela she wants single-payer like
great Tulsi Gabbard and I could we could
meet each other at some ridiculous
health spa in New York City okay
like Tulsi Gabbard is seems like cool
theoretically she serves she surfs
awesome
everybody's respond literally I'm
getting reddit threads of her shaking
hands of Muslim constituents that's not
what I'm talking about and if you can't
understand that difference you're not
able to think analytically and then
you're not able to properly defend your
candidate or if you want to come out and
say actually in some way she has some
extremely right-wing views I support her
anyways
cool but that's not my politics
I don't vote against refugees and I
thought Bernie's initial answers on
drones
I thought Bernie's answers in 2016 about
partnering up with the king of Jordan to
take on Isis sucked and I said it
contemporaneously I think that the fact
that he's centering re-entering the Iran
deal talking clearly about the treatment
of the Palestinians being the only major
candidate to talk about what's happening
in Brazil and still coming to right
position on Venezuela while centering
global oligarchy and climate change I
think that deserves a lot of props so
move move and again the last thing I'll
say me to her credit she I guess she
isn't really moving but I don't like
where she is and all Anna did was
articulate what is public record and
you're gonna need to figure out a better
way of dealing with
then you know endless evasion conspiracy
theories and whining Anna's report
should have been seen as an opportunity
by people that support Tulsi Gabbard and
an interview with Anna might have
actually turned out great for Tulsi it's
sad very sad you're talking from us
you're calling from a 7 1 8 area code
who are you where you calling from
so no sorry yes everyone 3 my bet 7 1 3
yo Michael with you yes is me what's up
yo man it's a Jacob white the butcher of
Central Texas I was just calling in real
quick man I gotta say do you ever do you
encounter this like hypocrisy where it
seems like everything that the left does
is like super heavily scrutinized by
centrist and everything that the right
does is like ignored or given a pass
like I had a I had a friend a couple
days ago he like you can get radicalized
right according to them by watching like
feminists YouTube compilations
but when neo-nazis march in
Charlottesville there's no political
reaction from them at all do you ever
encounter that you're talking about
censure um I don't know man it depends
which kind of centrist you're talking
about I got to be fair I think some
people that I would consider Beach
centrist are appropriately freaked out
by what's happening in Charlottesville
yeah I mean the pod saved guys applauded
punching Richard Spencer yeah I'm gonna
have to do a credit where credit is
doing that one I think you know my
friend gene Basler and said once he said
the difference in liberals and he means
you know liberals these terms are all
meant all mixed up now but liberals not
like in the sense of Center left but
liberal we're really in more proper
usage of it he's like if you may the
contessa group but even like yeah not
necessary but also not not just like a
fraudulent actual right-wing
conservative like a liberal but anyways
look look if he if they think that
communists are still the biggest fret
threat then they're ridiculous they
really cannot be worked with and are
diluted but if they have really
different politics in the you but they
get that fascists are the primary
threats then there's a lot of room for
collaboration yeah and I think that's
true thanks for the call man
appreciate it that's how George Orwell
became a Democratic Socialist he went to
Spain not really having any sort of
clear sort of socialist politics and he
couldn't have in the press the Spanish
Civil War was seen as just democracy
versus fascism not like a classless a
revolution for a class of society so
Orwell gets over there joins the party
free Marxist unification and yeah hell
yeah absolutely uh let's see
you're calling from an 8 for 5 area code
who are you where are you calling from
hi Michael yes hi hi this is Jamie I'm
calling from Nyack hi Jamie
what's up so your mind hi I want to
thank thanks for taking my call I wanted
to respond to Sam's question yesterday
or whenever he had the Greenwald thing
which was what are the stakes of the
media getting the Russian story so wrong
ok and my my answer would be that it
makes our political work more difficult
it's somewhat similar to the case Sam
makes about Jimmy Dore when I think
about it
uh-huh you know in my in my view we need
the Democratic Party to be better if if
we are to fix them the many problems
that we face that you all do such a good
job covering on the UM show right and
it's a hard job it's an organizing job
and we have to get going and we need
everybody but the problem with the
Russia thing is there's a significant
chunks of Dems who watch Rachel Maddow
like 2 or 3 million every night and the
message that she put in their brains
worked against them becoming active on
this project that we need to do you know
it made them passive spectators putting
their hopes in Muller's magic to make
Trump you know go away and you know
basically put them on the UMP couch so
he basically that's my that's my basic
point so here's what's kind of a little
bit aux let me just I'll just say just
because he isn't here so I think what
Sam would say in his
would is that by the time you get to the
midterms national Democrats are not
running on this issue they ran on health
care they did it quite effectively in
that you know 2017 which is kind of the
height of this madness is not 2018 is
not 2019 and I think that's true and I
want to say that because I want to put
his strongest point forward because he's
not here so you know but I would say
behind that besides that I think
everybody in this room could not agree
with you more and I think that that's to
me why like to the extent I covered it
on my show which was literally never
until I had Matt Taibbi on after it and
some people complained and look I think
there's there's some one or two areas
that maybe I should have I should have
pushed Taibbi on the more sort of legal
aspects of it maybe but honestly I'm
interested in the political and media
consequences of the story and I think
that the feeding of a savior narrative
outside of politics and outside of
solidarity and struggle I think it is a
big problem and I think that yes and I
don't and I think even though Rachel
Maddow is like the easiest person and
the most ridiculous in terms of her you
know sort of going all in on that it was
a much bigger problem and you know we
see it I mean they're marginal
candidates but like Eric saw well and
Tim Ryan or certainly still you know
hitting the bag on it so I agree yeah I
think you're right I mean suffice it to
say yes sir sorry I'll just say on my
part like I think Judy gold made the
better case for Russia gate being a
problem than Michael Tracy did on that
Friday word right word yeah this just
came to mind after hearing that
interview and I visited an old and aging
relative this weekend who's a dedicated
Democrat and she said she she was msnb
three four three hours every day and
when the news came out she got so deep
depressed she couldn't watch the TV I
don't anymore I'm sorry to interrupt I
guess that's where I have
at the end of a disagreement with with
Sam I guess this in terms of emphasis
because I've certainly heard anecdotes
like that myself and also look like I
mean one hand you could take you can
accept a structural critique of cable
news which is that it's an entertainment
business and nobody should be watching
it
really you know yeah some small
exceptions but obviously you should be
consuming other content and reading
books and doing other things if you
really want to understand what's going
on but right you know the notion that I
mean yeah that's an enormous amount of
waste of time that fed not only fed the
political disempowerment but frankly
look people who work in these spaces
want to claim that they're doing news
and not entertainment so if I'm gonna
accept their premise and say that it
isn't all purely ratings driven then the
you know no stories on Yemen critique
applies you know the no like great you
know not covering anything of you know
serious consequence in any sustained way
I to do like endless like and again this
thing got so ridiculously polarized of
course you can cover an ongoing an
investigation of the president but the
notion that it wasn't totally comically
overemphasized at the expense of
political empowerment and other frankly
much more serious topics like Yemen yeah
huge problem or frankly even I mean
hysterically like the Trump relationship
with Saudi Arabia which doesn't really
repair like tea leaves like it's right
there yeah there's so much yeah I mean
it's possible that some of those people
were just looking for an excuse to stay
on the couch but you know and and they
were going to take it wherever they
could find it but there's always a lot
of give-and-take there and I think the
mainstream media still does have some
power to influence people I think we see
it especially with Fox News and the
right like I just read a story about
people folks who feel like their
families have been brainwashed by Fox
News and actually had their politics
changed by it
so I don't know if that is if it's as
Extreme as that but like yeah Jamie
thank you for the call
all right yeah thanks Michael bye Thanks
speaking of someone who had to watch
that stuff all day every day for an
extended period of time it will rot your
brain
it's completely antithetical to
informing an electorate when it we joke
about Trump's executive time but how he
likes spend so much time watching TV
there's something dark about that too
because that is something that a lot of
people and you don't call it addiction
because it's not like some sort of
pharmacist pharmacological thing but it
is like a it's a you're being alienated
and you're you want something you want
to be socialized in a way you've been
sort of so the condition to expect and
that's it's interesting that's one part
that's been left out of this narrative
about Trump is the the executive Times
is saying oh he's not doing his job but
it is informing his policies and the
things in the decisions he's making it
actually is his job I mean the reality
is is that this is a totally I mean I'm
not no I'm not trying to like be
pedantic and debate with you but it's
like literally I mean this is a TV
presidency and how it just as you're
saying it's shaping and forming how he
communicates how like both the horrific
macro policies on immigrants but also
just even the fact that he basically
thinks that like the entirety entire
business the United States is like the
equivalent of him like arguing with
Rosie O'Donnell on Howard Stern well
it's the sort of thing where whenever
someone says this is the moment he
became presidential there's always a
person that brings up the point that the
presidency doesn't make you you don't
change you just become more of yourself
right
so like Trump just watches more and more
TV because that's that's the muscle he's
that's the way he like engages with the
world like I would be if I was president
to be like Matt has locked himself in
the West Wing and he's listening to
podcast or audible tone listening to
audiobooks president will not start
listing it out of all it's gonna take me
five hours to finish this book that's
actually really funny it's like the
president will not stop pretending to be
a Barack Obama that hates white yeah
we will not do meetings Jamie what would
your executive time be if your Madam
President
oh jeez do I get to leave the house
during this executive time arrive to
stay you stay in there you'd be
listening to drones yeah you'd be
listening to dry I will be listening to
drone music and/or Death Grips Brendon
what's yours I don't know watching
baseball by baseball bro I don't know
Brendon is the George W Bush the office
ball game Brett good go to New Jersey
clear some brush national you got some
verse except it's New Jersey so it's
just like a suburban house that you're
like trimming the hedges you're calling
from a to 1/8 area code who are you
where he calling from uh hi this is Tim
calling from Grand Forks hey Tim what's
going on shut up Grand Forks hey yeah I
heard it's it's something I got
stationed here two years ago I'm still
getting used to the cold
first off I want to thank you guys for
doing the show you guys helped get me
through the last couple months of my
deployment this past year so you guys do
a bunch of great work it's been a hard
one and reciate it what I said it's been
a cold one up in Grand Forks that's my
word my brother Grand Forks North Dakota
where the University of North Dakota is
my brother goes there oh gosh you oh
yeah yeah when I got back it was like
negative 30 out and coming back from the
desert that's a bit of a change Jesus
Christ horrible but uh well I wanted to
call about is I want to talk a little
bit about the Hatch Act and how it
applies to military members okay what's
the Hatch Act explain that's people okay
so the Hatch Act is basically this Act I
think it was passed and like the 1920s
or 30s it restricts members of the
government from government employees
from participating in partisan politics
activities okay whole idea for was they
don't want government employees using
their
authority to support a candidate right
so which makes sense the problem is the
DoD create a DoD I that apply that
applies it to servicemembers and the way
they interpret it is you can't
participate in any campaigns you can't
volunteer and you can't even like
express like support for any candidate
I'm confused so it cuz I actually
thought like I've known people who've
been in the military who like you know
like when they're aw like they literally
are like off duty they change into
civilian clothes and they go and they
knock on doors or whatever and they
didn't I mean they certainly weren't and
their understanding they weren't hiding
anything they were just you know not on
not working so they could do campaign
stuff is that not true well so my are
saying is that is true for reserve and
Guard members because what when you're
now in uniform you're not working on the
weekend no we're not on active duty for
active duty members you're active 24/7 I
could clear this through my legal office
because two of the campaign's that I
donated to for the Democratic primaries
reached out to me to try and get me to
to ask if I could organize rallies for
them here or like a viewing for a
telecon type thing yeah so I checked
with my weight loss they said I can
attend it I cannot speak at it I can't
participate in any group discussions
nothing like that you can't pretend I
think you tell you one camp that's you
can't tell discussion so that that is
going overboard to the point like I look
I get it makes sense to have some
restrictions like that but that's that's
going like that's inhibiting your right
as a citizen like that's ridiculous yeah
absolutely that's why I was thinking and
yeah I there's plenty of other way worse
forms of disenfranchisement but you know
been really a Sankar because I I didn't
participate in the last presidential
election and I really wish I had now and
now I tried to and I can't
man also tell that to the ice union that
endorsed Trump they're not yeah yeah or
how how about the the guys when Trump
visit Iraq randomly the guys that were
on tape getting their Mogga hot hat sign
I was gonna bring that I'm like yeah so
that was actually while I was deployed
that was happening for anything I worked
in the location that manages all the
interest here travel we didn't even know
he showed up until after he left that
was cool but on the news they showed the
guys with the mag hats and they're like
this should be a violation its article
92 the UCMJ going against a direct order
and they they cleared it they said well
because he is already elected he's
technically not running for reelection
even though he's already registered his
campaign uh so we have to clear it he's
the president so yeah I mean you look at
the house know you're dissing just
underscore your disenfranchised and then
there's actually like that's
authoritarian yeah and the
implication is that the military is
behind this guy over twenty twenty two
hundred like it's it and the way it
Trump's obviously feeding other stuff
like with like with the proxy like
Kaepernick issues and stuff like that
that's that's that's disgusting man I
don't that's actually yeah interesting
to me to look into that legally because
when you bar like the obvious like
should you you know can you go
door-to-door in your uniform and say to
vote for somebody of course not okay
that's a problem but nobody but frankly
yeah nobody in any uniform should be
allowed to do that obviously but the
idea that you can't and frankly
particularly while you're serving your
country in that capacity that's insane
that is so up yeah and and like
even as verbage in there that since
you're not supposed to participate the
radio show so like hopefully this
doesn't qualify me for that yeah we
might seriously like yeah we won't we
won't flip this yeah we're also not on
the radio by the way
oh sweet nothing in it yeah personal
conversation that might be heard by
other people
I don't know frankly to be honest with
you this whole thing could be happening
every day and nobody's listening all of
these people that I am the showing
can mostly just be BOTS that's designed
to soothe Sam Sam's like Tracy Morgan in
30 rock basically it was like part of
her job to listen to him dude thanks for
the call man we'll look into this more
yep okay so far for my gecko that just
died after 20 years shabbat shalom
thank you uh butters why do people why
why do people think why do you think you
never hear radical christian terrorists
when right-wingers kill people by the
way i just want to say I'm not an
advocate of that either I am I don't you
should try to shrink the usage of that
term as much as possible and try to
specify it as much as possible like that
is actually like not a good
I get your point and you're totally
right but the point should be that those
security state crutches in general are
way overused and you know the point
frankly like no I don't want people even
I mean there's some organizations
obviously that are right-wing white
nationalist organizations that are
bigger threat in the United States but
al Qaeda is an example that do need to
be monitored at specific groups but as a
kind of broad generality I want to
shrink the usage of these terms and I
want less monitoring less surveillance
less control of all people so I I don't
like that move because the answer from a
certain strain of politics is like oh
well we can just sort of fairly and
equitably over monitor over monitor
you know imprison and profile everybody
it's the real answer is we need to stop
doing that let's do the Black Panthers
and the KKK yeah and I'm not I mean you
do one of those if you do either of them
precisely and you and don't think that
because you even the score in the
security state that they're not going to
you know they're gonna leave the
Panthers alone so okay but anyway I I
mean I take your point I'm not trying to
jump on you but I just I think we we
want to narrow those terms
tulsi usually disappointed me when she
used the following Trump phrase if you
don't have borders you don't have a
country
she playing to the wrong audience
adopting some of the worst of trumps
phrases yeah not a surprise Gregory from
Oklahoma I'm sure at the most pivotal
year in rock music was 2000 when Limp
Bizkit released chocolate starfish and
the hot dog flavored water I just wanted
to make a correction from last Friday's
show all right I don't know what any of
that means I might disagree with you
except you know what we had the street
fight guys on this past week and they
gave a very spirited defense of new
metal so maybe we can get along after
all yeah that's a bunch of white people
 all right so let's uh let's do this
I and as there still hasn't been a text
from Sam because I do not want to he
like I got a text from Sam but it's not
about this it's not about this all right
and obviously I mean look not only are
we going to talk about this more this is
part of the ever-expanding lore of so
the whole Dave Rubin saga started with a
video that I did I don't even remember
what the video was I think it was
probably some like Dave Rubin meaning he
knew if you think about it man need to
keep me to be in a good of game or
something like that yeah yeah something
dumb I don't know it's something Dave
Rubin something stupid and I actually I
didn't itell did you tell this video I
titled that yeah Kelly keeps getting the
blame but I'm the one who I titled it
what was it something like Dave Rubin
super dumb or something very stupid
person or something which again is
really described
as much as anything else it's barely I
mean it's sort of like is saying that
you have a ball cap on insulting link
it's just true I don't I mean I don't
really you know Dave is not a bright guy
that's the response someone gets when
they say MLK would be a Republican today
yes that is a stupid comment it's a
historical stupid comment that literally
a Google search could clear up Google
you have it on your phone so then
somehow I don't remember the next how
this went
I don't but Sam started exchanging
Twitter mentions with Dave and Dave
couldn't just dave still is not even
still dave has not blocked any of us he
knows he knows that that's a bad look I
mean I'm sure he blocks plenty people
but not us he blocks people all the time
content as drill said you never give
your enemies content right never give
you any was content and see him done but
know certain things work and so Sam was
like all debate you and you know again
Dave rumen is dumb but he's not like
it's not that dumb he's not totally
delusional he knew that the idea of
debating Sam on anything policy related
would be like career suicide career
suicide usually unpleasant experience
massively embarrassing generate
thousands of memes so he needed to
figure out a way of ducking it while
maintaining you know his credibility's
and ideas as an ideas man and that is it
not put on laughs it really does crack
me up that that's his brand it's funny
can I just get in here the way they
talked about the idea marketplace it's
they really want a strictly regulated
ideas marketplace where you can't use
words like racist or sexist or sword
yeah or dumb or in yeah it is it's
worth taking lease to it's a very
regular it's not the free market place
that I like for my ideas right now to
say that yeah I think we should give
ideas of work out so I'm a social
Darwinist when it comes to ideas this is
word so Dave uh you know him or whoever
scurried over to the mru
to page and it just so happened that the
video that Matt so rudely but
descriptively correctly titled was up
and dave is slated to become he's stupid
which by the way was very I mean I don't
kind of WISPIRG that is I mean even
there like I guess Santa Bates people
that calm streams they can't Sam yeah
you say like hey you four-eyed big nosed
 like there's a there's a there's a
the easiest way to have a programmatic
change for the entire weekly can we
start to show three at was latest nobody
called me a Jewish and wants to
argue about taxes so we're going live at
5 p.m. today guys the best way to get a
debate from Sam is calm or aggressive or
something like yeah I mean yes Sam as
Sam is so so anyways whatever thick
right Sam is sick so do you know Dave
but but what Sam responded you know
correctly first of all and this is this
is just some layers of so much
here because first Sam suppress my free
speech by taking down the video which
Dave as a matter of principle
particularly because it was on YouTube
for Christ's sake which is the pinnacle
of all free speech questions Dave had
nothing to say not a principled defense
where you know they've all tear right I
hate what I hate it but I will defend to
death his right to say it that's some
good goddamn enlightenment principles
right there Voltaire it begins with a V
you can look it up on Wikipedia Dave so
that video was taken down my speech was
suppressed and then Sam was like hey
like I suppress the guys you know speech
and I will never I would never do
anything like that you know Michael is a
you know it just I co-host but super
mean and I don't condone anything like
that how about we have a civil ad
hominem free exchange of ideas and Dave
thing too late my feelings were already
hurt and for years now more and more
people and in this case actually
literally more and more people have been
calling Dave out to do a debate Dave
apparently is on a
to read super chats with a majority
report in it without having some sort of
like weird physical spasm and clearly
like all of the just accumulation of
like relentless evidence that this guy
is just almost like a pre joke is
accumulating to the point where Dave is
retreating further and further into his
like crackpot right-wing safe spaces and
donor networks and is also not even
putting up a pretense anymore about his
role in the exchange of ideas this
happened a campus clash of course he's
literally on stage with Charlie Kirk and
Candice Owens at the University of
Connecticut yesterday he got this
question and watch the I mean you talk
about a regulated marketplace I call
this more like a closed down marketplace
walled garden my first one is to Dave
Rubin when are you going to debate Sam
cedar on the majority report
I appreciate oh I see Candice has the
right instinct which is like hahaha it's
doubly awkward because Charlie Kirk does
credits like I did debate Sam in a
national platform when Michael I yeah I
think I took my beating like a man like
what like Dave Jesus but at the same
time
Charlie Kirk is able to string together
like Dave could not do that like you
would not do what Charlie Kirk did
Charlie was there any better than I
expected
yeah I mean is not again let's be a
little bit real here like Dave is not
capable of doing that in a way this is a
little bit ablest so so face the
abilities of Charlie yes so it's so
chart so but Candice has the right like
just dismissive laugh which is like a
good that's a good default move and Dave
what I like is like he's not happy no
yeah he's like hunched oblique yeah I'm
not doing that
you little prick have to say anymore I
just not going to good on the kid for a
can
play one more time Brendan yeah this by
the way how you doing go to these events
and treat these people with disdain and
ask them simple questions don't freak
out but don't preface it with quit like
don't prep no province get to the
business and the business this kid got
to was one is to dave rubin when are you
going to debate sam cedar on the
majority will see boom not even not even
it's sam cedar of the majority report
couldn't have done it more cuz then you
got the plugin we appreciate that thanks
buddy thank you and and then you don't
get don't give him anything else to
respond to besides what you want to left
to upset are managing a bunch of shots
up there i think he had a question for
candace owens next but you know dave
rubin obviously on this tour i think
there's still a few weeks of school left
they're probably doing more appearances
let's get a follow up
let's get involved actually i mean i'm i
there's a lot of directions you could
take this in one person suggested then
now it's time to talk to Dave about
debating me
let me just add an ecumenical like
debate Matt debate Jamie oh I would
debate Ana Kasparian
debate like lit I feel like you could do
either the follow up which is like why
won't you debate Sam which could lead to
some pretty funny things and then you
could just like that's the first follow
up and if somebody's already asked that
question then you say like how about not
luck I have a question though here's a
question to give to Dave Rubin
especially if he's with Candace Owens
ask him cuz he's had her on the show how
many experts that are are more expert
about racism and anti-semitism than
Candace Owens in his mind and see what
he says okay you know what's so
incredible about it is that I'm sitting
here literally thinking to myself Jesus
that's a mean question it that's good
I'm like I'm not even bullshitting I'm
just like God he's just kidding just
twinning with that's like good aunt with
him that way because he this whole thing
the the subcommittee hearing on hate
yesterday that Kennesaw ins just let I
knew that subcommittee hearing on he
that emerged maybe it is day to retweet
they've got to the point where he's like
she's not a racist because she said
Hitler's
nationalism was okay it was just like
when used do you think that Dave's like
right like his Jewish like parents and
grandparents are like as dumb as he is
so they're not sort of like upset about
this or is it like there may be like
look kid we get that like you had a
middling career as a just profoundly
unfunny stand-up comic and now you're
like doing this kind of sad YouTube
propaganda role to like pay the bills
but like could you at least refrain from
minimizing Hitler's legacy we should
track him down and find out that would
be interesting I really would be like
genuinely curious cuz I know absolutely
people that I will not name of the faith
of the tribe who would say like hey if
you need to say that the water should be
polluted to get a check I mean you need
everybody needs to make a living but
they would definitely draw a line at
like no actually Hitler was very bad and
I'm not really comfortable with
minimizing that David and I understand
that you were never the most acute boy
but I think we're I think that you were
at least able to make it through a
quarter of Schindler's List and you
should be equipped enough to understand
that what what can this owen said was
actually very bad she was just defending
me no but she was just defending
nationalism I don't get it get it that
wasn't the point hello so hello all
right let's uh is there more to the clip
first at it alright so let's let's
actually go to the Candice Owens hearing
and we're gonna have a little bit of a
sort of couplet of it by the way
apparently Ted Lou ruined all of his
good work by retweeting dead David Rubin
dave rubin just stay out of it Ted
yes dad stop being a nice guy he says
they did two engagements to the likes
and the retweets I think that's exactly
right so this is Candace Owens just sort
of casually contradicting all of modern
political history
I'll give her credit unlike Dave she
knows what the Southern Strategy is I am
profoundly confident and this is I don't
think that this is like worth asking but
if you just said like hey Dave what's
the Southern Strategy he believed and
ideas describe what that is and what
hate that you've experienced as a result
of your position on that I launched a
movement called blech sit which is the
black exit from a Democrat Party when I
became educated about the issues and
stopped reacting emotionally which is
what the left wants us to do presumably
when they hold up pictures of burning
churches I began to examine the facts
and and look at some of the narratives
they were spinning for example in 2016
it was police brutality and I realized
that they are dissuading us against our
own best interests and I wanted to have
a more productive dialogue with the
black community about the issues that
are actually affecting us and impacting
us when I announced that I was a
conservative I've never seen anything
more racist more disgusting more
vitriolic and more heat that's coming
away in my entire life and the things
that Democrats and the media say about
me today I've been referred to as an
Uncle Tom a bed wench those you that
don't know that means a slave that
sleeps with the master a house naked
and these are all words that have been
said over and over again about black
conservatives we have the audacity to
think for themselves become educated
about our history and the myth of things
like the southern switch and the
Southern Strategy which never happened
okay so obviously there's a lot of drama
and self victimization there ironically
but I the southern switch or the
Southern Strategy is a very
well-documented thing and it is a
historical reality that when Lyndon
Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act of
1964 that those who were in the
Dixiecrat wing of the Democratic Party
switched and migrated to the Republican
Party and a new coalition was built on
that basis and in fact it accelerated in
the 1980s there was a notion under Nixon
that you would sort of have this white
ethnic appeal
fuelled with some southern resentment
without a doubt but this sort of like
fuller blossoming and in circulation of
that full sort of apartheid southern
politics actually really culminates and
still exists today obviously in the
Trump White House but it's reaching its
fruition in the Reagan and Bush era Lee
Atwater was the most important
Republican strategist of the 1980s here
he is in a picture with Roger stone and
Paul Manafort these guys were the three
of the top strategist and Reagan's
Washington this is Lee Atwater this is
adjacent this is the campaign ground
level stuff how this stuff actually
works in terms of reality
now what voters and what now it's not to
say that there aren't voters who vote
democrat that whole racist attitudes of
course but what base of people are you
appealing to with this strategy and
rhetoric and where did their political
home migrate from you start out 1954 by
saying never knew by 1968 you
keep saying that that hurts your back
Plus stakes lights and all that stuff
and you're getting so abstract now
you're talking about cutting taxes and
all of these things you're talking about
a totally economic things in the by
project optimum a as blacks get hurt
worse than life and subconsciously maybe
that is part of it I'm not saying it but
I'm saying that if it is getting that
abstract and that coded that we're doing
away with the racial problem one way or
the other
you follow me because obviously sitting
around saying we want to cut taxes we
want to cut this and we want it's much
more abstract than even the busing thing
and a helluva lot more abstract
you know so anyway you look at it race
is coming on the backbone the only
difference now in the era that Candis
Owens is so bummed out about being a
propagandist for white nationalist
forces in is that we're getting closer
back to the first phase that Lee Atwater
is talking about we got a memo here for
Nixon from former Thurman aide Strom
Thurmond eight Harry dent the memo is
entitled re Southern Strategy and the
Northeast so already on the myth back in
1969 deep the kind the kind attentions
of this administration toward the south
have been paying off by creating a good
atmosphere for further growth and
development of the two-party system
there by diminishing the strength of
George Wallace and by bringing a good
measure of cooperation from Southern
Chairman and other Southern Democrats on
Capitol Hill George Wallace he was like
a white supremacist George Wallace was
running to the right of Nixon as an arch
segregationist which gave Nixon room to
triangulate and appeal to basically
people that didn't want to totally
jettison the Democratic Party or rather
mainstream politics basically in the
south and get appealed to by Nixon and
then Nixon could hold you know basically
he could hold it just really quick it's
in the Nixon move he actually says it's
fictionalised where he's meeting with
these oil barons and they're complaining
about some of Nixon's liberal reforms
and he's like fine take your money out
and go for Wallace and let George
McGovern get elected president and then
your kids will go to school of black
people the memo continues evidently this
has not heard elsewhere as per the new
jersey election of Kevin Phillips
analysis which shows Cahill put together
the Nixon and Wallace vote plus some
Humphrey sound American vote to win big
but nevertheless we must cope with the
feeling the press Democrats and some
Republicans have created to the effect
that we are less interested in the
Northeast there we go Hayes gets out
this tunas book and Moore's extended
look into the Southern Strategy starting
in the north in the Bronx with
Northeastern Republicans the Southern
Strategy is not just the geography it's
a state of mind the southern ization of
national politics
it's the racial demagoguery strategy
just the fact that
she was invited to talk about this at a
hearing on white nationalism is like
insane Pollan like there are not two
sides to the question is white
nationalism real absolutely and the idea
that she's an expert that should be
wasting Congress sorry for
swearing but Congress is time especially
like next to people I don't know if
we'll get to him today but people who
lost children from like well let's get
to that yeah let's do that because that
is like fundamentally disgusting and
offensive wit numbers it okay this is
house number four so also at the hearing
is dr. Mohammed Abdullah Saleh who
recounts how in 2015 two of his
daughters and his son-in-law were shot
execution-style in North Carolina now
just contrast this man his experience
with the you know grotesque Craven
cynicism we've just seen mr. chairman
Steve members of Congress and ladies and
gentlemen February 10 2015 that was the
day our lives changed forever when my
two daughters your sermon resin my
son-in-law Tia were shot to death
execution-style and near 70th home in
Chapel Hill we arrived at the scene
yellow tape and flashing lights froze
the blood in our veins we have waited
almost six hours before police officers
confirmed that the arizona roseanne were
all along been shot to death and a
desperate attempt to make it bearable an
officer whispered on her coat they
didn't suffer it was one it was swift it
was one shot to the back of the head
well his statement did not make it any
bearable any more bearable and nothing
did news about their death spread over
the internet and media over the globe or
we never heard in the media that the
murderer hated them trouble began with
this man observed my two daughters
appearing on the scene adorned with
their hijabs I remember my user telling
me this condescending menthol
he hated how she looked and dressed he
made it very clear to my children that
they were not welcome in their own
neighborhoods I must be one of the few
physicians it's not the only one who
read his own children's murder autopsy
reports in details
they are seared into my memory bullets
macerated userland resins brains dia
took many bullets to the arms and chest
before he filled down to the ground and
after that the murderer saw that he was
still breathing and shot him again in
the mouth the last time we saw them in
their coffins users forehead was bulging
and her hazel eyes had turned grey and
lifeless I was once
Roseanne's warm a smiling face filled
with life was now a lifeless stone cold
and deadly pale Leah's face lacked
expression and he had that broken tooth
from that final shot to the mouth thank
you for giving me this opportunity to
testify before you but I want you to
remember more than their deaths I want
you to know who they were and what we
have lost Hewson was a vibrant 21 year
old woman who always found ways to give
to others in every aspect of her life
from volunteering at a dental clinic for
Syrian refugees in Turkey defusing the
homeless in downtown Raleigh and
building houses for Habitat for Humanity
she graduated from NC State University
and was accepted at USC School of
Dentistry to be with the love of her
life dia resin was 19 years old and was
so full of life she was a gentle soul
generous giver talented artist a
photographer Brazil was a freshman at NC
State University's School of Design and
aspired to be an architect during her
freshman year she mentored a new she
mentored and taught youth and she led
project downtown feeding the homeless in
Raleigh and Durham with meals tacked
with inspirational and personalized
notes I don't I don't I'll just add a
mark Klein was there to speak presumably
invited by the Republicans to say about
how the real thing we need to focus on
is
Muslim anti-semitism and literally ask
that man does the Quran really not teach
Islamic people to hate Jews or does
Islam not really teach that man gave
that testimony yeah that's disgusting
disgusting I'm looking for video for
that so that is so obscene this obscene
dark days folks got to fight these bull
Prague I can understand being skeptical
of people that's right
bull Prague I can understand people
being skeptical people only focus on the
slice on a slice of an overall picture
but if we talk about even rights abuses
in other countries well ours has its own
abuses can't we also talk about other
nations interfering in other nations
elections even though our country is an
innocent on that front
especially for progressives you see
Global Connections let's talk about ours
and their and their issues just seem
like Michaels abyss dismissive in the
topic in a way that we leave people
uninformed I guess I'm not oh this is
the Mauritius thing no I mean look I'm
not I'm perfectly willing to talk about
you know particularly real issues I
think as an example
China's role in Africa and this sort of
like new neo-colonial fight between the
United States France and China in the
African continent is a big deal and I
have no problem and I've obviously never
had a problem talking about any
countries role in anything I mean I've I
think of how much I've triggered a
certain type of person because I'm
willing to say the reality of Russian
war crimes in Syria as an example but I
have to say looking for you know thinner
and thinner pieces of thread to like
obsess about Russia on is just not
productive I'm sorry and if I'm gonna do
you know on that level if it really is
just as simple as if there if it doesn't
connect to a broader global thread um I
do think it's more incumbent on us to
discuss how the United States and
interfering in Mauritius than how Russia
supposedly is also like there's no link
there's no context it's just
Russia did this and that is where it
starts just sort of devolve into like
you know I don't frankly I don't like
that type of talk about just the United
States like it's boring and
one-dimensional and so I'm not
interested in and I I will continue to
be too dismissive of it i I don't think
that you know not trying to be defensive
but I don't think I'm really the one to
you know sort of I'm quite willing to
accuse you know in critique every
country's record but I don't think this
Russia discourse I think it's yeah
there's definitely a degree definitely a
cutoff point where it's like what are we
doing here when we can focus on you know
the closed on things I think that's just
kind of self-evident yeah I mean for me
even with Iams there's still just some
like some sense of like we actually have
to like emphasize things here and use
time effectively and I think even there
it's like the conversation if you're
really interested in election hacking
and interfering and and also like the
much bigger things that are happening in
terms of like cybersecurity between the
United States and China which I need
that that's like a mutt in my view like
those tensions are gonna be much more
important to figure out in the future
then the conversation needs to be about
like okay do you have a Geneva
Conventions for cyber war or drones like
is there a new international law
framework well okay yes but also
international laws of fiction that's
really just like the subservient to
power so how do you deal with that like
you gotta at least connect it to some
type of bigger thread that we can
actually do something with other than
like this is just a random bad action by
some country I don't even like to do
stories about that with the United
States frankly that I can't find a
larger pattern with but if I was that is
where like my primary obligation as an
American I think has to kick in you know
in my opinion
hey I heard Bernie's wife help file a
bankruptcy in college and it wasn't
Simon's Rock and what would the Larry
David invitation
I don't oh well I mean I know that
there's that old story
Burnie and the about about I don't even
remember that story it's like there was
like a loan or something I don't I mean
sorry it's gonna need to be bigger than
that but I don't think that that story
was flattering as I recall leftist
European have you guys read one of
Bernie Sanders books if yes are they
good I ran inside her in the house I
mean it's yeah it's good I don't know
sure it's good for political reading
yeah I mean like reading a politician's
book as far as yeah as far as
politicians books it's probably fun I
don't know that you necessarily need to
read his book too I mean I'd say make it
around about campaign donation if you
want that's how I thought of I think I
feel like I bought one of them or
something but is that how you judge if
he deserves a million dollars you read
his book and see if it's good yeah you
have to see if the books good or not
that's exactly right
let's play a clip of Steve minuchin just
being an wasn't Steven minuchin
then he have a pact with uh who was it a
madis one of them left they'd all leave
because they're so concerned about the
fate of the country Owen - oh yeah well
Steve minuchin is the only cockroach
still there and he does not care about
the fate of the country or really
anything I think besides his own self
enrichment he's just a horrible person
he went on a basic social etiquette
level here he is being whiny and
aggrieved with Maxine Waters I've sat
here for over three hour and 15 minutes
I've told you I'll come back I just
don't believe we're sitting here
negotiating when I come back we'll
follow up with your office how long
would you like me to come back for next
time
I've told you I'll accommodate you I
appreciate that and I appreciate your
reminding us of the length of time other
secretaries have been here this is a new
way in a Sanu day well it's a new chair
again I have the gavel at this point if
you wish to leave you may can you
clarify that for me plus clarify what is
to clarify you that is an impolite way
of saying if you choose
- you can off there's nothing
complicated about this he's literally
going to spend the next couple of
minutes whining for essentially a polite
request to leave go ahead
oh so you wish to leave you may okay so
what we're dismissed is that correct if
you wish to leave you may leave
I don't understand what you're saying
you waste of your time don't remember
you have a foreign dignitary analysis I
would just say that the previous
administrators of the Treasury this way
so if this is the way you want to treat
me then I'll rethink whether I
voluntarily come back here to testify
which I've offered to do that no other
secretary has ever told us the day
before that they were going to limit
their time in the way that you're doing
so if you want to use them as examples
you have acted differently than they
have acted and as about as I have said
if you wish to leave you may if you'd
wish to keep me here so that I don't
have my important meeting and continue
to grill me then we can do that I will
cancel my meeting and I will not be back
here I will be very clear if that's the
way you'd like to have this relationship
thank you
the gentlemen the Secretary has agreed
to stay for meeting you you're
instructing me to stay here and I say
you're instructing me you are ordering
me to stay here no I'm not ordering you
I'm responding I said you may leave any
time you want and you said okay if
that's what you want to do I'll cancel
my appointment and I'll say so I'm
responding to your request if that's
what you want taught what I want to do I
told you what would you like to do what
I've told you is I thought it was
respect
fold that you'd let me leave at 5:15 are
free to leave anytime you're you may go
then you want please dismiss everybody I
believe you're supposed to take the
gravel and bang it that's please do not
instruct me as to hi I'm to conduct this
committee Wow a douchebag is anyone else
getting kind of a Judge Judy vibe from
her there yes yes dad getting any human
being that has to have more than one
minute exchanged with Steve minuchin
vibe from her there yeah there's a few
things going on in this video I feel
like one is that Steve minuchin has
obviously not been told what to do by
anyone in 30 years right the other thing
is this is two people of power talking
in there
sort of like businesses ways that they
discuss with each other and they're just
not working together like he does not
know how to argue with this woman no he
does not
and he gets absolutely played absolutely
clown Don you're calling from a v 3o
area code who are you where he calling
from we're running quickly out of time
so be quick man thanks for taking my
call Michael this is assertive
aggressive progress to this I guess I
need to add what you called my question
hypothetical okay buddy buddy all right
well welcome back I know it's a really
stupid way to approach this okay
well you're gonna need to calm down sir
this is better than yesterday so far but
you're gonna need to you're gonna need
to calm down your prick levels yourself
and answer ask the question now
it's okay what I tweeted at you
yesterday it's totally fine you're gonna
prove me wrong please ask all the things
I caused you right
not right now but I'll wait my question
I'm not no clever okay sorry yes I'm
here you're done yes
no preparatory material ask the question
ask the question we don't have a
question you asked it the question is
here you pretty out of your
mouth and you present it here's the
thing unless you've probably called into
the show 20 times and we all know you by
name we don't remember that when you
tweeted us two months ago we don't
remember any of this stuff just just get
to the point and I really was not like
you I feel like you were doing that on
purpose to wind me up like I was here I
was even gonna apologize for being rude
to you now I am glad I was rude to you I
should have been more rude to you Jesus
well I came in hot it came in hot but it
still went nowhere which is why a part
of me is really hoping that this is a
brilliant troll I think it might be
daddy's got that brilliant California
passive-aggressive nosing no way that's
how to piss me off licked it's awesome
all right you're calling with him from
the nine one nine area code with very
likely the last call in today so welcome
hey which one oh Michael hello
Judd II Jody sorry Jody Jody what's on
your mind man let me just go ahead and
jump into it uh basically I was calling
because I understand and Glenn Greenwald
had their discussion yesterday or
rebelled and taped it earlier what
everybody was aired yesterday and well
y'all familiar with Barrett Brown yeah a
little bit not too much but a little bit
mm-hmm had you seen like some of the
some of his basically criticisms of
Glenn Greenwald in the in the last
couple of days I have them never to do
it would be basically it's having to do
with the Snowden the archive being shut
down by the intercept and he held her
leaked a bunch of uh intern
I failed Marta Marchetti was criticized
that a couple years ago
why was Mark Ames as kind of initial
critique of the intercept um but no I
don't I don't I think actually Barrett
Brown was on this show literally from
prison but I'll check it out thanks yeah
it's really interesting is basically and
uh I also wanted to say but I really
enjoyed the show and people need to quit
calling and messing with uh Jamie man up
attending your awesome think in the last
year what sorry you it was too loud I'm
pretty sure the last guy was a pretty
control but either way yo let me just
say left is best and not that is so
either that guy I well I won't say what
I hope but either I really don't like
that person or like total props from
being an awesome troll like that though
there's there's two ways on that and one
is like banned for life or awesome job
that was the final call of the day let's
read a few items J Cole J cool hey
Michael
if Sam was to win the leadership the
libertarian party would you vote for Sam
over Bernie on a serious note have you
read about what's happening in Libya I
need to mug up on Libya just as I do
need to on Kashmir and Guyana I would
not even vote for Sam in the primary so
let's be serious I'm voting for a firm
and supreme in the libertarian primary
that's yeah I think will form a verben
supreme bloc Ponies for all I'm still in
it for Darryl Perry rude rude dude Sam
cedar final step in intergenerational
wealth plan makes so much money as a
socialist to piss off Republicans enough
that they introduced to higher tax rates
to own the libs Sam snuff stash re
millionaire Bernie if Bernie reported
they'd be he'd be bash for being poor
undiluted intellectual dishonesty
yeah and just frankly just total bizarre
they also have bashed him for power they
suck yeah I never had a real job till he
was 35 like I love that article if you
google it you'll find it Bernie Sanders
the bum who wants your money well it's
like this isn't entirely analogous but
it's like what we said about the guy who
called in wanting us to guarantee that
everybody who supports burning the
primary will vote for whoever the
listen I made that guarantee I don't
need the guarantee but it's a guarantee
you both guaranteeing that Bernie will
win and that they'll vote first people
need to understand that the things that
you feel compelled to like air because
of your anxieties might not be telling
you about the world they might be
telling you about yourself mmm
I'm a introspective tip qualms
qualms so everything is Sam's fault then
it's time for the Mr crew to unionize no
unions
welcome back joining us now is Jethro
James and this is a case that involves
actually yo-yos that would explode in
teenagers hands oh yeah they were
blowing the teenager's limbs off and
this yo-yo company there there's
documentation found out and discovered
they knew it was actually blowing the
the teenagers fingers off that really is
stunning David Pakman here all right tom
cat hey guys you spoke a lot about
normies I don't really know if I'm keen
on the word or not I agree with Jamie
that Normie is a bit vague and
meaningless and also I also see these
charts about how most UK voters like
left policies like reen analyzing the
railroads and funding NHS and we all
know how popular Bernie and his policies
are so wanting the best for everyone
isn't that fringe I know I agree with
that completely it's actually more just
like annoying subculture stuff um not
those basic policies all right the final
I am of the day I'm sorry I'm not
reading all of that it's just you have a
lot in there and I want to try to get
somebody else to with maybe a final I M
Galax
galaxy nation with the final I am
when L status comment a days I love all
you guys and I'm appreciative of your
efforts to curtail the worldwide spread
of fascism as a teacher I've notched up
the left-wing and doctrine nation to
full blast oh yeah
the changing can happen the changing
gonna happen amongst the twelve year
olds though tough though comrades not
poor ones anyway the bourgeoisie in this
country need to leave the cul-de-sacs
and start spreading the message to the
kids left is best all right everybody
tomorrow Sam from Vegas in that state
goes to get
I'm going
[Music]
No
[Music]
[Applause]
I could see where the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
