reports today by the Washington Post
that conservatives and you know how this
goes right there the line between what
constitutes the lowest rung of the
conservative taxonomy you know is
basically now functionally equivalent
with your typical Republican senator
there is no you know there was a day
where it was like oh these people the
bright Bart's in the you know the the
the low end folks they're kept at arm's
length
you know Mike Serna vich isn't gonna be
dining at the White House but those days
are over right and they're all right now
yeah the the Conservatives are trying to
mount a whisper campaign saying that
Jamal khashoggi was Muslim Brotherhood
and that's why he should be chopped up
when he goes in to get a marriage
license and so here is with that as the
backdrop right and we just played a clip
of Mike Pompeo coming back and saying
we're gonna give them a couple more days
to get their story straight
and figure out how they're gonna make up
something we to catch the real killer
exactly love doesn't better but but this
was interesting Donald Trump last night
he's in where was he in Virginia was it
Missoula Montana sorry and he's at his
rally and he's added a line now granted
Jeanne Forte is from that area yes right
but how he talked about G and Ford he
had a choice and here here's where he
went for well here's what he went for
he's so smart you know we've had people
you're in live television all over the
place and we've had people get up speak
for 20-25 minutes and these guys are
going crazy that's not the deal
but Greg is smart and by the way never
wrestle him
you understand that never
any guy that can do a body slam he's
Micah he's my god
I shouldn't say that you know but
there's nothing to be embarrassed with
so I was in Rome with a lot of the
leaders from other countries talking
about all sorts of things and I heard
yeah heard about and now he's referring
to when g and forte criminally
body-slammed a reporter he was indicted
right charged and convicted he was and
you know what I loved about that though
well you finished first I'll tell you
what I love nothing to be embarrassed
about but I have a theory about why
Trump highlighted that you go first well
I'm not giving a theory about why you
highlighted I'm just saying I love how
impossibly the most unintended metaphor
of all time it was like when I was in
Rome right like the perfect metaphor for
the falling of our empire right it's
sort of you know like when he was in
Rome one of the other places that
allowed a once functioning at least on
some level democracy to become so
thoroughly corrupt it allowed the people
like Gian Forte and others to cross the
line the Rubicon if you will and to come
inside and behave that way and of course
which led to Rome turning to dust and
that's that's his but that's how he of
course is he's too much of a to
have any understanding of anything but
yeah I mean I if you're gonna say your
theory is is that part of this is to
kind of ease the burden of what happens
what's going on with Saudi Arabia yes
they defend kind of his attacks on the
press because so many Republicans of
course have asked you know and pushed
back your Ben Sasse and others didn't
ever do anything so doesn't much matter
at least they serve critically said oh
well you know Susan Collins tweeted out
and of course we all those whose columns
gonna follow up with us until that first
phone call from McConnell or W you know
and that we need those back off this one
then she will but how terrible and
horrible is going with these to the
bottom of it did you know we have to
whoever it is must pay for it but we all
know in the end that they're not going
to do anything so once those voices
we've seen this movie a million times
more those voices will grow quiet the
new cycle will move on I think Trump
will do what you're doing right now
which is
to find ways to kind of to loosen the
reins and justify the media had it
coming they deserved it and and this is
part of that with Aegean force that
would be sort of my theory but go for
yours no I I agree I think that is
exactly it I mean I think that you know
there it is again to muddy the waters
around this particular topic that you
know to sort of take the baseline of
what kind of violence is appropriate
against the reporter saying those words
but that you know just creating this
dynamic of like look government
officials reporters there's always like
this tension that gets resolved in some
type of physical thing and you know how
the Saudis are a little bit more just
they're they're a little bit more
intense than we are that's all that's
going on here and I I think it is to
mitigate you know the the impact the
potential impact that this could have on
the midterms I mean I I I think we're
probably a couple of days away from
seeing that's become a campaign issue
where you know to rally well a little
bit right and all sorts of things that
we believed a couple of years ago and I
would say when we I think you meet
others who are already very cynical
about who the Republican Party was well
they just pushed past the boundary and
everything child molestation treason
sexual assault I mean name the name the
issue obviously not paying your taxes
for thirty years although that might
have always been a positive and in a
publican party but so yeah why would
this become a he-said she-said issue
wired that why would they make this
about if you're with our team could
everything again this is this is what
fascism is you're with the team and if
you're what the team the team can do no
wrong you know I mean reality is what
the team says it is so I don't mean I
don't see where I mean clearly already
trumpets at the tone of oh well you know
they're out there looking for the real
killers it may not have been them all
the evidence we have from
auto recording - what the Turks are
saying that I'm the Turks are the most
trustworthy right now but in general
what what a variety of evidence is
telling us witness apparently you heard
things going on and the rest is all
wrong just the way all the people
corroborating what dr. Ford was saying
our you know the big general behavior of
Brett cabin or things that she told them
afterwards everything didn't really
happen it was just he said she said and
then I mean there's no doubt that's
where they're headed with this
