[Music]
looking at 2020 Kamala Harris was on the
pod save America show that's where it's
interesting that she we're at the point
where she has to apologize for this and
people can decide on their own whether
they think it it's a little too little
too late the the policy she had as I
think this was as was it as AG I think
the California AG to punish the parents
of kids who miss too much school as it
got more and more attention stories of
of parents who were keeping their kids
home from school because they had
sickle-cell anemia and they were too
exhausted to go to school many days were
arrested and then caught up in the
criminal justice system her pooh-poohing
of criminal justice reform during that
era apparently has caught up with her
and she needs to apologize good for her
for doing so and and of course this is
where you go and you do your apology
tour on pod se of America and my concern
was if we don't take seriously the need
that we as a society should have to
ensure that our children are receiving
the benefit of an education we will pay
the price later and those kids will pay
the price which is that they'll end up
in the criminal justice system and
that's what I wanted to avoid I wanted
to avoid a situation where those
children end up being criminalized Oh
some for their entire lifetime because
we failed them you know in the earliest
stages and so part of the what we wanted
to do and what we did successfully when
I looked into this issue John I realized
that there was no distinction in the
education code between truancy meaning
three or four unexcused absences and
we were seeing which is kids missing as
much as 80 days of 180 day school year
yeah so we changed the law to say no we
need to understand like you know if you
think of it as in phases as you know
yellow light red light red light
situation is the chronic truancy and we
actually got it in the education code so
now it says chronic truancy 10% or more
of the school year missed because we had
to understand institutionally that this
was this is a red light warning and
we're failing these kids if we're not
paying attention to the fact that there
are kids who are chronically truant and
what that will mean for their lives or
that or just that our failure as a
system to let them achieve their
capacity so do you think that the 2011
law shouldn't have a lot you know
shouldn't have allowed some of these
days because my regret is that I have
now heard stories that where in some
jurisdictions DA's have criminalized the
parents and I regret that that has
happened and and that the thought that
anything that I did could have led to
that because that certainly was not the
intention never was the and how people
can decide for themselves that to me
seems like a little bit of weak tea so
you implemented this law as the Attorney
General and instituted this policy you
didn't realize that it would lead to the
criminalization of of these parents I
find that to be I mean highly suspect we
have the original tape here do you want
to go over them yeah let's go over it
because I mean I I understand the
impetus all that makes sense to me
although I should be clear 80 days out
of 180 days is significantly larger than
10% is 10 percent would be 18 days ah 80
days out of 180 days would be closer 40%
but nevertheless we don't need to
quibble about that I think if you if you
have a kid whose little missing 10% of
the days and you should maybe do
something but maybe what that would be
would be we're gonna send you a civil
violation you're gonna get a ticket
summer school maybe
no well I mean I mean but maybe they
don't maybe I'm just giving her the the
greatest benefit of doubt as to what
what was in their purview and certainly
if you're Attorney General you have the
ability to criminalize that you
certainly have the ability to make it a
civil violation so you could say like
we're gonna send you a ticket for $20
and you we're gonna give you an
apparatus to respond to that ticket so
the 20 bucks is an incentive
we'll get the response if the response
is sickle cell anemia the response is I
don't I don't have the ability to get my
kid there I'm working so much I just
don't I need help whatever it is it
seems to me there could have been a lot
of different programs for this but she I
think chose to criminalize it here is a
here is when she's talking about that
very policy back in the day I would not
be standing here were it not for the
education I received and I know men of
many of us will say the same thing and I
believe a child going without an
education is tantamount to a crime
so I decided crime I was going to start
prosecuting parents for truancy well
this was a little controversial in San
Francisco and frankly my staff went
bananas they were very concerned because
we didn't know at the time whether I was
gonna have an opponent in my reelection
race but I said look I'm done this is a
serious issue and I've got a little
political capital and I'm gonna spend
some of it and this is what we did we
recognized that in that initiative as a
prosecutor and law enforcement I have a
huge stick the school district has got
to care it let's work in tandem around
our collective objective and goal which
is to get those kids in school so to
that end on my letterhead now let me
tell you something about my letterhead
when you're the DA of a major city in
this country usually the job comes with
a badge and there is often an artistic
rendering of said badge on your
stationery
so I sent a letter out on my letterhead
to every parent in the school district
outlining the connection that was
statistically proven
between elementary school truancy high
school dropouts who will become a victim
of crime and who will become a
perpetrator of crime we sent it up to
everyone a friend of mine actually
called me and he said komlin my wife got
the letter she freaked out she brought
all the kids into the living room held
up the letter said if you don't go to
school
Karma's gonna put you and me in jail yes
we achieved attend to intended effect so
friends the the AG I would imagine who
are probably not in the same cohort as
people who would have these problems got
the effect I mean I think quite clearly
she said prosecute this is I made the
decision to prosecute the parents so I
don't know that that pod save America
apology was quite sufficient now I I
imagine maybe we don't have the rest of
the tape maybe we have the tape where
Jon Favreau says hey wait a second now
we've actually done our homework here
with the millions of dollars that we
have in our TV show and we had this clip
of you saying you were gonna prosecute
how do you how do you reconcile those
two things I mean I don't know maybe she
has an answer for that but she didn't
have that question so she named the
opportunity to answer it I mean like I
say there there could have been other
options and I will also add that I think
educators would tell you that well it
may be the case that the truancy is
correlated with things like crime and
and dropping out but that does not mean
that they are causal and the causation
may be between the parents and the kids
or maybe the context in which the
parents are living in or you know so
that is really super problematic and I
was hoping that her her apology would
have been a little bit more
comprehensive a little bit less dodgy
provision Asst yeah yeah I mean because
I you know
at this point I've divided the field in
half for the Democratic Party and in
terms of like how depressed I'm gonna be
as to who wins the primary or not and
she is still in the half where I'm gonna
be less depressed she's not I could
divide it into quarters and she would
not be in my top quartile but she's not
like you know I'm not gonna be Eric's
all well depressed without diversified
and depressed or Biden depressed but so
I would like to see you know a better
explanation there like you know I own it
I I made a mistake I had the wrong
attitude towards these things and
everybody learns and when I was bragging
about it and laughing about it at that
function I was I was also I was drunk or
something to that effect I don't know
what you say but that was a little
disappointing
