we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program author journalist
and historian Jack Kelly on his latest
the edge of anarchy the railroad barons
the Gilded Age and the greatest labor
uprising in America Jack welcome to the
program great to be with you Sam and and
I want to get to but you know Eugene
debb's obviously has been enjoying a bit
of a resurgence he's all over the place
now as to paraphrase the president in
some respects largely I think because of
of the moment and he plays a big part in
your book but before we get to two Deb's
give us a sense I mean your your book
starts right around just before a major
[Music]
recession or depression I guess in the
late 1800s
give us a sense of what the of the labor
movement at that time its reconstruction
work a couple of decades out now from
the Civil War maybe a little bit less
what's the labor movement like at that
time well the the it was kind of
fragmented it was uncertain as to what
the really the status of labor was in
the country there were there were had
been unions both small craft unions so
that the the Carpenters Union and there
had been larger organizations like that
what was called the Knights of Labor was
a very large very inclusive Union nobody
knew exactly what direction the labor
movement was going to take and nobody
really knew whether it was legal to
strike whether it was illegal to even be
a member of a union and all this was
sort of up in the air Eugene debb's had
started out as an official the
Brotherhood of locomotive fireman you
know those were the guys have shoveled
the coal into the
the into the burner to keep a locomotive
going and he saw over the years and he
was involved with them for quite a long
time and he saw that these craft unions
the unions were were organized around a
particular skill or ineffective the the
railroads were getting more and more the
corporations were getting larger and
larger they were becoming more and more
monopolistic and they used these small
craft unions against each other and and
were able to manipulate them and Deb saw
this need for a larger conglomeration of
the workers themselves into what was
then called an industrial union that
would include everybody in the industry
and that would give him the clout so
that was really the origin of the of
this conflict that broke out for and as
you mentioned the the the country was in
the middle of the worst depression that
I've ever experienced and the depression
that of the late 1890s has been eclipsed
by the larger depression in the 1930s
but at the time it was absolutely
horrific bottom dropping out of the
country type of depression and went on
through almost 5 years all right and
before we get to the two george pullman
in and and and and and the strike and
and how in many ways I guess like our
there were different players in our
society who were sort of developing
their roles in the context of of a labor
capital conflict tell us a little bit
about Jacob Coxey I found that really
fascinating yeah that was a you know
it's really a symptom of that how
desperate people were in that that year
of 1894 before the the Pullman Strike
and Deb's got going kaksi was a actually
businessman he had
the government was at the time was have
had absolutely no idea what to do about
the depression there was there was it
wasn't him really much nor theories as
to how they should act to alleviate it
and there was no safety net
so Cox II had a very reasonable idea it
was why not hire the unemployed man put
him to work on the roads what we would
call infrastructure investment and you
would end up with half people having
jobs and you would have a productive
asset when you've got finished with
improving the roads which were in
terrible shape at the time the
government didn't want to hear about
that he organized a group of unemployed
men they walked from his home in Ohio
all the way down to Washington DC to
bring this to Congress and that was the
first march on Washington now it's
become sort of a national institution as
a form of protest but he was the first
one to actually bring it about and it
made the government so nervous that they
they handed out rifles to office workers
at the Treasury Department because they
thought these guys were would break into
the Treasury and loot the vaults there
and the movement was referred to as
coxey's army but it was in no sense an
army that would they were it was totally
peaceful people is one to be heard and
did anything come of that I mean aside
from the defensive miss I mean we should
also say this is you know we're now I
guess about 20 years out from the
institution of an income tax right at
this point and and I would imagine like
all of these desires to have the federal
government take a bigger role
particularly in the context of like a
depression start to to generate some of
this I guess impetus to raise more funds
or to have more sort of dedicated funds
I guess like well yeah enough nothing
really came of the taxi movement
except that except for that sort of
nervousness that it generated in the
country he was arrested for walking on
the grass there was actually a law
saying that it was illegal to deliver a
harangue on Capitol Hill which was kind
of an ironic law at the time and the his
I would say his idea was really ahead of
its time it was more Keynesian than then
you know this is before Keynes and the
idea of stimulating the economy when
it's depressed but the Grover Cleveland
who was president then was a devotee of
the gold standard and the hard money
stance was exactly the opposite of what
was needed during a depression but he
went on to exacerbate it they did pass a
income tax but it was overturned by the
Supreme Court I think in 1895 the the
Supreme Court in that era was very
conservative and very backward looking
and they ruled that sort of on a
technicality the income tax was not
constitutional it was another I think it
was in 1913 before they actually passed
a constitutional amendment that allowed
the first income tax and I should I just
put I should you Bush put in parentheses
for our libertarian friends who believe
that the income tax is is still illegal
because I think there were two states
that supposedly did not have quorum for
that men but that's that's for another
day let's let's talk about george
pullman and set pullman up for us
because on some level i mean he's sort
of like a an early prototype of maybe or
maybe this is too far of an analogy but
there's something jeff bezos ish about
him and particularly when we're getting
this sort of like amazon campus in
queens now but tell us what george
pullman about him yeah that's an
interesting parallel
because the one thing I would certainly
say is they were both business geniuses
and a Pullman had a great sense of what
people wanted he went into the railroad
business is exactly the right time in
1860s and developed sleeping cars and
the the the first transcontinental rail
line opened in 1869 you could suddenly
go from East Coast to west coast in a
week but even traveling it you know for
a week and a coach car was uncomfortable
so he came up with these cars that can
be converted into beds that were
extremely luxurious they had all the
geegaws that the Victorians loved and
they were fabulously successful and he
he didn't sell them to the railroads but
he he retained ownership and operated
them on the railroads all the money the
people paid for the upgrade to a Pullman
car went into George Pullman's pockets
and he became fabulously wealthy to
build the cars he'd constructed what was
at the time was one of the biggest
factories in America about 15 miles
south of Chicago and his idea was to get
out of the center of the city which like
many cities during the industrial era
Chicago had been clogged with tenements
and squalor and he thought that it would
be better to build the factory outside
the city and to accompany it he built a
company town which was seen as a model
town this was the way cities should be
built in the future it was had neat
little brick cottages for the workers
parks playgrounds schools libraries and
was right beside the factory and that
that was sort of the origin of the of
the dispute that came later 20 years
later when he or about 15 years later
when he his workers went on strike
against him I mean and then so the talk
about the development of the strike is I
want to at one point bring in the
question of race here which
which is important it seems to me
throughout this story on some level it
runs parallel and then there's a moment
where it could intersect I guess or or
does it I mean it's it's it's the I
should say the story of race is seems to
me to be intertwined throughout and yeah
the plight of black workers at that time
could have been intertwined as well but
didn't and that may have been sort of
like the fatal flaw to this strike on
some level but tell us the the strike
develops because people living in
Pullman's company town it's a fairly
small like I guess complaint or would
have been fairly small for Pullman to
rectify but he was very it seems rigid
about well you know on principle he
doesn't want to in any way give a
concession to the workers yes that's
exactly correct one of his neighbors
said he was the most frigid pompous
autocrat I had ever seen and his
personality did have a big effect on the
whole thing he responded quite
reasonably to the slowdown by lowering
you know dropping the wages of his
workers but instead of also lowering the
rents which in general rents were going
down because it was a depression he kept
the rents at the same level so guys
would work for for two weeks and were
paid every two weeks and they would get
a check for three dollars and that was
to bide you over for another two weeks
and feed your family this brought up a
lot of the complaints that they already
had about the the model town which was
not really such a model it was filled
with company spies it was there was no
town government that was all run by the
company there were these petty rules
that they would make up and post around
the head of obey and the workers were
generally discontent and
they when they were being squeezed
between the rents and the and the lower
wages they decided to go on strike the
other angle that you're referring to and
I think it is important I think it's
just a illustration in a way that
whenever you go back into American
history I was tripping over the race
question george pullman partly as a
republican and a follower of lincoln he
had hired freed slaves almost all freed
slaves to work on his sleeper cars as
servants and that was if in a way it was
a benign act it was trying to help them
out it was one of the few jobs that they
could get on the railroads or anywhere
else but he he had his personality was
such they had to make money at
everything so one of the ways he made
money off of them was he didn't pay him
they worked exclusively for tips at
first and then after a while they got
they would get like $10 a month
and they had no opportunity to rise they
had only that one role as what was
called porters their worth of the
pullman porters when the pullman factory
workers went on strike they appealed to
the the American railway Union which was
this big inclusive union that Eugene
debb's had started just about a year
earlier that Union happened to be having
their convention in Chicago at exactly
the same time that the strike broke out
and one of the questions that the
convention was should we allow black
workers into the Union and Eugene debb's
pleaded with them the delegates from all
the locals please you know you have to
this is the Union had been founded on an
idea of solidarity
including everyone in one big union you
can't you can't draw the race line
unfortunately they voted by very small
margin they voted to exclude blacks from
the union and the as the as the strike
unfolded and the Union tried to help the
Pullman workers by boycotting Pullman
cars on the lines it would have been
much more effective if they could have
had the Pullman porters on their side
because they were absolutely necessary
for operating the Pullman cars but
instead the black workers continued to
work they weren't allowed in the Union
and the the strike ultimately came to
naught all right let's talk about the
the role of the US government the
federal government and and we should on
some level you know also I guess the
courts and in this sort of the state and
local the the Attorney General at that
time was a guy named Richard Olney and
he was I want to say he was a a railroad
attorney but he was was was he still
actively an attorney via railroads
he was still he was he was still an
attorney for the railroad he was a
director of several railroads and it was
almost like being Attorney General was
like a sideline for him and so his
sympathies was you know he was supposed
to be the chief officer of justice in
the country and instead he worked hand
in hand with the railroads who wanted
that they were very eager to break the
strike and break the Union because they
saw this this dust really you know as a
pretty good threat to them and so he
worked hand in hand with them all
through the strike and appointed another
railroad lawyer as as as the u.s. a
special US attorney and
Illinois to handle the day-to-day fight
against the strike so that was that was
a major part of the the reason that the
workers lost because they did stick
together they didn't shut down the
railroads they they put enormous
pressure on both the railroads and
Pullman but once the government got
involved they they were up against more
than they could handle well let me give
us a sense of what that pushback looked
like I mean it you know aside from
injunctions I mean I guess it's you know
this is one of those classic cases where
the court does issue an injunction but
then you know then the question is in
what army and it turns out the basically
the US Army yeah the the injunction
really made this strike illegal and not
only just illegal in general terms but
individual acts of if you didn't go to
work you were essentially breaking the
law
you could be jailed without trial
because you were in contempt of court if
you talk to somebody about the strike
you could be jailed for being in
contempt of court so that was a pretty
powerful weapon against a strike and
only also convinced to Grover Cleveland
the president then to send in the US
Army that was a very sketchy
there was a very sketchy legal basis to
that because the army was not supposed
to be involved in any kind of law
enforcement as it is not also not today
but the army came in with artillery
cavalry primarily in Chicago but also in
other cities out west and and were
involved in putting down the strike and
so to the extent that there was a I mean
so the strike is put down essentially
the workers go back without any type of
relief and particularly in the context
of those rents I guess yeah and they
also had to sign a what was called a
yellow dog contract which was in a
contract that said they would
never ever again join a union so that
was added on top of the alright well
then tell us you know what happens
afterwards because this is one of those
examples of like a I don't want to say a
good loss but the value that can come
out of a loss in a political fight yeah
I think it's a it's an interesting look
into sort of the complexity of history
there was no real black and white that
there was in a way the the outcome of
the strike was paradoxical because
Eugene debb's lost a strike and went to
jail lost his court fight against the
injunction and had to go to jail for six
months and yet when he came out of jail
he that he was welcomed back to Chicago
by a hundred thousand supporters and he
was lionized george pullman won the
strike but he was widely reviled for his
intransigence and even a lot of his
friends said you know if he'd been a
little more flexible he could have saved
the country all the turmoil and I didn't
go into much to the turmoil that
resulted in the strike but it was so
widespread closing down railroads in
which so many towns and cities were
dependent you know the price of food
went through the roof there was several
dozen people got shot dead all that
could have been saved if he'd just been
a little more flexible and a little more
human and is dealing with his employees
but he didn't see it that way and the
the strike also gave an impetus to the
progressive movement which was coming
along and came along a few years later
around the turn of the century and that
were both railroad workers and workers
in general received the benefit of
legislation dealing with whether they
had the legal right to unionize whether
the hours of work the conditions of work
child labor minimum wage things like
that began to be to come into play a lot
because of the
that this strike had on the country and
wealthier people in particular that they
it was it was a type of insurrection
that they were you know had nightmares
about and so that one of the results of
the strike was the Progressive Era a
biggest strike and I can go into in a
minute is it's a fact on Eugene Debs
because he he changed his tune to a
great extent because of his experience
in the strike well yeah let's talk about
that how that how that what lessons he
learned from this well he you know he
saw that if the government was going to
come in on the side of capital then it
didn't do any good to just to organize
labor that you needed to change the
government and so he he was one of those
unusual characters who became more and
more radical as you got older for most
people it's sort of the opposite attic
linear youth and it sort of wise up as
you get older but Deb's transformed this
American railway Union into what became
the Socialist Party of America and
started on a career as a politician and
ran for president the United States five
times as a socialist and and built up at
least the the the beginnings of a
socialist movement during that era and
never of course gained a lot of traction
in America but he was the great prophet
of of socialism well what was it that I
mean IIIi just want to explore that
dynamic where he has this because he
clearly sees that a government that that
weighs in on lay on the side of capital
and this one was extremely corrupt but
we can see it in the context of things
like even like taft-hartley puts its
thumbs on the scale for for management
and capital
in terms of legislation but he sees what
there is he is there does he think that
there is no just expand a little bit
more on that dinette and that that that
that realization he has about what he
needs from government well you know I
think he took the principles he applied
to labor organizing which was this idea
of solidarity that workers could express
solidarity with each other and all
joined together and not fight amongst
themselves he took that idea and applied
it in an even larger context of the
country as a whole that if the working
class could could all pull together and
form a party and and and actively fight
against the powers in the government
that it could bring about fundamental
change and there was a lot of very
hopeful you tope maybe utopian you could
say ideas that society could be
transformed and this this was the
beginning of it and the reasons why it
failed I'd say on the one hand though
socialism failed so the ideas that
socialists were putting up at that time
such as government-sponsored old-age
pension or or health care or
unemployment insurance did work their
way into the political mainstream but
socialism as a as a Creed never really
got the traction that the Debs had hoped
it would and he certainly worked as hard
as he could to bring it about and people
loved to hear him speak but they just
didn't want to vote for him
