I want to play this this this Trump
thing is just stunning to me about how
this guy is so dogged by John McCain
like I can't even figure out what the
hell is going on here
he's he's not into the McCain I mean I
will say that this is in the context of
him in bowl scenario basically outlining
the details of a United fascist front
but yes Donald Trump really doesn't like
job right Donald Trump is sitting there
the Arab leader with with bolson ro and
going all in it's almost like Trump is
trying to show off here I think this is
your main rival in jail and you get to
be president even though you're directly
linked to assassinations but but I mean
watch this not equal to I honestly think
that there's something going on here in
terms of the psychology of like I'm
gonna show him
watch how I on a dead guy very
unhappy very unhappy that he didn't
repeal and replace Obamacare as you know
he campaigned on repealing in a place
replacing Obamacare for years and then
he got to a vote and he said thumbs down
and our country would have saved a
trillion dollars and we would have had
great health care so he campaigned he
told us hours before that he was going
to repeal and replace and then for some
reason I think I understand the reason
he end up going thumbs up and frankly
had we even known that I think we would
have gotten to vote because we could
have gotten somebody else so I did I
think that's disgraceful
plus there are other things I was never
a fan of John McCain and I never will be
I mean I badly have glad he's dead and
he can't do anything around this hack on
the view I think that Trump is sitting
there with both tomorrow and just
thinking like I just I on a purely just
sort of his own manhood is just sort of
feeling like I've got to go fall in on
this mr. president
you say lock her up but I locked we
 up the most popular president in
our nation's history before that he even
got a chance to run he's also probably
literally on a dead guy so he's got
Trump beat there yeah let me exact but
let me just let me I'll take care of
this I'm just gonna on him check
this out
well okay fair enough but what about
this hey remember John became glad he's
dead glad he's dead I never view that
I'm never gonna vote against us in
taganga no more thumbs down you tell
dead daddy's dead it's enough stuff I
like people who didn't die I like people
who didn't get brain cancer and we could
have had great great health care for
them but his brain was blah Blee how was
that
