[Music]
[Music]
we came out of the Mara Lago Summit with
very high hopes
[Music]
with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Monday
October 8th 2018 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today professor of
african-american studies at the
University of Emory Carol Anderson on
one person no vote also on the program
today UN's IPCC issues a dire warning
about climate change we have 12 years to
avoid catastrophe also on the program
today Brett Kavanaugh seated welcome to
our new Lochner era meanwhile Susan
Collins rationalizes and Dems organized
and Brazil goes to a runoff between a
fascist ball Sarna and Bolton ro to face
had ad in three weeks Officer Jason van
Dyke convicted of second-degree murder
in the killing of laQuan McDonald and if
you are a voter in Georgia it's time to
Google salon Georgia vote purge to see
if
you are still registered got to do that
very quickly the Saudis reportedly kill
a Washington Post columnist in their
Embassy in Istanbul because the new
Prince apparently very forward-leaning
but also a little touchy and a touchy
meanwhile a Chinese national detained in
China forced to resign as president of
Interpol all this and more on today's
program
ladies and gentlemen so just a
programming note kids are off from
school today I am going to leave the fun
half to Michael the interview with Carol
Anderson recorded the other day before
Brett Kavanaugh was seated it is a
particularly relevant interview to give
us to give to give everybody a sense of
what we can anticipate at least in the
context of voting rights but also to
give you a historical perspective on
where the court has been and I think a a
good perspective on the way you should
view history in the context of what
we're seeing now with Brett Kavanaugh
because there have been in this country
obviously more than two sort of
irreconcilable at least to this point a
perspectives on how our democracy should
should work there have been other
perspectives in two major ones but and
which is not to say that there aren't
you know it's strongly a third or fourth
perhaps one being more democratic and
socialistic and the other being more
authoritarian and fistic but two major
forces that have run through our history
and
they really in many respects there's an
ebb and flow to where they how strong
they are
in terms of identifying with their core
brand proposition as it were but they
have never gone away and I think when
you hear the conversation I had with
Carol Anderson about what voting rights
were like following the the Civil War
and following really reconstruction and
you're going to see some parallels
between 100 and 50 years ago and today
130 years ago I guess and we're also
going to enter an era now with Cavanaugh
where we're gonna see some some things
that are parallel from the the first 25
years of the 2020s century really I
guess a 40 year period maybe from 1890
to may 50 years to the 37 where which is
known as the Lochner era we have talked
about it in this on this program in
various times you can go back and listen
some of the Milhiser conversations we've
had but it was a period when the Supreme
Court regularly struck down economic
regulations in addition to upholding a
lot of laws that disenfranchised voters
so basically attack the rights of
minorities and of poor people and
enhance the rights of corporations that
is the sort of 101 version of what the
Lochner era is and we are about to enter
a new Lochner era
the only upside that I can say to this
and it you know it's one of these things
where it's this is I don't even want to
say it's a silver lining around a cloud
try and stay positive in these
situations but there is no calculation
whatsoever where this isn't a massive
net negative
not to mention Kavanagh is a guy who I
think is is driven by the most hyper
partisan ideological find a result and
then reverse engineer how you're going
to argue to get their type a judge who's
going in with a apparently quite a chip
on his shoulder not to mention a series
of lies that he told to the committee I
mean we just had the day after the vote
Chief Justice John Roberts received more
than a dozen judicial misconduct
complaints against Brett Kavanaugh which
a judge on the US Court of Appeals of
the DC Circuit because Merrick garland
who is the Chief Justice of that Court I
don't think that's what they call it
but the head judge of that court recused
himself for obvious reasons and handed
over to Karen la Kraft Henderson she
dismissed some of the complaints against
Cavanaugh as being frivolous others she
said warranted serious consideration
they were based upon lies that he told
during his hearings so the guy is
best-case-scenario a proven liar and an
obvious liar he obviously it and beyond
that
you know people make their own
assessment here is Susan Collins now
look here's the deal people were saying
they know why is Susan Collins getting
so much grief about this vote as opposed
to say the other 50 people mostly men
who voted for Susan cover for Kavanagh
why not
Joe Manchin to start with joe Manchin's
a Democrat at least nominally he's a
horrible Democrat from a red state joe
Manchin if Susan Collins does not vote
for Brett Kavanaugh joe Manchin also
does not vote for Brett Kavanaugh that
is the reality there would have been no
space for him to do it he would have
never been the deciding vote it's still
not helpful to have him vote for Brett
Kavanaugh it's indicative of in many
respects what a corrupt guy he is but
that's the reality of the situation
there's a reason why they timed it all
the way they did there's a reason why
Manchin waited for Collins to announce
before he announced because he had to
make sure that she was actually going to
do what she said she was going to do
when they were meeting all together and
they had a sense of where they were all
meeting and by all of them I mean flake
and Murkowski and Manchin that's why
Manchin announced after Collins because
that is how his his vote was contingent
upon her vote and the reason why Susan
Collins gets more grief than the rest of
the Republicans who voted for Kavanagh
is because she has branded herself in a
specific way as a protector of women's
rights even though she's a Republican
she has branded herself as a so-called
moderate
and then she went on the floor of the
Senate and basically argued just about
everything you could without bringing up
pizza gate she is not a moderate she may
be slightly less strident when she
speaks but that's not the point of being
a moderate in the Senate she votes with
Trump consistently and then she goes on
CNN and tries to sell this garbage do
you still think it is possible that he
did it you just don't have the proof to
back that up I do not believe that Brett
Kavanaugh was her sailin so I do believe
that she was assaulted I don't know by
whom and I'm not certain when but I do
not believe that he was the so people
watching you hearing you say that you
understand that they'll think that
you're saying you don't believe her that
that she I know you say that she
believes that that he was but maybe she
was wrong but if she said that under
oath and he said that under oath you
made a decision that he said is more
valid than what she said in this country
we have a positive positive per second
okay she doesn't want to answer that
question because the answer is obvious
but also note that she can't she can't
just decide that Blasi Ford was accurate
in the fact that something happened to
her she doesn't know who did it though
she doesn't believe her about who did it
but what she's also not saying is that I
also don't believe that she that she
must have made up or imagined mark judge
being there and she must have made up or
imagined the existence of PJ and her
close friend who was was there at the at
the party like how nuts the susan
collins have to believe that Blasi Ford
is to say this
I mean it's one thing to say I'm going
to have a completely unreasonable
standard in which to reject this guy's
application for the highest court in the
land for a lifetime appointment it's one
thing to say that I'm gonna have a
standard that's actually even higher
than it would be in a civil court this
is in court but it goes criminal
standard civil standard if you were
going to sue for wrongful for harm or
something it would be there's a lawsuit
that she could file that standard is not
beyond a reasonable doubt and this isn't
even a civil court proceeding
this isn't even a magistrate proceeding
this is a job interview this is we're
gonna sign off on you being hired for a
lifetime appointment but she makes up a
standard and then pretends this is how
Craven Susan Collins is continued tree
we have a presumption of innocence and
as a matter of fairness what I decided
to use as a standard was the question of
is it more likely than not that Bret
kavanah assaulted Christine Ford and
there was no corroborating evidence that
he did so each of the posit well but
there was corroborating evidence and
everybody knows it the fact that Blasi
Ford had told her therapists seven years
ago six years ago that Cavanaugh had
done it was corroborating evidence the
fact that Plaza that Cavanaugh was a
blackout drunk and there was plenty of
corroborating evidence to the the idea
that he was lying about that
like you
the calendar with the names and that I
mean somehow Blasi Ford got it down to
almost the week that he was at a party
with those same people but she doesn't
have the ability to know who assaulted
her I mean this is absurd it's absurd
it's embarrassing that she actually goes
on television to try and push this stuff
but Susan Collins made a decision the
other day and Lindsey Graham made this
decision a couple of weeks ago McCain is
gone they have lost the cover of their
being some other sort of like third way
in the Republican Party and their future
lies in basically becoming louie gohmert
just a little bit you know more polite
and now I don't know how much they've
raised now that will go to Susan Collins
uh it's over with three point five
million dollars you know they crashed
the website within I think within a half
an hour of that but this isn't all giant
disgusting speech of hers this is why
Susan Collins deserves to be hit on this
it's not like she just made the vote and
walked away she is trying to sell it she
is her job her job and she will get paid
for it she will get paid in support like
we've never seen for Susan Collins from
the Republican Party her job was to go
out there and sell this to Republican
women and muddy the waters and be the
shill for the Republican Party that's
what her job is
you know it's Orrin Hatch's job to
dismiss the woman with a wave and chuck
Grassley to say women are too busy to be
on the Judiciary Committee did you not
hear that yeah do we have another sound
list you should grab it to play that
later in the fun half chuck Grassley
overheard saying the reason why there
are no
public in women on the Judiciary
Committee is it's too much work for them
so this is where we are and I mean you
know you can the importance of this
midterm election is obviously huge and
there is still a path to the Senate it
is you know very difficult very
difficult but we are a month away from
the election I use Heidi Heitkamp as
just as an example the people who are
motivated to vote for a Heidi Heitkamp
by this process are going to be just as
motivated on November 8th as they were
yesterday the people who were activated
in defense of Brett Kavanaugh and
against the feminazis who would in some
way endanger a potentially great man's
opportunity to become a great man they
will not be as motivated and so it's not
just enough to vote but go out and knock
on some doors tell your friends to vote
vote early taking the Senate is pretty
crucial at this point it's going to be
much harder because a lot of the reason
why the house is much easier at this
point is because those districts where
there are basically Republican women in
the suburbs who are probably going to
stay home those tend to be the swing
districts and so
those are the low-hanging fruits but
when you have red states I think there
are 10 states where you have Democratic
senators running or ten Democratic
senators running in red states much
harder so go out organize and the you
know the next step is going to be to
talk about reform of the Supreme Court
and I you know people are also talking
about reform of the Senate that's long
overdue you know we should say the
Senate originally I hope people know was
not elected by the people in the state
it was elected by the state legislatures
we were chosen essentially right I mean
there was an election but I have a
feeling it probably wasn't terribly
contested for those first hundred years
more or less do you think statehood
would be a good first step as far as
that goes for DC and Puerto Rico without
a doubt it's absurd it's absurd but
that's that is a step one in terms of
refer you know reformation of the Senate
getting rid of the electoral college
more democratic reforms but I also think
that pushing for court packing I've
stayed this before in my opinion term
limits on the court will be more durable
but push for court packing by all means
because if that is a legitimate threat
on the table then a term limit is much
more likely and there should also be to
that end get a commitment from your
representatives to hold hearings on
Brett Kavanaugh whether he lied and
certainly Brett Kavanaugh should want
that to clear his name to get out from
under this cloud to show all of those
clintonites who ginned up all
of these claims against him that he
didn't lie go through the Mannie Miranda
stuff when he stole when he received
stolen information 12 years ago go
through the questions of his drinking go
through the documents that the Bush
administration has we're gonna see some
of those they're gonna be fired soon all
this should be revisited there's there
is no other path there is no other path
folks because you know we get a report
today from the IPCC yesterday there's
only 12 years to keep warming to a
maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius beyond
which even half a degree will
significantly worsen the risks of
droughts floods extreme heat poverty for
hundreds of millions of people you know
I've said this I haven't talked about it
for a while but James Lovelock the guy
who found the hole in the ozone layer
was asked 10 years ago 12 years ago what
he thinks we should do about climate
change and he says essentially oh yeah
take a time machine it's a conversation
we should have had 30 years ago he
predicted by the end of this century the
world's population would be 80% less
than it is now go from 6 billion to 1
billion Europe will be sub-saharan by
2080 he walked it back after a couple of
months when people like you can't say
that because people are gonna give up
but
we have a problem in this in this
country I mean obviously we have a
problem with China they've got to dial
back significantly if this is the case
we've got to dial back significantly but
China's certainly not going to do it if
we don't do it and here's the problem
you can argue and I know very few people
who listen to this program do although
there there are some you can argue that
Clinton and the Democrats wouldn't have
done anything differently but the fact
of the matter is no matter how much we
agitate Donald Trump and the Republican
Party who control all the levers of
government right now there is no way to
get this country to do anything beyond
maybe in California you can do stuff
there's no way to have a policy a
national policy that is going to rise to
the occasion we're going to have to
their subsidiary this may be the most
important story of the day but the it is
subsidiary in terms of the order in
which it can be addressed that's just
the reality a million people could march
tomorrow in Washington about climate
change and Donald Trump will come out
and say it's it's a hoax and he will
perceive it as helpful to his reelection
that is the problem if Hillary Clinton
was president I don't care how
neoliberal she is a million people on
the streets of of Washington DC
all of whom voted for her would make a
difference that's the reality of
politics maybe on the day they both get
elected their intentions are equally the
same I don't believe that but let's just
assume let's just stipulate that but the
reality of politics is for us to now
influence the the policy of the American
government in terms of climate change
we're going to have to make sure that we
have more elected Democrats than
Republicans that is that's it and then
hope that red Cavanaugh does not start a
jihad on that court with the other
lunatics to basically invalidate every
regulation that we could pass as a
country to address climate change so not
saying voting is the only thing that you
should do but for the next four weeks
it's the most important thing you should
be thinking about and not just your vote
other people's votes so do a foam Bank
walking around your neighborhood even
and when you get to that last house on
the street ask them to go walk or hunt
and walk the other direction very very
important all right we're going to take
a break do this interview with the Carol
Anderson on her book one person no vote
Michael be doing the fun half see in a
minute
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
professor of african-american studies at
Emory University and author of The New
York Times bestseller white rage on her
latest one person no vote how voter
suppression is destroying our democracy
Carol Anderson welcome back to the
program oh thank you so much for having
me Sam I have to start off by telling
you that and in my audience that if they
have not read white rage do everybody a
favor and please do it is it has really
had an indelible mark on on me and
changed sort of my perspective on on on
race in this country on history on some
level and has influenced a lot of
interviews I've done since then I mean I
feel like we spoke just months ago but I
know it was a couple years ago and so I
really appreciate that work and then
people should go and listen to the
interview after they read your book but
I want to talk about ultimately the
relationship between what the
relationship between what you wrote
about in white rage with what we're
seeing in terms of this assault on the
Voting Rights I want to go through these
these these voting rights I think this
audience is fairly well versed in in
these issues but let's talk about the
the history of disenfranchisement that
we've seen in this country and the way
that it has I guess
mutated but also stayed the same yeah so
and that's that's you know historians
are always fascinated by issues of
continuity and change and
disfranchisement voter suppression
really sums that up I guess a great way
to start is the 1890 Mississippi plan
and that was seen as a progressive
measure it was defined as a way to
in corruption at the ballot box - to
make a democracy pure and that required
the massive disfranchisement of black
voters but Mississippi couldn't say we
don't want black people to vote because
there was this thing called the
Fifteenth Amendment that said that the
right to vote shall not be abridged on
account of race and so how do we say we
don't want black people to vote and not
get black people to vote and what
Mississippi did and it was a plan then
that other states modeled was to develop
a series of measures that looked at the
Society imposed characteristics of a
people such as under education so you're
going to need a literacy test such as
poverty so you're going to need a poll
tax and then created those kinds of
devices that were so effective in
staying on this side of the Fifteenth
Amendment they the US Supreme Court
approved literacy test and the poll tax
is not violating the Fifteenth Amendment
while also getting to the point where
those two things alone as well as with
Election Day terrorism were powerful
enough by the time that the US were was
at war with the Nazis 97 percent of
African Americans in the South were not
registered to vote Wow yeah you know and
we should say right I mean that is and
you know forgive me for doing this but
the what we're watching there is the
response to reconstruction and the
response in many respects to the 15th
amendment it is you're basically
watching the white power structure
attempt to rollback any gains that were
made in terms of black voting
absolutely absolutely
the
and and to do that in ways and this is
why was it it's apocryphal but they say
Mark Twain history may not repeat itself
but his show do R I'm this this way of
saying this is about protecting
democracy while it is about entrenching
white power structure by stripping
African Americans of one of their key
citizenship rights which therefore leads
them vulnerable to stripping of array of
other rights okay so in in is this the
the first time we see this model because
this is I mean like you say it it may
not repeat itself but it rhymes
this model of protecting democracy so we
will put restrictions on what it takes
to vote in one era we may call it a poll
tax and another era we may call it a a
an ID that's issued from a DMV the was
this the first example of that was it
the first time it was necessary and and
and are we talking about primarily
southern states how much was this an
issue in northern states as well when we
talk about you know reconstruction in
post reconstruction okay so this was
primarily the 15th amendment made this a
necessity you know prior to this time
prior to the Civil War when the Union
when the US was founded the vote was not
universal
white male property became the kind of
litmus test the eligibility requirements
and the struggle since that time has
been to open up the vote to make the
democracy real to make it vibrant and
the Fifteenth Amendment was designed to
do that and then boom by 1890 this is
when you see the rise of Jim Crow in the
Mississippi Plan the North did not have
those kinds of restrictions the North
had other elements that it did and so
the North had the kind
of political machines where there was a
patronage system and and so the North
had a kind of a different kind of
corruption going one but this this kind
of systematic attack on the right to
vote that was a southern phenomenon
targeted at african-americans okay so
when we see the the the the essentially
the the blowback right I mean it it
takes place a Fifteenth Amendment was
passed if I'm not mistaken I think it
was in 1870 and so it takes it takes
about 20-some odd years for for the the
innovation I guess to take place on how
they're going to roll back those
protections and then the Supreme Court
blesses this form of of voter
suppression which is I mean manok like I
could have been talking about the past
three years right or the past five right
as I guess we have watched this I mean
just draw some parallels I mean I think
you know this must be occurring to
everybody who's listening because we've
we've covered this but the parallels are
stunning the parallels are absolutely
stunning because part of what the
Supreme Court decisions require is that
you don't pay attention to the evidence
and I know having judges not pay
attention to evidence just it sounds
like an oxymoron or or something that
doesn't happen but it happens so when
the Supreme Court in the 1898 decision
said that the poll tax and the literacy
tests were actually valid because you
know there were reasons for them to
exist and it didn't deal with race that
what the poll tax did was the states
were saying that democracy was expensive
and it takes a lot of money to hold
these elections to have people voting
and then having people there at the
polls and having people count the
ballots and and all that takes money and
and what this does then the poll
tax it shows the kind of investment that
people are willing to make in democracy
and if people aren't willing to make
that investment then they don't they
really shouldn't be voting the literacy
test dealt with the so-called need to
have people who were knowledgeable about
the laws of the state and the laws of
the land and so it required reading a
passage of the either the US
Constitution or the state constitution
and then interpreting it to the liking
of the registrar which is which is
somewhat subjective I guess well I can
Jenna I'm sorry continue and and and and
and so then when we think about for
instance the the lie of voter fraud
because that's what we're dealing with
now just the way we were dealing with
the kind of the lie of this kind of mass
corruption that required the massive
disfranchisement of black voters the lie
of voter fraud that really came to the
fore in the wake of the 2000 election
that was that bush-gore election and
we've spent a lot of time on Florida
because Florida is was just such a hot
mess with the hanging chads and all of
that but it was in Missouri st. Louis
Missouri where the st. Louis Board of
Elections had purged nearly 50,000
voters
primarily from democratic districts
precincts from the voter rolls and
didn't tell people that they had been
purged from the voter rolls so they show
up to vote and their names aren't listed
on the sheet their names aren't listed
on the rolls and the poll workers can't
get anybody downtown you know they can't
even get through downtown to verify that
these people are who they say they are
so they just send the people downtown
and hours are wasted downtown trying to
get all of this
trying to get all of this settled so
that people can vote which they had
planned to do earlier in the day so the
Democratic Party then who to keep the
polls open for an additional three hours
as compensation for the the amount of
time that people had to waste downtown
when they shouldn't have had to do that
anyway because their names shouldn't
have been off the rolls 45 minutes later
the Republicans came in and got a judge
to overturn that decision and closed the
polls and within 45 minutes though the
polls closed at 7:45 and there is so
many people who never got to vote
because they had been illegally purged
and then they legally run around now you
could say one of the things is you could
say wow you know there was a purge and
that really worked for us but that's not
what the Republicans said instead
senator kit bond started talking about
we've got to get these polls close
because this is a case of a brazen
shocking voter fraud you've got people
who are repeated repeatedly voting using
addresses from vacant lots we've got
dogs on the rolls we've got dead people
on the rolls they're trying to steal
this election and that language that lie
what was an illegal purge by election
officials becomes the actual people
themselves are committing voter fraud
right and yes and an entire apparatus
emerges around trying to to rein in this
rampant voter fraud to where we get a
Supreme Court decision and the coming
out of Indiana marion county versus
crawford where the Supreme Court
acknowledged Indiana passed a voter ID
law in like 2005 or so passed a voter ID
law and the ACLU and n-double-a-cp sued
and the courts acknowledged the US
Supreme Court acknowledged there is no
case of voter fraud in the history of
Indiana
we can't find a case in the history of
Indiana nobody has ever been charged in
Indiana with this crime well it's also
we should be clear too that this is the
motive fraud would be one of the
silliest crimes to commit
I mean honestly like because you would
have to you would have to do this on a
wide scale to implicate an election at
least a meaningful election like I could
see it happening in a small town there's
50 people who lived there and you know
maybe you think you can get away with it
in there and you could actually affect
the outcome of the election but it's an
absurd crime to try and commit it is an
absolutely absurd crying and think about
what it says it says that you have
somebody who is going in to the polls
I'm using somebody else's identification
somebody else's persona and repeatedly
voting over and over and over and and
and and the absurdity of that and the
absurdity of that is then verified by
numerous studies one of the the largest
ones was by a professor out of
California Justin Levitt and he found
that between 2000 and 2014
there had been 1 billion votes cast in a
series of elections out of those 1
billion votes there had been only 31
cases of voter impersonation fraud out
of 31 billion but that's not what we
hear from the Kris Kobach's of this
world out of Kansas we hear rampant
voter fraud from Donald Trump we hear
rampant voter fraud well and we heard
this we heard this I mean this was this
started I mean I don't know if it
started obviously it didn't it started
apparently in 1890 but we also heard it
during the Bush administration the very
controversial firing of all the US
Attorney's was a function of karl rove
saying find me cases of voter fraud and
too many of them came back and said I'm
sorry I can't I mean I simply cannot do
it and they were fired and that is
when a lot of this started but but wait
let me let me go back still a little bit
because I don't think people fully
understand just how long a black folk
were disenfranchised by things like a
poll-tax et cetera and and and I I want
to just even go back to the Fifteenth
Amendment for a moment because how much
of a conscious decision was the
Fifteenth Amendment to leave open the
door for these alternate forms of voter
suppression and and I asked for two
reasons one all of this could have
easily been addressed on some level by
saying everyone every citizen has a
constitutional right to to be to vote
that cannot be abridged for any reason
unless there's a compelling state
interest or even like it seems to me you
could have written a one which wasn't so
easy to maneuver around and and I also
say that in the context of this is very
similar to the dynamic let's say with
social security where it's we're gonna
offer social security for everybody
except for these two or three sectors
like domestic help and farm help which
just happened to have the highest
concentration of african-american folk
and maybe Latino folk and women and
that's just a coincidence I'm waiting
for of course it was not a coincidence I
mean how much of the 15th amendment was
that dynamic and play I think moving
back up to the 1867 year cuz we're in
reconstruction the 1867 reconstruction
act which is you know two years after
the war and that act said that basically
black men had the right to vote because
women women period did not have the
right to vote but it was saying that
black men had the right to vote and what
the Radical Republicans and I know that
sounds like such an odd term now but
that was the name of the
the powerful group within Congress what
the Radical Republicans were afraid of
is that as political winds shifted that
that that law would be easily overturned
it would just be easily scrapped and so
they thought let's do a constitutional
amendment because one of the things that
they were concerned about and rightfully
so
was that without the right to vote the
unrepentant white folks of the
Confederacy would continue to try to
really by another name they would do
everything in their power to subjugate
black folks and as long as African
Americans did not have the right to vote
then these politicians would not have to
be responsive to the needs of that very
large constituency hmm
and so by creating the Fifteenth
Amendment and and so you've got this
constitutional amendment that says that
the right to vote shall not be abridged
on account of race or prior conditions
of servitude that was supposed to handle
it it was supposed to handle it
but the the ways of the US Supreme Court
that just did violence to the 14th and
15th amendment the 14th amendment is the
one about birthright citizenship and due
process equal protection under the law
and the Fifteenth Amendment the the
Supreme Court read those key
Reconstruction and mint amendments as
something that they weren't so that the
14th amendment really isn't about
individuals rights but it's about
corporate rights corporations have the
right right and that the Fifteenth
Amendment really wasn't about the right
to vote so watching these key amendments
that were put in place
to provide the protection the kind of
legal protection so that
african-americans could enjoy their
citizenship rights be gutted by the
highest court in the land and have the
highest court in the land basically in
league with unreconstructed rebels was
what took us frankly with the kind of
array that the the Mississippi plan
entailed so like the grandfather clause
was in there the grandfather clause
basically if your grandfather could not
vote prior to the 1867 election you
can't vote well 1867 and they did say
election ad prior to 1867 well that was
the reconstruction act of 1867 so whose
grandfather couldn't vote before 1867
right I mean it's a it's it's such a
perfect you know also exemplars of of
what is highly problematic with the
Supreme Court what has been problematic
with the Supreme Court what will be
problematic with the Supreme Court and
then what will jump up to modern-day in
in the way that they have been dealing
with any number of cases whether it's
the Texas redistricting which stands out
whether it's Shelby I mean a bunch of
these cases stand out as perfect that
you could literally pick them up and
drop them back into the reasoning of the
poll tax but you know it the the plain
reading of the Fifteenth Amendment is on
account of race right not by the use of
race but but account of race which means
that on account of race you don't have
to put the words black people can't vote
for it to be on account of race you
simply have to actually make a
calculation what is the real aim by this
and you can measure that by who it
impacts in a disparate manner exactly
and it took the Supreme Court so that
can't the grandfather clause came into
being in 1890 it was not found
unconstitutional until 1950
Kien and so we had a generation and then
we still we still had poll taxes if I'm
not mistaken well into the middle of the
20th century right the poll tax was
finally abolished in both federal and
state elections by 1966
I believe Wow yeah there's actually a
constitutional amendment banning the
poll tax the literacy test was basically
abolished with the Voting Rights Act of
1965 so we are in living memory of so
many people so you know we see the kind
of cinematic images coming off of Selma
and the Edmund Pettus Bridge in this
battle to vote and it is because of the
stranglehold of disfranchisement had
some counties in the south that had
sizable minority populations having less
than 1% of their black population
registered to vote some it was a point a
percentage point of a percentage point
it was in some like Lowndes County
Alabama had zero african-americans
registered to vote by the early 1960s so
this this this disfranchisement have
been rolling through for three
generations and it has been lethal in
terms of the kinds of policies that
emerge so you know you talked about
Social Security you can only have that
kind of conversation if you have
politicians from the south who are
elected by less than say 10 to 15
percent of their adult population
because there were times like by the
time we get to 1942 in the midterm
election we're only seven percent of
of age eligible voters actually voted in
the deep south 7% in a midterm election
when we get to the 1944 presidential
election it was 14% whereas the national
average was 62% so when you you only
have to be responsive to a very narrow
tube and of your voting population why
why was that band so narrow I mean in
part because 95 some odd percent of
black people can't vote what what what
constitute to the other just abject
poverty or what what was keeping any
other people so poverty also played a
key role as did and you know and they
were very clear when they were drafting
the Mississippi plan of 1890 that they
didn't want a lot of whites to vote
either yeah you know there's a one-one
Mississippi politician said yeah this is
going to get rid of the vicious white -
and it did you saw the the the overall
voter turnout rate begin to just plummet
because the system is so rigged and they
had these little cutouts for some whites
to be able to get through but overall
it's so like the system was rigged
because that's what rigged systems do
they depress voter turnout that's what
stringent registration rules do they
depress voter turnout and making it
clear there's a there's a framing to the
right to vote that treats the right to
vote not as a right but as a privilege a
privilege that has to be earned by
jumping through a whole series of
hurdles and barreling through a number
of obstacles and and so overall what was
going on in in the deep south is that
you did not have a functioning democracy
you had
a small ruling oligarchy that then
because of their seniority because they
kept getting reelected because heck you
know they really didn't have they knew
everybody who was voted for them
practically right you know is that they
then held the seniority positions of of
the various chairs in the US Congress so
you know they're on top of the Foreign
Relations Committee they're they're on
top of the Judiciary Committee and and
in those key spots they're able to shape
federal legislation so watching Jim Crow
being inserted into the Social Security
Act during the the height of the Great
Depression is one example this kind of a
systematic denial of the right to vote
to American citizens in one region it
has enormous impact nationwide and so
the we follow the history and we see the
the Voting Rights Act comes in we see
later amendments that closed the door on
these sort of you know I guess
long-lived but fairly blunt instruments
to suppress the vote and it feels like
then you know if we track that to the
late 60s
we have really thirty some-odd years of
of a fairly consistent regime of
protecting the rights to vote we have
the section five of the Voting Rights
Act which has preclearance for some 12
odd states in in counties in 14 states
including New York had two counties if
I'm not mistaken that were subject to
preclearance which meant that they could
not change their voting right their
voting rules without the DOJ signing off
because they had a history of being
racially of discriminating based on race
in some fashion
and then of course there was also other
provisions of the Voting Rights Act
which could push people could push
States into that category of needing
preclearance and other things that would
allow the DOJ to go in and prove and
then we have these you've described now
when the first you know stringent voter
ID laws creep up in the the early aughts
it's as if like the when when the when
the the the the the Dixiecrats moved to
the Republican Party they said okay now
we've got to change our strategy it's no
longer we are oligarchs that exclude all
black people essentially and poor white
people we've got to now open up a couple
of doors for white folk to come in
rebuild our base and then we can go back
to imposing stringent restrictions that
hopefully will catch the right type of
people we want to catch you and and what
you're talking about is the Southern
Strategy that Lee Atwater defined so
brilliantly and Lee Atwater was Ronald
Reagan's strategist and what Lee Atwater
said was you know in 1954 you could say
the n-word and it wouldn't hurt you but
by 1968 which is you know we were we've
gone through the civil rights movement
by 1968 you can't say it it hurts you it
backfires and so the response VIN isn't
so you know we need to really move on to
a non racial policy and non racist
policy instead what Lee Atwater says and
so then so what you start doing is you
start talking about economic things like
cutting taxes or forced busing or states
rights and the whole point of this he
said is that blacks get hurt worse than
whites
you may take some rights you may you may
hurt some White's as well but the
overall impetus is going to be and and
the perception is right like the idea is
that we think about welfare we are
trained to you know to to think that oh
this is these are just handouts to black
people right right and and that is you
know again a key element of the Southern
Strategy when you think about the way
that Reagan talked about the welfare
queen in Chicago he didn't say the
welfare queen in Paducah Kentucky right
he said the welfare queen in Chicago
that is we you know we call a dog
whistle and so in that policy of now how
do we craft because the key element in
this and as you talked about it the
wooing in of the Southern Democrats into
the Republican Party began to push that
party further and further ideologically
and policy wise to the right so you
start seeing virulent anti-immigrant
policies coming up you start seeing very
stringent anti-civil rights policies
emerging now the problem is besides
those policies just being odious is that
the demographics in America are changing
America is becoming significantly more
diverse and as America becomes more
demographically diverse those Republican
policies become more repugnant to a
larger and larger share of the American
electorate so if you're a political
party you're looking up here and you're
going okay so we've got two options and
the Republicans did talk about this
we've got a couple of options we can
either begin to reform and open up our
party to begin to to embrace I mean it's
going to be hard for us to embrace black
people but how about embracing
immigrants how about doing that and the
response was no absolutely positively
not no and so then the response the next
one was door number two okay so then how
do we begin to shut down the
demographics that we know overwhelmingly
will not vote for us
I think of Paul Wyrick who was the head
of Alec and one of the founders of the
Heritage Foundation and he said in a
speech yes he said I you know I don't
want everybody to vote because frankly
our leverage goes up as the voting
population goes down and that becomes
the blue blueprint how do we keep more
and more voters away from the polls how
do we discourage voters and so you start
seeing elements of that where they begin
to learn that demographics are not
destiny and so we begin to see elements
of that and Obama's election really sent
this policy into overdrive because what
he did was he did not get the majority
of white voters no Democratic candidate
since 1964 running for president has
received the majority of white voters
but he got a sizable number but his
ground game brought 15 million new
Americans to the polls people had never
voted before and they were
overwhelmingly black Latino Asian poor
and young that Coalition was
instrumental in Obama's victory in both
2008 and 2012 when you look at these
voter suppression laws they are targeted
right at that coalition we have voter ID
that
affects african-american folk and Latino
folk and in some states what ID they'll
accept will impact a lot of college
students who may be in certain areas and
the let's I want to just touch on what
cases and and I think people are
familiar with the 20 2013 was it when
the Voting Rights Act was really in many
respects gutted and with the excuse I
think it was Scalia had said well the
Senate reauthorized this but they only
did it because they were afraid of doing
something that would be perceived as
being racist and they didn't mean to do
it or something to that effect and I
think Roberts called it or maybe it was
Alito called it some type of a giveaway
essentially to to black folk but what
what cases one or two cases sticks out
for you as the most reminiscent of that
supreme court that found poll taxes fine
that found you know a literacy test okay
what is there any case as of recently
that sticks out for you that's a great
question
I got to say that when I talked about
that Marion County V Crawford case
coming out of Indiana that sticks out
because their Justice John Paul Stevens
has to admit that not only has there
been no case of voter impersonation
fraud in the history of the of Indiana
but that the cases that were talked
about could not be addressed could would
not have been stopped by voter ID so I'm
thinking okay so we're done here right
there's no case of voter ID there is no
state interest in this thing except in
blocking poor people and black people
and and the n-double-a-cp and ACLU had
incredible data about the impact
of this law on those voters and the
court just overlooked it and basically
said they didn't believe it it really
wasn't you know that evidence really
wasn't evidence for all intents and
purposes but they believed the voter
fraud lie
although the state could produce no
evidence of voter fraud that that is
what provided the constitutional basis
for voter ID laws it's it really is
stunning and I think you know I would
also tell people as as we wrap up a look
at the case in Texas which is stunning
in my estimation this was a case where
the they gerrymandered a court found
that they had done it with racist intent
and they basically stretched it out they
needed an emergency they needed
emergency map for another election the
state the legislature adopted largely
the map that was considered racist but
because they just adopted one that had
been drawn earlier they couldn't have
had any racist intent it was just
expediency and therefore they were
deemed no longer racist I mean that to
me was was stunning what yeah so yeah so
what I mean what has to happen I mean
because we I there's we are we are days
away maybe months but who knows away
from having a court that is going to be
very much like that court in 18 you know
1890s the ones that found the poll tax
is okay I mean what what do we do okay
and so there are several things that we
do one is that we register to vote it is
absolutely imperative that we are there
voting voting voting and and whom we're
voting in we're paying attention to that
because we're voting in folks who
believe
in democracy who believed that American
citizens have the right to vote and that
it's a book it's a right it is not a
privilege the second thing that we do is
that we insist on you know when we have
these gerrymandered districts for
instance and and Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania have have really so so I
mean and I don't you know I'm trying to
do the scholarly thing but ugh the only
word that's about because Pennsylvania
drew its map in such a way that the
Republicans receive 49% of the vote but
72% of the congressional seats and when
that thing
rebounds and edie's through what has
happened is that we have 16 to 26
additional unwarranted seats for
Republicans in the house US House of
Representatives and that's where we
begin to see oh and with these
gerrymandered districts that protect
these representatives from the will of
the voters we began to see this massive
disjuncture between the will of the
people who want an affordable care act
and access to quality health insurance
who want daca who want legislation
dealing with semi-automatic weapons who
want the children's health insurance
program who don't want a tax bill a tax
bill that that transfers over a trillion
dollars to be over wealthy that
disjuncture is the the is the result of
gerrymandering so we need to insist and
there are ballot initiatives like in
Michigan to have nonpartisan
redistricting Commission's come to the
fore we also need to elect a congress
that believes in the Voting Rights Act
so that we can get a reestablished
Voting Rights Act put in place
it's going to face a bucketload of
judicial challenges we know that and so
it's going to have to be written tightly
smartly and we're going to have to
continue to fight because this latest
wave has put American democracy in peril
it really has and that's not hyperbole
that is when you look at the ways that
the guardrails have come off this system
when you look at what we thought were
laws that only turned out to be norms
that somebody who is consciousness does
not care about norms can just blow right
through them when you can see that the
checks and balances aren't checking and
they aren't balancing but that they're
in cahoots to recreate the kind of
oligarchy that was happening in the deep
south that's why we must vote that's why
we must put people in power who are very
Pro democracy and why we must also
support the civil civil organizations
such as the ACLU in double-a-c-p all of
these grassroots organizations who are
fighting voter suppression we need to
support them as well because they've
been doing the heavy lifting when states
have refused Carol Anderson the book is
one person no vote how voter suppression
is destroying our democracy we will put
a link over at majority dot F M thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you so much Sam we
are back the indispensable Carol
Anderson white rage is a must read for
understanding our time and one person no
vote
covering really important grounds well
obviously we're a month away from
elections of what happened in Brazil
yesterday I think is another indicator
of the importance of yes in conjunction
with many other steps but indeed voting
and voting in a non perfectionistic or
silly manner to avoid truly catastrophic
outcomes especially when those outcomes
are very easily predictable like
extremely is like like people of very
very like it takes no extra insight to
predict those outcomes in terms of
things that take a couple hours there's
little politically impactful as voting
there is and and an often case and in
some cases less there are a few things
that might as an example you might spend
literally months or years tweeting
nonsense or you know watching dumb
videos and you might I I've voted a
couple weeks ago for Jumaane Williams
and Cynthia Nixon and Zephyr Teachout
and also guy whose name I'm forgetting
but a good candidate who knocked out an
IDC Democrat an hour actually our same
district man and it took me literally
and I'm including the walk a little bit
of a walk to the polling place 25
minutes and now it was very emotionally
intense for me because Cynthia Nixon
does not represent every single
intricacy of all of my philosophical
inclinations and policy portfolio so I
had a very emotional day dealing with
that act but then I did it and it was
extremely easy it also just it also just
every time you you know Carol Anderson
and you know that's sort of not a
historical perspective on voter
discrimination but the overt strategy of
white supremacy through ice policies
through rolling back voting rights yeah
that's just something that
that can't be tweed with and then
conversely you know people on the right
get into power and they immediately go
about assembling strategies to restrict
power and then we don't govern in a way
that expands and entrenches power which
actually for the left means giving power
to much more people the fun thing about
us changing the electorate in a way that
helps our side is expanding the vote and
representation to more people right our
version of playing of being ruthless
which is good I won't say playing dirty
but being ruthless means people in
Puerto Rico and Washington DC aren't
disenfranchised than anymore
like that's the kind of ruthless or that
left you a schism left a left
authoritarianism is people in Washington
DC and Puerto Rico are represented
nationally and not taxed without
representation left authoritarianism or
left fascism or whatever it means that
we inject democratic accountability on
the Supreme Court by introducing term
limits and expanding seats and even
though the votes are not anywhere near
they're having serious investigations
for issues like conflicts of interest
and potential past criminal behavior for
at least two of these justices Brett
Kavanaugh Clarence Thomas so by-the-book
go out get involved in these elections
wherever you are and at every so Sellner
miry Zellner miry that was a guy yep
there Jesse Hamilton am I wrong or was
it flipped it might was it just yes no
there was no no I know Jesse Hamilton
was the bad guy but was it zelner miry
or Myra's Ellner an embezzler okay yeah
I'm just just a dyslexic moment for me I
apologize yes Jesse Hamilton was uh was
the IDC
far-right Democrat Republican I mean
that's a good example a left I believe
the district were in in Brooklyn has the
highest concentration of DSA members
and this guy Jesse Hamilton had
represented it for several terms had
been part of the IDC corrupt agreement
propping up the Republican majority
stalling left legislation and you know
had just machine networks in low turnout
primaries that's it until you know a
young actual left progressive candidate
when Adam well gave a choice and we had
to go out and vote for that choice and
make that actually happen and that will
have a real tangible difference in terms
of how things are done in this state the
strong anti-incumbent see factor out
there that can be taken advantage of by
socialists or non socialists alike so
you want to get in there with the
socialism indeed mmm
okay become a member of the majority
report today majority dot F M slash
become a member it's how this show
happens there's a link to it in the show
notes if you're not a member yet pennies
a day for a five day a week left
progressive ecumenical left broad
perspective on news culture analysis
in-depth interviews and of course a fun
half become a patron of the Michael
Brooks show it's a weekly deep dive into
politics sports culture trends with a
very global focus and of course we have
a lot of fun and we have a great
entertaining postgame we have in-depth
elicit histories on everything from
Africa Canada Brazil political theorists
there's a lot going on there Plus woke
Bros which I do what wise we had a great
time we did a sold-out show I was a
special guest for counted dings at the
Bell House Williamsburg on Friday that
was a lot of fun of course get Jamie's
not here with us today but auntie Fattah
is her podcast that she does what Sean
and also who's the third gentleman
something beak and ebk so yeah that's
right I think uh they are coming at you
as well check out the anti Fattah
patreon.com slash the
ta-da Matt literary hangover we had a
new episode this one was a nonfiction
version we did Cory Robbins the
reactionary mind very nice
we talked about Mr members like might
like to hear our discussion of the
zero-sum debate Cory Robin talks about
that so and then broadly we talk about
Robin's thesis that what we're going
through now is basically a late-stage
counter-revolution in against the New
Deal and in the sort of liberation
movements that followed that yep and the
Republicans where they're impotent you
know for instance they were unable to
slash certain Obamacare things they're
unable to you know take care of all
slash all the entitlements the way Paul
Ryan my - and Corey Robinson is that's
because they've already kind of won a
lot of the victories that they've been
fighting over the last 40 years so like
to take one example schools are still a
segregated or more segregated as it were
than Reagan was in office for instance
right so and it's an interesting
discussion I think Corey Robin I think
we're gonna have him on soon aren't we
got Robin coming up I don't wanna I
don't know anyway I had him on a couple
of times yeah yeah yeah I think the way
he thinks about these things it's it's
actually one of the oddly it's not super
optimistic but it's it's a it's
important I think a historical view of
you know the ongoing authoritarian
Menace globally indeed Corey Robin
essential read we're gonna go to the fun
half we'll see you there folks six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
the alpha males are back just want to
degrade the white man
almost says I am a total John can we
bring back DJ Tanner
yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough with a
break Hawkinson and the alpha male
psyche
Oh almost says blot what
[Music]
the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
[Music]
[Music]
locked alpha males
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 birthday to
me Jew boy
I have a thought in Spanish to foil the
alpha males needs to pay the price of
Class B around here
I am a total
welcome to the fun half everybody we're
gonna do our best the really the only
good news this weekend was the
conviction of officer okay completely
losing his name Jason van Dyke Jason van
Dyke and the killing of laQuan McDonald
and I want to just say I mean I don't
think you know obviously sometimes you
get your your your wrong in this
business in terms of like predictions
which isn't really that much of what we
do
thankfully I like to be judged based on
my particular to be judge based on your
prediction exclusively yeah well I I
totally obviously I really did not call
the Susan Collins thing correctly and I
simply I mean I don't like Susan Collins
I have no illusions about her politics
but it seemed to me that I was surprised
I mean Sam covered this in the beginning
but I I thought there if she was gonna
vote the way she did her tactic would be
to you know put her head down and vote I
did not expect a publicity tour and a
grandstand for Brett Kavanaugh that I
did not nothing to do with her ethics or
her politics it just didn't seem in
keeping with her brand but it's it's
another great lesson in the this is
Trump's party period full stop all right
let's take a call you're calling from an
eight four eight four five area code who
are you where you're calling from eight
four five hey Michael this is Michael
Angelo I'm from Newport New York hey
Michael how you do it Michael Angelo how
are you doing man what's on your mind
I'm scared shitless Michael I'll be
honest with you this IPCC report that
came out this morning someone who
someone who I'd like to follows you know
climate action
environment will science ecology
declining global biomass and to be
honest with you
it's getting pretty scary you know I
don't think people realize what's what's
coming and yeah it's it's pretty
terrifying there's a real change coming
reckoning feels like mankind is kind of
sleepwalking into the apocalypse I don't
disagree with you
I mean yes
I mean CNN you are correct you in a half
minute CNN gave this story two and a
half minutes and it was done through a
weather report
it was done to a weather report okay I
think it's interesting I guess as as I
guess in a certain sense it is the
weather um I mean the only thing I'd say
about this I think that there's there's
always the tension particularly when you
talk about something like climate of
what they within social science they
used to have this terminology I don't
know if it's still current in the field
but I remember you know in college
studying Commons crises like 1012 years
ago and they would talk about basically
crisis messages versus empowerment
messages and what they meant was was
they would do these simulations where
there were these digital fish in a
digital pond and people would have a
certain amount of fishing they could do
or couldn't do but it wasn't governed it
was all sort of left to personal
discretion now and and but I'll get to
the second point in a minute but
basically what they would do is they
would send messages to the group either
being like we're running out of fish
this is being completely you know people
are reckless in their consumption it
needs to stop or we're gonna hit a wall
and everybody's not gonna have any fish
anymore the behavior was that they
actually increased their yeah great
because their perception was this is
done anyways I'm gonna get mine the
other hand was obviously when they said
you know don't worry about it of course
it didn't affect people's behavior but
the messages that were like
is dangerous this is bad but something
can be done as I recall did have the
most positive effect now the problem
with studies like that is that obviously
something like climate change is not
down to our personal behavior I'm not
saying that people shouldn't you know
make decisions to lower their carbon
footprint and so on and so forth that's
very nice and is gonna be a little bit
of the you know piece of the puzzle here
but obviously in a macro sense it's
about policy and it's about
fundamentally it's about in my view not
just capitalism it's about it's about
capitalism it's about industrialization
it's about rates of consumption yep and
it's also about technological it is also
about technological innovation because
that is gonna have to be a piece of the
puzzle here because the rate of the
crisis were in you know and accelerated
yeah it's accelerating and also demand
for all sorts of goods is accelerating
as well and so we are gonna have to
think about you know how do you green
supply chains and how do you get more
efficient vehicle fleets
on the road that's part of it but you
know that means itself even stipulates
that you know we're gonna have to
extract carbon out of the atmosphere at
this point rather mandatory you know
policy proposal to address the issue
globally right now it's not even enough
to just reverse and limit carbon
emissions that we now have to extract as
well as part of the solution which is
just incredible yep and I saw something
today or yesterday as well centered
around Germany and their energy policy
that they actually I think Greenpeace
was part of this that they're facing a
plateau of sorts because they were
forced to shut down some of their
nuclear power and they don't have enough
solar and wind to be able to sustain the
you know their electric grid and now
they're forcing that they've kind of
been forced to go back to coal and oil
because you know nuclear is not seen as
a positive but maybe a necessity as part
of this transition just to the lynnae's
doubt nucular I'm
extremely skeptical for you know obvious
reasons of nuclear power but I mean I I
don't owe a but you know I I hear what
you're saying about I mean maybe that's
not something to be dogmatic about
although when I when you look at what
even just storing it means from a basic
safety perspective the implications of
it are horrifying and potentially like
mass scale catastrophic in terms of like
you know hundreds of millions of deaths
so I'm very wary of it and obviously I
think part of what happened in Germany
was that the phase-out had started under
the Schroder Fisher government of 98 to
2005 which is when to that government's
credit for they were absolutely in a
third way tradition but they certainly
accelerated solar wind and they made a
lot of improvements and upgrades to the
energy infrastructure of Germany and
they did green policies to some extent
to some significant extent they were
also phasing out nuclear nuclear and
Merkel stopped the process if I recall
and then restarted it after what
happened in Japan in 2011 so yeah I
don't I don't know the answer on that
one I'm extremely wary it one that no go
ahead
that I feel something that you know is
worth talking about as well given what's
happening Brazil is that the global rise
of fascism and far-right right now is
going to be antithetical to any real
attempt at reversing our current
trajectory because the nationalism
present within that ideology is going to
be very limiting when we need to kind of
coalesce as a global people the very
issue well yeah it because it's three I
mean the one component is the bigotry
and the nationalism the xenophobia and
the division and and the formalization
of you know just the elimination as
perspective on most people's lives
frankly that's combined with the fact
that you know when really given the
choice it you know and in Brazil the
international financial press to some
extent like The Economist actually put
out a serious anti bolson arrow at its
but national you know money and industry
is lining up behind the fascist so money
breaks fascist even if they don't think
it's polite and then that and then the
third component which I I'll emphasize I
think is definitely the least important
it is they buy products not a foundation
but there is a religious fanatic
component of it and when you start to
look at what yeah it's Saudi Arabia or
Brazil or the United States that fusion
of well maybe there are a lot of lives
that will be lost but as long as they're
the right lives people of color so on we
can set up a gated community system we
can increase violence which is what
balsan arrow campaigned on specifically
empowering police and paramilitaries to
kill more people in favelas the military
dictatorship in Brazil didn't kill
enough people according to to to Boston
arrow so you know you fought and then
you if you fuse that together with the
with the corporate interests and you
know a very you know a primitive in a
proper use of that word expression of
religion I mean yeah that's a toxic
cocktail that's actually the cocktail
that with the destruction of the left in
the Middle East that's one of the reason
the Middle East has so many problems I
mean really is it's like if you kind of
have unbridled feudalistic capitalism
and the only kind of public outlet
that's available is a very narrow type
of religion you have no civil society
there's no labor unions there isn't you
know there isn't sort of vectors for
that expression and in some places it's
a more privileged experience than other
than others right if you live in the
Emirates or something and you're a
citizen
you could have an incredibly nice
lifestyle not a sustainable one but a
very nice lifestyle and you know but
that's built on all sorts of
exploitative feudal labor practices so
yeah
not just go up yeah thanks man I'm sorry
sorry all right thanks man all right
let's get to this this is sound of
Puteri Tallis I apologize in advance
he is secretary-general of what though
he's not the secretary-general of the UN
that's Gutierrez
he's the secretary-general of the
international governmental Panel on
Climate Change and he's presenting the
conclusions of a new climate report at
the UN this is where we're at I'm not
saying he's already visible and it's
it's having having impacts on on human
beings ecosystems or all around the
world and and and we can still limit the
warming to 1.5 degrees but this would
change many things how we run our
everyday business today and one of the
major issues is that they would be 420
million people less suffering because of
climate sense if we would be able to
limit the warming to 1.5 degree level
and we have certain areas in in in the
world which are extremely sensitive it's
the small island states Mediterranean
region and also sub-saharan Africa which
bits are already suffering and will
suffer the most in the future with two
degrees we would have ice cream summer
into Arctic every year and once per
decade but but the 1.5 we would see it
only once per hundred hundred years so
that's the science and that's the
reality you know give or take some
variables that I'm sure gonna be you
know adjusted we might even be in a
worse shape than he's saying that's the
thing about the Bret Stevens calm like
who knows they could be wrong they could
be wrong in either direction they get me
wrong in either direction and the
likelihood
of your less than 1% contrarian fantasy
that this is just a that this is no
problem and they'll just be more prime
beachfront real estate opening up in
more places that like mangoes grow in
your fantasy world which has very little
relationship to any established science
on this versus they could be
soft-pedaling how dangerous this is
is you know it could break either way
and one way it could break fits with
reality and the other way it break it
could break is just contrary and
nonsensical musings of a Bret Stevens
now the only other thread I think to add
to this besides that this is incredibly
dangerous and incredibly serious and
that climate global ecology collapse the
global ecological crisis as expressed
through climate change is expressed to
rapid elimination of various species and
plant life and biodiversity should be if
not the absolutely one of the organizing
principles of upon which we do politics
globally but really think about how
we're designing our lives from our food
to our transportation system to even our
sense of relationship to the world
around us I mean some of this actually
does get into some very genuinely
existential questions about human
experience the other sort of dividing
line is if you if you were to say that
there were three poles of this right now
there is the fact that we are in
profound deep crisis the fact that
whether it's Donald Trump or bolson ro
or you know obviously all of the
Republican Party or any or most emergent
fascist regimes are not serious in fact
they might even be going in the other
direction in terms of dealing with
climate certainly in Trump's case he is
Modi it's a bit more complicated he's
actually rapidly deployed some
sustainable energy technologies in India
but still nothing to overwhelm India
is sort of carbon footprint Indy's
carbon footprint so we have that one
pole then we have say Jerry Brown
exemplifying a technocratic long-range
approach to climate which is obviously
again in a world of relative choices
it's way better than Trump it's way
better that you have a governor of
California
forcing efficiency upgrades having a
different car fleet having different
energy standards but at the same time as
Joshua Kahn who's an associate of mine
in a global climate activists there's no
justice in that Jerry Brown vision
that's why the issues of environmental
racism in California have not been
addressed at the same time as this sort
of all of this rapid action on climate
change that's why there's still fracking
permits being given which
disproportionately well is bad for the
environment that disproportionately
affects certain more vulnerable
communities so if you don't have a
justice dimension and you don't have a
dimension that deals with capital you
will have a fight between elimination
assists whose policy the the Trump
administration recently the EPA I
believe put out a document banking on a
seven degree increase in temperature in
100 years from now that is a built in
assumption of a radically scarred
dangerous death filled world but I could
also imagine that a lot of people see a
lot of opportunity for gated communities
for private militias for you know all
sorts of business opportunities for the
black waters or whatever Z or whatever
the hell it's called to the world to
monitor police to terrorize populations
like environmental refugees and we
already see that you can't reduce what's
happened to Syria to one variable at all
but there is a climate dimension to what
happened in Syria and so the same you
know outbreak of xenophobia and racism
targeted towards people in the Middle
East going into Europe has a direct
climate dimension so there's fascist
verse technocrat and then there's also
the justice dimension of actually D
with ecology in a way that integrates
with broad human concern and we don't
have much time
and obviously and again I'll emphasize
again in the relative world the Jerry
Brown versed on old Trump that's the
type of thing where you go out and you
do an intelligent vote and you don't
have a fantasy life and you actually
make a concrete decision to choose one
option that's better than the other but
structurally and fundamentally that
choice it's still gonna leave it's not
just gonna leave tens of millions of
people behind and harm tens of millions
of people it won't get the job done
structurally what's this tweet man so
there's just a tweet I saw on Twitter
he's a gala gala I got a laugh when
people say especially rich countries
aren't doing anything in the face of
climate change it simply isn't true
they've been busy for to find themselves
against the very victims of climate
change that they created at the expense
of their own development and it's
interesting ends it's the sort of thing
we sort of touched on an earlier but
when we talk about expanding
representation to people it can't just
be within the United States right
because even if we had a universal a
very healthy universal basic income it
would basically be at the on the backs
of poor nations basically right so we
need to figure out a way to I mean it's
such a huge project right but it's a
huge project it's a you it is a time
where there's no option but ambition and
anybody who says that they have a simple
answer for any of this I mean I think
there's simple values there's modes of
analysis that makes sense but I mean
it's enormous ly complicated in terms of
how you actually do this but at least
you need to be real about what needs to
be done and I think you also need to be
real about what your playing field is
right because I think there are some
people who probably would say look if we
can fortify a certain type of lifestyle
and protect things in a certain way
in the same way that it's not a national
scandal that Apple and our whole
business is built on let's take a micro
example illegally mined minerals from
the Democratic Republic of Congo which
have continued to fuel one of the most
horrific multi-party civil wars on the
planet I mean that attitude of
indifference can just be scaled you know
in that second technocratic climate
model makes me think things like like it
rights just basic water and sustenance I
think I've thinks I've thought so often
over the past couple months about how
Kimber what the status but doesn't
Nestle yes amount of our fresh waters I
don't know the stat but they do and it
would be that needs to be ended
immediately there was a serious
controversy at the United Nations in
2011 or 10 about even just a symbolic
public recognition as water as a human
right it eventually was passed because
the United States and France then veto
it but the it was a present vote because
of literally you know concerned about
even just bottled water
companies so yes 100 percent and a lot
of that has to do with reclaiming an
idea of Commons you know that that is
and that is a Marxist viewpoint and it's
also it could be an anarchist viewpoint
it could be a liberal viewpoint there
has to be some understanding that there
are massive swaths of human existence
most many of them ecological and also
I'd argue a lot of them technological
that were not generated by markets and
they are the product of either shared
human inheritance or shared human
creativity and they're getting
eliminated and privatized and profited
from in a purely predatory criminal
manner yeah I haven't seen the movie but
Michael
who's the guy in the big short has been
exclusively trading in water commodities
since like 2015 right you want to have
an idea of where things are moving like
he's the guy in the movie who sees along
with a handful of others where the
housing market is going so he's seeing
the same thing with fresh water supplies
and if you go I mean and again like he
says in the report go back and read a
book like resource Wars which came out I
think during the Bush era it's certainly
at least ten years old by Michael Claire
who's a security studies professor at
Hampshire College dare already was every
single conflict you could look at in the
world including ones that people don't
pay any attention to and don't care
about and you know have no reference for
its small arms which are usually coming
from the United States maybe China that
fuel but the the literal mechanics of
the conflict and most of the arguments
have to do with gold minerals timber
water that's it I mean it's another I
won't get into some new atheist thing
but it's like it's another example of
how in the real world and even if you
don't understand that you're operating
in the real world that most most events
are driven by the very basic stuff it's
not about like ideas and this and that
abstraction it's who gets what where
when and how and the ideas we should
have our ideas and ethical commitments
to people having as matt said a good
just life where they can access and
participate in the commons themselves
and have their human needs met and god
forbid maybe even actually have some
access to you know realizing themselves
beyond survival you're calling from a
904 area code who are you where you're
calling from hey what's going on guys
this is Ray I'm from West Chester how
you guys doing hey ray what's going on
not much I called you guys before the
New York elections trying to get
everyone to vote for Cynthia that didn't
quite work out but uh you know I'm
focusing on other things now
specifically I'd like to call I'd like
to talk about the I don't know if you
guys have been following the UPS
contract at all no tell us about it sure
so the Teamsters organized the UPS
workers I think the freight workers are
trying to get a new deal and there's
another smaller party that's trying to
get a new deal and the head of the
Teamsters I guess the excuse me the
package division director's name is
Dennis Taylor he's trying to force a
contract on the UPS workers we're about
he's saying that 2/3 of the people need
to vote but only 54% of the workers
turned out to vote and they all voted no
most that the no votes won but because
two-thirds of the people didn't vote
he's trying to force the contract on the
UPS workers on it's basically an anti
communist rule from like the the fifties
or the sixties so I just wanted to let
people know about what's going on if
there's anyone who watches who is a
Teamsters I'm wonderful you guys know if
there is rank-and-file people a lot you
guys cool it please pay attention to
that and to call the International
please and let them know that if you are
a teamster that you will not pay your
union dues to the union that forces the
contract on its workers definitely thank
you guys for your time have a great day
thanks ray let me talk a little bit
about this Brazilian election obviously
been covering it for a while and I will
just start with the obvious point and a
point I will extend tomorrow on TMDs
that anti-corruption politics are not
only not a sufficient way to understand
the world they're a handy tool for the
far right and also movements that were
actually important and justified and to
say 2013 dealing with
the right word moves of the Workers
Party government under Dilma roussef so
and and later on moves towards austerity
moves involving the World Cup the
Olympics things that were bad for the
Workers Party social base they
absolutely warranted pushback and
protest and the Workers Party made
mistakes by not having a mobilized base
the whole time it was governing and at
the same time when people allowed a
free-floating context free corruption
rhetoric - to reign it meant that it was
used as a coup against Dilma she
literally was removed for office for
accounting errors okay and then to
imprison an incredibly popular important
leader Lula de Silva on the flimsiest of
charges that's it I've said it a million
times but that is the reality and the
reason this matters is obviously it
matters that Lula is the most prominent
political prisoner in the world today
obviously it matters that the assassins
of Mariela Franco the city councilor who
was gunned down with her driver six
months ago by people connected to the
military or paramilitary or police and
most certainly in the drug trade it
matters it matters that police and
military already go into favelas and
murder people of color and poor people
in Brazil all the time and it matters
that bolson ro campaigned jr. Belsen ro
campaigned on increasing that number and
said that brazil's military dictatorship
made a mistake and not killing enough
people and not torturing enough people
and that one of his main policy aims is
to unlock the restrictions on gun
ownership opening a huge new market for
small arms manufacturers in the united
states and it matters that steve Bannon
was just photographed with the guy's son
yesterday because he's over there
advising them as part of literally a
global fascist push
the first round looked terrible Bowl
scenario took about 45 percent of the
vote Fernando Haddad of the Workers
Party the substitute for Lula who would
have won Lula was always polling at
above double-digit lead over balsa
narrow and what's stunning to me is that
you actually did have an example there
Lula is no leftist Lula was a union
social democrat who helped democratize
was a major leader in democratizing
Brazil and then as president lifted tens
of millions of people out of poverty and
was globally recognized he actually is
what all of these resistance types say
they would want which would be a genuine
democratically committed social democrat
who would defeat a literal fascist
menace Haddad is a substitute candidate
from the Workers Party he received 28
percent of the vote Cyril Gomes got
about 12 percent is also a center-left
candidate and will almost certainly back
Haddad
bolos who received less than one percent
of the vote but every vote counts was a
great has a new part of a new socialist
front very good candidate very sincerely
to the left may have been the one that I
would have voted for in the first round
Marina Silva former Environment Minister
classic example of somebody drawing
insane false equivalencies using her
personal grievances as a loser to Dilma
Rousseff and last in the 2014
presidential election to draw false
equivalencies about supposed corruption
in the Workers Party with the fascist
can threaten your ball Cynara so the
only hope now for millions of people in
Brazil and of course millions of people
mainly of color poor labour they will go
and they will destroy the labor base in
Brazil they will roll back rights for
women the LGBTQ community they will
target anybody on the periphery
they already do and bowls narrow
campaigned explicitly on it and is
campaigning explicitly on it is a
broad-based anti-fascist front with
whatever tiny remnants of the
center-right that may go to haddad there
might be some alcaman who's the right
wing candidate got about four percent of
the vote and some polls actually
indicated that a fair amount of his
supporters will go to haddad and then
that everybody else gets together for
the bigger picture to defeat this threat
that's so serious that i have to say our
old buddy john oliver even acknowledged
that literally anything is better than
balsa Naro so but there needs to be a
bigger lesson here to about purity
politics about not justifying corruption
but understanding different types of
corruption functioning in different ways
there's a difference of a party that
delivers for working people and has a
social base that still needs to fund
itself in a corrupted funding system
versus parties who literally exist
purely to run patronage networks which
were the parties that actually went
after workers party they have no social
base they have no purpose other than
money funnels for themselves and then
you have a fascist who along with you
know drain the swamp was able to
capitalize on a general social
reactionary undirected rage at the
elites and the status quo even as most
of those elites have already begun to
back him because Oh incidentally the
other side of all the fascism is
privatization austerity and literally a
University of Chicago economist who
advised Pinochet so if the Workers Party
was a proxy and granted you know Lula
was no Obama no Clinton the most
successful modern president of our world
but they could learn in the center you
need to have a mobilized based and you
can never have a permanent armistice
with the right and with
Lukie you can never have a permanent
piece with them but then conversely
people who got into and and still even
tweeted me about whose party to this and
they sold this out and corruption well
you were nitpicking small-bore things
you were missing an attack that started
with the removal of Dilma and the
immediate implementation of austerity a
cabinet that went from the most diverse
one in Brazil's history led by a woman
president to one of all white men and
now a literal fascist rate riding a wave
of far-right social authoritarianism and
generalized anti politics
I saw a clip on al Jazeera of a young
man who no doubt watches a lot of
YouTube saying bolson arrow is terrible
but he's the only one that might be
centralized things enough to deal with
corruption and that is what happens when
people don't think structurally about
things and you just take some word like
corruption you don't ask why where who
and how it connects to say a bigger
structural corruption of an oligarchy
that has existed in a country that ended
slavery seven years after we did and a
one that personally loathes a guy like
Lula even though they made more money
under him simply because he's smarter
and more talented than they are and he
comes from the lower classes
so we'll keep covering it pray to God
Brazil pulls together a lot of horrible
things will happen to Paulson arrows
president not least of which a lot dying
in prison even more civilian casualties
and police murders and a new flooding of
weapons from the United States obviously
we're not defending corruption here but
there does seem to be two animus --is
that drive this sort of anti-corruption
sentiment which is one is sort of a
political nature of it people like that
behind that because right behind it it's
just people bad everybody doesn't like
something bad and then think about
anything there's also the steer thing
right like there somebody's getting
Jephthah government well actually most
of the time people are getting rich
especially if you read the Trump story
right that's some sort of relationship
to government the government should be
made to spread that around as like
equitably exactly point not that it's
there shouldn't be anything there well
exactly and the point being that like
and of course you have to draw lines and
of course there has to be you know laws
and institutions but there's also a
difference I mean I know that there's
people who will tell me in a u.s.
context and I'll actually agree to them
with them to some real degree that like
oh well you know you criticize Obama and
Clinton and this and that but they need
to function in a certain system and that
actually has some truth to it well as
does Lula and Dilma and the Workers
Party and unlike other people on the
center-left they managed to exist in a
system while actually massively
delivering for real people so you know
yeah corruption is and if you wanted a
left anti-corruption politics then you'd
have to take on the whole thing then
you'd have to say you know where they
did make mistakes well why didn't they
take on the media monopolies why didn't
they you know deal with policing issues
I mean there's a lot of reasons why I
obviously didn't do those things and the
political context wasn't there for it
but that's the real big picture not like
oh somebody go to condo it's like you're
worrying about somebody getting a condo
supposedly and you're gonna get
destroyed politically and you also let a
whole right-wing media in the same way
that you know again more far more valid
criticisms of her than Lula and you
can't even put Clinton and Lula in the
same they're not in the same bracket but
there was a similar dynamic to of like
this big sprawling corruption case
happens it implicates everybody except
actually for Dilma because they have to
remove her for something that has really
nothing to do with it people say she was
involved with it but she's never been
charged
which he was removed for and then all of
these other parties and all of these
other characters literally people with
indictments but not going you know
towards any criminal process because
they're still in the Congress they all
of a sudden make it a Workers Party
issue because the right uses things
cynically and strategically while you
know different parts of the left Haman
haha and perfection eyes and we to say
the least don't have time for that
in Brazil or anywhere else okay let's
get to there was there was a piece that
came out in New York Magazine that was
actually a very worthwhile piece by a
German historian of Hitler historian of
fascism I'm don't recall the gentleman's
name but it was one of the most sort of
I'm not usually persuaded by those
pieces but this was one of the most
sober real comparisons between where
we're at now and where Germany was at
then and one of the lines he said was
basically and I'm radically paraphrasing
here but but one of the things that made
it smart was like think about Mitch
McConnell when historians talk about
like if this is the death of American
democracy Mitch McConnell's the
gravedigger this is one of the most
disgusting unethical immoral grotesque
human beings to ever occupy public life
in this country and I know that that's
saying a lot it's not just the obvious
things like the unprecedented holding up
with the Merrick Garland's appointment
which there's just a pure raw act of
corruption it's a whole career dedicated
to simply being a bagman for any
corporate interest imaginable at the
expense of any human being
besides the ultra elite imaginable not
to mention his own highly questionable
personal relationships this is Mitch
McConnell speaking with John Dickerson
about
action appointments and dickerson
corrects him here because mcconnell is
lying ocean that the senate is somehow
broken over this is simply inaccurate
but mr. leader those things have
happened but this is of a different
order and democrats are pointing not
only the way this was handled but in the
history of partisanship on the supreme
court your decision to block Merrick
garland is something they see is that as
having kicked off a new stage in the
partisanship associated with Supreme
Court nominees they don't know much
history you have to go back to 1880 to
find the last time a Senate controlled
by a different party from the president
confirmed a Supreme Court justice to a
vacancy created in the middle of a
presidential election they also
conveniently forgotten the Joe Biden
said in 1992 when he was chairing the
Judiciary Committee Democrats control
the Senate Republican in the White House
if a vacancy occurred they wouldn't fill
it and they also conveniently forgot the
Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid eighteen
months before the end of Bush 43 said if
a Supreme Court vacancy occurred they
wouldn't fill it right but mr. leader I
think that's right in 1956 Eisenhower
nominated Brennan the 84th Congress was
a Democrat controlled and also on the
Biden rule Joe Biden was talking in the
abstract there was no nominee no nominee
was blocked and he said to not have the
nomination come up before the election
but that it could come up after the
election and so what Democrats say when
they hear you doing this is they say
he's creating new rules to essentially
do what he wants to do and as you've
written in your book the long game when
you do that it actually hurts democracy
yeah well that's not exactly that's not
at all what happened John you're
completely misconstruing what happened
what I gave you is the history of this I
know the history of this I've spent a
lot of time on this throughout my career
what I did was entirely consistent with
what the history of the Senate's been in
that situation going back to 1880 well I
think the 1956 example and also in 1968
later in the election cycle when a
Democratic president put somebody
forward the Republican leader worked
with him to get that person a hearing
and get him towards the Supreme Court
which is not something that you did a
vote at the time and there was
Democrats then it was a Democrat in the
White House and a Democratic Senate but
the Republican leader at the time tried
to help animate John John you are not
listening to me the history is is
exactly as I told you well we have we
have a disagreement about the history
but I greatly greatly appreciate you
being with us here today mr. leader
thanks so much oh good thank you
and at mitch mcconnell's obviously that
was beautiful mitch mcconnell's not only
breaking the senate he is the
gravedigger of democracy that's how we
should refer to him from now on and that
is an important all the historical
points are correct and obviously they're
I mean they're important for
embarrassing them they don't mean
anything to him because he's a corrupt
liar but in addition to that yes this
Jill Biden talking point is so absurd to
use a guy talking about an abstract he's
actually Joe Biden was literally doing a
thought experiment and even a thought
experiment that does not cover the block
of Garland because the block of Garland
according to the Biden thought
experiment would have ended actually
right after Trump was elected president
in the Biden thought experiment the
election would have been over and it
would have been like all right well in a
couple of months we could of course a
pointer on guy but now regular order
needs to resume because the elections
over and we're gonna give Merrick
garland a hearing and President Obama is
gonna get his pick so and you know this
is another I mean look there there's
echoes here at least in terms of the
kind of establishment Arian you know
Center centrist Democratic institutional
whatever you want to call it you know
they can whine and talk about precedent
all day Mitch McConnell does the stuff
because he can and you know it's one of
the last vestiges of like the
performance of democratic process that
he still feels a need to lie about it
with John Dickerson but the bottom line
reality is you do this because you can
and Chuck you know Chuck Schumer
everybody well what about the president
that that doesn't
it's irrelevant they show that every
single day and the Democrats aren't
willing at some point to disrespect
institutions to save them and I don't
know if that makes sense to people but
it's like if you have one side that will
literally do anything and all and they
never will get punished or held
accountable for it if the Democrats take
the Senate back and you know these
idiots start talking about reintroducing
rules and civility you need to be
calling them every single day and say I
did not vote for this delusional
nonsense we need to save democracy in
the long term
I always think Adi you're in an area
outside the Senate I always think of
this and maybe some Lincoln historians
can correct me if I'm wrong on this but
when he suspended habeas corpus he did
that intentionally to prove the point of
habeas corpus be the value of it right
like he didn't just ignore it and
pretend like he wasn't suspending it you
you sort of reiterate the value of it by
doing so I don't know it makes a lot of
sense you can't you're you get to like
what the thing is actually supposed to
achieve not just the performance of it
and people can be cynical about you know
the usefulness of John Dickerson going
through that history you know in terms
of how big of an impact it's gonna
banner it would but totally and I think
just from you know the public hat from a
public dignity standpoint people have
the right to hear this laid out for them
and just because our media doesn't do it
typically or reliably doesn't mean that
we shouldn't applaud it when it does do
no absolutely it's very well done by
John Dickerson and it also it certainly
made that scumbag upset which is also
good um and this sort of continues with
the you know tell them their don't don't
do anything physical don't do anything
illegal but you see these people at
dinner you're an
yet their dinner should be over Your
Grave Digger of democracy you
I remember in like 2014 or 15 I saw
Hoeven and Heitkamp sitting on the plane
in to Bismarck I was on the same flight
right and I would just love to be on a
flight next to John Hoeven
oh yeah I you begin some good videos
yeah how you doing John let's talk about
how you're ruining this country in the
planet do we have the Chuck Grassley
thing Sam seems to think that there's
definitely audio of this I think we
should save it for him if there's yeah
if it exists no question there doesn't
see Sam I'd have had one of his dreams
again audio is like half awake chuck
grassley dream well truck Grassley said
something incredibly sexist and if
there's audio of it we'll find it
tomorrow but we do have audio of orrin
hatch being I don't even know what is
the adjective for this this is just I
mean actually this is a distillation of
everything that just happened this is a
group of women protestors rightfully
continuing heroes the heroes rightfully
continuing to press after this grotesque
raid of Brett Kavanaugh getting pushed
through the Senate and the fake FBI
investigation and the fact that he
doesn't have a judicial temperament and
the fact that there is exceedingly
credible allegations against him in the
fact that he lied and lied and lied and
the fact that he's a corporate bagman
and the fact that there's actually
complaints about his conduct in his
court that had been forwarded to the
Roberts Court and the fact that of
course the Republican Party does not
care in fact they love it full stop
here's orrin hatch one of the great
villains of our time responding to some
of the great heroes of our time
he's such a that guy's
such a big old owl I mean this
is also just I mean not to be ageist
here but like Jesus Christ we need
 like the meanest nursing home on
earth yeah powerful nursing home
born in like the 30s and still telling
us anything anything unless look I mean
by the same token obviously Bernie's the
best member of the Senate he's in his
70s so I mean it's not an age thing but
there is just something so unreal about
this disgusting old misogynist bastard
who should just be well I was gonna say
playing golf I would probably opt for
prison but you're calling from a 202
area code who are you where you calling
from with me yep and I just wanted to go
in off the interviewed at earlier with
Carroll okay talk about the lesson in
racism and all this kind of stuff okay
it's always easy to look at it and just
be afraid of history and terrified by
all the terrible things you done you
just want to look away but the lesson is
the shit's gonna happen again what we're
all going through right now
just like the point is not to just learn
it and be like bad stuff happened it's
to have look out for what's going on now
and also that point was cemented to me
when I went to the that against the
white supremacist like
for people who showed up a while ago in
DC that rally there was a Palestinian
activist who spoke and who talked about
other activists he knew in his community
in the United States were being
denaturalized as citizens and he was
saying it to say if this is happening to
us it can happen to you like that's the
whole lesson in like black people's
experience in the United States is like
it's convenient like racism is awful and
all these things but it's the point of
it is economically advantageous to the
dominant group it's not it is about all
the other terrible things that go along
with it but the whole point is that they
do it for a effective reason which is to
you know step on one group to lift the
other one out yep absolutely and if
history doesn't repeat itself that at
least rhymes thanks for the call okay
this is not a palate cleanser but this
is speaking of knowing history and the
consequences of a neoliberal assault on
you know people actually like reading
studying things versus just being
trained for tests so that politicians
can run on stat increases and terrorize
teachers here is and also the fact that
in order for a broader fascist project
to succeed people need to be stupid and
they need to be aggressively stupid the
gnash de souza is one of the most
aggressively stupid people in the world
and he's on one of the most aggressively
stupid and effective propaganda networks
on the planet here's the gnash de souza
speaking with the always correctly named
steve doocy about the constitution well
first of all I think she's confusing the
electoral college with the three-fifths
clause the three-fifths clause was about
slavery and it had to do with a an
argument between the north and the south
over representation ironically the North
which was the anti-slavery side
wanted blacks to count for zero because
they wanted to reduce the representative
powered the slave states the South
wanted blacks to count for a full person
so the three-fifths clause which is
usually presented to show that the
founders didn't consider blacks to be
fully human doesn't actually show that
at all he needs to be like plants just
rocks and shot into space like we want
to consider you people we want you to be
full Ubud buddies now in this one very
specific sense of it increases our share
and you are still literally human
chattel they want you to be zero we want
you to be one so we're gonna be 3/5 yeah
that's right and we would represent you
in Congress exactly we want you to be
counted as false so we could represent
your interests as enslaved and bondage
murdered and raped and branded people in
Congress now you just leave that part to
us you don't worry about you know long
ways from now there's gonna be some
goddamn brownie fellas gonna understand
what was going on but now here in the
Carolinas you started out number us and
you look really nice if we could just
use you in a population
I love how how it went from like the
standard Republican lie is it was the
Democrat did you do it boo boo Democrats
and I was like right because they were
the Dixiecrats
and then when LBJ flipped and they
passed the Ville rights legislation they
left the Democratic Party and then
became Republicans so all of this so
it's like you're technically right but
utterly wrong a great example actually
of why like fax don't say anything
really in and of themselves when you're
talking about issues like this yes thank
you feminine historic right god forbid
so you situate them in the new realize
like right so all of those guys became
Republicans not only to become
Republicans they run and set the
template for a structurally white
supremacy based party but now I like how
we're going back we're going from like
the technically true but totally
disingenuous to just like the why does
everybody give the southern founding
fathers any credit
they wanted aa full full unit it was the
 north man they were just like
hey he thought yeah that's just
unbelievable
not just like yeah it was like but it
works to their advantage right like all
of these things are the these sort of
arcane historical debates that nobody
can fry to the end of or if everybody
can have their multiple positions on
then we don't know if the world is
really warming or not right and that's
all it is
and I'm sure DC's follow-up question was
like interesting point anyway moving on
oh yeah it's just money the why it's
just so that you're like fascist
idiot uncle can like throw that at you
and a conversation to just sort of add
to the general stupidity well yeah if
they're so racist but they want to
Black's to be color in representation
I'm a little bit confused by the fact
that the racist guys were the ones
saying that the black guys were full
human but I guess that's just me I don't
know dinesh d'souza what the Dartmouth I
don't know dinesh d'souza I don't know
he doesn't look like an American so why
would he say that yeah why would he have
a wise yeah he's coming he's just like
he's calling balls and strikes man he's
an Indian guy went to Harvard okay
speaking of stupid people you know we
might does there's a Taylor Swift
deserve an apology from you Matt yeah
I'll do a full apology on TPMS tomorrow
okay
because while we are not huge fans of
Taylor Swift here there has been a lot
of speculation about her so sorry I hate
to step on you like that go ahead Dinesh
was Dartmouth yeah Dartmouth yeah sorry
I know he's at Dartmouth fine so so
that's a Bill Clinton so where where
does that leave us Matt lek said Taylor
Swift's music was an engine for the
alright I mean while Instagram she's on
insta
I'm saying a vote in a certain way and
then he says let's let's do the apology
but not now
later the whole thing's a joke
maybe if Lula wasn't a corporate
it that was the best was somebody's like
it was like look I don't I mean yes 100%
Bernie Sanders all the way was the
establishment behind Hillary absolutely
and were they unfair on debates
absolutely and literally everything else
from like the rigged primary thing has
essentially been debunked as far as I
can tell other than like a cultural
favoritism towards her because she's the
establishment no doubt and and a sort of
general condescending media
narrative towards him but I saw one
person told me the one person said to me
a one social platform and were like they
they were it was like Lula who has
literally been prison imprisoned and
gagged and they were so yeah just like
do you see did did we weren't
birdie-birdie it's like that was one of
those comments I was like yeah we're not
surviving as a species that's just it's
the same thing with the day and say they
wouldn't look well that Bernie give any
interviews they put him in prison
because of a fake like I sandal like I
said if you were scandalized by what was
revealed in the DNC emails then you had
a much say naive view of politics then
you should have gone into that situation
indeed anyways Taylor Swift she released
a endorsement of two Democratic
candidates I didn't know she's from
Tennessee I'm assuming Phil Bredesen who
was a very far-right Democrat but he is
running against the utterly loathsome
Marsha Blackburn she is she is a
standout one of the worst people and one
of the worst congress's ever and then I
think also odd Jim Cooper who I don't
know as much about but I'm assume you
know look this is not her announcement
that she's some great political radical
but this is her announcement that I have
basic human decency and basic concern
about human well-being and I don't know
if you're are you getting the state okay
so she wrote this Instagram statement
and she said I'll just quote briefly
from it Taylor
Swift I'm writing this post about the
upcoming midterms elections in November
6th in which I'll be voting in the state
of Tennessee in the past I've been
reluctant to voice my political opinions
but due to several events in my life in
the world in the past two years I feel
very differently about that now I have
and will always cast my vote based on
which candidate will protect and fight
for human rights
I believe we deserve I've even rights I
believe we all deserve in this country I
believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights
and that any form of discrimination
based on sexual on sexual orientation or
gender is wrong I believe that systemic
racism we see in this country towards
people of color is terrifying sickening
and prevalent I cannot vote for someone
who will not be fighting for the dignity
of all Americans no matter their skin
color or gender who they love running
for the Senate in the state of Tennessee
is a woman named Marsha Blackburn it's
actually pretty strong as much as I have
said in the past I'd like to continue
voting for woman in office I cannot
support Marsha Blackburn her voting in
Congress appalls and terrifies me this
is very strong she voted against equal
pay for women she voted against the
reauthorization of Violence Against
Women Act which attempts to protect
women from domestic violence stalking
date rape she believes businesses have a
right to refuse service to gay couples
she also believes they should have no
right to marry these are not my
Tennessee values I'll be voting for pill
Phil Bredesen and Jim Cooper for house
of representatives please educate
yourself some Congress on the candidates
running in your state and vote based on
those who most closely represent your
values ok so yeah I mean this is this is
a clear as I say it's a clear appeal to
basic human decency and who's gonna get
triggered by an appeal to basic human
decency well if you guessed a absolute
lunkhead who Sam will be debating soon
at Politico and you guessed correctly
here is Charlie Kirk I hope whoa I just
also want to say I hope that that one
and good spirit joke does not get turned
into a reason to cancel the debate with
Sam I do not want to hear the endless
mishegoss from Sam about that so charlie
sorry for the lunk head comment I'll let
you speak for yourself I'm sure you'll
look way better than the comment I made
about you this is what I used to love
about Taylor Swift as she stayed away
from politics
music all about you know female
empowerment she says the more I really
was about female empowerment she
literally said I have to speak out on
these issues because this woman has such
a also LGBTQ but such a nancy woman
voting record that I have to speak out
it so within ten seconds
he's already completely undermined the
entire he's peddling for this
whole ridiculous clip this is what I
used to love about Taylor Swift that she
stayed away from politics she's all
about music all about you know female
empowerment she says the more I learn
about martial Blackburn's record in
Congress I can't support her well maybe
she should actually learn about her
record in Congress being a co-sponsor of
bills that stopped human trafficking
sponsoring bills that was about the flow
of drugs and opioids in the state of
Tennessee against domestic abuse owned
and so forth it's it's rather evident
and clear that I don't I don't want to
accuse her of this but I don't think she
was the only one that wrote that post on
Instagram she probably got some very bad
information and look as part of this
narrative where celebrities that want to
do good thank George Soros wrote George
Soros wrote at George Soros is like let
me in that it's the graphic out in the
world I'll give her the benefit of good
intentions are being told that people
like Marsha Blackburn are horrible
people and nothing could be further from
the truth and the final thing is she
said Oh vote for Bredesen well if you
look at predestines record when he was
governor huge allegations of covering up
you know sexual misconduct in his
administration when he was governor a
reported by The Associated Press so the
last thing about bredesen I've never
heard before it's possible I'd also add
that Bredesen cut Medicaid I'm not a fan
of Bredesen I would in in terms of how
our elections work I would vote for
bredesen in that state with less than no
enthusiasm he's a terrible candidate
running against one of the absolute
worst people in American politics who
not only voted in all the ways the
Taylor Swift or whoever secretly wrote
her posts very good way of appealing to
her charlie that was very non
condescending I correctly identified in
terms of her broad-based prejudiced vote
she's also a bag woman for the health
care industry is one of the main
fighters against human beings having
health coverage in this country in any
way shape and form voting literally to
make people die in the millions and
she's also a huge advocate and supporter
of the student loan industry along with
voting of course for every other piece
of Republican legislation for Wars for
environmental gutting and every single
other way to make America poorer sicker
and dumber health escapes she's a
disgusting grotesque appalling and
terrifying person and taylor swift owed
an apology by super producer matt luck
yeah i thought she was a closeted
pei-pei i thought she was a crypto
crypto manga and i'm glad that she's not
I think just culturally this is a cleave
this is gonna go right through the heart
of a lot of Trump support in North
Dakota I can say cross over there with
the female the females that vote for
Trump you think she's just underlining
like the real like departure point of
like hey if you're any kind of even a
remotely decent human being you can't be
a Republican yeah cuz I did not think
this would happen especially something
worded like that right appalls and
terrifies me
yeah cuz that's that's that's strong
stuff like who would have thought that
her politics would be she'd be
significant to the left of Kanye a brave
new world that is really literally a
brave like if you said when they had
that whole thing a couple years ago
where he like interrupted her at the MTV
Music Awards to say like Beyonce
deserved it or something and you were
just like hey do you know that like in
three or four years she's gonna be
speaking out against fascism he's gonna
be like the most like prominent black
advocate of fascism in the states yeah
if if the question was black fascist for
500 it'd become I mean I think he would
be a respectable guess he would be do
yeah yeah I mean who else I don't know I
don't know who else I would name at
least you know notably you could do is
maybe some actual reason well you can do
well who's
that idiot on the sports guy I always
forget his name Jason Whitlock for a
hundred grand Jason Whitlock like mr.
Lai there is it racism I go from my
sports to do I go from the ESPN studios
to my doorman who likes me in my
apartment
what are you talking about I think he
was on the bench Shapiro show last week
I bet he wasn't Jason went like he's
been on who Dave Rubin guy of course
Jason Whitlock I have some incredibly
stupid questions for you you have a 402
calling from a 402 area code who are you
calling from
yeah I'm Heath Graham and calling from
Nebraska hey what's going on what's on
your mind hey I was going to ask you
I've been wanting to ask you Sam and you
guys this question for a while you know
issue pendulums like political pendulums
how an issue will be on one side and
it'll swing to the other for public
support and whatnot sure you mean not
totally I don't know exactly what you
mean all right I can't I can't remember
who who the guy was that came up with
this this philosopher but the prevailing
thought is is that every issue is kind
of on a pendulum as to where in society
it it flows you know if it's more left
or if it's more right or authoritarian
or more egalitarian yeah and what I was
wondering since you don't know what I'm
talking about here I guess I know I
haven't said what I'm not now but yeah
but I'll go for it yeah all right well
what I was wondering is where do we
where do you guys see the me to movement
and in that pendulum model I don't
that's way too I don't think it fits
there's so many variants yeah that's I
think that's the problem with the model
is I don't think it's to it I don't
think it's so polar like that yeah I
thought in certain areas right me too
like the the there's definitely like a
hardening backlash but I also think it's
still doing a lot of political work
right so I don't know I think it's too
hard and within it there is different
there's
there's liberal verse socialists there's
carsick ol verse restorative I don't I
don't think I mean other than an
incredibly simple division between
people who take that seriously or don't
which is a very basic left-right divide
it seems to me alright thanks for the
call man um okay let's read some
questions Ryan I live in Georgia was not
allowed to vote in a runoff in my
district in July they changed the laws
to say if you moved within the 30 days
of election you have to vote provincial
the only way to find out is when you
show up and get your vote check now I
received a letter in the mail saying I'm
not registered have to fill out these
forms the letter says that I must have
been 8 wait weeks to be able to vote
after my info has been verified I
checked the address and it's a letter
and it's from the GOP super PAC these
are the lengths they will go to the
disenfranchised voters here in Georgia
and everywhere else
Andrew Gilliam and Stacey Abrams those
races are so important they're important
on a number of levels and of course I
understand you know it just gets
annoying they're not perfect and in any
scenario people are gonna need to be
pressured but in Florida voter
disenfranchisement headed into 2020
there's gonna be a huge ramification as
who's running the State House there and
at some point we also have to beat back
a structurally racist and strategically
racist party who does this cross the
board and their knowledge doing it in
Georgia is doing everywhere elections
are like in musical chairs when the
music goes off you just gotta go get on
the chair right right exactly and worry
about positioning later right though I
need to enter I need to interview a
former prison guard behind the discovery
of 95 bodies from convict leasing in
Sugar Land Texas further excavations
will reveal more white city resistant to
recognizing them with a memorial after
slavery ended sugarcane plantations
owner needed work done made up film
flimsy excuses to incarcerate to use for
a continuing slave later activists
continue keeping in media need more
voices to make City accountable Tom
DeLay used to represent it today's
indigenous peoples days those white men
in charge seem hell-bent on doing the
same thing to rest America as they have
to the Native Americans do you see yeah
we should shout out indigenous peoples
day one thing I didn't I I'm reading
Alan Taylor's American colonies mm-hmm
and I didn't know but one of the reasons
Columbus was so confident that he could
circumnavigate and maybe get to Asia was
that he thought the world was about 25%
smaller than it in fact is so right so
if he if he hadn't been wrong about that
they would have starved to death if
there wasn't a massive continent there
so Columbus not a genius not a good guy
last call of the day you're calling from
a 2:00 to 4:00 area code hey Michael
yeah my on yes you're on what's on your
mind
hey this is Evan Chicago expat living in
Southern California right now first of
all get those shofars ready because I
just became a member and I also just
joined there we go
and you also what I also just join my
local union oh my dad student at the
University
awesome yeah congratulations to be gay
yeah so the public sector union so mike
mark mark Mike I care
Janice bucket yes you can but yeah I
wanted to ask you guys specifically so
we're talking about fascism around the
world
mm-hmm and I just wanted to get a sense
of exactly how prevalence like real
actual political power fascism is in the
world right now I'm gonna be doing an
episode of my podcast on it and I as
long give my listeners a good sense of
how real this is
so I know you know both in our oza
fascist you know the pond fielders or
bond is there anybody else that I'm not
mentioning I mean I think it depends I
think you use a broader kind of like
right-wing authoritarian I think you'd
say Trump you'd say Modi you'd say Putin
you'd say air Dhawan you'd say to tear
take is that what you said yeah Duterte
and you'd also say I mean certainly
they're they're less but I think there's
there's strains within the Tory Party
and certainly things like the wind rush
policy you Kip and the British National
Party are absolutely on that end of the
spectrum and you know and and in a way I
mean if you really want to get loose
with it maybe you shouldn't get this
loose but I actually think it's um I
think the Chinese government would start
to fit those parameters frankly like of
in terms of like how they're actually
governing but by that more you know
tighter definition I mean certainly
balsan ro de ter tey Trump Orban Putin
Modi air Dhawan yeah okay yeah thanks
yeah thing today because perfect person
have thanks thank you guys thanks man
have a great day all right folks a few
more im's
let's see do you see the tragedy of the
Obama administration maintaining Gitmo
prison camp forgiving and enabling Wall
Street criminals
moaning clintons is Secretary of State
extending Bush or starting new Wars not
getting this public option health care
and many other disappointments had
consequences Clinton was defeated in
2008 political green and miscalculation
have consequences Jay cool hey Michael
did you think Haddad has a chance in
Brazil al al Jazeera has an analyst this
morning say he has to move to the center
to have a new chance he does actually in
that dynamic and I don't and the center
literally means if you are part of if
you don't want Brazil to go back to a
military dictatorship like like
literally that's what it means
it's a weird dynamic I think the polling
shows and I have little to no doubt that
Lula would comfortably win but Haddad is
not Lula and the center left the Lula
vote is already there the next round is
is definitely going to be predicated on
some version of do you want to protect
the late eighties Constitution and
there's no contradiction there between
talking about labor rights and austerity
and so on and so forth but that is gonna
have to be the way in which it's done I
don't think there's any other way in
which it's done um Brazilian in Toronto
there's a video on Facebook of showing
someone voting numerous times from both
scenario yesterday and using a gun to
punch in the numbers I feel like I'm
ready for an alien abduction yeah I'll
check that out I hear you solidarity
other good news some proud boys got
their rocked in Providence over the
weekend cops did their usual thing
though mole maui vegan easier way to
fight climate changes to go vegan it's
more than just nice animal agriculture
contributes more greenhouse gas than
transportation sector please interrupt
interview cowspiracy producers we
already do and i I appreciate everybody
who's a vegan but this is not going to
be addressed through individual action
yeah it's just never gonna be addressed
through individual actions and even on
that lane like
working and banding together to you know
try to ban forms of industrial
agriculture because of all of the
obvious horrific abuses of animals and
how big a contribution is the client you
know but yes it's just not it ain't
gonna be done through personal practices
not to say you shouldn't do it but
that's not where it's that's not
happening Gabe from Atlanta the other
issue with that study you cite when it
comes to climate changes that regardless
of how different messages affect
behavior the most pessimistic messaging
might also be might be in this case the
most true well sure but I mean I guess
this is where I'm a postmodernist
like it when you're talking about actual
conditions like that you do have to
modulate what like true okay but if true
solidifies do nothing that's not useful
yeah and you want to make your action
based on the quote unquote true most
likely prediction yeah or do you want to
make it on the most grounded operative
one like grounded in reality but
potentially operative to do things
exactly mediocre white guy appreciate
your channel destroying borden peterson
who draws many socially Oh awkward ass
bees like my brother who in seeking life
slash dating advice lava I watched on
Oliver's the HBO show last night and I
feel the need to point out how wrong it
is to a spell about resilience not to
vote for junior bolts an arrow voters
don't go out and vote for no one or
nothing voters go out and vote for
someone or something it's lazy to just
say don't vote for Boston arrow because
he's bad instead of a better option is
and does there are dark forces
manipulating Brazilian politics taking
Lula da Silva out of the race one of the
main objectives I hope the Left can
coalesce behind Fernando had that
there's no doubt and I mean art look I
saw the Oliver segment and you know in
the in the I'm trying to have I mean
people got really freaked out and upset
about criticizing John Oliver for his
ridiculous comments on Latin America
which is just utterly bizarre to me
especially because like I don't put you
know John Oliver is obviously not one of
these right-wing ghouls and he's not sam
Harris or Jordan Peterson but he did
some really really stupid commentaries
about Mexico
an example so we talked about it I don't
know why that triggered people so much
but his brazil segment wasn't as bad but
again it's still just this free-floating
context-free corruption stuff and then
yes a double down on he recognizes that
of course Haddad is better than Boston
ro but if you've you know already miss
frame the whole exercise as just
corruption vers fascism versus actually
flawed not perfect but genuine centered
center-left social democracy that will
protect the Constitution and reverse
austerity vers fascism and mass murder
maybe that's a bit of a better way to
actually think about it teacher about a
teacher BB must replace GDP metric with
factor with factors that include social
and environmental must replace the price
system with measuring the internalized
by our mental costs economics at the
root of the problem Chris lapacho hello
sir
I ran the twin and City marathons
yesterday and set a personal record of
three hours and 53 minutes 53 seconds I
swore a t-shirt that said abolished I
wore a t-shirt that said abolish ice in
the front that should show them who's
boss that's awesome congratulations
that's great I really like that if you
do any public events like that to
represent an issue like that is it's
really good good job Chris way to earn
that media yeah that's awesome and
Relations congratulations all right I'm
gonna do two more Luis from Texas have
you heard Rogen's new Netflix special
have a good day bro and I'll see you
again real soon no I haven't I've heard
that there's some weird things are too
complex for politics angles of it but uh
otherwise it's funny I've heard your
Rogen's actually a good stand-up so I've
actually I've only liked I've only ever
actually enjoyed watching him host the
show I try to stand up I wasn't into it
the psychedelic Quaker GOP wins in
November would they immediately move to
cut Social Security Medicaid and
Medicare
I don't know immediately maybe they wait
till after 2020 but I mean they will
don't move they'll definitely keep
destroying the what remains of Obama
and yeah they'll put that on the docket
um okay let's see the final IM of the
day t MBS is my jam michael it's not the
meanest nursing home the US Senate is
the American House of Lords term and age
limits please we're back tomorrow thanks
everybody in that take us Rebecca to get
it
I was late I just got caught
laughs
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
kid
I just somewhere the choices made though
the option will you tell get paid for
the rubber bands
break I love sweet ride between the one
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
