[Music]
so Donald Trump yesterday after his
tweets they basically came out and
confirmed hey this is how we've decided
we're gonna run in 2020 we are going to
and I'll tell you something
we are sixteen months out they want to
basically start some type of race war in
this country and so Donald Trump is out
there saying that these women of color
hate America hate the Jews hate our
values don't wear lapel pins here he is
doubling down on this stuff as reporters
basically ask him whether he thought the
tweet was racist does it concern you
that many people saw that tweet as
racist and that white nationalist groups
are finding common cause with you on
that point doesn't concern me because
many people agree with me and all I'm
saying they want to leave they can leave
now it doesn't say leave forever it says
leave if you want but what it says what
and what that John what that says is if
they're not happy with the United States
if they're doing nothing but criticizing
us all the time you see these people
walking down criticizing the United
States we just hit the highest stock
market in history all of these
incredible manufacturers that are in
these are great business people they
employ many people and we have workers
with us too they're having the best year
they've ever had can I say that is that
a correct statement so do we have more
from him let's play this again because
it's worth worth noting like what
basically he's going out there with
written statements and he was yelling at
reporters he was telling them to
shut up good this audience is a great
manufactures workers in our audience to
network this year which I guess some
people think it's got to vary so a lot
of people love it by the way a lot of
people love it but if you're not happy
in the u.s. if you're complaining all
the time
very simply you can leave you can leave
right now come back if you want
no come back okay to somebody that would
say that
so Speaker Pelosi said make America
there you have it and he started yelling
at a lot of people I mean this is when
you come out with that you're doubling
down and and this means that not only
was he sort of on a jag tweeting about
this but that his campaign has basically
said we are going to make this about
black people and the Democratic Party
brown people and the Democratic Party
that's basically it that's what the
election is going to come down to
they're going to pursue this agenda
they're gonna pursue it at the border
they're gonna pursue it in this way in
Washington this is the way the Trump
campaign intends to win the election to
play on the racism the vast racism of
their of their base in their voters and
there is only one way to address this
and that is to fight there is no there
is no appeasement of these people there
is no appeasement of the Trump folks
there is only one way to deal with this
and that's head-on and aggressively
because you need to now motivate look
there they know this is a base election
this is a base election you need to turn
out your voters and this is what Donald
Trump is attempting to do
