[Music]
Pete hagseth was excuse me according to
what's that guy's name Alan drew parts
Aaron Rupa Aaron Roop are according to
Aaron Roop are who I guess grew up with
him in or not grew up with him but grew
up in the same hometown as Pete in the
suburbs
knowing that Pete went to Prince
Princeton here is um here is Aaron Roop
our I mean excuse me
Pete hexxit boom owning the fact that
folks would actually be conscious of
their identity particularly if it was
not white in America here he is oh yeah
incredibly well said by the general what
makes America special is that we're an
idea we're a bunch of people with
different backgrounds different skin
colors different orientations and we all
say we're all in for the Declaration and
the Constitution this set of principles
that we can be free people that govern
well I hate to be one of those pedantic
guys who talks about history but at the
time that the Declaration and the
Constitution were signed we weren't
exactly oh we weren't all in on this it
was it was an idea but the idea that
like you know all of us didn't matter
what color you were all there at the
signing of the Declaration in the
Constitution he may want to just revisit
a history book but continue that's it
that's the social contract of America if
you start to say now I'm black I'm white
I'm this on that I'm this grievance I'm
that grievance I'm this identity that
identity first it all starts to break
down because you're not looking at the
center of the set of ideas that you
shared together first as he said we've
all got the same pictures on our
shoulders where America first comes from
but now you have in in universities and
high schools you're telling kids to
focus on their background even all right
so there is he's concerned that
apparently in these schools
these colleges that people are being
told to focus on their background
because it takes them away from the
central idea of America which we were
all apparently in on at the founding of
the country now what's funny about pizza
xiith is this whole idea of identity do
we have any anything to just like let's
just go back take a little trip down
memory line where a peek exit who's
completely devoid of any identity which
of course it's somewhat easier to do
when you're white and you the dominant
force in society is not reminding you
that you're not white via government
policy or you know depending on the any
given day may be just the way that you
you move through society but here's peak
exit never to think about his origins
here now with my genealogy results is
the host of PBS's genealogy roadshow
Joshua Taylor there's all sorts of
things out there to start your family we
actually work with the 1940 census which
is a great place for anybody out there
to start researching their family and we
found your grandparents living in
Minnesota I can tell you you are behind
that document that document is online in
multiple places so you can use
commercial sites like ancestry and
FamilySearch
okay so from that document it told us
that your family has some Norwegian ties
indeed you are a hundred percent
Norwegian indeed and so how did he know
that how is that possible by playing
identity politics I guess so he's a big
head of dope like other Norwegians
I just the the I mean that you know it
gets bandied about but the idea I mean
like will you talk about white privilege
the idea of just saying that we should
all be able to walk through society like
me this white Norwegian from Minneapolis
that we should all be able to walk
through American society in that way
wouldn't that be nice if that were the
case but you really really have to
achieve because I don't pretend to have
any sense of the experience of other
people as they walk through American
society but I'm aware of my limitations
in that regard
Pete hagseth is not only not aware of
his limitations in that regard he's
bathing in it he's bragging about his
lack of awareness of those limitations
but a nice way to start your morning on
Fox & Friends
