you
this is not beanbag
you
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat da
majority report with sam c de it is
Friday May 10th 2019
I'm Michael Brooks on a casual Friday
and this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Juanes Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's casual
Friday bus Carson Cara
founder of the Jackman magazine author
of the socialist manifesto the case for
radical politics in an era of extreme
inequality we're talking socialist
history the path to dealing with extreme
inequality democratizing the economy and
the global climate ecological crisis
plus a pretty good Twitter ad that
Bhaskar cut for the Sanders campaign
then the great David Feldman host of the
David Feldman show is here to give us a
movie recommendation argue over a
recurring guest with me and talk a
little bit about the lawlessness of the
Trump administration and the
fecklessness of Democratic leadership
Donald Trump he as Juan Cole said Donald
Trump speaking is like the experiment
with the monkey tapping randomly on the
keyboard will it occasionally produce a
work of Shakespeare well some of the
random random spouting out of trumps
mouth has appeared to be offering Iran
the same deal that Obama painstakingly
achieved with them with the negotiating
partners even as right
even as Pompeo continues to push for a
global catastrophe with Iran Iran lifts
caps on uranium enrichment Bernie
Sanders campaign staff has just signed a
historic union contract Bernie Sanders
and AOC
not only they're proposing get tough
rules on the predatory lending industry
the bill would include postal banking
while the Trump administration wants to
allow debt collectors to harass people
even more Venezuelan lawmakers seek
refugee refuge in embassies after a
crackdown while one white I was like I
would be alright with luck US military
intervention like maybe this is not
endogenous maybe ah we're gonna need
some more help guys oh we're up to a
thousand on the stream that's awesome
yeah go thousand all the stream all
that's really great still could use some
help farmers give the same chat there's
plenty of general level patreon members
open yeah ah appreciate all the support
could need a lot more to go before we
get to that quad super chat on my
interim status as presents we're gonna
skip that one yeah those guys it really
matter
farmers are losing their patience with
Donald Trump and his China trade war and
students walk out of the Colorado School
shooting visuals saying that their
trauma is being politicized
and a San Francisco billionaire is
wasting an extraordinary amount of money
to solve a persistent but highly
achievable problem to solve which is
getting rid of homelessness he should
just be dumping money into the Sanders
campaign and other initiatives to jack
his taxes up association of jurists
calls Lula they Silva a political
prisoner and the ANC looks set to return
to power without need of a coalition in
South Africa all that and much much more
on today's majority report so as we've
been highlighting the last couple days
things are getting extraordinarily
dangerous with regards to Iran it's very
important to emphasize this is immediate
history that the joint plan of action
agreement was working there was no
objective source and no even by the way
a woman presume highly biased source
that questioned its efficacy the Trump
administration signed off on the deal
early on that trigger by the way that
the Secretary of State that the the
State Department had to rescind the deal
I believe recertified every six months
that's not part of the international
agreement that was a side poison pill
inserted by Congress to beat Obama over
the head for recertifying it and
presumably I think would actually most
of them also most Republicans also
assumed would be a democratic a Hillary
Clinton presidency the Iranians have
stepped out of the agreement to some
extent which frankly it makes a lot of
sense why would they maintain an
agreement their economy is being
strangled they've lived up to every end
of the bargain and the United States is
dangerous belligerent dishonest and
bullying the Chinese and the Europeans
this is Mike Pompeo continuing on that
path I mean listen to just
it's you know just I you have to know
the imperial hubris and the profound
arrogance of this this is Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo pause it I can't hear
it guys okay what we've been trying to
do is to get Iran to behave like a
normal nation we laid out 12 elements of
that every single one of those elements
is consistent what we asked every other
country in the world to do so these are
not around specific things like not
conducting assassination campaigns
around the world not sponsoring terror
organizations that inflict missile
attacks on Israel now 600-plus not
building missile systems and Yemen these
are things we ask every country to do
that's our objective that's been our
goal from the beginning I've been
working on this since I was a member of
Congress our objective is get the
Islamic Republic of Iran to behave like
a normal nation when they do that we
will welcome them back so and I have no
doubt yes mocked Pompeo has been already
a profoundly pernicious influence and
foreign policy going back to his time in
the house but look mentions Yemen the
United States has partnered with Saudi
Arabia in a campaign that murders and
savages civilians on a daily base in
Yemen the Houthi rebels were in fact not
clients of Iran and the relationship
between them and the Iranian state has
actually been significantly increased
post Saudi us-supported mass murderer
campaign beginning in 2015 and you know
look Israel certainly conducts
assassination campaigns Israel conducts
collective punishment the Saudis have an
enormous amount of blood on their hands
in Syria and Yemen and of course have
certainly funded and emanated terrorist
groups again does Iran engage in some of
these behaviors undoubtedly does the
United States engage in a lot of these
behaviors undoubtedly and obviously the
Saudis and the Israelis the point was
was that
this agreement solved a very specific
goal on proliferation and opened the
door to potentially solving other
problems and that's why the world is in
a much less safe place but that's the
plan and the agenda of people like
Pompeo they're dangerous extremists now
Donald Trump again I don't know how much
we can buy into this obviously because
the truth of the matter is is that he
doesn't have but he doesn't you know he
doesn't think about these things
he has random impulses his main trigger
point with Iran was that Obama had a
great foreign policy achievement so he
was aggrieved and needed to ruin it but
I think you know even as this kind of
never-ending push for regime change for
a coup in Venezuela continues to fail I
think that Trump seems to have some
allergy or maybe even as he gets back on
the trail some sense that part of his
broader scheme was a kind of you can
indict message on non-intervention so in
this clip first he's gonna lie about
John Kerry and if anything you know my
sense is that John Kerry you know John
Kerry has been out of office publicly
trying to preserve a successful deal
that made the world better that he
helped negotiate but Trump is you know
gonna lie about him threaten him with
the Logan Act which his very in keeping
with the authoritarian nature of this
regime and then on the other hand it
looks like Donald Trump all of a sudden
and again this maybe was how do it maybe
if the Iranians as soon as Trump got
into office were like hey would you like
to open some hotels here and we have a
new idea of my friend the joint plan of
action is called the great Trump peace
agreement this problems all might have
been solved Trump probably would have
agreed to that within a matter of days
but here he is basically begging the
president of Iran to call him and
offering the Obama deal and if you know
North Korea is any indication obviously
it would end up be
even more generous deal from an Iranian
point of view but here's Donald Trump
what I'd like to see with Iran I'd like
to see them call me you know John Kerry
speaks to him a lot John Kerry tells
them not to call that's a violation of
the Logan Act and frankly he should be
prosecuted on that but my people don't
want to do anything that's only the
Democrats do that kind of stuff
historically the Republicans did that
specifically Richard Nixon - the LBJ
administration as they're trying to end
the Vietnam right was about the one that
Kissinger was like a double agent of
Paris Peace Accords specifically to
prolong the Vietnam War to help Richard
Nixon's electoral rockefeller to Nixon
using that his connections with the
dragon lady of oh no see of Taiwan -
ex-wife oh yes major figure in
right-wing politics and of course
there's there's a lot of interesting
reporting on how long the hostages may
have stayed there potentially in
additional days when Ronald Reagan was
running to deregulate Wall Street only
the Democrats do this stuff but I don't
play tough like the Democrats I want to
do anything that's only the Democrats do
that kind of stuff you know if it were
the opposite way they prosecute him
under the Logan Act but John Kerry
violated the Logan Act he's talking to
Iran and has been has many meetings and
many phone calls and he's telling them
what to do that is a total violation of
the Logan Act okay of course Don Kerry
released the statement saying that
Donald Trump is wrong in every regard
essentially and I think we can of course
safely assume that he is and good and by
the way if John Kerry is informally and
I'm sure with lawyer consultations
within the letter of the law having back
channels to the Iranians and I think it
was reported a couple years ago that he
might have met some people in Paris who
had connections to the Islamic Republic
and basically was saying like hold tight
this lunatic won't be President forever
good that's the most productive use of
chunky
he's time thank you John Kerry quote
ending said I just want to say just
briefly from The Guardian the Trump
administration had previously insisted
that Iran would have to fulfill a list
of 12 this is the Pompeo thing 12
wide-ranging conditions including non
intervention in Syria Yemen in Iraq an
order for sanctions to be lifted Trump's
remarks suggested that a new deal on the
pro-nuclear program would be enough and
Iran's ambassador to the UN said once
again this is the ambassador the first
question he has to answer is why he left
the negotiating table because we were
talking to all participants of the
nuclear deal including the US so all of
a sudden he decided to leave the
negotiating table what is the guarantee
that he will not renege again on the
future talks between Iran and the US and
this is Kerry's statement everything
Trump president Trump today said is
simply wrong end of stories wrong about
the facts wrong about the law and sadly
he's been wrong about how to use
diplomacy to keep America safe I'm right
about the Logan act I'm a constitutional
scholar and the Logan Act is when a
country likes another prominent American
leader more than like our president it
was named after a great man named Logan
who was a very loyal he's a very loyal
and then Logan would have he would have
a razor blades come out of his knuckles
when he got mad is that is that right
what is it oh is that x-men Wolverine
very loyal guy guy laser eyes she had
laser eyes because we had we don't
control our borders anymore how many
meetings are you had why am I not
invited in these meetings a day of good
meetings does anybody think that maybe
I'd like to meet Persian academics in
Paris you guys can use a trainer hotel
yeah why can't we use a Trump Hotel
property no one ever thinks there's a
phrase called wet our beaks
feel a little bit left out a little bit
left out and then he looked around and
he said the Don will get paid for this
after all we are not communists
but that's what ALC wants that's what
crazy Bernie wants the majority report
is supported in part by simple habit
simple habit is the mobile app that
provides a massive and diverse library
of four to five minute guided
meditations and the majority report
audience can try simple habit totally
free for an entire week when you go to
simple habit dot-com slash majority as I
say there's a growing body of scientific
evidence on meditations efficacy for
everything from praying pain relief to
depression and anxiety particularly
Richie Davidson's work in neuroimaging
at the University of Wisconsin but going
back to Herbert Benson's work at the
relaxation response at Harvard simple
habit has over 2,000 guided meditations
specifically designed for different
parts of your day and just about
anything you might be dealing with in
life they have guided meditations from
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression and from when you're having
trouble falling asleep meditations for
when you're wanting to overcome
procrastination or if when you're having
something important going on at work
meditations designed for parents they
have meditations made specifically for
when you're waking up or on a lunch
break or when you've just gotten home
from work when you're going to bed I
personally love the ease of the app the
range of options the idea that I can try
actually just the other day I tried the
lunchtime then I went into the other
room I tried the lunchtime meditation
right before right as I was about to get
back on mic and it was excellent
different people are trying to
accomplish different things at
meditation and simple habits applicator
just about anyone regardless of what
their goals with meditation are or how
much experience they have the variety of
guided meditations and simple habit is
what sets it apart simple habit just one
the 2018 Google Play award for best
well-being app it's available on iOS
Android and web browser and the majority
report audience can try it for free for
a week by going to simple habit calm /
majority if you're watching on YouTube
we've put a link in the video
description we'll be right back with
Bosch Garson Cara on the majority report
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now from
the road where he's promoting his
excellent new book as bhaskar sankara
the book is called the socialist
manifesto a case for radical politics in
an era of extreme inequality he's also
the founder of jackman magazine which is
indispensable and everybody should be
reading bosco thanks so much for being
here how you doing hey thanks for having
me on so it's a pleasure it's great to
be speaking with you so as always so
let's reset here what what do you think
when you you know now it's sort of even
relative to you know three four years
ago and I think obviously the Sanders
campaign and a lot to do with this but
you know socialism is kind of back in
the discourse to the point where you
know even like the Republicans think
they can make a lot of hay about a sort
of new kind of neo fear-mongering
campaign about it but you're somebody
who first of all I mean explain how you
discovered Marxism and socialism and why
is it that you think in contrast to the
kind of old stereotypical comment about
I don't know I think it's attributed to
Churchill but there's you know there's
some lazy like if you're not a socialist
by the time you're 20 or something you
don't have a heart if you're not a
conservative by the time you're 25 you
know have a brain some kind of you know
hackneyed sort of like you know Buckley
or fake Churchill quote type of thing
like that but you make the point that
you you came to Marxism from I mean
obviously ethical conviction but a very
like clinical analysis of how capitalism
actually works because Marx really
demystified capitalism why is it yeah
yeah go ahead why is it relevant for
this time so specifically and how did
you come to it well yeah I mean I think
for me being a Marxist is a very useful
framework for understanding the world
and and you can't understand everything
about the world just by being a Marxist
you know a Marxism can't explain the
like one of my friends likes a Mac
Marxism can't explain the sex appeal of
blue jeans you know it can't explain
agriculture and genetics and a whole
host of other stuff that in the past the
Silvia team tried to make you know
Marxism explain what it can do tell us a
bunch of pertinent things about the
world about our you know the spoil of
resources how things are divided up in a
given society about the pace and nature
of technological change about why
there's so much needless suffering amid
amid abundance and why a system can be
populated by good people you know not
all capitals or sociopaths but still
produce really bad outcomes so it's a
very useful framework for understanding
the world but the reason why I first got
attracted to these ideas were was a
moral and ethical kind of I'm a
socialist because I believe that this
Toolik exploitation in the world I
believe there's too much needless
suffering I believe that there's too
much unquestioned hierarchy in the world
and I believe that one day we'll look
back upon all the divisions and all the
exploitation and all the suffering the
world today and that plenty and we'll be
like this is irrational the same way
today anyone would look back at
feudalism and the divine right of kings
and queens and say wow that was kind of
irrational you just let this like crazy
person with syphilis run a country has
an autocratic kid a monarch for 50 years
and killed hundreds of people and
thousands of people so III think that's
the separation like Marxism is the
intellectual framework did you get some
things from being a socialist or
something deep in your your heart and
what I want to do with this book is take
people with the right moral impulses or
take people at the very least who who
look around in society and say things
maybe could be different and give them
some of the history and the past of the
various attempts to to make the world a
better place and show here's where they
succeeded here's where they failed
here's why I think these ideas are still
relevant by going forward into the
future so can you take us back to maybe
again I'll give you two parts what first
of all what is Marx's idea of modes of
production producing different types of
societal relationships and political
arrangements you mentioned you know
feudalism to capitalism then the idea I
guess would be you know capitalism to
socialism
just start with that what what is that
sort of trajectory he's mapping and
maybe can you explain how it's not
linear or teleological it's you know
it's relational and dynamic but it still
does reflect some type of evolution or
development or progression and we're in
maybe the middle of some very
interesting times and you know in terms
of that model how does that work where
where does that come from where does
that thinking come from
so capitalism is a unique system
compared to these other systems we've
had before so we voice our class
societies at least since the Neolithic
Revolution until we created these you
know permanent farmer societies and and
we resettle roots we had kind of the
division between classes so in other
words there was a majority class that
did most of the work and there was a
minority that appropriated their their
surplus and and directed it as I saw sit
back during feudalism it was pretty easy
to see how the system worked because
you'd be the only person toriel in your
land let's say as a peasant and at the
end of the harvest season the board
would come and say give me 30% of your
crop or you're gonna die yeah so it's
pretty obvious the naked exploitation of
you know you're you're you know giving
them something but at the same time you
had the means of your own
self-sufficiency
you know you had a way you weren't in
you had kind of your own land - so you
had a way to survive kind of by yourself
what capitalism is is a condition in
which we all become market dependent so
by that I mean there were markets before
capitalism they'll be markets after
capitalism but under capitalism the
majority class is deprived of any means
to sustain themselves other than by
selling their labor power their ability
to work for others to a a capitalist and
by capitalist all we mean is that the
people who control the firm's that
create the goods and services the
society produces so we labor for these
British capitalist but they're not
making money literally off of our sweat
they're producing these commodities and
they're selling these commodities in the
market and even if they want to be nice
and give us higher wages they would just
probably just undercut by competitors
that were even more more ruthless and
were able to reinvest more of their
profits into into the expansion of
production so whereas the market existed
before it has now become the
all-consuming task of humanity to
constantly expand and keep producing
more and more at higher levels of
efficiency and so on and this is where
the tremendous wealth and abundance
no one wants us to deny that that in
many ways this is the pinnacle of human
civilization like look what we managed
to kind of transform the world for for
both good and bad but mostly for good in
the past 100 plus 200 years under
capitalism our argument is that so much
abundance has been created that socially
so the labor of thousands of people
being brought together millions of
people being brought together there must
be some better way to distribute wealth
and power there must be a way to take
this social production and not have it
be running a social way through the
dictatorship of a small group of bosses
and CEOs and instead run the economy in
a democratic way so that's the premise
of socialism it's building off the
development of capitalism the high point
of capitalism it's not saying that we
started your zero and we're back in the
field you know throwing crops in favor
that so in this another thing that you
do really effectively in this book and I
think it is worth I think highlighting
two things in that statement right so
one it's in it and it truly is like a
global system so like even like the
paradox of and you know like places that
are like on the extreme end of like
saying the media sense they're covered
as a place of civil war and instability
there I'm thinking of a the Congo right
it's dealt with um you know in the
United States and stahl to first the CIA
the Belgians assassinated a great
independence leader Patrice Lumumba then
they backed this you know vicious
dictator from the 60s literally through
the mid 90s Mobutu Sese Seko and then
it's been in varying states of civil war
there's all of these different
dimensions of the crisis of Congo and
then conversely the Democratic Republic
of Congo the you know the rare minerals
that are mined from Congo are in all of
our phones and central to the most
complex parts of a global supply chain
so there's really like almost no corner
of Earth that is not part of this system
and similarly with Marx I mean Marxism
went absolutely everywhere there isn't a
country on earth where these ideas
didn't find some relevance which is
pretty extraordinary and I I think you
know I wanted to set that because you do
an also a really good job of this book
of like disaggregating the different
streams of Marxism and I'm wondering if
you can go back even just into the
history of Marx and angles and how did
what did Marxism and socialism first
start looking like as a political
project in those times in terms of
whether its electoral or labor or
revolutionary what are the different
streams that we start to yeah yes so the
the logic was pretty was pretty common
sense it seems to be the source of the
19th century they thought that their
primary struggle or one of the big
struggles was fighting for trade unions
and basic kind of organizations of class
consciousness and fighting for for
suffrage fighting for more democracy so
this was the Chartist movement in the UK
was all about what all these other
movements the early struggles of the
German Social Democratic Party they were
struggles to expand the franchise to
working people because in most of these
countries the extent there was an
apolitical democracy it was limited to
those who owned property there was the
old landed gentry and it was a new
industrialist that were they were
fighting and giving up power and the
idea was this new emergent working class
this group of millions of people that
were ripped from the countryside and now
hoarded
these cities and working at these giant
factors and complexes these people would
get to vote and through the exercise
with their franchise they would
naturally start voting for policies that
were in their class interest so in other
words it was seen as like a natural
dynamic workers get the right to vote
workers organize workers form workers
parties these worker parties start
legislating social and economic reforms
and continue on the struggle for
socialism a system in which this voting
majority this this majority class takes
over production and government society
generally in their their interests now
obviously didn't work quite this way but
it seemed that it was in the late 19th
century so there were these mass parties
the most important of them as a German
social democratic party but we saw what
happens over time which is a law in fact
these workers in these big parties
become all kind of dependent on their
their bosses they are under a lot of
pressures to to compromise with the
nation-state that they're a part of they
realize that they win reforms or in
games often not just from confrontation
but from making compromises with their
employers they maybe decide okay
wouldn't be better off we just came the
system a little bit and keep it humming
and redistribute some of the wealth that
it's creating and sort of forging a new
entire system entirely
so this is where modern social democracy
comes from it was the attempt to just
add doses of socialism within capitalism
then there's a less wing of this Greek
workers movement and it happens mostly
in countries were the democratic road to
social democracy if a socialism is
blocked so the socialists have to pursue
more insurrection more revolutionary
roads so this is kind of Russia and the
Soviet Union and all these cases this is
kind of the left-wing initiatives of the
this broad workers movement but they had
this common ancestor and what I wanted
to do in the book was to avoid the no
true Scotsman thing where you just say
oh that's not the real socialism
socialism is only the thing I like and
it's not democratic
socialism you know obviously I have my
vision of socialism which is a
democratic anti-authoritarian anti
hierarchical vision of socialism but a
lot of these experiences positively and
negatively have important lessons for us
to draw from and all these movements are
drawn from this early workers moving and
obviously even these revolutionary
movements in the third world that fought
for national liberation against
imperialism and fought for development a
lot of them were inspired by the Soviet
example because the Soviet Union started
off as an extremely backward war-ravaged
country in which the task became not how
do you take the spoils of a rich society
and make sure workers that their fair
share and make sure there's
working-class democracy but rather how
do you generate wealth to begin with and
I think that was the root of some of its
authoritarianism or somebody's these
dilemmas but it was quite inspiring for
for people living in in the third world
inspiring for the Chinese
revolutionaries and other people to say
look what the Soviet Union did in just
five years they caught up with the with
the West so I cover all this history and
I try to do it in a way that doesn't
claim to be a book of history but you
know as an illustrative history will
recent take some of these case studies
take some of these lessons draw figure
out what's relevant
what should we keep from this history
you know what we should discard and I
think you know it's important part of it
because otherwise it would just be kind
of the purely moral argument but
socialism has actually been tried and
it's added successes but at at its
massive area it doesn't do us any good
if we're on the last to pretend like it
hasn't so that's it I think that's a
really important distinction tonight
because because I think it's both were
actually not shying away from even as an
example the fact that the Soviet Union
you know was on the right side of as an
you know the United States was supported
apartheid the Soviet Union backed the
African National Congress right I mean
so you know very strong point for the
Soviet Union
before Soviet imperialism in Afghanistan
on the 80s which is absolutely what I
would call an intervention and the
atrocities that they committed but on
the other hand you know the sour
revolution and the you know some of the
communist ideology of Afghanistan was
incredibly progressive and interesting
and innovative and also helps us kind of
historicism a from the typical anti
Muslim era you know even in that case if
you think about who made the sour
revolution it was a group of military it
was Afghan but it was a group of
military officers and intellectuals and
people who who were basically the hata
put it this way but the modern classes
in a society so largely pre-modern what
happened when they start trying to
impose socialism and modernity from
above it led to a reaction and led Civil
War and it led to a lot of the disasters
that we've seen in that country lost
twenty thirty years even the best
intentions or the best of our intentions
have ended up sometimes at about that
place and and I wanted to look at some
of that history and figure out why while
at the same time saying listen we're in
the West
we're in countries have really long
established history of democracy
we're in countries where most of our
fights today are for these broad
programs and medicare for all we are in
a very different context than trying to
create a revolution in Afghanistan and
we have tons of we're very privileged in
our in our position you know today but
but obviously if we don't know the
history if we don't have kind of strong
replies then we're gonna end up you know
just looking like idiots when people try
to read at us with uh with something
stuff and then we could yeah and I think
we can disentangle like and you know
we'll get to Sanders in a couple of
minutes but I think you know they're
very clear essentially anti you know
anti regime change jet you know a
foreign policy that isn't dictated by a
narrow set of interests here is the
corollary and then a nice in in the
situation's you know inside the United
States as an example this is where you
also start to foreground you know ideas
and histories which maybe
they don't you know they might be less
alluring in a freshman dorm room but
they might in some ways be more relevant
to a you know hyperdeveloped 2019
context so talk about olaf paul me and
what happened in sweden in the 1970s
what you're drawing from that yeah yeah
i think well one thing i should say
before people just think it's a book of
history i try to open with a case for
socialism and kind of a thought
experiment of what a day in the life of
a social citizen should look like
i really did intend a book for to be
kind of the first book about socialism
that a lot of people are gonna are gonna
read and it's meant to not scare off my
my bernie crab friends and you know I've
been doing some stuff lately with the
with with you know friends of the
Sanders you know campaign and I've been
kind of I'm back to gearing up to do
some canvassing for Senator so you know
that would be intended audience I should
say but Sir so social democracy is super
interesting for me because I started off
as a far left radical who had no
interest in so smocks it's like oh
that's just a kinder gentler capitalism
then over time the more study the more
research I did that social democracies
in particularly the Nordic model
particularly in Sweden you find out that
you know these models were actually
imposed not by the generosity of
capitalist oh the Nordic capitalist you
know they're they're cozy or friendly or
you know people but but in fact it was
imposed by force by militant
working-class movement so over time over
the course of governing for 5060 years
in Sweden the Social Democrats were able
to be to modify which means there's
taking out of the market homes fears of
life lights some great housing they
built 1 million new homes for public
housing 1 million units for population
there's 8 million health care child care
eventually all these things were taken
out of the market and in Georgia social
rights it was a very good society in
that sense I think it's probably the
peak of what we achieved as a as a
species you know if you're a born and a
poor we're all part of Sweden you
a very similar life outcomes if you're
born in a nice district in Stockholm and
that's something you can't say about
someone boring Fairfield Connecticut
versus water berry or something like
that you know it's something that
Bridgman we shouldn't take for granted
yeah yeah Bridgeport which is you know I
spent plenty of time in my life actions
very depressing studies yes um so enough
of that for explored Connecticut that's
where we were sorry
hey I Hey
it's a great fairy just saying there's a
lot of that's capitalism is a problem
yep yep no definitely I mean this is the
kind of the the uneven you know
development but it's kind of the stuff
that we take for granted the fact that
for that kids from that city that's just
not someone screwed I we as Americans
even those of us on the left we kind of
just take for granted this is like a
normal a normal thing right but it
wasn't just they achieved this base
level of equality and dignity and
justice for their citizens and it wasn't
just that all the Pama and these other
leaders fought to defend the ANC and to
struggle against apartheid and to defend
the Vietnamese and the struggle against
US imperialism Vietnam so they all had a
good track record of foreign policy but
these demands and these welfare state
securities didn't like many Leninist
thought it would
it didn't make them in place it it
actually caused workers to start
demanding more and more radical things
and to start to make inroads on the
profits of capitalists but also their
right to manage the right of managers to
manage so in 1967 1968 you seemed a
strike wave in Sweden that's primarily
about industrial democracy not just
wages and working conditions so they
start to put more radical questions on
the table they start to say well why
don't we have any say in our day to day
lives were spending 40 hours a week in
this workplace why don't we have any
Sencha lee to say why don't we actually
own some of this workplace there's a
plan in the 70s put forward the migrant
plan that's improved massively approved
by the main trade union federation and
Sweden
that would have slowly over time
socialized production in Sweden
so what social amok really did was it
increased the bargaining position of
workers dramatically but it left the
levers of control in the hands of
capitalist so the Capitals seeing all
the stuff to say you know hold on we're
getting screwed by this intensifying
internationalization of the economy in
the seventies the OPEC shock is hurting
us
these wage demands are cutting into our
profits there's all these things going
on we're going to either Reath capital
flight or we're going to withhold
investment we're just not going to
invest in new firms and expand our
production until conditions change now
this is a blackmail the capitalist has
in any capitalist democracy even a
social democracy so what the left-wing
social democracy in Sweden proposed
where these wage earner funds
essentially trying to socialize more
production taking away their power to
withhold investment and this blackmail
they have the right wing of social
democracy people like in the UK Gordon
Brown in Germany Schroeder these people
had a solution to the crisis involved
retreating all right let's take a few
steps back
let's deregulate a little bit let's make
capitalist happy then we'll try to
redistribute some of the wealth that's
being created to sustain you know 80% of
our existing welfare state this was a
gamble of the Third Way of social
democracy but I believe that there was a
route to socialism through the left wing
of social democracy and the way that I
came to see it through reading and
research and and really engaging
seriously with history social Moxley was
it's not a separate playing field social
democracy was getting the ball into the
redzone I've been getting pushback just
out of field goal position but but what
we want is you know it's a touch you
know we want to figure out a way to you
to win the game and that involves I
think taking power away from capital and
extending the democratic logic of social
democracy but as by virtue of being
humans we have certain rights we should
democracy is a good thing in the ballot
box
also have democracy in our workplaces by
standing this logic deeper we actually
have a chance to get to social democracy
so what I see Sanders and Corbin all
these people doing is bringing back the
language of class struggle the language
of social democracy and I all think it's
enough
but if you can't put the question of
medicare-for-all on the table in the
u.s. today but each modified healthcare
how are you gonna put the question of
worker ownership of the means of
production the people on the Left that
are excited about one but not excited
about the common sense thing that 70% of
Americans support you know do baffle me
I well they absolutely baffle me too
and then of course you know I think
people I mean maybe they baffle me less
but some people on you know who don't
see you know particularly if they're
saying that they have a more kind of
structurally left politics even of a
Social Democratic variety and they don't
see the structural case and what Sanders
is doing that is a completely unique
value proposition in modern politics you
know even relative to other candidates
that you know we like and respect that
also frustrates me and maybe I want to
get into what Sanders is doing that no
one else is doing but first I do want to
play this ad this is something that you
know you released for the Sanders
campaign released for you and I think
this actually very eloquently distills
this in in a you know in the language of
an ad so let's play this and I'll throw
to you Bhaskar
[Music]
you know how important it is to the
teeth drop in 2020 but I'm afraid that
after Trump a ripe populism might exist
in the US for a long time to come
Sanders give us the opportunity now to
swing one election but it's great
the Baths progressive majority I can win
election after election this isn't a
four-year project this is Nate your
project this is a project to remake
America and remake America process back
10 15 20 years for decades working
people in the United States have been
told over and over again that it's their
fault lost her job it's your fault
maybe you should reformat your CV maybe
you should pick a coding class you're
drifting deeper and deeper in meta bet
it's your fault maybe you should have
seen the doctor or maybe she could start
doing yoga exercising a bit or all these
messages have been telling sheep that
the problems of society were individual
failings that's why I was so inspired by
the Sanders campaign for president 2016
and again now knowing that people are
realizing that it's not their fault
in fact they should be expecting and
demanding more and that collectively we
should fight for things and Medicare for
all we could collect things like the
safe and sustainable environmental
policy will keep the planet going for
our future generations what we need is a
return to shared prosperity and justice
for all people that's unsupported Barry
Sanders
I like the little look off you do at the
end like it was a are we still rolling
yeah I'm embarrassed I kept that but I
love the music behind me but clearly the
soundtrack to NBA Live 1999 I kind of
felt a little bit like almost a little
not know they were more mellow but I
thought of almost like diggable planets
or like it had a very like it did have a
good 90s vibe to it yeah I'm a throwback
and yeah I'm still living in the past
until until the next decade ease and I'm
ready to embrace 2019 until then I'm
living a ninety nine and then after a
couple of months when Katy like hurts
his ankle or something you'll be back
tonight million well I mean I feel like
that would just remind me of why I'm an
expense offering as part of it you know
we have to we have to pay dependents the
beautiful struggle actually okay well I
have a I have a ridiculous question to
ask you but first go well no let me just
do this parenthetically if Bill Bradley
who was a legendary Nick and of and
probably like I would say Barack Obama
and Bill Bradley are like the best
neoliberalism had to offer no Bradley if
Bradley was the qiat Bradley Bradley
versus Sanders who are you picking all
right but I would I would say yeah
Bradley you know Obama even Adam silver
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver ID seems
like the type of neoliberal so you could
have like a quick lunch with you know
quick like they wouldn't drive you
absolutely crazy we just want to cut
everything off of my you know thirty
five minute mark I think you're I think
you're exactly right so what what does
Sanders bring to the table that is is
distinct in terms of activating people
and also for that much longer term
struggle because I I agree with you I've
been saying for a really long time you
know I don't agree with framing the
election on only this or that candidate
can be Trump I think a lot of them could
be
Trump or horrifyingly we might be in a
position where maybe very few of them
can beat Trump right but the point is is
that Joe Biden could could definitely be
Trump I think people on our side of the
equation have steadily underestimated
his appeal unfortunately but what
happens in 2022 I mean if you have yet
another cycle of unresponsive mediocrity
while all of the crises of society are
untreated granted the emergency of the
white supremists kurupt Trump
administration of course needs to be
removed period but that's just getting
back to a basic baseline where we're not
fighting savagery like kidnapping
children which is absolutely essential
but it is not long-term durable for
inequality for the climate for police
for all of these other issues that are
structural in long-term what is Sanders
bringing to this that no one else has
for at least the potential of getting
out of a broader predicament yes not
just defeating Trump it's about
defeating Trump ISM right and I think we
have to think about what was the appeal
of Trump
now obviously hardcore Trump supporters
are the racists or the xenophobe that
that we can't win over under any
circumstance
then a big chunk of his base are just
traditional you know wealthier
Republican voters that we don't want in
their coalition right well let's find
that 25 percent of the trumpets and
let's think about you know what
motivated these people I think part of
it was anger part of it was I'm gonna do
the thing to be a staff of political
thousand doesn't want me to do and for
me what both to them from Trump was was
speaking to the anger and that's
something that Sanders can summon but
these other Democratic candidates aren't
really meaningfully summoning the idea
that you know what I want people to
blame and that's why he keep saying
millionaires and billionaires you know
he's naming some names he's saying stop
just there are Bezos he's saying all
these these these things that I think
are summoning kind of a passion and
anger that's sits out there you know
people are set up and either they're
going to vote with their anger or
they're gonna vote out of here I think
enough team I think you're right by the
way enough people would vote out of
and say you know we don't want you know
Trump this guy's like too much yeah
so you will get it to turn out this
legend I think even so Polly did beat
Trump yes but then there's gonna be I
think I've shown two people that are are
potentially gonna stay at home maybe not
in this election but in the next
election if it doesn't see my things are
changing if it doesn't seem like the
Democrats are trustworthy if all they
have to offer is we're not Republicans
you know it's not a very strong appeal
it's not a strong message and that's
something that that you know really
Hillary Clinton didn't motivate people
to vote it was Latino voters not showing
off those black voters not showing up it
wasn't just you know white working-class
voters switching over in a few swing
states there was more just the people
getting set up and just not wanting to
show up and who could really blame them
on a especially if you're you're working
8:00 to 6:00 on Election Day you have
kids at home you have all my stress you
don't even get the day off are you gonna
stand in line for an hour to vote for
someone who who doesn't inspire you yeah
it's a tough ask well right and that's
actually why I'm the best thing the
Democrats have actually done in the
house is introduce a really good voting
rights package which is essential and
shocking that morally and strategically
they haven't been pushing for decades
but you know that the yeah I mean I
think and again whether it's 25% of
Trump voters I might think it's 2 or 3%
frankly but that 2 or 3 percent is
geographically they're located in the in
the map that you need to win and I and
just you know and just to put a fine
point on it because I do think that this
distinction is arising and I've you know
my position for a long time and I don't
have to go in a minute has definitely
been look even even candidates that I
don't you know have any trust for at all
you know in terms of their commitment to
these things like beta O'Rourke or
Christian Gillibrand or whoever if
people coming on board for a
single-payer postal banking or whatever
that's great let's give them praise but
now we're in an election and now it's
like I think it's even important to
start in a you know collegial respectful
way because again I I do draw a red line
I do think it's Bernie dents and Warren
uh you know I think it's I think it's
Bernie on his own in terms of distinct
contribution but I do think it's Bern
and Warren verse the rest of the field
in the sense that Warren is clearly
infinitely preferable to I mean it goes
without saying Biden but certainly any
of the other you know centrist
center-right candidates
yeah what is the big gap between Bernie
and morn but I think there's a lovely
big if not bigger gap between Warren and
everyone else right I agree I think
that's exactly how I put it but what is
that distinction between this broader
strategic argument and just putting out
a lot of really good policy proposals
which is great and essential but it
feeds in my view the same kind of
failings of a certain belief and
technocracy versus power that's at least
how I'd frame it but what do you think
well I think that that Warren at heart
as a regulator right she wants a fair or
better capitalism she wants capitalism
where the rules are clear and it's not
rigged against working people Sanders I
think is more fundamentally questioning
the system right I think he's been a far
more resolute defender of Medicare for
all yep
I think in that that's probably the most
most radical part of his his program
just the way he wants to take on the
health insurance industry through a
full-frontal you know you know I thought
now looking at her response in Medicare
for all makes me worried that Warren
would would choose maybe the path of
preemptive compromise where Sanders will
at least try to tackle these interests
and name names a little bit more but
more importantly I think is the fact
that Sanders is actually galvanizing a
grassroots and millions of people in a
way that said Warren isn't so we have to
think about who just won't be the better
President to pass some policy over the
next four years or eight years we have
to think about who sent current the
opposition movement or the foundation of
a long-term opposition movement for 5 10
15 20 years so if your progressive if
your socialist
we have to be thinking about how do we
remake American politics and exposed to
20 years our job won't be done in 2020
it won't be done even in 2024 and it
seems to me that Sanders is one capable
of really galvanizing passions and you
know pushing in that direction you
I I mean that's precisely my take and I
also recommend always Megan des who I've
interviewed plenty of times and is
another great writer the Jacobin she
really put this very well recently the
book is the socialist manifesto the case
for radical politics and age of extreme
income in extreme inequality we didn't
even talk about the ecological collapse
that were the verge of I will say that
Bhaskar is also a regular on T MBS and
be talking with him again soon but
definitely buy this book get your
subscription to the Jacobin help forward
these visions these ideas and also you
know these movements Bhaskar thanks so
much for doing this yep that's great
thank you appreciate it take care
alright folks we're gonna take a brief
break and we're gonna become back with a
comedian by the name of David David
Feldman
you
welcome back to the majority report
casual Friday
Brookes here joining us now is the host
the illustrious host of the David
Feldman show he's also a comedy writer
stand-up comedian you've seen his work
in any number of television outlets he's
written for all sorts of people
including people that I make fun of on a
fairly consistent basis David Feldman
thanks for being here hi thank you so
much your doughnuts can you hear me I
can hear you very well I'm assuming that
Brent okay you guys you're DEA yeah yeah
hey hey so I just have to keep this
short because I'm doing sam cedars show
today so oh but you know until they call
me because I'm expecting a call from Sam
cedar so the minute he calls I have to
hang up but I love your you know I love
your show yeah you like the yeah that's
sort of a for effort kind of thing yeah
uh David you had a couple requests for
me before we came on you wanted to and
people are jonesing over this but I
guess we'll get to that later but you
had something that you wanted to say
about ben shapiro it's not true yeah I
mean I disagree with you know everything
he stands for right in principle in
principle yeah but in principle here's
the thing I watched the clip of his
walking off that BBC interview hmm and
you know I'm opposed to this man in
principle but I think he realized if you
watch during that interview he it dawns
on then that he's talking to somebody
from England and he walked off because
he didn't want to violate the Logan Act
so in other words okay okay so I'm
assuming because the Logan Act is in the
news because Donald Trump has accused
John Kerry of violating the Logan Act
and you think would actually happen is
that ben shapiro
is so you mean as the New York Times
called him the cool kids philosopher
he's so a kid intellectually that he
thought to himself wait a second
I'm BBC British government who funds it
that's a public brought a Logan act I
gotta get out of here it's violating of
the I think it's called a Logan Paul act
I don't know so so it wasn't any attempt
okay but if we won't get into the weeds
my words he wasn't having a temper
tantrum he was just trying to obey the
law there is a law on the book and I get
you know I don't want to come off as too
esoteric and cuz you know I know you're
a big-picture guy you know get into the
weeds on minutiae but it's actually
called the Logan Paul act and in elapid
outlaws YouTube celebrities from
trivializing suicide so wasn't Paul act
and you and and you know Ben is he
doesn't you know he does not want to
trivialize suicide the way Logan Paul
did it's against the law did you think
by the way I have a comedy where if I
could work for Logan Paul I would be so
happy he's the voice of the generation
oh thank you did you think when you were
coming up and showbusiness that one day
there would be a way to build like a
pundit profile for yourself not and not
just a pundit profile but upon the
profile is like a preeminent
conservative intellectual by like you
know humiliating 19 year olds and
college campuses and then getting some
clips up for the Internet did you I
wasn't paid that well I you know I used
to humiliate college co-eds when I was
in college but I didn't know you could
make money doing no no I never telling
them that they were stupid that you
could get clipped and get paid by
oligarchs to give talks yeah yeah I want
to get paid playing video games right
I'm looking into that did you see the ad
the Delta did they encouraging their
people not to Jew
a union because for their union dues
they could buy a game console I listen
you know that I am Pro Union in
principle right in principle but you
know the labor movement is only about
150 years old we have to go slowly on
this right so and Delta yes
theoretically uh in principle I would
love my stewardesses and my pilots to
have health care because you know I
don't want them to crash the plane in
principle I don't want them to crash the
plane but we have to be adults okay
so David I'm sensing a theme here with
this in principle and you know sort of
abstract goals versus concrete actions
and it's disturbing me because I thought
that you were a Bernie supporter but you
sound to me like you might be switching
sides here to someone like Biden or
Buddha cage no no no no oh you know come
on now
I love Bernie okay good I love Bernie in
principle right and you know me we think
you you know yes that my heart bleeds
when we talk about socialized medicine
and and the 60,000 Americans who die
each year because they're underinsured
you've seen my eyes well up you know I
care you know that that but right now we
need to put everything on the back
burner and defeat Trump now now is not
the time to worry about the 33 percent
of American children who are food
insecure or that we had only 11 years
before the planet is destroyed we have a
constitutional crisis and those only
come around every three years this is
this is a constitutional crisis because
we have we have to stop everything
to figure out what the subpoena power is
of the House Judiciary Committee because
it's Jerry Nadler cannot have Muller
testified before the House Judiciary
Committee we everything will fall apart
the whole world will come crashing down
you have to be adults right and put
everything on the back burner and focus
on defeating Trump not impeachment just
defeating Trump well and then we can
folk focus on the important stuff right
now well naturally I mean I think that
you're reflecting the you know certainly
that sounds like the opinion of most of
the Democratic leadership but I I'm I'm
confused by this David and you know I
think we have a little bit of a
different perspective on this but I'm
I'm genuinely confused because I'm you
know I'm totally we have to defeat Trump
and also make sure that the food supply
stays on earth and you know and those
33% of children that are food insecure
we need to take care of immediately we
can't backburner it yet so that's why
I'm voting for Sanders but that being
said I know I don't can't win I don't
interrupt you can we get to that can we
get to that in a second though I
obviously anybody with you
but I want to talk about why why can't
Congress and I'm serious David because I
I don't spend any time talking about
molar or any of this stuff but it seems
to me that regardless of what you think
of the Russia or blah-blah-blah that
Donald Trump has broken the law
repeatedly minuchin is ignoring Congress
Barr is ignoring Congress why if this
and this actually is a problem why can't
they impeach him today instead of all of
these telephone games that they're
playing all the time what explain that -
okay okay first of all first of all you
know we're on the same team right so
we're not going to do with the circular
fire okay why here because you know the
last thing we want is the Democratic
Party to hive us into separate little
groups and not show up on Election Day
to defeat Trump so let me just say up
front and my eyes are welling up right
now and you know that I've had a lot of
tragedy in my life so and even though so
we're on the same thing right hey yes
okay and again I love Bernie and I you
know I believe in everything this man
stands for in principle so let me talk
about why you can impeach okay okay why
can't real case you can't impeach
because we're a nation of laws and we
and and the American people need to be
taught a lesson that nobody is above the
law that's why we can't impeach that's
why well you know that's why Lori
Loughlin and Felicity Huffman are going
to prison not that their crimes were
that bad but we have to set an example
of remind the Americans that everybody
has to play by the rules including
Congress and I you know tom has to go he
has to be defeated by the American
people but the Democrats have to play by
the rules and the rules are Democrats
don't do anything until or would you
obey the rules so the rules are demo is
that what Elijah Cummings meant
congressman Elijah Cummings when he said
the American people need to wake up and
he think he said that yesterday and and
some of us were a little bit like I
thought didn't we give the Democrats
Congress congressman yes to be reminded
of what makes America great she's
impossible in principle but to actually
go through an impeachment that will
alienate the vast swathes of Americans
who don't think impeachment is right
right we have to worry more about what
what the clouds think but the mob thinks
and the rule of law would you know this
just like I don't mean to get esoteric
and in the weeds with you guys you know
I know you're a big you're a big picture
guy and what they call I'm an ideas man
really yeah like to talk about people I
talk about ideas
yes and believe me no I would like to
take Donald Trump out into the you know
back behind the schoolyard and you know
punch him blame me right
I would like to I'd like to knock him
out but no you know where you gotta be
adults you gotta be adults so why I
every poll suggests that Bernie Sanders
one of the most popular politicians in
the country and that he runs well
head-to-head with Donald Trump I went to
I wouldn't necessarily put too much
weight into any poll at this time but I
will he's one of the only people in
American politics that has stayed
steadily positive with a lot of exposure
and you know the the sights of the
Democratic establishment the Republicans
all reining in on him why do you think
he's unelectable well I think he's
clearly unelectable the polls I think I
mean go to his rallies okay have you
been to any of his rallies yes yeah
we're trying to you can't win unless you
get those white workingman male
Democratic moderates right
you can't win an election without them
and if you go to a burning rallies
weren't threatening to ordinary
Americans but the crowds are way too big
they're very boisterous enthusiastic
yeah you know I mean did you see Bernie
at the Town Hall on Fox News if that
wasn't a reason not to vote for him
because he he does something to an
audience he he won over the the townhall
the Fox News townhall and that's very
threatening to Democrats like me who
live on the Upper East Side of Manhattan
and you cannot win an election without
appealing to us right he is it's almost
demagogic the way he tells people not
only what they want to hear but what
they actually need right you can't win
an election by appealing to the
Americans
people's actual needs that's not what
Democrats do and we have to obey the
laws there are laws Democrats this are
nostalgic that's all right so in other
words if you're making like say you're
making under forty thousand dollars a
year and maybe you're working two jobs
maybe right to lose a job and you're in
Pennsylvania I don't I know I know right
you wouldn't want to hear about that but
maybe that person but who knows maybe
they maybe maybe the preoccupies a
people like that I think there's a lot
of yeah I think I think even if you
walked even to this day with all the
gentrification you could you could walk
I don't know 20 30 blocks up from where
you are and find some people really
catching a lot of Hell on the upper
Upper East Side okay so just help me out
it is on a details guy you know I talked
to Rob Reiner a lot and I don't want to
ward my relationship with Rob Reiner
because we really get into policy when
you learn 14,000 a year working two jobs
right that that doesn't qualify as
middle-class as I understand it right
well I think you actually I think you
might I don't know what the what the
number is but I I know that the the
official government numbers on a lot of
these things are actually not very
generous so I don't know well all I know
is officially puts you Joe okay you're
going for okay so why do you think that
Joe Biden cuz again I noticed with the
taking Donald Trump behind the school
that was a Joe Biden line so clearly
you've been imbibing Biden why do you
think Joe Biden is the right way to go
what makes him the most electable
because he's middle-class right and you
can't win the election without appealing
to the middle class and you know bernie
is focusing on you know the lower
classes and that's not what the
Democratic Party is about we're about
the middle class not the 150 million
Americans who can't scrape up five
hundred dollars in case of an emergency
you know I
I get that 150 million Americans nearly
half this country can't find $500
without going into debt that's not who
we're going after going after the middle
class eventually you know I'm concerned
and look I don't know if you this is you
know this is the phone but my eyes are
welling up right right now when I think
about those people and I've had a lot of
tragedy you know in my life you know
that right absolutely I can relate pain
and suffering you know that I can relate
to pain and suffering like my son is my
son fell in love with a widow in life
anyway I don't know why Wiggins I said I
relate to pain and suffering and but I'm
middle-class right I I'm you know I made
a lot of money but on middle-class am I
thinking and it's incremental ISM we'll
work our way down let's just start with
focusing on the middle class and then
we'll work our way down to starving
children in America sure let's do it
incrementally and that's what I love
about Joe Biden he's he's an adult he's
definitely an I mean certainly an adult
I when you think so okay so I think we
just have a disagreement about what we
need to take care of and how fast we
need to take care of things but you said
earlier and even the middle class
because you know it's not me it's Rob
Reiner so Rob tell tell Rob Reiner about
the barbel economy but but I look I
don't want to get into the wheels bar
it's the idea that it's all and it's
probably not even a great image because
there's way more in the bottom obviously
than at the top but the idea is that the
weight is on the top is on two sides and
the middle is there's nothing in the
middle the middle is just a bar what's
the hockey stick
no no that's a climate change like the
hockey well that's that's what I was
gonna ask you because you yourself said
earlier that we might have 11 years to
keep the earth inhabitable for people
frankly your son and and I don't know
how old the widow is but Joe Biden
apparently is announcing a centrist plan
on the climate does that really sound
like something that's gonna keep the
earth unless you have to reach across
the aisle and negotiate with carbon
dioxide otherwise it's not gonna work
with you and and and and Joe Biden has a
history of reasoning right with climate
change have we defeated Hitler I mean
yeah I don't I know you know you lose
the argument you bring up it but we
defeated Hitler we sat down with him and
said we're reaching across the aisle you
know kill six million and stop there
that's you negotiate it's all a numbers
game
that's what Joe will do so Joe I think
was Joe Biden was president in the 30s
he would have he would have offered the
six million deal for Hitler he wouldn't
he would have gone in low and Rob Reider
said yeah and he would have said it was
a decent guy right that's all you know
that's the key to all of it was Hillary
little brown and Hitler was middle class
very lose why and it's thinking right
but don't get me started on that because
they have you know you just had a guest
on I don't know you know about socialism
hill there was a socialist you know and
it's in the name Nazi russian acronym I
don't want to get too smart for you
because I'm lowering my supreme
intellectual knowledge over you but I
was watching ladder with Crowder and he
talked he told me that not seem mean
mean socialism right so he was a
socialist well I can't I can't
with that I don't have so okay so just
listen let me I don't mean to be a bully
because I'm trying to bring everybody
into the tent right right and in prison
I I'm welcoming and I'm not being
likable here very like being likable
very I would say bit like my okay yep
thank you and you know I've had tragedy
in year after year just I've been
incredibly unlucky if you look at my
biography right one tragedy after
another and I've never won an election
other than senator from Delaware but I'm
gonna bring all my good luck to America
that's what I want to do is bring all my
good luck that I've had in my life to
America if I'm a lucky guy
and I think luck rubs off on a nation
like Rob Reiner that's what Rob Reiner
told me and he cares Rob Reiner and and
he directed the ghosts of Mississippi
did you see ghosts in Mississippi
I was very powerful right well I think I
saw some of it on TNT before I was
trying to find a basketball game yes
yeah that is a movie let me just say
something to you young people Rob Reiner
directed ghosts of Mississippi and that
is a movie about I I don't know who the
black guy was but it was something about
voting in the South right trying to get
into his house anyway it's like it
really it really taught me the
importance of you know black people have
to something with them it was I you know
I'm nervous I can't remember what those
two big I know it was about a black guy
and Alec Baldwin was back then and the
use of words civil rights in principle
civil rights yes and you know we you
know why we have civil rights in this
country why we went slowly on it
right well that was whatever that was
whatever okay was about seventeen and
also reaching out to the middle class
that was why he was in Tennessee to
organize the middle class he was in
Tennessee two or Ammar a middle class
March
yeah the garbage strike yeah the well
yeah the rally to restore sanity was
yeah after kids don't easy silly when
and what I love is a comedy writers
Martin Luther King dr. Martin Luther
King said incremental ISM is a sin and
as a comedy writer I appreciate his
sarcasm he said incrementalism is a sin
I've got this guy yeah yawning wit than
comedy he's got it like he he wouldn't
kill that the White House Correspondents
Dinner with that kind of stuff
[Laughter]
everybody's here to that Dana Bash is
here BuzzFeed was here but Facebook
changed the algorithm on of no I'm just
kidding how's everybody doing all right
well you know what recommendations for
us David yeah everything by Rob Reiner
direct let me tell you something when it
comes to how to living your how to live
your life here's a general rule of thumb
yes always ask first what we Rob writers
that's the key hooks to life Rob Reiner
yes the Rob Reiner are proof of this I
don't know voting I know
right here Jesus Christ really had the
perfect running mate I don't know who I
think the perfect running mate for
provider Rob yeah I'm sorry Rob Reider
as I wish but now you know he's got to
make more great movies right
who's the bucket list all right this
should be mine is there any way well I
kind of wish maybe we can get like a
Kickstarter campaign that raises about a
million dollars for me she moved to Los
Angeles and Lobby Rob Reiner to run for
president if we can get a million
dollars I could you know set up a 501c3
and pay my kids a salary I would think
one of the things I like about your
podcast is you really do have a very
detailed understanding of how modern
politics works and I think you're
demonstrating that in your Kickstarter I
don't know what well I think you know I
think Kickstarter but anyway I think you
should have linked to the right David I
think you I think you could be
headlining CPAC we are I thought you're
much funnier than Dennis Miller and
Tonto might understand we are references
are I hate those people
in principle I they sicken me and you
lose you saw me I was at the Javits
Center when when Hilary lost you think
pictures of me saying I couldn't get out
of bed can get out of bed for five days
I couldn't get out of bed for five days
with Hillary was and and I lead with
that at parties people have to know up
front that I hate Donald Trump of course
everybody needs to know that I hate
Donald Trump but that's Hawaii it's a
real differentiator because there's a
lot of people that are like it's a real
differentiator because in you know in
journalists and entertainment and comedy
circles in Manhattan as an example you
run into a lot of people that like
Donald Trump
yeah I hate him just know he hate him oh
oh I always lead with that especially in
Hollywood you know when I'm with Rob
Reiner I just go to his cocktail parties
they don't get David started on Donald I
am and then people like me and then I
you know and then I have to remind
people that we have a constitutional
crisis right and these these things only
happen every six months right
but the somehow we can't do anything
about it because Democrats are
constitutionally mandated to do nothing
because we gotta win to do nothing no
you're taking you're twisting my words
to remind us of how great things were
once upon a time and that we're better
than this that's the role of Democratic
tell us who we are
when there's a shooting anybody can
outlaw guns when you're the President
signed an executive order you know
taking a waiting an hour you Obama could
have taken away the NRA tax-exempt
status but he did something more
important when that church was shot up
he said that's not who we are
and then he sang amazing grace bet there
are the most devastating parts of a
Feldman bit or what it's like yes that's
literally exactly what happens yes
[Laughter]
anyway here's who I think Joe's running
mate oh good Zoey okay yes and you know
and this is this is by being an adult
okay yes please
you know how you know listen jill has a
woman problem he's not he's not perfect
right sure so who should is running my
pit yeah
okay hear me out okay mayor Pete now
I would this solve this woman problem
he's gay
did you know that mayor Pete is gay I
knew that he's gay and I know that he's
a gentrify er Anna Anna and a military
guy those that's what I know about mayor
Pete and he gets it yeah he's gay okay
so this gay did you know that he's gay
yes I did know that yes okay okay okay
you know and I agree with you I have a
lot of problems as mayor Pete I rob
reiner is furious at him for the you
know what went on in South Bend it was
something with a african-american police
chief that he fired something something
something something black people being
well rounded up by it's a ghost of
Mississippi Singh robbed she'd rent the
movie I know I'm sorry but you know he's
got a problem with the black people and
believe me you know a mayor running a
city you know and by the way that's a
lot of responsibility to be running the
fourth largest city in Indiana and that
is he's up against a lot so yeah
whatever something with the black area a
mayor from Florida who runs a city
that's bigger than mayor Pete who
nobody's paying any attention to I don't
even know the guy isn't he gay he's a
block of did gay he's an
african-american man he's black
oh so the hell he did he go slowly right
things well I think unfortunately he put
I think the problem with him is that he
supports fully abolishing ice so you
guys might not be as excited that
doesn't sound very middle-class I guess
oh I hate ice I live in I stay with Rob
Reiner oh I hate I hate what they're
doing to rob writers cleaning people I
hate them
those Rob Reider this Rob Reider have a
poster welcoming refugees that he shows
to the people they're clean and and
maintain his home red flower well
healthy undocumented workers who work
for him I've been there he said do not
talk to ice will be violating the Logan
Act you cannot talk to foreigners it's a
violation of the Logan s and you know
they're going around you know I stay
with Rob Reiner when I'm in in Hollywood
much my landlord my relationship but you
know he's got seven undocumented workers
working for him and we're terrified that
they're gonna get rounded up for ice so
what we did on Wednesday was we got them
an uber big uber and took them
responsible just on Wednesday you want
to make sure because because maybe what
maybe what some people don't know I
don't know if you know but the uber and
lyft drivers were striking because the
companies have them in an indentured
servitude system and they can't make a
living and so they're asking people not
to use the services on Wednesday
afternoon and that was the time that you
and Rob chose to send his undocumented
cleaning people away from its own little
vein I sit over is that do I understand
you correctly I what you're talking
about
you saying uber that's right sharing you
have a car it's capital that's like uber
socialism you of all people should know
that
Uber's its ride-sharing rabbert well I
do remember I think that was that was
the oh that was the first branding for
these services in about like two
thousand thirteen and fourteen yes as a
socialist I can't believe you're putting
down uber I have a car you need to go
somewhere I'll share my car with you
it's beautiful
Airbnb I'm gonna share my home with you
what why would you make fun of
well I think I'm making fun of it
because I think the the the execution is
different than the sales pitch so you're
going through an app are you yeah I
don't know you lost me at execution I'm
against capital punishment and rinsable
what no no I'm against capital
punishment I believe all right fair
enough
let me ask you a question that uber
though yes it over so bad as you say it
is why is Arianna Huffington on the
board of directors Arianna you know who
Arianna I do I mean you do know that
there was a lot of controversy at
huffington post about like you know not
paying people for blog posts maybe some
not great labor practices there it's
work sharing i believe when people were
fired at huffington post i think they
were I think it was that they were
disengaged as well it was what they
called it disengaged
I think they weren't getting enough
sleep and I think you've been reading
Ariana's Erica the sleep revolution I
think that Arianna came back to The
Huffington Post she looked around and
said you know what you have badge
underneath your eyes you need more sleep
you're fired
go home and sleep hopefully you'll be
you'll be depressed
you should go into depression so you'll
just stay in bed all day and that's the
best thing for your house is just to be
depressed in mobile have no money
almost like disappear fall through the
cracks so you can just focus on your
sleep that's what Arianna was trying to
do for them what so was absolutely I
said it was out to istic David you're
you're right we only have like a minute
left or so but I just say
horrible person you were you were like
every single evil tendency of the modern
media and democratic party and corporate
practice you are embody from Rob Reiner
to uber I mean Jesus your hotel you know
widened sorry is this a sarcasm thing
what you're doing no I'm not are you
really doing that more I'm not
sophisticated enough to do sarcasm I
just I speak from the gun you really
think I'm a horrible person middle class
I mean David I'm sorry just this is just
this is just horrible it is it's
horrible
but I hate Trump how can I be horrible
if I hate Trump and and you know I talk
really loud at Starbucks about the
constitutional crisis and pound the
table and I want to punch a hateful box
right you want to hit him I want to
punch him take a math behind the
schoolyard and punch him first thing I
open with is I hate raw bunch of
absolutely horrible people who think
that yeah recognizing that Donald Trump
is a horrible human being is some type
of exemplary behavior no I just got it
say to people please I I don't listen to
many podcasts but I really I listened to
your podcast almost every episode it's
great and then the commentaries even the
bit on uber I mean I know that you just
did
this really smart in sight like this
history of the rideshare scam you do you
do a commentary than you I mean what
other show are you gonna have been
Burgess and then Jackie the joke man
Martin Lee not that's why no we're at it
I love you man I love you to him and San
here the best but Ben Burgess has really
turned me on to Marxism yeah I owe you
for that so thank you and you know we're
all of us together in all seriousness
I'm ENGLISH that you know we're all part
of the same fabric of the universe and
I've learned that because you've allowed
Ben Burgess to come on and my show and
teach me about Marxism Sam I ask you for
a favor sure don't take this the wrong
way
I need exclusivity with Ben's you can
only do my show
III think pushing Marxism is a zero-sum
game right there are winners and losers
and I'm poaching your Marxist professor
because I want to be the number one
purveyor of Marxism on the Internet
I think I can win this way well I
support that in principle thank you
David Feldman ladies I love you hello
much you know I love your show I want
sansho and I love your show and I love
when you like talk to Professor Richard
Wolff and go so what's the deal with
your dad you ever ticket with them you
still get along with you day I love how
you probe into their personal life
skiffins talk about the struggles
bit guy Richard Wolffe on I go like you
study out the share but who are you guys
who you guys landing man I tried to read
Lennon once after a terrible breakup I
love you David I love you
what's a copy of course I'll text you
okay all right bye
the great seriously I I am a big fan of
David
and podcast he's so funny and he's also
like he's you know he's there there's a
similarity with Sam in the sense that
but I guess Sam is like basically you
know at this point more commentator
journalist than comedian but like David
maybe you know David's maybe still a
little bit more comedian but he is he is
a you will he will do 20 minutes on
stock buyback policy as well guy is
highly policy fluent in addition to
being so funny all right we don't have
that much time left so we're going to
get to the fun half and we are gonna
we're definitely gonna get to this bench
bureau clip we're gonna get to Bernie
talking about this great new bill that
he just unveiled with AOC a little bit
of an interview with Lula and we'll take
some IMS but I have a feeling we'll
probably spend a lot of time on this Ben
Shapiro thing become a member to the
majority reported a majority dot F M
slash become a member that's how the
show happens check out the anti Fattah
on patreon Matt what's going on with
literary hangover the Song of Hiawatha
by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow will be
out tomorrow go to patreon.com/scishow
and coming in studio and also Michael
Brooks show on YouTube we'll see in the
fun half all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
are alpha males
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg banner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough with a break that's I do not have
more consistent and the alpha males
Oh
[Music]
bang
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black males
Oh
black doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expenditure for the
alpha males of black black alpha males
are
companies to pay the price around here
welcome to the fun half alright Ben
Shapiro has the reputation of being a
great intellectual now I'll say that I
am actually dealing with his new book
because I have to write a chapter about
him for my book and one of the themes in
my book is that this is this whole
modern right wing sort of frame and IDW
is a massive fight against historicity
in general and while you know obviously
sam harris is structurally a historical
and jordan Peterson has his you know
mythology over history kind of thing I
would argue ben shapiro does like i
don't even know it's like nineteen
fifties Reader's Digest sort of cartoon
I guess it's like I don't know if I can
if like a seventh grader watched like
Red Dawn or something and and got like a
quotable book of yacek sino I know if he
was read um Downes if he didn't start as
a teenager and instead was just like a
40 year old national review editor with
his exact same opinions he'd be utterly
unremarkable well and I think a lot of
people think that you know Jonah
Goldberg sort of had a reputation of
being a you know not bright guy but a
guy who you know had pretensions of
intellect but was sort of broadly
understood to be you know a nepotism
case with a very limited capacity so
here is Ben Shapiro he's talking to
Andrew Neil now Andrew Neil is a quite
right-wing figure in a British context I
believe he's the editor of The Spectator
do something Harriman of this bad
chairman spectator spectators right-wing
yeah but don't blame him for The
Spectator writing puff pieces about
Golden Dawn for instance um because he's
not editorial control yeah that's what
he said
oh and Jones went after him for that and
Andrew Neal's like I don't like
don't put that on me I'm the only the
chairman of the home magazine
sure okay uh but you know he's so yes a
man of the right but he's able to do I
mean this is just a British interview
they interviewed any of us they would go
like you say you support socialism
however socialism has killed millions so
you want people to die but ben shapiro
rose in his bag he's triggered he's in
his feelings and this is and he's also
just what a whiny little thing let's
check this out it is intellectual
intellectual sneering of the highest
order to suggest that only the left has
new and decent ideas some of the ideas
that are popular in your side of
politics would seem to take us back to
the dark ages georgia
knew abortion laws which you are much in
favor of that a woman who miscarries
could get thirty years a georgian woman
who travels to another state for an
abortion procedure could get ten years
these are extreme hard policies well
okay a couple of things one i'm not sure
i mean frankly i don't know whether
you're sitting are you an objective
journalist are you an opinion journalist
i'm gonna listen ask questions okay so
you're gonna you're a supposedly
objective journalist calling policies
with which you disagree barbaric is
working on the side of the political i
do will just remind you that we
highlighted a case a couple days ago of
an 11 year old rape victim who is
pregnant and as that law is currently
written could be forced to carry that
baby to term i don't know what other
word you would reserve barbarism for let
alone imprisoning women for you know
exercising control over their health I
mean to say the least but you know so
you know but been again he's getting
very triggered and freaked out by this
and this is just so interesting I mean
this is an entire brand that was built
off of going to a college campus and you
know superficially through word tricks
and gamesmanship
eviscerating some 18 year old who asked
him a question and he can't even deal
with one just sort of basic round of
British questioning which anybody who
has any I mean it's kind of stunning
that that vege bureau has this little
exposure to British media as it seems to
you know appear but anyways go ahead the
abortion one will continue but this is
the beginning of a prolonged tantrum
barbaric and acting only one side of the
political aisle knows ideas so I just
want to point out there I know we should
at least be honest in your own bias this
is everything in America is now so
polarized that in one program you only
have the left and another one you just
have the right my job is to question
those who have strong views and put an
alternative to them if you are an
antigen person I would be cluding
pro-abortion questions to you but you
are really my question sir sir I'm happy
to answer your question please answer
this one would you suggest would you
suggest that a late-term abortion is
brutal I'm not taking your question I
want to pause it here and bring in our
friend Tim bond toast
yeah his section from this Dave Rubin
Dave Reubens battle of ideas part 3
explains exactly the little move that
Ben Shapiro does called the
motte-and-bailey this is real analyzing
the thing Stephan says is a fallacy
called the motte-and-bailey
the phrase motte-and-bailey comes from
medieval castles which had a particular
structure a gated courtyard area outside
the Bailey where the main settlements
were and then a heavily fortified stone
keep high up on the hill
the Motte where everyone would retreat
to when hostile forces approached the
Bailey is vulnerable open to attack but
the Motte is safe unassailable the
motte-and-bailey fallacy revolves around
trying to defend a controversial
position Bailey by defending a loosely
connected common sense assertion which
is impossible to argue against a Motte
an example of this would be if I said
that women don't belong in the workplace
and then when US to defend my position I
said you can't deny that there are
biological differences between
and women you can see how the two
concepts so you see that's exactly what
he's doing
pivoting from this build to the specific
question of late-term abortion now I
don't know how he's defining late term
abortion but we do know that quote
unquote late term abortions in terms of
you know like the babies about to be due
are performed only in instances where
the mother's life is at risk period and
we also know that Donald Trump and
others are running around the country
just lying about killing babies after
they're born so I don't know what kind
of spin Shapiro is trying to do on this
but he did a menthe Bailey and he's also
being disingenuous about what that
actually means and I also would like to
say you know in terms of the sacredness
of life
well well we'll get to what Ben Shapiro
said about Trayvon Martin after the rest
of this clip you suggest that a late
term abortion is brutal I'm not taking
any more questions sir you just
suggested the pro-life position is
inherently brutal and terrible so I'm
asking you as an objective journalist
would you ask the same questions of a
pro-choice advocate by calling for
action brutal and I'm asking you is that
why is it that a bill banning abortions
after a woman has been pregnant for six
weeks is not a return to the dark ages
what's your answer my answer is
something called science human life
exists at conception it ought to be
protected now back to my question to you
you purport to be an objective
journalist BBC purports to be an
objective down the middle Network
it obviously is not it never has been
and you as a journalist are proceeding
to call one side of the political aisle
ignorant barbaric and sending us back to
the dark ages why don't you just say
that you're on the left is so hard for
you why can't you be honest this is it's
a serious question mr. Shapiro if you
only knew how ridiculous that statement
is you wouldn't have said it so let's
move on I love the love cuz it's like
Ben Shapiro has built this whole like
ludicrous sad brand of like you know
this sort of like faux you know this
ridiculous posture sophistication and
he's he
having an exchange with basically what
he's sort of indirectly molded his whole
this whole dumb persona off of I mean
I'm sure you know he's studied the
Buckley tapes and everything even though
he has none of that kind of fluidity but
like this is what it all comes back to
it comes back to sort of like hi Tori
sort of like this stain
and he's on the receiving end of it and
he doesn't even know he's talking to he
thinks Andrew Neil is like labour or
something I mean that this is this is
genuinely mind-blowing that this guy has
a brand is intellectual I just like to
remind everybody I mean I guess you know
and I think this is true clearly for a
lot of these people that when they're
done and obviously is really about
controlling women's lives and autonomy
and bodies but even if we were to
stipulate and we never should but I will
for this specific instance that there's
a concern about babies I don't know when
that concern stops but if you remember
several years ago in 2013 there was an
innocent teenager who was killed by
George Zimmerman named Trayvon Martin
and a bench bureau said in reality
Trayvon Martin was a fully grown man
with a history of violence he got into a
fight with a Hispanic man George
Zimmerman under disputed circumstances
then was shot in the chest while beating
Zimmerman's head into the pavement so he
took of course Zimmerman's and his
lawyers account at face value we do know
that remember men a very disturbed
person was following and stalking
I believe Trayvon was only 13 years old
and this child ended up murdered and
then as Hassan says Ben Hitler
could have been rehabilitated but
Trayvon Martin had it coming Shapiro so
after this just after embarrassing
himself by throwing that tantrum and
asserting that he was talking to some
type of anti conservative journalist the
interview went on until and we're
cutting something that the whole eight
thing eight minutes is pretty funny and
revealing but four thing is actually
16:16 okay this is the last is the last
this is when we finally have our this is
when the this is when the how dare you
sir you know Reid one of Ben's thriller
novels to really show
because he had to he had to show what it
was sirs are really flying the sirs are
flying as you say in your book you say
that there's a credit keyphrase we are
so angry at each other right now but as
I say aren't you part of that anger
aren't you encouraging that anger for
example you just you described mr.
Obama's State of the Union address in
2012 as fascist mentality in action well
I think that if you are well if you want
to argue with the characterization and
then we can talk about what exactly his
State of the Union address said is it
charged language in politics sure the
problem that I have is not with charge
language in politics which I'm generally
in favor of I like a robust public
debate and very loud and and spirited
public debate I have no problem with
that whatsoever
what I'm talking about is the assumption
that people with whom we disagree
politically are inherently of bad
character or in your words wants to
bring us back to the dark ages but again
it was your description of the State of
the Union address in 2012 as fascist the
wording of the president Trump's 2012
address was he so far bad and wrong
that's over the plenty of things are bad
in Rome but it doesn't make them fascist
well I suppose that's true
but if you would like to get if you'd
like to read me one out loud ah that was
logic Andrew Neil just gave them a
little a plus B there you'd like to read
me the column out loud I suppose I can
critique it for you oh well again with
mr. Obama
you said June and you're Jewish yourself
I only mentioned that because food is in
context the Jews who vote for Obama are
by and large Jews and name only journals
you call them my statement was based on
the fact that Jews in the United States
as an ethnic group are largely
irreligious which is true by every
single poll Jews of the most irreligious
group in the United States as an
Orthodox Jew who actually takes Judaism
seriously the point that I'm making is
that most Jews who are ethnically Jewish
are not religiously Jewish in any
context no no no the point you were
making is that Jews who vote for Obama
are Jews and named only I said I said
that yes that is correct the Jews who
voted for Barack Obama a progenitor of
the Iran deal a person who was
cracking down on religious liberty a
person who spent much of his career as
president of the United States
attempting to deprive Israel of the
necessities to defend itself was it that
I'm sorry I mean there's just a few
things in this torrent of lies and
 okay unprecedented funding for
Iron Dome as an example right a hood
Barack said that no other president had
done more in terms of security
cooperation than Barack Obama and those
of us who actually care about
Palestinian civil rights and
self-determination were appalled by the
Obama administration's endless support
of Israel no matter what they did
including at two different times during
the transition in oh nine and then back
and then in 2014
such ferocious bombardments on Gaza that
even in 2014 joe scarborough questioned
as an example when Israel bombed the UN
school so you know again crackdowns on
religious liberties and all this I mean
he's talking about pharmacies needing to
be able to give woman the day after pill
okay so he's been you know using this
maudlin melodramatic disingenuous
language but at some point we need to
inject a little bit of reality also the
Iran deal supported by sane people in
Israel like a hood Olmert and the
intelligence and members or former
members of the intelligence and military
apparatus go ahead the necessities to
defend itself that that people Jews who
voted for President Obama by and large
cared about Judaism far less than they
did about other priorities did you said
they should return their badge in as a
Jew yes I believe that if you are a
believer are somebody who takes Judaism
seriously that comes along with
ideological ideological commitment I
mean I guess also I'm just I mean I mean
I hope you're having fun by the way
going through every old tweet that I've
ever sent to try and do gotcha questions
but if you'd like to discussion about
philosophy or things I've done and say I
don't know
that's 2012 so it's now 2019 if you'd
like to discuss something I've done and
say like past five years why don't we do
that a little because your book is a
criticism of how angry America's and how
America has to do better and I have an
entire list on my website sir-sir
website some of the things you've said
that seem to me to help to stoke that
anger for example you said sure
Israelis like to build Arabs like to
bomb crap and live in open sewage well
as I say in an article entitled here's a
list of all the giant bad dumb things
I've ever said was that but yes that's a
dumb tweet and not only a but it is also
important to mention that the next few
tweets clarified that sweet is
specifically referring to the komali der
ship which by the way a BBC I've seen is
relatively reticent to condemn no I'd
say it wasn't what you went on to do and
say but it is beautiful the way because
he took some dumb you know and of course
the BBC condemns actions by help us the
BBC's quite moderate it just
acknowledges international law an
example in Israel Palestine but I just
love that Andrew Neil does not even feel
the need to go down with go chase that
dumb little chestnut just like okay well
it's back to actually what you were
saying you can see the dishonesty in
Shapiro and that tactic there because he
he talks about you know he characterizes
the subsequent tweets as if they're as
if they basically make that tweet not
dumb right and and then moves on to make
an assertion about the BBC that he
thinks Neil is gonna follow up instead
of that but Neil impressively stays on
the stays on the trail that the next few
tweets clarified that suite is
specifically referring to the Hamas
leadership which by the way a BBC I've
seen is relatively reticent to condemn
no actually it wasn't what you went on
to do and say you are correct about the
slurring are Arabs is not all Arabs that
want to live in open sewage and blow
things up is just Palestinians even want
to say holiday no it's Italian
population is rotten to the core you
went on to say not her message that the
Arab population I say that by poll
numbers they elected Hamas they elected
Hamas they educate their children wait I
thought you weren't saying that so now
we're gonna justify saying that with the
usual litany here yeah it's interesting
poll numbers to talk about the Hamas
leadership wait
wait and I thought you were
disaggregating from Hamas from the
regular Palestinians but now because
they voted for Hamas maybe they all are
actually bad
ergo maybe the tweet isn't a problem
what are we saying here Ben hmm
Arab population I say that by poll
numbers they elected Hamas they elected
Hamas they educate their children's in
school that Israel should be obliterated
sir I guess if you want to you know
honestly son this is a giant waste of
time in the sense that the entire
interview is designed for you to shout
slogans or old things that I've said at
me I don't see how this works the debate
you talk about you talk about
undermining the public discourse it
seems to me it's simply going through
and finding lone things that sound bad
out of context and then hitting them
with and then hitting people with them
is a way for you to make a quick buck on
BBC off the fact that I'm popular and no
one has ever heard of you there are not
many bucks of the middle of the BBC
unlike American Broadcasting mr. Shapiro
I get the point
try to make is that your words are
highly designed to produce the consensus
and understanding that the book seems to
want to produce that's my point that you
write about you know judeo-christian
culture and so on but so much of what
you said in the past would seem to turn
its back on judeo-christian culture
you're lecturing me on judeo-christian
culture after you call the pro-life
position barbaric I just really request
all he does is a vision I asked you a
question you failed to answer a single
one of mine being a waste of time if you
want to read the book and critique the
book why don't you read and critique the
book if you want to read if you want to
critique me you can think whatever you
want to give a damn what you and I've
never heard of you until I brief myself
of this but that's not the issue
it's an interesting book but my point is
your book claims from time to time your
book is well I do I've done so several
times and I'm about to do so again if
you would let me just finish the
question turning on judeo-christian
values what are the values it's turning
its back on I you know I'm
klein to continue an interview with a
person is badly motivated as you as an
interviewer so i think we're done here i
appreciate your time all right well we
thank you for your time and for showing
that anger is not part of american Oh
and doesn't like it when context isn't
provided certain tweets and things like
that man oh it's gonna be the era of the
pajama boy is ovid word and if he's your
intellectual leader you should be
 embarrass the cool kids
philosophers little kids philosopher
keeping all those cool kids you know
what's so funny is I'm not even like I'm
sure it would be unpleasant but it's
like so tightly if I I get to be
interviewed by Andrew Neil for my book
and he's like telling me like 2013 you
said that Sam Harris you know had less
brains than Zoolander but equally less
charm than Neville Chamberlain what do
you say that I would be like I would be
like you know made that quote up but
that's awesome I wish I said that can we
extend this interview to grill V for
another ten minutes sir is this just a
highlight reel that's a fun thing about
being like when we're really nasty on
Twitter it still like fascist right
exactly it's the bad people it's to bad
people that's beautiful watch all of it
and tweet follow up questions to ban
respect oh yeah cordially Ben's actually
hold on let me bring Ben Shapiro's
Twitter feed because he's been tweeting
about this is he's pretty triggered yeah
so basically he said you know he was
under prepared for going on to the onto
the show okay I mean I would say yeah
just about in general under preparing
god whoever this other point he said
that he walked out of Breitbart out of
principle and I mean I guess sure oh
yeah
be my guess is that I think that more of
my interpretation would be yeah well
here's what Ben said af Neel destroys
ben shapiro so that's what it feels like
winky face broke my own rule and wasn't
properly prepared i've addressed every
single issue he raised before c blow no
that's not true as as neoplasia that's
why he was talking to you hell it's Neal
Y inch barrows air and then let's see
what else I think he said something else
yeah yeah I can't find the other one but
now whatever bench bureau's a bad person
respectfully follow up with him you're
calling from a 509 area code who are you
where you calling from as a phone up 509
are you there no I'm not it's got it's
getting no life 509 509 509 no all right
try back you're calling from a 408 area
code who are you where you're calling
from 408 was this a problem on our end
hello 408 the meter the levels
everything seems totally fine here hello
408 are you there alright alright I'll
uh I'll try one more and then if not
I'll I'll call back into the system
you're calling from a four one six area
code who are you where you calling from
hello you guys hear me yeah I can hear
you what's your name where you're
calling from I'm Brad calling from
Toronto
Brad Ron yes Oh Brad in Toronto Brad
what's on your mind
well Michael I would just like to
commend you for how you kept with it
regarding ruthless political
imprisonment its criminal political
imprisonment thank you and there's an
analogous figure I think that you guys
could give some more airtime to who
that would be selahattin Demirtas in
Turkey definitely as well as HTTP
co-chair vegan you click dodge yes and
many many other politicians of the same
party I agree with I know gene Basler on
and I actually wrote an article about
him for a Jacobin and I will be doing
more coverage these are leaders of a
Kurdish social democratic party that
actually brilliantly connected the
struggle for Kurdish protections and
rights in Turkey with an agenda for
austerity against austerity pro-labor
the ecology and an a much broader
expansion of rights across the board and
they performed well elect orally and
they've been imprisoned with you know
purely I mean obscene saying that
they're Pro terrorists and this type of
thing
they're definitely political prisoners
Demerara Tosh and his comrades and I I
did Jean and I wrote the piece I have
talked about it a little bit but yes
it's a very important story we'll do
more of it for sure I agree with you
great because I I think something people
don't understand maybe in the West is
that neither the AKP and of course of
their evil MHP coalition nor the CHP has
any interest in ever letting another
jail at we the spurious charges he's up
for right now he's in for four years or
so but he's charismatic and you know
they would rather say hey we're
negotiating with the old 1990s PKK led
by Duran Kalkan and Jimmy O biock and
because you know they know that the mere
toss is for bridge and this seeing him
rot in that Jail in the Arabic here is
you know it breaks my heart I appreciate
that your thanks for the call I
definitely won't cover that more and
look up the peace with Gene Basel on and
Jacobin thanks so much that's a really
important story we'll do more of that
but actually let's do this because of
the quality this Lu la story quickly and
then we'll get to some more sound so two
different things were going to do here
we're going to play a clip Lula after
being silenced for a year
the reset
as always was that he's the former
two-term president he led by double
digits in the polls he was put in jail
with without based off the testimony of
one informant Sergio Moro the prosecutor
now justice Minister for the fascist
balsan ro government served both as
prosecutor and judge which is a rule
that is a hangover from the Inquisition
that still exists in Brazil judge Moro
called Lula nine was his nickname
because he's missing a finger because he
had a finger lost a finger as a young
metal worker when he was coming up as a
young man the political the American
Association of jurists and I'm quoting
now which is has an NGO consultative
status at the United Nations Economic
and Social Council has published a
statement recognizing Brazilian
President Luiz inácio Lula da Silva as a
political prisoner Lula sentenced and
now I'm quoting again from the letter
was issued as a consequence of
accusations produced by violating due
process law that prejudiced his right to
a defense without evidence the agj said
brazilian far-right politicians
benefited in the elections while Lula da
Silva was isolated in prison as a
presidential candidate had the broadest
popularity in electoral polls they
denounced the sentence and they said
such conditions demonstrate including
his lack of ability to speak to the
press demonstrate a detention that was
made by violating fundamental guarantees
endorsing clear political motivations in
lacking connection was properly well
defined offense and having duration
accessory penalties which were aimed at
both moving lula the silva away from
national political process and laying
the foundations to discriminate against
people endorsing different ideological
tendencies through irregular procedures
he could be described as a prisoner of
conscience so this is fundamentally a
byproduct of u.s. foreign policy
starting in 2009 in honduras where there
was a coup against the center-left
leader Manuel Zelaya supported by a
Obama and Clinton and even though these
pink tide governments in Brazil and
Honduras followed a center-left path
Chavez and others more left path the
sort of tolerance for even the most sort
of moderate redistribution and resisting
of Western multinationals and as an
example emergent oil markets in Brazil
was both intolerable to oligarchs at
home and the traditionals
you know wall street in petrochemical
interests of the states and others that
is the broader context behind these
things and behind again the imprisonment
of an extraordinarily popular leader
with no evidence Lula finally was given
the right to speak he hold his first
press conference this is actually in
prison
I do find his resiliency incredible and
here he is a little bit unfortunate I
wished I don't I wish the people who
done this had not been music under it
but there this is the English
translation we're gonna play some of his
reflections on what's happening now in
Brazil again extraordinarily impressive
that a year in solitary confinement his
family's been prosecuted his country is
under assault by balsan ro and Trump and
here he is I'm Nick getting sopping wet
paws you is a you speeding it up can you
just go at regular speed so I can read
the so I can keep up with reading for
people yeah the day I leave here they
know I will be on the road put together
with the people held up our heads high
and not give our country to the
Americans to finish with the underdog
complex I've never seen a president
saluting the American flag Molinaro
saluted the American flag I've never
seen a president saying I love the USA I
love it love your mother love your
country we love the USA is there anyone
thinking that the USA is going to favor
Brazil we're the ones who must fend for
ourselves and with the underdog complex
uphold our heads and realize that the
solution in Brazil is the problem in
Brazil is Brazil it's
look the government lowers the people's
income per capita you the government
decreased the minimum wage all things
bolster I was doing you the government
reduce the possibility of job training
and you think that that's one trillion
for a puncheon funds and Social Security
will solve anything for the financial
system it's going to be alright
do you know what works what's works is
doing what we did legalize and formalize
six million individual entrepreneurs
small businesses do you know why
pensions and Social Security at a
surplus in my government because it had
twenty million registered work my people
because it had six million individual
emperor entrepreneurs formalized because
Brazil's quadrupled its expirations rate
so when you save money the people can
eat one extra bread drink one extra
coffee have one extra beer earn extra
rial by another sindel that way you
start to create jobs in the country so
basically I mean he did follow Mackenzie
in policy that as I would say lifted
about forty million people out of
poverty and increased material
well-being for tens of millions
including this most historically
repressed right now under the guidance
of a Chicago school economists are
trying to get rid of pensions and
they're attacking the legality of labor
unions as well uh so I don't know where
the okay sign comes from I noticed that
people show that Eddie Murphy made the
sign in one of the Beverly Hills cops
movies well it's a common gesture it
used to be yeah okay I've seen it scuba
context it runs like I'm not drowning
right and I just hit a three-pointer on
a basketball court it means I just hit a
three-pointer and that's cool right
in a right wing context it means I'm a
white supremacist precisely and in
turning points USA which is their each
the Navy is recently had to apologize
for something involving that symbol
let's read @tp us a statement to the
University of Nevada I'm assuming that's
what is
University of Nevada Las Vegas community
TBA TPS TP USA's official statement as
soon as the video in question came to
the attention of turning-points USA we
swiftly and permanently removed the
student from any of our current or
future involvement with our organization
due process his comments were a report
on American and disqualifying we'd also
like to command commend the decisive
action taken by the U n UNLV chapter
leadership that acted quickly to remove
the student from their chapter
membership and involvement as any larger
organization should TP USA has a
zero-tolerance policy for hate no matter
the media more dated or act the comment
we hold our tens of thousands of
students to the higher standards wasn't
this one the one with like also the
leaked conversations of like don't don't
lead with the juice no don't lead with
the juice stuff here's also an image of
Brigitte okay let's do this first this
is the video that they were apologizing
for this is a kid named Riley grazer who
was in the teepee a TPS USA chapter
leader for UNLV he was the chapter
leader for the UNLV apparently he's also
the son of a vice president Michael
Reiser at Aegis senior communities so I
don't know who the girl is in the video
it's a little I mean they and they could
have been you know 17 16 15 when this
came out but he was a chapter leader of
this group that gets a huge amount of
money some people like Foster Friess
that have helped you know with the
support of people like Jordan Peterson
are trying to eliminate any type of even
basic historical conversation in college
campuses this is there's a reason why
junior bolson ro is gutting academia in
Brazil there's a reason why his Cornel
West said in the Reagan era the first
thing to go is arts funding I mean there
is a structural purpose behind the
propaganda campaigns of these people and
this is the type of sickness and white
supremacy and grotesqueness that it's
facilitating we we had
you know if you're a language warning
and a few and kids you know this is
totally disgusting but I'm sure it won't
surprise anybody it's about exploring
ideas just after you explore ideas I
want Buse I want to learning ideas to
bring up here where is this Tim Poole
picked at like a few days ago was upset
that the white power that hand gesture
that they said when they said white
power right was blurred out at a Cubs
game and in Tim pools like well it's
just the okay it's just the circle game
the circle game is a game where if you
make that gesture make a circle
underneath your belt there's like I
think in my hometown it was like you
could get punched in the private parts
that oh okay so it's the circle game but
yeah not I don't think they're playing
the circle game right there I don't
think so this is Charlie Kirk I don't
think he's playing the circle game
either unless that little guy punched
him in the nuts underneath the Trump
sign after it
so there you go I mean look I think
again I think that there are plenty of
people who are not part of the
Republican Party who might not be
up-to-date with every bit of language
they might even disagree on things that
are really important but I don't think
that they're fundamentally driven by by
this I think that particularly if you're
a young person and you're going if if
you look at Donald Trump and you want to
join that party today I think we need to
be real about what's motivating people
I'm not sure that every single member of
the tipi us a college campus has those
beliefs but I would be shocked if it
wasn't over 80% of them
oh oh and they're throwing the sign
behind the black commentator okay yeah
yeah that really adds to you know 2 2 2
2 forwarding beanie man's point over
there and Tim Poole says I can't see
things improving society is falling
apart we know it's the circle game we
know it was part of a hoax they don't
care the hoax thing is just it's garbage
like 4chan it doesn't matter if
white supremacists think they're being
or what to what degree white
supremacists think they're being ironic
with that gesture they're still white
supremacists throwing that gesture they
know what it means
precisely all right let's let's get to
the let's get back to I guess a bit of
positivity we have two pieces of sound
with Bernie Bernie Sanders has announced
an incredibly important piece of
legislation with Alexandria Acacio
Cortez to rein in predatory lending
practices this is at the same time where
Donald Trump is pushing forward a plan
to lift every single protection and
restriction on agencies from harassing
you bill collectors from hounding you in
your home seven days a week Bernie
Sanders is working to do quite the
opposite
with aoc here he is with Ali Velshi and
Stephanie ruhle once again correct
policy and Bernie Sanders a very strong
and clear political communicator and
moral communicator here let's go okay
all right so what this would do as you
just articulated is it would cut sharply
into profits for lenders the banks that
make these these loans and issue these
credit cards do you have concern that
because of that the banking Lobby is
very very strong and they influenced a
lot of your colleagues as you have known
for the last few decades do I have
concerns about that well that's um
that's kind of an understatement look
you got wall street and the drug
companies and the insurance companies
basically running the United States
Congress that's why the rich are getting
richer and so many people are sure but I
think he'll and I mean this from the
bottom of my heart you have a profound
moral
issue every major religion Christianity
Judaism Islam every religion understands
that usury and loan-sharking are immoral
and let's call this what it is this is
loan sharking now I don't know that the
well-paid executives on Wall Street
going around go around breaking people's
fingers or their kneecaps but what they
are doing and think about this half of
the American people today have no wealth
at all they're living paycheck to
paycheck you got a medical emergency
your car breaks down these are desperate
people and then they go to Wall Street
and they are charged outrageous interest
rates Wall Street profits are soaring
people get further and further in debt
while wages remain stagnant this really
is disgusting
and it is got that we have to stand up
to the greed of Wall Street this is
exactly right and again there is a real
consistency here let's play the lead the
throwback clip just to complete this
cycle I mean in the 1990s through well
into the Obama era this guy was not
taken seriously for talking about the
reality of what has been happening since
the late 70s accelerating through the
Reagan Clinton errors ripping apart
regulation primarily tax cuts to
redistribute wealth to the top people's
lives getting harder and harder and
harder and predatory Wall Street into
financial services companies filling a
gap of absolute human desperation with
usury rates and their credit cards as an
example this is Bernie Sanders victory
speech in 1990 getting elected to the
House he was right then right now as I
understand it
congressman Smith has just conceded
[Applause]
there's one point that I've been making
throughout the campaign and I want to
make it again tonight and that is you
all understand that it is not going to
be Bernie Sanders or any other member of
Congress that's going to bring about the
change that we need about what we need
in this country is a mass movement of
tens of millions of people who are
prepared to stand up and say we want
national health care
[Applause]
we want the millionaires and the
multinational corporations who have not
been paying their fair share of taxes to
Stockholm
that we want money going into education
and Environmental Protection
and no more star wars what stealth
bombers
[Applause]
I might as I stand before you I think
that maybe one small state might go down
in history as being the leading state in
the fight for a political revolution
a political revolution which takes power
away from the multinationals and the
wealthy and gives it back to the people
where it belongs couple years ago from
that point Joe Biden was on television
demanding that George Herbert Walker
Bush put more nonviolent drug offenders
in prison all right let's take a final
call sorry we do have to leave pretty
quickly so we won't get to all calls but
we'll take we'll try for two more you're
calling from a 5-3 Oh area code who are
you where you calling from hey my name
is Levi and from Shasta County
California District one hey Levi what's
going on what's on your mind
not a whole lot a few weeks ago possibly
a month ago this guy called in from my
area code and he he was you did not get
along with him let's say it that way
okay and he probably is but he was wrong
okay he's kind of my issue
I've done canvassing in this area and
he's kind of par for the course you
stated that he was either like a really
good troll or very serious and you just
needed along with him uh-huh
I think that he was serious okay okay I
I mean yeah what's the question
do we lose you hello hello
Levi I mean he still says he's on I
don't leave I sorry man
try back you muted yourself buddy I
apologize all right final call today
you're calling from a 509 area code who
are you where you're calling from hey
Michael this is Ronald Reagan the great
Ronald Reagan host of the redirects
subscribe yeah actually you know I'm
calling because I've been kidnapped by a
violent drug cartel I'm in the middle of
today as we speak okay
well they get they gave me their they
allow us some of the only one but they
allow us to make these phone calls in
order to solicit certain demands and
they're asking that people sign up on my
patreon page
the idea that then I mail them a check I
think later I write I can pay power to
them smart that's smart I thought the
Sinaloa cartel has been moving into the
patreon market right I hate to do this
but I'm in a tight spot here mm-hmm
well what can we do to help we don't
want any harm to befall you right hey I
got a quick question for you though yes
what's up with the Fiesta pail next
Tuesday we're doing it it's on okay it's
on no way out I can't have fun Brock
much appreciated yep no next Tuesday I
fortunate last couple of Tuesday's we I
wanted to interview Mike Anna about the
South African elections you know I
thought there might be a few things that
were slightly more you know valuable
from at EMBs audience standpoint than
the three of us retching but this
Tuesday we're gonna do it you're miss
reading your audience there big guy
Rodrigo thank you so much talk to you
soon
I've got an update update sorry folks no
more calls we'll take a few more items
it appears that there and this isn't I'm
not happy about this but it's a bit
poetic what is it barely six months ever
he credited Trump's tax cuts for
creating a new economic boom my pillow
boss Michael and Dell is laying off 150
employees sometimes you gotta crack a
few eggs to keep the white nationalist
strain of rolling on fox news right
disgusting but yes not at all surprising
Jesus Jake cool is it me or is
everything bad Shapiro says about
democracy human rights logic and the
reason Ally is voice appearance total
lack for is would make me think his core
brand proposition is creating matte mass
shooters above all else he'll hate in
Souls act like this column from Nebraska
in capitalism vers socialism clip Warren
Buffett Charlie Munger and bill gates
and Buffett said quote many wonderful
people do not possess market value
related talents end quote so in other
words wealth Warren Buffett also
Bill Gates that ya right him
also Bill Gates said Bernie wanna get
rid of billionaires said Bernie also
Bill Gates said Bernie wanted to get rid
of billionaires is going too far oh well
 Bill Gates too
well he is one yeah yeah what is so
there's there's literally nothing
surprising or impressive or interesting
I mean the political enemy yeah Warren
Buffett is included among them even
though he says nice things every once in
a while right he's bad precisely should
not have that much money
exactly period no one should have that
much money it needs to be reclaimed so
people can have health insurance since
the IDW is about ideas David ladies it
is reclaim whose lots of diverse
opinions on his pockets didn't remember
Wolverine my claws have been stuck out
since 2016 congressional baseball fan
Megan McCain stealing Jewish American
princess Valerie that's been a bad call
by the coaching staff this season can we
agree that she's not ready for primetime
and needs to be sent back to the minors
to work on her fundamentals like
inheriting a beer magnate fortune
planning to become a music journalist
and trying to set the record for number
of times she can talk about her father
and a single conversate
play ball Dan from Bethlehem not sure if
you guys heard about Kim's demands of
access to athletes as part of the
denuclearization agreement imagine the
call of Kim when he says many athletes
have passed a visit to Trump White House
totally unfair I have not heard about
that contagious chameleon economic
anxiety vote for Trump only applies to
white people economically poor people
who people color stayed home wash car
mentioned it they weren't inspired to
vote but the fact that some economically
massive o people what voted for Trump
means they weren't they they weren't
aware of a weren't scared by his Trump's
racist message and maybe Anna gamble to
assume economic leftism will override
their social it's different it's
different types of economic and security
they're the the people that don't vote
they're just poor people the economic
insecurity among Trump voters is people
who want to make sure that they can keep
having a three-stall garage and keep the
Mexicans out of the country absolutely
and again we just I don't know how many
more times I can say this there are
voters who yes they had the ability to
overlook that and I disagree with that
but there are voters that you can
identify who are absolutely
geographically hugely important where
they're located who absolutely have
serious for real economic suffering and
they responded to that that hustle that
scam and in a way again I the answer is
economic leftism regardless economic
leftism that also fights xenophobia and
racism so if we all know and there's not
a single person anywhere on the left and
this divided and if somebody said you
know that about bosch car they're lying
and smearing who isn't fundamentally
opposed and absolutely therefore the
fight against bigotry you know we all
know what the answer to this is I mean
you know II you need economic leftism
period so even when economic leftism was
not an electoral winner in the same way
Bernie Sanders was right in 1990 yeah
and no one you know no one thought that
that was the trajectory of victory I
mean yes Bill Clinton ran a somewhat
economic populist campaign but nothing
compared to what Bernie was talking
about Bernie was right well there's also
a difference between Marian Wright
Edelman was right about welfare reform
that was a usually popular thing
she was right it was a classist racist
attack and part of this is about
cultivating a Democratic Republic -
right you need to do these things so
people have the ability to you know
democratically inform themselves
absolutely Ryan in LA I think White
House Correspondents Dinner MLK is a
keeper I agree I think with Ben
Shapiro's motte-and-bailey approach
would work with an American interviewer
yes I think that's also true ben shapiro
how dare you use my words against me
haram f-- let's see and the final final
item of the day the heathen can I get a
shout-out for my girlfriend Abby it's
her 28th birthday she's feeling a bit
down and I'm sure this would make her
day if she heard this Thanks well happy
birthday to you we'll keep going we
appreciate all of you we're back Monday
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes
[Music]
[Music]
