so Paul the last thing we were talking
about before the break was the Joe Biden
you know maybe we don't know but his
camp may be floating the idea of of
running with Stacey Abrams and you made
the point that they really represent two
very different sets of perspective on on
how to win with the Democrat you know in
a general election Stacey Abrams
activate mobilize voters who would vote
Democratic but don't necessarily vote
that off and Joe Biden supposedly the
persuader
who's gonna convince maybe those Reagan
Democrats to the extent that any of them
are still alive that they should come
vote for him all right well let's go
back and get to the to the the nub of
this and that is that Joe Biden his
politics in the past pre Obama we're not
very good by today's standards of what
is sort of a a typical Democratic
position and maybe even then frankly too
I'm I'm old enough to remember people
referred to Joe Biden as the senator
from MBNA but what stands out for you in
terms of Joe Biden's past that would be
a real liability for him running in this
Democratic primary well I think he's
giving a lot more questions about the
Aeneid Hill hearings he was the chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee at the
time and you know as people will
remember Anita Hill who subsequent
reporting validated that she was
absolutely telling the truth and all the
accusations she made against Clarence
Thomas and Biden essentially allowed her
to be terribly abused by that committee
and you know by Republicans in general
and he still can't figure out how to
talk about that you know he said
recently I wish there was something I
could have done and you know one of the
things he could have done for instance
is allowed the three other women who
were who had told the committee that
they were ready to testify and
corroborate
Hills testimony he could have let them
testify but he didn't and I think that's
something that is going to be going come
up again and again and again and you
know I think one thing I would refer
people to Rebecca tracer wrote a
terrific piece in New York magazine
that's on their website now looking back
at his history and you know one of the
points that she makes is that he has
always been the kind of the guy who
whose job it was or who saw himself as
being able to sell the Democratic Party
to people who might otherwise be voting
Republican especially you know those
white guys and but the problem is that
in the process he often sort of
validated their own complaints about
about societal progress about what the
Democratic Party was becoming whether
that was their racial complaints and you
know Biden became an opponent of busing
whether that was their complaints about
feminism about immigration Biden was
always there to sort of validate them
and say but yeah you know you can still
find a home in the Democratic Party and
whatever you might think about the the
need or or for for somebody like that to
to be speaking to those voters in 2020
the Democratic Party is very different
than it used to be and I think that even
though there are some many people in the
Democratic Party who still think that
it's vital for Democrats to you know to
quote-unquote reach out to people who
might not otherwise be voting Republican
it is a very different coalition now
than it was when Biden first came on
into public office in 1970s or even in
the 80s or 90s or even 10 years ago it's
a much more diverse party it's a party
that relies very much as it always has
on African Americans but also on Latinos
and also on Asian Americans and on young
people and the idea that it would be led
by somebody who sees his job as kind of
translating you know democratic policies
for those people who are unnerved and
hostile to the progress in society the
changes in society that the Democratic
Party wants to take advantage of and
sees itself supporting that's gonna be a
very very tricky kind of line walk and
it'll be interesting to see how he
since that case yeah I think she said
and I hope I'm not misinterpreting this
but you know the idea of defeating Trump
with a you know of a brand of Trump is
you're not defeating Trump ISM right if
he is if he is basically saying like
we're not we're not so offensive to that
Trump istic if you he'll Sensibility but
the other thing that occurs to me as
you're saying this is that and we just
have about two minutes left here is that
he's also got a problem on the finance
side right which II don't necessarily
associate with the white working-class
but this is a guy who when it when a kid
when push came to shove
maybe it's because of uh you know the
state he came from but he sided with
finance over those people who were in
debt and trying to discharge in like
chapter 11 and bankruptcy you know big
loans and that sort of it's inconsistent
with that other part of him isn't it yes
and I think you know if you're going to
see that argument for somebody for
instance from somebody like Elizabeth
Warren who has clashed with him in the
past over this it's not like he's Mitt
Romney you know a rich guy who was
trying to advance the interests of his
class but he has and maybe in large part
because he comes from Delaware he has
often advanced the interest of the
banking industry and the credit card
industry and those are things that are
that are no longer tolerable in the
Democratic Party frankly they used to be
you know there was a whole period
especially through the 1990s where you
know there was a kind of a feeling of
Democratic Party like okay you know we
ought to raise money we have to you know
kind of make peace with finance industry
and that and that will be our path to
success and you could argue maybe that
it was but right now there's much more
energy in the Democratic Party from
people who feel like we have to change
this system and they're going to there's
a lot of father in Biden's record for
people criticizing him for standing up
for the credit card industry or the
banking industry when they wanted to do
things that were not in the interest of
ordinary people well it's going to be
fascinating to see how this plays out
and I imagine Joe Biden is a way
err of you know there hasn't been I
gotta say a lot of pieces that I've seen
out there saying Joe Biden is the the
perfect recipe for the Democratic Party
to win in 2020 but we shall see Paul
Waldman thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it
