[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam cedar may 17
2009 teen my name is Sam cedar this is
the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
casual Friday folks joining us the host
and proprietor of the Benjamin Dixon
show Benjamin Dixon also on the program
today voice artists apparently author
though arguably of the title of his book
failed musician and voice of the
majority report intro H John Benjamin
will be here to discuss his forthcoming
paper book version of his other of his
book whatever also on the program today
Trump tells the Pentagon he was just
joking he doesn't really want a massive
conflict with Iran meanwhile documents
reveal that someone quote connected to
Congress
tried to convince Flynn from cooperating
with the Muller investigation virulent
anti-choice er Wendy Vitter the latest
judge confirmed to the federal bench
meanwhile on the 65th anniversary of
Brown versus the Board of Education
we now have 27 federal judges who have
gone through their confirmation process
refusing to say whether they would have
ruled in that same way on that case that
talked about separate but equal nice and
while the Government Accountability
Office says Ben Carson broke the law
with his HUD purchases and the Russian
GRU hacked into a Florida County voter
database in 2016 and we don't need to
know the details Chelsea Manning jailed
for for refusal to testify in front of a
grand jury facing unprecedented
financial penalties as well as jail time
and in a bizarre cell phone Trump plans
to release asylum seekers and immigrants
in two Democratic districts all this and
more on today's majority report yes
ladies and gentlemen is a casual Friday
I am in a a secondary location being
beamed into the studio and this is I'm
in the I think they call them the
sandwich years so what they called them
the sandwich years where you know
sandwiches that's that's know that is
that that that seems to be forever
I think but the the years where like you
know you don't only have your your your
parent or your kids as
as sort of like something that you gotta
work out but it's also when you've got
parents as well it's the Sandwich
Generation so what's that
lots of responsibilities well it's just
it's gonna involve a little bit of
travel so this something like this may
happen with some some increased
frequency not too much but we we have
worked I think most of the kinks out so
and also just another a moment of
housecleaning you can support this
program by going to join the majority or
poor calm and you can also support this
program wearing you become a member you
get extra content you get add free shows
and you get to support the free show
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off get the majority
report blend enjoy yourself
ladies and gentlemen also if you are a
Chapo Trap House member
check out the the episode I think it
must have dropped yesterday they have a
quick turnaround those guys and I was
talking to urge 'el Texas about air
america and jet bested my green I hate
him
it came up it came up I mean I don't
think I was like as explicit because I
just I I was a little bit self-conscious
of just like his name it was appropriate
to mention but then I just felt like I
couldn't just say I couldn't just say oh
god I hate that guy world's greatest
 I mean like a name a mock Greek
see that's the thing I made a mistake
insofar as I did not use the adjective
like I just did that couple of the
adjectives with him
but I told Virgil you were gonna spill
the tea he asked me a few would spilled
the tea and I was like you know I think
he's gonna spill the tea I would have
smelled more tea he just didn't ask
specific questions about specific people
it just didn't you know come up in the
flow of the conversation saying here
Reuben dit he room and did a little bit
and everybody talked about marry me
[Music]
speaking of ideas so obviously the the
big news this week or part of it has
been the series of anti-abortion anti
choice laws that have been passed well
really over the past two or three weeks
right we've seen one in Ohio we've seen
one in Georgia now in Alabama Alabama's
the most extreme one I want to just
caution people a little bit about making
this exclusively about the failure to
exempt women from this law and doctors
from this law because of of rape or
incest because the real problem is that
the that there is any prohibition
against women having sovereignty over
their own body and at the very least I
guess you could say about about the that
law is that at least it is not I mean
it's consistent I mean clearly you do
not pass a law like this unless on some
level you perceive a woman's role
primary role to be an incubator for
potential children and so whether they
have been they have conceived by choice
by accident by rape II it really is
irrelevant to these people and because
they perceive women fundamentally
because and I do mean that word
literally because it is a fundamentalist
Christian and religious in some
religions other religions as well view
that their primary reason for existence
is to be able to have God create babies
through them and so you know I see
people out there
critiquing the law and obviously it is
it from a political standpoint it has
some expediency but I'm not convinced
that you know part of the idea here is
one that we've seen from Republicans and
conservatives four four four frankly for
a couple of decades that either by
design or by you know just simply by
result that certain things are
normalized because of how extreme the
Republicans and the Conservatives have
become in attempting to push in some
instances their theocratic views of
government upon the rest of us and in
some instances there you know I guess
equally market fundamentalist views on
us as well but we should not normalize
the idea of banning abortion even if
there is an exemption for women who have
been raped and or are the victim of
incest or because their lives are in
jeopardy the fact of the matter is is
that it is not the fetus is not a person
and our laws govern persons God's law
may govern life and God may have chosen
to say okay it's okay that the the the
4-legged life they can be eaten the
plant life they can be eaten and the
people who have who have committed
certain crimes they can be killed and of
course we can kill people and more we
can kill people by overcharging for
medications that could prevent their
death but I'm going to intervene here I
mean we're not responsible as a civil
society to maintain the perspectives
particularly in this country in most
countries it seems to be the case as
well but we're not responsible to
maintain other people's notion of what
God's lies
other people people themselves can
decide if they will abide by what they
perceive as God's law and whether they
perceive that God exists but we live in
a civil society life is not protected in
our society we can just look around and
see that that is a principle persons are
protected and who we deemed to be a
person at various times has changed in
our society right I mean we know that
slaves were not persons 200 years ago in
this country they were sub person and
and this is what you see with the
attempt with fetuses to turn them into
persons but it is problematic to do so
and that is why it's so difficult for
them to pass these laws and have them
work because when you have a person
whose existence depends on another
person so intimately then all of a
sudden you get conflicts that are
unresolvable by civil law so I mean that
is you know I just want to just make a
note of that it's just a bit of a pet
peeve I understand from a you know from
a political perspective it makes it
there is a certain expedience to it but
it I'm afraid that it's setting up an
opportunity on the Supreme Court for the
compromise to be we're going to allow
exemptions for rape and incest as a
federal law but I think you know there
is more and more sense that the
political wing of the conservative
movement is going to push the judicial
wing maybe even faster than they had
themselves anticipated but we shall see
in the meantime as the the the I guess
the extremeness and really this I think
you know people are starting to
lies because we don't have a huge amount
of people certainly none that who could
get pregnant at this point who lived in
an era when abortion was illegal and I
think there are many gains that we've
made in society that later generations
begin to just sort of take for granted
and now I think they're starting to
become a little bit more focus as we get
closer to a time where without doubt
there's going to be a continued
curtailment not just even from a
practical sense but from a legal sense
of the right of women to have
sovereignty over their own body and
we're starting to see the implications
of that or starting to see the you know
to be able to more clearly imagine the
implications of that and it's not just
obviously that abortions are illegal in
certain states some states are passing
laws that says it's illegal to cross
state lines to get an abortion it's not
just that abortions are going to be
illegal exempted with the rape and
incest that's possible that's that's
going to go away but also we're going to
be losing there's also a whole host of
health issues that are involved in this
because you have laws that start to say
like well how do we know it was an
abortion as opposed to a you know a
miscarriage right I mean how how if this
if it is illegal for an abortion but a
miscarriage and abortion look very
similar in terms of the end product
you're going to start having to as a
woman register your miscarriages how are
you gonna register miscarriages unless
you register your pregnancies I mean
there's a whole host of things that are
involved in this that are you know are
gonna be start coming a little bit
clearer as we get closer to this moment
and maybe won't be totally clear until
we get to the other side of it in the
meanwhile the
is scrambling by those on the right
because as it becomes more real for
people people start to realize how
insane this vision of America is and I
think you're gonna see the abortion
numbers actually harden for those people
who want choice I think you're gonna see
it harden and and get maybe a little bit
larger in terms of supporting a woman's
right to choose it may not make a
difference at this point we may have
gone past the point of no return because
of what's happened with the Supreme
Court but we shall see in the meantime
here is Matt Walsh he apparently has a
show this is not the funny Matt Walsh
this is the really unfunny Matt Walsh
very very funny right there's a good
there's a there's a funny Matt Walsh who
was on Vice and I think he's done
another show now you see the guy beep
beep not vice right beep and the unfunny
Matt Walsh hosts the show on the the
center of conservative intellectualism
online that is the Daily wire this is
the brainchild of Ben Shapiro I believe
and here is Matt Walsh who what's his
official title over there like primetime
host of religiosity or something what is
it yeah it is something like that
because I'm sound like a writer and host
and stuff like that
ok here he is one of the religious
rights most influential young voices yes
okay here it is here he is okay now
trying to in some way I mean look I
understand if he just comes out and says
God's law says there are no abortions
and that's why I want there to be no
abortions because I believe God's law
shall reign in this country i mean there
are theocrats they exist I disagree with
them I don't think it's I think it's
fundamentally an American but at least
they can come out with it but this is
stunning
his
attempt to to to come up with a I guess
another more practical argument about
why there shouldn't be an exemption for
rape now as for the cases of rape which
are rare and in a very small minority
but as for them there are two things to
keep in mind posit number one what but
the cases of rape are what is he saying
the cases of rape that lead to pregnancy
are rare is that what he's saying I know
I mean I'm not sure I understand even
like what that what the point is he just
wants to minimize rape just generally
all right continue now as for the cases
of rape which are rare and in a very
small minority but as for them there are
two things to keep in mind
number one abortion helps rapists cover
up their crimes abortion rapists love
abortion rapists Planned Parenthood is
the is a rapist best friend because you
if when a rapist rapes someone and
creates a baby most possibly one that's
positive one second
do you he pauses there do you think that
he just sort of stumbled on to that
talking point and was like oh damn it
I'm afraid that that came out of my
mouth because it sounds like he has
nowhere to go no no I think that we
still sometimes at least I do have the
the we just gotta unlearn it of like
wanting to give people like this even
like 1% credit so there is like that
hate if you just realized that what he's
saying is absolutely demented yeah I
know he planned it this way yeah no I
bet Jay I mean planned or not I'm sure
he does not get that it was demented
okay all right so you go back just a
little bit good when a rapist rapes
someone and creates a baby most of the
time they didn't that's not what they
had in mind they they weren't trying to
create a baby
and if this is a you know what here the
the people that are coming up with these
you know hard case hypothetical say well
what if a 13 year old girl is right now
she was forced to carry her baby well if
a 13 year old girl is pregnant that's a
very good indication
that probably a crime occurred and we're
a baby
probably you know you can do a DNA test
and find out who the father is and if
that father is a is an adult then that
person is going to jail so now we can
prove we can prove that a rape occurred
that's why rapist would rather just send
the victim off to Planned Parenthood
have the pregnancy taken care of and the
evidence thrown into a medical waste
dumpster is this guy completely out of
his mind is he not aware that the the an
aborted fetus would have DNA as well I
mean just assuming like his entire
scenario in his mind would be like how
are we gonna find out he also apparently
doesn't you know I mean I guess the
theoretically this rapist or this victim
of the the victim of incest right they
would take DNA from everyone around her
is that what his plan is but if they
were to do that he's not aware that the
fetus has DNA that the reason why we
would force in his words in his scenario
a thirteen-year-old girl to carry a
rapists baby to term is because there's
no other way to prove that the that this
uh thirteen world was raped that this
thirteen-year-old would rather have this
child
so as to have ironclad proof which could
be presented even by I mean I don't
understand like how did they does he
have no editor do they not have like a
you know sit around and talk to other
people and say hey wait a second I have
a crazy idea I want to bounce this off
remember walks to the cool kids
philosopher bench yeah remember when the
Daily wire did that Columbus Day
animation that was really racist and
French peers like I was actually out of
office that day I was on my fourth birth
right track he's not speaking to
convince anyone he's speaking to whip up
his already quite frenzied base right
it's but I don't understand like don't
they
that other people are gonna see this do
they think that all of the people that
follow them are just complete morons I
mean yeah they don't care they must I
mean I I would like to we will have
we'll be taking calls later in the
program if you're someone who for a
while thought like hey that is a good
idea we should make rape victims carry a
fetus to term and force their pregnancy
force their birth so that we can have
evidence to convict the rapist and
that's the only way we'd be able to do
that if you're one of those people who
for a moment or even still believe it
make sure you call in later in the
program in the meantime one of today's
sponsors is Skillshare and anyone who
goes to sk l dot sh majority report 3 is
going to get two whole months of totally
free access to skill shares entire
library super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community that offers courses
on everything from design to video
editing photography businesses
technology cooking meditation everything
in between their skills share courses
for everybody love no problem finding
courses they're gonna be useful to you
both in your personal life and your
professional life whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new scale
share has you covered they have courses
for entrepreneurs courses on computer
coding web developer sonoda trician
learning new languages photoshop you
name it and not on this list taking and
I taking a professional style photo with
your camera my not with the camera with
your phone my my photo mojo has improved
significantly in the past couple of days
what are you putting music on for that
for me okay but they also have classes
on entrepreneur I mean all sorts of
stuff it's it's great and you get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to sk l dot s h slash majority
report three just think of everything
you're gonna have it your fingertips for
two whole months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
report three
I put a link underneath this video if
you're watching on YouTube same as in
the podcast description let's take a
quick break and we'll be right back with
Ben Dixon
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
proprietor and the host of the Benjamin
Dixon show Ben Dixon Ben welcome to the
program Sam always a pleasure thanks for
having me so all right let's talk about
this we were just you know I just played
a clip of Matt Walsh from from whom the
daily wire yes I know glutton for
punishment and he was arguing that you
know one of the upsides of forcing a
victim of rape to carry a pregnancy to
term you know particularly if they're
age 13 is that you're gonna have proof
by taking DNA from the baby that who the
the rapist is now apparently he's not
aware that you can do that from a fetus
as well but that aside what do you make
of this I mean we've seen this like let
me ask you that let me start with this
question the it seems to me that the the
the pace of this is happening faster
than I would have anticipated I mean
just coincidentally to two weeks ago we
had on Robin marty who wrote a book the
handbook for a post row America and I
think she's anticipating and I certainly
anticipated that we were talking more
about like a 2022 type of situation 2021
but it feels like that this might come
up some of these cases are gonna I mean
the Supreme Court is gonna have to make
a decision about these cases to whether
to hear them it seems to me this by this
time next year there they could be
deliberating these cases right and I
guess my question they may be
deliberating them do you think that
they'll get a decision out before the
actual election though I I think they I
think conservatives have taken this in
consideration and I think a part of it
is obviously a concerted effort across
the country right this is this is their
playbook this is what they've been
waiting for this is the big score for a
very small portion but a very vocal
and a very well-funded small minority of
the conservative base that wants to
overturn Roe and they've been planning
this since I guess 1973 they've been
planning and laying the foundation for
this and it's served them well
politically and now they've gone so far
that Pat Robertson thinks they've gone
too far but you know I wasn't shocked
that it came back to back to back I I
was really questionable about their
timing so the real question is when the
Supreme Court would take it up and if
they take it up and get a decision
before of 2020 because that would be
devastating to Donald Trump yeah I mean
I guess I got a double-check on this
because I'm not a hundred percent sure
when the the Alabama law is supposed to
go into effect now presumably like if
they passed it in such a way it does not
take effect in Alabama for six months
okay okay so you can't challenge it it
seems to me until it's about that effect
right I think
and so just presuming that you you you
you you can't
once it's about to take effect I imagine
they would go and look for a stay on
this and then they would deal with it
but if it's six months from now maybe
that's the idea is it's going to miss
the the next term of the Supreme Court
and then it would actually be 2020 ones
terms exactly so people so that was my
best guess and I didn't want to speak on
it because I have really no grounding in
the timing that it takes to go from law
to Supreme Court but my best guess was
that they did it at this exact moment
because they feel like some of the
outrage once it gets out of the the
nature of our new cycle as atrocious as
this is it's very likely that it would
be out of you know the rage will settle
down in a couple of months and if they
timed it right it won't get a decision
until after the election so they're
trying to get their cake and eat
- I'm sure they set their meticulously
time this out so if I'm thinking like a
conservative and they thought this out
as the the dark Sith Lords that they are
they timed this perfectly to have the
outrage die down and not get a decision
until after the 2020 election well and
we should say it's not just a question
of I mean whether the outrage dies down
or not on the left certainly it's going
to keep that issue right in the
forefront of the right well the right
absolutely gonna say like look and maybe
that's why I don't know maybe that's why
Clarence Thomas is I mean you know this
gets into sort of all the politics
surrounding Clarence Thomas - right
because if Thomas sits down it steps
down after this term and people should
remember the the the terms of the
Supreme Court justices basically run
from September to June or July is when
they come out with their final decisions
so in the fall they hear cases or they
they determine whether they will they
will grant cert for cases they will you
know listen to big cases they can grant
cert I guess throughout their term if
they want to but the bigger ones they
will they will deal with in the fall and
then they will start they will hear the
oral arguments and then they'll make
decisions in June or July and if
Clarence Thomas resigns in the summer
Mitch McConnell will try and have him
replaced by the fall and then you've got
five right wing Supreme Court justices
all in their 40s I think the oldest
would be like their early 50s maybe so
they're looking at like anywhere from 30
to 40 years on the court with a 5-4
majority that's all you would need and
then the idea would be okay so that's
locked in it doesn't create the same
passion amongst the right for the
Supreme Court although with you know roe
v wade just sitting there it very well
might I mean this is the thing that I
think in many respects may have won the
election for for Donald Trump
was that empty seats and the idea that
would not be five four liberal to
conservative and yeah and but if but if
Thomas stays on the court that creates
that dynamic of you want a conservative
to replace him because he may not last
another four or five years right right
uh you know I guess the the problem is
is that the Conservatives are extremely
clear on not only their agenda but their
strategy and their ability to get in
line to implement that strategy over a
40-year period and we have a
disadvantage
what's that saying you know I'm not part
of any organized party I'm a Democrat
but that's saying trickles trickles down
to everything to left this socialist and
far left this you know all of us have
that really radical and and an
independent spirit that really does not
give us the advantage that conservatives
have I mean it's a it's a good thing and
it's a bad thing that said we don't
really have the capacity yet the
infrastructure the funding or the long
strategy game to counteract something
like this and the best strategy for us
I believe that thing was Dave Ferriss or
Paris I read his book uh time to fight
dirty and I interviewed him is we need
someone bold enough a lot of someone's
bold enough to get in there and pack the
court because we're talking about an
entire generation I mean if I last
thirty or forty more years we'll just
now be able to undo some of the damage
that Donald Trump has done in one term
yeah and not to mention he has already
put more Federal Circuit more judges on
the yeah the Federal Circuit Court than
any other president at this point and is
in their administration one out of every
six I think it is right now he's
delivering he's delivering for a very
vocal and I'm surprised at the polling
right I wasn't I wasn't that sure that
and all out a abortion ban was so
unpopular like twenty five percent but
that is a powerful twenty five percent
the funding that goes behind it to
organizing that goes behind it quite
is the backbone of the evangelical right
and gave life to the Republican Party
all over again back in the 80s the
opposition to Roe vs. Wade so I mean
that's a powerful group that he's
delivering to for well it's also you
know there is it it feels like this is
like another situation almost with guns
in some way that the right seems to have
like three issues that are of which the
same people are single voter issues in
order to main motor single-issue voters
right like they being against abortion
and having guns seems to be like their
number one issues both of them are
number one tight like yeah that is their
you know there's 25 percent out there
that are just like this is the only
these the only two things I vote on
everything else
you know I'll subscribe to but if you
tell me you're changing it next week
that's okay too
you know like it used to be the deficit
the guns and abortion and now it's like
yeah but the deficit you know that's not
that big that's what I was gonna say
like everything else like look at what
they're willing to tolerate look at the
farmers who are doing terribly now
because of Trump's trade war right but
when they get in that voting booth the
question is are they going to vote
against Donald Trump well if they fall
back to their single issue no they're
gonna they're gonna continue to vote so
they're willing to suffer tremendously
in order to get these single issue
passed and and to stand behind what they
believe yeah I mean I don't know if it's
they're willing to suffer they just
assume that they won't like they just
trust daddy will it will save us it's
just that this we need to be punished
right now so that later we can feel
better I think it's probably I mean I I
don't know I don't it would be
interesting to do some type of group
psychological study on the way that
people vote for for Donald Trump despite
the fact I mean just like even the
deficit thing I mean I don't I'm
perfectly happy to to run up the deficit
although I don't know that you know I
mean it
you need to but I'm perfectly happy to
but it it's amazing how this was like
literally a religion for Republicans
five years ago and then they just
decided ah I'm converting to that
something God just bet that I'm gonna
quit
we saw that coming though yeah I mean I
think you spoke about it plenty spoken
about it plenty of times like if it was
a foil against Barack Obama I mean they
didn't care about it when we ran it up
for the wars actually they didn't have
it on the books but we knew that was
coming and then we knew as soon as a
Republican would get in they would not
care again and the problem though is
Democrats in there I don't know what
they're thinking kind of Minds they seem
to actually believe that it matters and
that's where we continuously get pushed
further and further to the right not
only economically but the same thing
happens on social issues and Democrats
are complicit in this in this whether
it's by incompetence or whether it's
intentional they are aiding and abetting
this rightward push in this country yeah
let's talk I mean I wasn't planning on
touching on on that theme necessarily
right now but I think it it's probably
worth it what is your perspective on on
how the Democrats are doing right now I
mean Nancy Pelosi seems to have all but
succeeded in stifling impeachment talk
yeah apparently according to the The
Washington Post I don't know
a day or two ago Pelosi told Democrats
to stick to policy
forget about the impeachment inquiry
there was apparently in the caucus
meeting no protest I you know Chuck
Schumer last Sunday came out with this
bold move to form a a bipartisan
legislation to stop robo calls great but
that seems a little small bore right in
this day and age the you know Nancy and
Chuck are trying to do a infrastructure
deal with Trump which
I don't mean does this make any sense to
you you know it makes literal no
literally no sense whatsoever I I'm not
one to ascribe to the Kabuki theater
theory of the Democratic Party I'm more
prone to willful ignorance are just
malpractice and incompetence but at this
point the way they are folding and not
monopolizing on the very tactics that
could get them in power to do so what if
they don't want to go far enough there
has to be some things that they want to
do in power as Democrats even if it's
centrist but they're not seizing on the
opportunity politically so it's
political malpractice of the highest
order and I can't really wrap my head
around it but that Kabuki theater Theory
keeps jumping back in my head it's all
just one big show because that's to me
that might be the best way to explain
the behavior particularly of Chuck
Schumer and Nancy Pelosi which makes me
hope I really hope this freshman class
of Democrats don't start conforming to
the establishment and can continue to
buck against the the entrenched power
structure there yeah I can't understand
I mean do you think it's do you mean do
you think it's just like they have
learned the wrong lessons from a long
time ago like what what I honestly I
don't know because the reality of it is
is like windows are draw Republicans
would impeach a Democratic president in
no time flat the you know we would be
talking about trial did the Senate trial
at this point if this was a republic if
the roles were reversed then parties
were switched and so when those drug
Republicans are willing to throw
everything on the line for what and it's
not even for what they believe they
throw everything on the line for the
smallest political win right they go all
in and that's an advantage that they
have over us while we have Chuck Schumer
talking about robocalls
and they act they're actually trying to
give Donald Trump a political win it
leading I mean Republicans would never
do this and so I mean at a certain point
I get you
want to be a good governor right yep we
want to have good governance you want to
be you want to serve the people right
but we're we're in such a hyper partisan
era that if you are not willing to
engage in the political art of war you
are going to get what we used to say
around the block molly-whopped every
single time you come out to play and so
the Democrats are demonstrating that
that's they have no idea what the hell
they're doing and they're giving this
away to the Republican Party over and
over and over again so I mean I don't
have explanation for it I only have a
hope to get these people replaced like
Nancy Pelosi no you know she you know
great it was cool that she became
Speaker again and it was a momentous
occasion right but you know at this
point we really need different
leadership we needed someone else in
there because this there's no excuse
this is a political give me and we need
that because of the type of party we're
fighting against and and because of
things like the structural just
advantage we have in terms of the Senate
and whatnot in terms of just like taking
the Senate back exactly and it does feel
like there's been a demobilization right
like people are just walking around like
I don't know what to do now right and
this whole idea that the Democrat you
know the just waiting for the election
does not make sense to me
like you know like the there needs to be
things done to make the situation better
for you when the election shows up right
like Election Day is in November there
needs to be more things done to make
Trump to make the anger Trump I mean
look you know the Democrats did not run
on impeaching Trump they did not run
against Trump they ran on health
insurance but the the fact of the matter
is Democrats always run on some form of
of health insurance right I'm right
maybe more maybe less ambitious as it
goes but at the end of the day it was
not just health insurance it was people
wanted to send a message Donald Trump
and that you know
to maintain that level of fervor takes
word right but check this out Sam this
is the difference between Democrats and
Republicans right Republicans have been
able conservatives particularly have
been able to maintain the anger and the
fury behind overturning Roe vs. Wade for
forty five years Democrats cannot hold
the anger against Trump for two years
for a midterm two general election of
the next go-round they they they're
they're not able to do it and because
they don't have the capacity to do that
we're very likely looking at a 2020
reelection of Donald Trump when instead
we could have been running up the
scoreboard I mean just just running it
up day in and day out but instead we're
stuck with the feckless leadership well
it's not just leadership is it I mean
you know I granted the leadership has
failed but it's also just a function of
like I think you know the the mentality
of your average Democratic voter I mean
the you know I think Joe Biden Joe Biden
in the polls at this point and I'm
curious as to your perspective on that
but I mean I think regardless of whether
one thinks it's durable the the there
doesn't seem to be intensity for Joe
Biden
there seems to be basically broad
consensus that he's the best chance to
beat Trump I don't happen to agree with
that and I'm just I'm just saying in
terms of the polls but everybody who
reports on why people are interested in
Joe Biden it just comes down to like
he's the best chance to win that seems
that seems problematic to change it yeah
that's what was Chomsky's piece on
consent manufacturing consent they
manufactured that consent right there
right there's this little media helped
and ate it and embed it in manufacturing
the consent that Joe Biden is the best
person because anybody
the right mind right when you actually
look it up and stack it up and and and
even if they weren't in the right mind
look at all that stuff that's come out
against Joe Biden since then they should
be able to look now and say hey Joe
Biden really isn't our best bet because
you know the things that in Joe Biden's
past any accusation that we could throw
against Trump Trump could turn around
and throw it against Biden whether it be
racism segregation whether it be sexual
assault are the appearance of sexual
assault but they're you know the
leadership has manufactured that consent
what they have not manufactured is the
rage that is necessary in modern
politics on the Left I mean we have it
on the far left but we don't really have
it in this this mushy center-left kind
of space that institutional and
establishment Democrats exist in so I
don't I mean I agree that it's not
solely the fault of leadership but
leadership and the media structure
absolutely has the ability to
manufacture consent because we see it
right there with that very high
percentage that Joe Biden gets till even
after everything that's come out of the
media or do you think that's just a
function of democratic voters who are
just like yeah he was Obama's VP makes
sense to me he's been in the White House
why couldn't he do that again I mean I I
don't even know frankly if those
liabilities that you're talking about
with Joe Biden if if Trump can exploit
those I mean maybe you can it Justin
Scarr is just in so far as depressing
the Democratic turnout right because
that's what this elections gonna be yeah
the question is are you know what if you
tell me what the Democratic turnout will
be I will tell you if Joe Biden will win
because the Republicans are definitely
going to turnout and the Democrats have
to have a turnout numbers like
percentage that they have to hit like
close to two thousand eight and if they
don't you know I mean look Donald Trump
won with less than Mitt Romney lost with
so if Democrats get close to two
thousand eight numbers in terms of
turnout they're gonna be okay it's just
the problem and and
it's dispersed in the proper way the
problem is that people by the time we
get to the end of the race maybe a
little bit Joe Biden may not be the guy
who's gonna be able to excite people to
get them to turn out because people are
just gonna assume he's just gonna win
yeah I I mean I I definitely follow your
logic there but he said he's about as
exciting as John Kerry was in 2004 yeah
I mean he's I mean the there's really
nothing about him that motivates you to
kid you know he was Obama sidekick right
how many people are gonna go and and
you're not gonna get a blockbuster
turnout for a summer movie that's about
Robin you're gonna get it for Batman and
this is the assumption that they're
going under which is which is really
tragic they had the same assumption for
Hillary Clinton and she was far more
exciting than Joe Biden ever would be so
that they're really taking a gamble here
that is putting a lot at risk and I I
mean I agree I think it is also a
function of establishment Democrats top
to bottom whether they be in power or
just at home watching MSNBC they are a
part of this problem even without the
necessary that the necessity of
manufacturing consent but I also just
look at how the media has been playing
some of these poll numbers and and
building up Biden in advance of poll
numbers coming out it's it really is a
function of all of it if we should be
honest yeah how durable do you think
this is you know I you know the funny
thing about the primaries is is that
anything can literally happen right like
like we saw with the Republican side we
really we're it I really in 2015 I was
bored
because I assumed it was gonna be Jeb
Bush versus Hillary Clinton how wrong
was I right so I I mean Joe Biden you
know does he have staying power did can
he be here throughout the entire
primaries I mean literally anything can
happen because he does have the capacity
to blow it all up himself as much of a
lead as he has right now so you never
know what do you think about Bill
DeBlasio you know it's it's at this
point I think anyone who's over 35 is
getting an opportunity to run for
president so just let me know when you
decide to get in and
donate some money and I'll let you know
when I get in I don't think de Blasio is
gonna go far
there was one theory that I saw floating
around on Twitter that I think might be
worthwhile considering as we get a
little closer to actual votes was the
diluting diluting of the vote so that
the the super-delegates have more of an
impact because nobody they're really
putting up really is resonating in a
very substantive fashion but the field
is so watered down if they all make it
to Iowa it'll be interesting to see like
how watered down the votes really become
so so we'll see I mean I'm not excited
about de Blasio whatsoever I think he's
done you know the typical job I mean you
guys could speak to it more of what he's
done there in the city but uh you know
he's more accomplished than Pete so
there you go I guess that speaks to the
quality of campaigns that are coming out
right now I don't know if he speaks I
think he may speak Spanish but that's
about it
so I don't know it doesn't doesn't mayor
Pete play the piano yeah cute things
that we like to put in you know for
these guys but at the end of the day
like mayor Pete doesn't have you know
let's just be real like mayor Pete
doesn't belong on the in it on the
national stage right
de Blasio would belong there before him
but you know cool maybes you know we're
I would like to think that it was a
knock against American meritocracy but
it's actually not so it's it's really
kind of part and parcel mayor Pete being
on the international stage it's part and
parcel with the lie of meritocracy so
we'll see all right well we'll have more
to talk about
de Blasio maybe and later in the program
but all right so lastly let me just talk
to you about this story in the New York
Times that Trump basically told the
Pentagon general it's like he doesn't
you didn't want to war with Iran I mean
the smart analysis that I've heard has
been that largely that
Boulton and Pompeyo have been basically
trying to orchestrate a war with Iran by
essentially like you know engaging at a
game of chicken with Iran and putting a
brick on the accelerator tying it and
stepping away from the car and saying
you know we're not doing anything you
know this is just this is what happens
and basically telling Trump that you
know some version of you got to look
tough and Trump saying like I want a
deal I'm what a new deal basically like
they just want the same deal but they
just want to call it the Trump deal that
is supposedly better than the Obama deal
but meanwhile Paul Bolton and Pompeyo
are setting the thing up so that like
it's a very precarious contraption and
the Iranians are basically saying well
we're gonna get rid of Pompeo and Bolton
by humiliating them in Trump's eyes and
it seems like that's sort of what's been
going on if this report is true that
Trump is like I don't want a war I just
wanted to you know yeah be a tough guy I
don't wanna get good actual fight I just
I was just trying to show up for my
girlfriend you know what
and God bless them man I'm gonna be
honest with you like if there's anything
that we actually need Donald Trump to
deliver for Humanity on is his whatever
is going to drive him away from conflict
with Iran right whether it's ego whether
it's a bruised ego and Michael Bolton is
not Michael Bolton Sean Bolton
is getting out of hand and overstepping
his bounds and you know Donald Trump
absolutely does not like anyone taking
the show from him so maybe a bruised ego
could help save save us from going to
war whatever it takes
he's not like these things walking in
Memphis okay well when I said Michael I
was actually thinking about Mike Flynn
right right if you remember I was it
like literally week one or week two of
the Trump administration back in 2016 or
2017
they put a Ronal notice so there's a
consist
theme in the Republican Party the
neoconservative branch of America that
has wanted to go to war with Iran for
quite some time
obviously Saudi Arabia would be elated
at that possibility and here we are with
those powers that John Bolton's the
Pompeo the crown prince of Saudi Arabia
you have some significant powers
weighing down on Donald Trump and the
real question is is like can he get a
backbone and keep us out of war or will
he stumble into keeping us out of war
because because of his ego I don't
really care which how it happens but I
would literally sing his praises at
least for a good week on Twitter if he
manages to keep us out of war right
look hey everybody I didn't I totally
screw everything up and we're not all
dead
exactly Benjamin conservative agenda
really probably from you know as early
as the mid to late 1990s the project in
new American Century and all those Pearl
was it and Wolfowitz and Cheney and the
whole gang the whole plan was we go to
Iraq then we take Syria than we do Iran
and on some level that's more or less
what's been happening Syria didn't work
out quite the way that they thought it
might but it's at the very least you
know and there's another factor I mean
obviously Syria didn't work out the way
we want it because you know for all
intents and purposes Russia put a block
on that right and then also they would
play a role here in Iran I mean it's a
really twisted world where we actually
have to look to Donald Trump of course
we should he's our president but I
digress but then also the influence that
that Putin may have you know not calling
him a Manchurian Candidate maybe just
maybe just likes Putin maybe he just
wants to go and get a scotch with Putin
I don't care
but whatever it takes whether it be
Putin's influence Donald Trump's ego or
whatever we absolutely I mean I'm sure
you read the plans or heard of the plans
of 120,000 troops prepared to mobilize I
mean that's an invasion force and they
clearly do not care about a single
lesson from Iraq in fact I'm pretty sure
they think Iraq is a success for the
Indians so without a doubt you know I
mean I think that 120,000 troop force
which was supposedly not for an invasion
that was what it would take just to
support a bombing run so that you had
enough troops to keep Iran from
theoretically I guess invading Iraq or
or you know to contain them and I think
my sense is from the stuff that I have
read that that's the military basically
saying like just so you know this is
gonna be a total show and so you
asked us to bring you a number here's
the number it's massive as a way of
trying to basically put their thumb on
the scale to say don't do this
and you know good good for everybody who
was involved in coming up with that
number well yes and you know but here's
the thing this is what's so sort of like
just mind-boggling on some level right
like it is literally one of those things
like hey I didn't kill you I never get
credit for saving your life you know
it's like one of those deals like you
know Donald Trump if it wasn't if he
wasn't such a and was actually
consistent with his position would not
have appointed Mike Pompeo and John
Bolton to these things but I saw them on
Fox and was like I'm impressed I have no
idea what what they do but they just
love the way they talk I don't like the
mustache but that can be shaven you know
like I mean oh this is like it's like a
child but fortunately you know he went
to daddy in the military and said no I
didn't mean it I don't really it was
just you know I mean it's good I'm just
I'm still thinking about the fact that
he's to shave the mustache was a
critical point for Donald Trump that
really was that really seems consistent
with who Donald Trump is well it's gonna
be you know and we see him a sir
backing off of Venice well a little bit
I think and also I suspect what happened
is that some senators went to the White
House and said look this is you this is
a bad idea right because from a
political standpoint I'm sure they would
all love to bomb Iran and maybe they'll
just say like just let Israel do it and
I'm gonna stop the race at
saber-rattling I I don't know I guess
we're gonna find out but maybe we will
be back in a couple of weeks been
talking about our new war so hopeful
no no hopefully I'll be back just to
speak with you but not about a new war
indeed all right Bendixon people check
out the Benjamin Dixon show find it
online or wherever your podcasts are
served or you're in youtube to write
YouTube podcasts everywhere everywhere
they can find anyone else I'm there
check it out folks all right Ben thanks
so much it was great time hey take care
thanks all right folks
we're gonna take a quick break and when
we come back a an interview I did with
John Benjamin just a day or two ago he
will be in studio or had been in studio
and it's the first time we've been in
studio in a long time and it was
uncomfortable and it was awkward didn't
go well it did not go well I'm not
embarrassed to say I've known John for a
long time obviously he was the voice of
the original live first majority report
that was done on WFMU you and 2003 and
he is voiced all of these as well so you
know there's a lot of a lot of baggage
there and it certainly came up in ways
that probably you know should have been
should have been aware of before and
this just coming across the transom the
gimlet podcast network owned by Spotify
gimlet officially recognized their
workers unions oh now what
what union are they part of cuz I gotta
get to work here
what what you know do we know I I can
find out none of us know anything about
that okay that sounds suspicious
all right don't forget guys we have a a
team meeting after a later this
afternoon
Lewis WGA is it the WGA we've got a team
meeting later this afternoon where we're
all going to meet and watch a video I've
prepared why it's so great working at
the majority report you'll have less
freedom to advance Road ship let's see
let's walk over here to our coffee
station it would be a real shame if that
went away
I gave Matt I gave you a flat screen and
Michael you're a business owner - now
that's true actually I mean it was
labeled 60 inches then Michaels now part
of the managerial I helped design I
helped produce the video exactly Michael
Michael dressed up in the in the the
free will costume Stay Puft Marshmallow
Man hey uh one other piece of good news
Taiwan as recognized same-sex marriage I
believe that's the first country in Asia
that's good so we've got those two
things going for it yeah here we go
good stuff gimlet you get it Kim litt
got some ramallah tea in Taiwan
all right down the worldA lens there we
go all right quick break and then it'll
be John Benjamin
report next up on the program ladies and
gentlemen I'd like to welcome back to
the program john benjamin author of the
book it's a book failure is an option
welcome to the program
John thank you so much Sam so John is it
okay if I drink tea sure the whole time
yeah without as a not talked just drink
tea as you know John your book failure
is an option Roja
now who out cane paperback yep
originally it was written in a heart
cover form prior to that it was hard not
hard and that hardcover came out when
was that about a year ago I think the I
was about a year ago and prior to that
it was written in the form of a sitcom
script for AMC television that I had
actually written no that was really
unrelated to the book just
coincidentally the name of your book
have you never heard the expression
failure is not an option uh well I mean
prior to my writing a script about I
think anybody ever used the expression
failures is an option
prior to your use of it for your failed
sitcom well prior to that the only time
I had seen it before then was in regards
to just about before before we resolved
that yeah
I'd uh think that what you just said was
its complete fabrication and not an
fallacy and not true I didn't steal it
from you
I didn't say you stole it it's
interesting that you would say that you
stole it because I didn't say these I'm
not here to be prosecuted for a crime I
didn't commit and I don't like your tone
and I I think it's not fair and if I I
don't I thought you were this was going
to be a friendly proper interview I
by a proper podcast on a proper set with
proper microphones and right now I feel
like I am being attacked and I don't
need to participate in this type of
discourse so thank you very much and
that's I don't I'm not leaving nobody's
there
thank you so much you're so we are not
done very welcome let's talk about this
book failure is an option yeah
now we haven't it you're in the book
well that was gonna actually that was
actually gonna come up because we had
you on the program
and by we really the consortium the
consortium had you on this program I
don't know when it was maybe it was a
year ago maybe it was when probably when
the book came the hardcover version of
the book came out right and I will
concede that I had not read it yet
because I assume like most of the guests
you have on you don't do the proper
preparation well in your instance I was
not in any way found the material
compelling enough when is the last time
you had a guest on where that wrote a
book where you read the book the whole
book I mean you don't have to read a
whole book cover-to-cover
conduct and interviewing I'll grant you
that right he probably should skim well
I didn't I'm gonna concede now that I
didn't even skim your book I didn't even
see the title frankly I just read it off
of piece of paper that somebody gave me
subsequent to that after the interview I
accidentally listened to it
not by my own accord but I was with
someone else who was driving in a car
for an extended period of time we
listened to the book who Steve Steve guy
named Steve as a friend of yours or is
he professional acquaintance
professional acquaintance where did you
meet Steve at a store Penniman a store
yeah you hadn't known him before no I
had not was like a grocery store or like
it was just a typical retail store like
a Home Depot
very nice work there part-time but you
didn't know that at the time no he
wasn't wearing like a vast that said
Steve Home Depot
he actually had a name tag good yeah but
it was not if I remember correctly it
was not pegged to any type of specific
outlet all right but that's not the
point the point is I listened to your
book and I found it interesting a lot of
the things actually sounded very
familiar to me
I bet it was like we've shared a lot of
stories there was a lot of stories in
there we thought that I recognized in
fact there were a lot of stories that I
was a part of mm-hmm but oddly my name
only came up once in a very ancillary
way but there was at least two or three
stories where I was literally the other
person involved that you did not mention
my name I think probably you're
referring to the one were the kid I'm
referring to multiple aspects of the
book okay I'll tell you the one that I
assume you're referring to the kid who
tried to beat me up for a year um well
that I don't really remember in junior
high school the bully the bully I didn't
even
maybe I refer to him as the bully or the
 that's or the fat kid right
that's possible I didn't name you by
name but I think like any number one of
those yeah well let's go through some of
these chapters because off the top of my
head then the other one would be the the
midnight pajama Jam story uh well okay
all right so I'm glad we named yeah
exactly I was named in the midnight
pajama Jam for a performance piece that
I did with my cats yes but I mentioned
you like I have say I give myself a ton
of credit for mentioning you in
light whereas I did not mention in you
in any of the other stories which would
have painted you in a bad light because
you are all you were always you would
have been the one in the story that was
always mean to me that's interesting
that you say that because I'd like to go
through and I don't understand how you
did these chapter titles they seem
completely unhelpful in terms of how I
failed it pretty much everything as a
kid though I don't get some I just don't
have the right thing here I don't
reading it wrong but then you showed
good examples of how you were to me
always just now well I guess my point is
is that wow there's a lot of failures
and option books what you really when
I'm looking this up here and it's
unbelievable there's one written by
Phillip Vance on to events on you
there's another one about Mission
Control under that's failures
problematic but that's probably true
right well I mean for instance the story
of the script you wrote in space probe
the script you wrote with your friend oh
yeah yeah that was a great story
yeah that was good yeah that was a great
story but you were only like
peripherally involved
I was the co-writer of the script that's
true he probably helped I probably did
Moses I think I pitched it and wins my
idea you know no it was my idea
no no I specifically know where I got
that idea it was from going down with
Mark Morris to his grandmother's house
in Boynton Beach
oh the show might have been your idea
but the story was my idea oh yes
the story was your idea but I was there
the entire time why don't you tell
people just briefly what we're talking
the summary of the story was that you
and I you probably got a script deal to
write a sitcom script you I don't think
you came up with the idea no I did come
up with the idea I really I think we
probably pitched it together okay which
was a story about Conan O'Brien's
company you know ii was about two young
guys who down in their luck right
unemployed friends who go visit their
grandmother or one of their mothers
decide that they could live cheaply in
the gated community in which their
grandmother the retirement home right
early retirement i called it and and
then and after that shows i think have
been made of course though has been made
that premise of course and the story in
my book was you and i when not you and i
the story is you my friend some nameless
my friend i right right right
really right my friends up joined a
right something my friend and I went
down to Florida right to to my brother's
father and mothers gated community right
it's interesting to me that you get so
specific about brother-in-law because
that's a specific person as opposed to
the way that I was addressed in that
which is just like from another guy no
random guy did I say friend I have maybe
I'll pull it up okay I bet it says like
who knows doesn't say like a guy I went
does not say a guy and I went to Florida
together
all right well fair enough keep going
with this it probably says a friend okay
is probably it proper terminology just
like I mean it really wasn't just I
wasn't going as a friend I was it was a
professional I mean you the whole story
is about a professional story right it's
like you were commissioned it wasn't
like you were commissioned to do a
script and you brought along a friend I
well it was I probably said my friend
and I were writing a script I didn't
name you right right and then what
happened what happened in the story or
maybe it was very just peripheral that I
was involved in it but good let's see
what the rest of the so then this story
was we went down and when we met the
parents my friend and I when we met them
my friend I had an idea that I proposed
to my friend because my brother-in-law's
father nice Jewish man
wrote was telling us stories about how
he wrote the annual play that was put on
by the community yeah
and they were like musicals or parodies
like you know like I'm trying to think
of what they were there was little
examples yeah you know it was like
Jewish jokes right a pawn plays pawn in
that Lake I'm trying to think about
something from like Oklahoma or
something like that like oh well there
would be yeah right right
matzo ball soup right nuts guys and
matzo ball soup right exactly also it's
not an example all right so he so he
when I think we were out to China and he
would have been like Franny or something
like that there's examples in the book I
think right I remember because he sent
them to me mm-hmm
I have his work like I have he's passed
away and I have I have his place no I
know so I was yeah he went we went out
to eat with him a Chinese food buffet
and I I think proposed the idea at the
buffet buffet I remembered you saying we
should instead of writing it ourselves
pay out of a portion of our money the
guy the brother-in-law's father to write
the whole script and then turn it in and
then turn it in as a joke as our work
but as a joke yeah and because we went
on to write the script we did well we'd
wrote after he wrote it well we wrote it
simultaneously we hand it in the oh did
we yes I forgot that
well yeah you also forgot to member the
front I remember the front was just
general friend it was you I mean it's
just weird to read these stories and
then you recorded the phone call we had
with with David Kissinger that's right
son Henry Kissinger that's correct
head of conan o'brien's production
company who had to give us notes on that
old Jewish man I think and I just
remember them saying we feel like you
wrote what you thought would be funny to
us and what we to do write what you
think is funny to you and we were like
it was it was like 65 to 70 pages yes I
remember and 12 12 12 pages of it was
pulled like I think directly from a
judge
Yiddish joke book like so he wrote like
that was in the but in the story as well
he wrote like no there was incredible
details right it was like all the
characters in the room and then like
Harold enters and then a joke book joke
right by one character then next
character Stewart joke book joke right I
mean it was amazing to me that you could
actually name the characters in the
script that he wrote but not the other
guys were I'm just assuming Harold and
Stewart those were not the characters
I'm sure no I understand but I was like
being I mean it was just weird to hear
that as I'm with Steve in the car and
have to go oh that's me and he's like
where did you where were you and Steve
going driving somewhere I don't remember
probably a long trip how do you say too
often travel with him no that was it
that was the last time it was so
uncomfortable when I had to say like oh
and that's me so you listen to my book
on tape with Steve yeah yeah I did it
was awkward it was just awkward and I
just thought here's what did what did
Steve say because I he said this is
awkward I don't know I don't know that
was awkward
he said Jim you were like this is me
that the that story that's me I'm not
even named I didn't I didn't get that
exercised and then what what stammers
before I was Steve Matt holder be like
why why you so worked up you gonna let
me in
your question what if I would Steve I'd
be like I'm driving I can't like what
makes you think Steve and you're like
what the
the story's about me I'm in this storm I
did not even named okay you got a turn
you go please get it first of all and
then Steve's trying to drive listen
who said Steve was driving you said you
were on a trip with Steve crimes say he
was driving you were driving
we switched off because frankly by the
third or fourth time in the book when
that happened in separate stories other
stories I became a little distressed yes
and by the time the midnight pajama Jam
came along you were your name where I
mentioned for like as he's like it's a
subsidiary it's a completely like why in
that story you could have just said oh
and there was some guy who had cabs as
opposed to in the story where I'm there
and like the entire thing hmm I mean it
would have been awkward like so well
Steve said this is awkward because why
would he name you in that one but not
these other ones and then that's the
last time that Steve and I hung out so
you mean do you think that the but here
is my question
wait let me do you think that Steve was
taken aback by the way he reacted or do
you think that now you never talked
because I'm saying do you think Steve
felt like I thought I was lying no I'm
saying that do you felt feel like Steve
felt like I don't like this guy or I
don't like trust this guy he's he's not
the person I met at the store and now
he's like all of a sudden I'm we're
listening to an audio book and he's
yelling about how I'm in it and Steve is
like how did you even tell him that you
knew me Steve providing hood on my audio
book Steve by the end I didn't put on
the audio book yeah they're different
makes it worse well it was super
uncomfortable
yeah because if I were Steve Oh Steve
was like this doesn't this doesn't make
sense why would he name you here and not
the other places I think you're lying
about the other places that's my whole
point
you John here's my question mm-hmm the
paperback is out hmm did you correct
that did I correct did I Nate like yes
did you go back realize that it was a
mistake and fix it no not in the way
that you assumed I did take redact your
name from the midnight pajama sham story
so I took out the one mention of you
that was in the book because I felt like
I don't know maybe you were right when
you were with Steve but I didn't even
know it well I might just took out your
amount of spite because I didn't even
want you mentioned well I think in many
respects that would have been easier to
deal with because then I would have been
he probably would have been like oh well
that guy's not gonna mention you anyway
that's weird
he's a weird guy as opposed to like I
don't know if I believe you why would he
mention you here and not in the other
places well I mean all I can tell you is
that you're probably gonna really enjoy
my next book which is entitled Sam cedar
is a complete
really that's you so that was my next
question what's next for you
well there you go I'm you know there
will be tons of stories about you and
and who you are and how I know you you
already wrote them you wrote them in the
first book you just didn't name me
series gonna basically rewrite be some
of the stories will be repeated with you
named all right fair enough now let me
ask you this John some people have asked
this question have you gotten in trouble
for some of the things that you revealed
in that book have any of the people some
of whom I didn't know have they in any
way come back to you and said hey
legally well legally or is nothing
socially look that was I was worried
about
well I mean at one point you I was a
little bit worried about a couple things
what were the things you were worried
about I there was a story about a
threesome I remember that story I didn't
want to mention who was in it
I di no I mean I was in it right you
were actually a part of that story I did
not name you you did not you were not in
the threesome I was not in the threesome
I do remember you are almost as much in
the threesome as I was to the extent
that I yeah then I think I came and told
you about it
do you think it the funnier I do
remember you actually left a threesome
to to tell you that I'm in the middle of
the three right now I do remember going
like what are you what well for the four
people listening or watching that the
school we with the college you might see
was pretty small yes so you could have a
threesome in one dorm and quickly run
across the quad again it could still be
going another your friend and alert your
friend and come back yeah and continue
yeah particularly based which is
actually what happened particularly
based upon the amount of involvement but
mm-hmm people haven't read this it's
much better just to watch your
appearance on Colbert to talk about it
that's virtual writing them and most
people who read the book was said the
same thing said the Kolbe like I like I
bought the book based on The Colbert
appearance and then I was like oh I
didn't really like their book nope
people did not say that
some people but now what what do you
prefer prefer do you prefer writing it
or voicing it the book yeah I didn't
enjoy writing it but and voicing it was
not that fun either so look well like if
you if I like it's it's hard to read
your own stuff if like you don't like it
right and there was no way out of I
tried to get out of reading it I think
but it made no sense because I'm like
like Pradhan
no for what I read or reading aloud what
do you mean like for my voice work what
I'll tell you about it later
it sounds like something that you would
have pitched to them to have hired
someone else to pretend they were you
reading it that would have yes really I
pitched a couple ideas like an old lady
right up you know a seven-year-old or
something yeah I'm like I'm almost
shocked and I think that like they
probably got down to like it's in your
contract that you have to read it
because it's the only reason we hired
you to write it hey I can't help but
think that you probably like we didn't
even care what you wrote it's just like
you've just read it whatever you want
now it have been nonsense and it might
have been better
well let's talk about your voice work
John my understanding is that there is a
Bob you for those people who don't know
you are the voice of Archer mm-hmm on
the program Archer yo you're also the
voice of Bob Bob's Bob's Burgers which
are on we well on occasion yeah my
understanding is that there is a movie
that has been announced it will be
released in 2020 am i apart of that I
mean I haven't heard your name brought
up yet as far as casting goes it's not
really my purview I assume you could do
what you normally would do and
inappropriately reach out to people well
I think that's in part one yeah and like
force yourself on them in the way that
you sometimes do for a lot of things
well I I feel like that's what I'm doing
at this moment you want me to reach out
for you well I'm reaching out to you to
put some pressure on I'm and the idea
that the star of the show I would think
I have no influence on bringing back an
extremely popular character who was in
the pilot episode it's almost hard to
believe no I mean I'm not saying I don't
have a lot of influence in casting
decisions I probably if I if I wanted to
I could probably go directly to the
creator of the show and bring up your
name right and say remember that
character from season 1 or whatever well
it wasn't just season 1 I think you'll
find it was not just in season 1
yeah and I mean I could I could
definitely do that and I have done that
with other people like frequently have
said like oh you should hire and in in
on every occasion where I have done that
it has happened good yeah I just don't
know whether I'm gonna do that yeah all
right fair enough
let me ask you this John you've been on
Archer for what now eight years nine
years I did just think about it and no
I'm not gonna do that
all right I don't think I'm gonna
contact the creator about it well you
know what you don't need to make a
decision right now well so you can just
think about it a little bit more okay I
mean I think I think I just did but and
I think like we thought about it but I'm
saying you could think of course I could
rethink it I'm not saying rethink it I
would just say don't even complete the
know like I said I you brought it up I
thought about it I said I decline and
then you said really think really think
it and I well let's just table that for
now shelve that come back to it later at
a different time and that would be a big
opportunity for you I mean probably what
they probably would John you've been on
Archer now for how long 10 years 10
years and how long have you known Bob's
Burgers about 10 years I think are you
gonna do anything new or anything that's
in any way challenging I mean just as a
I don't know if you're likely is like
let me finish my questions as a as a as
a as an actor as an artist do you ever
feel like I'm just resting on my laurels
because I've been doing the same thing
for so long and I
show up and talking to you know a
microphone and and seems somewhat ironic
based on you being here but what do you
mean let me just what you're doing but I
don't know like I would say I would say
no I still enjoy it as much as I did at
the very beginning and so no new channel
I don't know whether I would have know
whether don't you emotion you go up to
like President Barack Obama in year 7
and say do you still enjoy doing this
thing that you're doing I think it's a
ballad I'm just gonna just maybe just
stop no well I mean he has two terms
you've actually gone beyond that well
and I'm just asking that's an art I do
but you know I understand the analogy as
an artist do you miss having anything
that's challenging or new would you go
approach Pablo Picasso and say like are
you still gonna do the painting thing
well I think because the sculpture thing
that you're doing or maybe you want to
make a movie or branch out or do
something else
well I mean even just do a different
character I mean for god sakes I play
several characters on the show um you
know there's no reason to get defensive
I'm fine I'm fine I mean I did rethink
that thing we were talking about earlier
weekend and I'm gonna actually double
down and say that no definitely not
going to contact the creator of the show
to help you well like I say we have a
lot of time John you don't need to well
that's like twice now that I've
rethought it and I feel like that's like
probably like is failure is an option is
that available widely or is it is it is
it is it just being put out in a narrow
narrow situation I don't know much about
it
mm-hmm I think it's in Barnes & Noble
are you familiar I didn't to be honest
with you I did not know that they were
still around oh they are okay there's
still a brick-and-mortar Barnes and
Nobles I believe I bet you can get it on
on Amazon interesting or one of your
inaudible mm-hmm the book version mm-hmm
I don't know where else you can get it
John why no YouTube channel for you you
have a lot of YouTube videos around I
went back the other day and I watched
baby pranks no really yeah
that's still on YouTube it's still on
YouTube but I don't think you know you
well I would be like I would have to
like make new content and that's that's
an item on it that was sort of my point
well I'm like I would say one day every
two weeks doing the Bob character I am
also one day every two months doing the
archer character and that must get
exhausting so where you fit in time to
do a YouTube channel right I mean I it's
something that you told me to do a long
time ago I never did it right but all
those videos are very old and I haven't
necessarily made new ones they're all in
4x3 really yeah you can thank Bill buck
endorphins well I mean who knew where
things were going what is the new format
the new format is 3x5 basically or what
is the new format 7bi I can't remember
Nate byte was six by eight by I don't
know hey bite a bite if I can't I mean
like what would I do
twelve honestly what would I do like a
YouTube channel would have to be like
what YouTube is now which is like what
you do you know just like no filler
filler right well like just as someone
talking for an hour it's like what my
kid watches okay I mean I could do that
I could like play a video game well
there's a lot of people who do that mhm
Matt Matt wants to do that you do that
I'm looking to get into it in the future
as in like shoot yourself on in an inset
box playing video game yep yeah
my kid would watch it yeah it's great
anything else interesting John going on
with you
is there a park around here that has a
rhinoceros sculpture maybe I heard there
was it's interesting interesting
question
anything else live performances where
people couldn't see you is there a web
you don't even have a website do you
know what do you mean I have a job I
mean I have a job I don't need a website
I have a job well do you do you perform
live do there places that people could
use my postman and say like you have a
website a lot of postman do do you go to
your the guy in your building the super
and say like you have a website I can
take a look at well I mean there's a job
he's doing something I talked to a lot
of performers and comedian types hmm
they all have websites John okay yeah
I'm not doing it
I'm not doing it just cuz you said so
and am i doing it just because they do
all right well there you have it John
Benjamin
stuck in the past ladies and gentlemen
refusing to move into the future
nevertheless they put out a paperback
book and an audio version I imagine
there's a kindle version does that
bother you
why oh because it's technology it's yeah
advanced technology yeah I mean I don't
read it on a Kindle I mean I don't have
a Kindle but I don't enjoy reading on my
phone or my computer if that's what
you're getting at No so failure is an
option they re-released it does in that
way cut against a little bit about the
premise of the book John lastly lastly I
mean I'm not sure it's a total success
but they did make it a paperback so
perhaps a sequel moderate success is
also an option that's just a success is
not an option now moderate success is an
option right or success is an option
your success is an option yeah all right
well I mean feel free to take that
it's not like you needed my permission
anyways well feel free to read rhe pitch
that show that didn't go that you still
probably have called failure is an
option because no because they they
passed on it well so feel free to try a
comedy that's not my fault so I mean I
don't foresee you being on Bob's Burgers
anytime soon
great well I've got a lot of other
things to do in fact we're gonna have to
move on with this show so thanks for
helping me see yourself out definitely
right now hmm
I can't get up because I went poopoo and
my pants quick break we right back after
this alright folks what just I just want
to say in response to I guess some of
the feedback that it's true and the
tension between these two is real it's
very uncomfortable anytime they interact
and there is nothing ironic or comedic
about that Sam and John Benjamin hate
each other to the point where I really
wonder why we do this because it's
painful for everybody
well sometimes sometimes a little bit of
pain is is good to flush the system know
that everything you saw in that
interview was completely true and that
is actually Michael the chair you're
sitting in now it's actually the chair
that Jonathan well aware I'm well aware
I'm gonna sage the place later you baby
I say just I say it every day after you
guys leave I come back from the gym and
sage out all of all the Betty it's gonna
take a lot more a sage John actually
told the story in his book failure is an
option I think it was in that story that
he he had a problem on the 405 highway
in in California and it it's not a
problem that's just I should say
restricted to cars so like I say Michael
that is this
he was sitting in in fact my my daughter
when she was young
we should unionize my dad mean we you
and I as management well no well my show
shouldn't because it's kind of like a
fast-moving independent enterprise but a
sclerotic incumbency show yes nice try
the my daughter actually I'm trying to
see if I can find it when when that
happened to John yeah John told my
daughter the the story and and she she
made this this song which I turned into
a ringtone hold on here it is
[Music]
yeah I don't know what projects that
you've produced three daughter to harass
your friends you definitely a greatest
comedic accomplishment that is the phone
ring when John calls me the John
Benjamin has diarrhea song which maybe
we should be selling on Spotify or
something like that
alright in the meantime I see why she
got into that performing arts high
school yeah that's exactly the case yes
she she came up with that herself I
don't know what's the other word that
the other words were in the song folks
just a reminder this show relies on your
support you can become a member of the
majority report by going to join the
majority report calm when you become a
member you get extra content every day
you get no advertisements on the show
and you feel good about yourself for
supporting this program every day we
bring you long-form interviews more
often than not some days we just do a
roundup of new stories a lot of news
obviously we are looking to expand a
little bit maybe we may have a new
offering for you soon but we will have
more information on the future and your
support helps us do that and grow
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate great
company 10% off with the discount code
majority you can get the majority report
blend Michael today it's Friday as you
know which is followed by the weekend
then Monday happens and then Tuesday so
karelis about Tuesday's who's they the
one that happened prior to today Emma
big hland Iran's hidden revolution Joe
Biden's BS got into a lot
pretty bad lefty chat vigorous was
coming in on Tuesday he's brilliant
incredibly funny guy his podcasts the
discourse
really good we'll probably be doing some
pundit paper grading and talking about a
bunch of other stuff this weekend I
think we're gonna unlock it because we
did a sort of in-depth primer with
treati Parsi and what's happening with
Iran but also got into like what's
happening in the internal politics of
Iran and next week a primer on Hezbollah
so patreon.com slash TMS Michael Brooks
show on YouTube lots of clips up there
now Jamie this week on the Intifada we
speak with Samuel Stein author of
Capitol City
gentrification and the real estate state
about why the global housing crisis is
happening right now how it exposes the
inherent contradictions within
capitalism and what we can do to fight
back
both within a capitalist framework and
looking toward a long term communist
horizon incorporating examples of how
they run things in actually is existing
socialist countries like Cuba he also
explains the term real estate state and
why Trump is the apotheosis of it and in
the patrons only bonus we tell some of
our wildest housing stories including
the time Sam's landlord literally went
to jail for trying to murder a tenant
and still got to keep the building but
then Sam was evicted for an illegal
sublet and Matt yeah literary hangover
the song of hiawatha will be up on the
youtube channel tomorrow so to subscribe
and check that out next week probably
earlier in the week I released the
Margaret Fuller episode she's an early
feminist and socialist in the sort of
related to the transcendental movement
but she transcended the transcendental
movement and that'll be also available
for everybody next Saturday who
transcends the transgender I wish that
after you said that you played I don't
know why but just Herman Cain going
please don't talk over V which is what
liberals did we might see more from
Herman came in the next couple days
actually I'm looking forward to that why
is that I think I saw something on
Twitter I'm gonna check it out see if
it's funny but he was a part of that
capitalism versus socialism thing that
they did on Fox Business yeah Richard
Wolffe was there too I I would I
I should try and check that out all
right I'm gonna take take a quick break
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number we'll be right back after this
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
just one
I am a total John can we bring back to
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
I do have more consistent and the alpha
males like
Oh
on the back
on the back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
day to me Jew boy
I have a thought expand to foil the
alpha males of alpha males
[Music]
it's pretty amazing
alright let's just start with this
Donald Trump has pardoned someone who
was really down on his luck and it's
really the president can pardon whoever
he wants
really for any reason you recall that
Bill Clinton pardoned mark rich on the
way out of his administration people
were very upset about that I think with
some justification frankly not
appropriate in my estimation
I think Eric Holder was one of the
people who who promoted that if I'd not
if I if I don't remember if I'm not miss
Murray I'm miss remembering it turns out
that Donald Trump has pardoned Conrad
black Conrad black of course a Canadian
he was a wealthy publisher he was
actually the lord black of cross harbor
I think he is a should say Canadian but
he's British born no I'm sorry Canadian
born British citizen he was the head of
a big international newspaper an
enterprise that included I think the
National in Canada and maybe Chicago
paper others and in O seven black was
convicted of mail fraud and obstruction
in the United States he was supposedly
going to defraud the the shareholders of
the company that owned all those
newspapers of a lot of money he was
convicted on all the accounts but I
think two were
were overturned subsequent to that and
he ended up going to prison I believe
for two years but he'd be defrauding the
ruling class no that that is you got to
steal from the right people and so here
he is on a Laura Ingraham show last
night explaining why I got the pardon he
just wants to make it clear to everybody
that has nothing to do with the
biography that he wrote about Donald
Trump what is the title of it it's
literally something like oh yeah it's
Donald J Trump a president like no other
and the beautiful Tyra he's also written
several op eds I think one of them was
literally entitled Trump is the good guy
that a death
yes but fair but you know it was a very
honest piece and it came down to some
men mistakable conclusions in a way and
Conrad black wants you to understand
that that had nothing to do with the
pardon connor everybody knows you and I
have known each other for a long time
and I've spoken about your absurd case
for many many years and written about it
but your reaction to those who say that
this was just your flattery that won you
a pardon Loretha thank you for having me
on my reaction is I have absolutely no
reason to believe that the president is
even aware that I wrote that book he
certainly has never mentioned it and in
any case anyone has read it to see that
it is not uncritical it's no whitewash
point said some of the less salubrious
aspects of the studio and him in general
I am a supporter for policy reasons and
he was a pain to say when he phoned last
week that his motivation and he
authorized me to say this urgent need to
say this it was not that we've known
each other a long time that I've been
generally supportive of him it is that
after careful examination by the White
House Counsel his legal staff they
confirmed what Allender
it's and other lawyers said on my behalf
yet and the president's own words where
it was an unjust verdict and I never
should have been charged and it was a
bad rap
those were his motives really and in
favor side to his friends and you know
there would be you'd have five
ambassadors and every embassy and okay
first off so we're to believe that his
lawyers that Conrad Black is just super
lucky that his last name starts with a B
because I was going down the list and I
got to the B's and then you just stood
right out it was a liberal rias plastic
there's this black a this is black a
that you wrote a positive book about me
we need to get him out of jail his name
is Conrad black and he's my black they
said it was another blue briefs that it
was good put up the tweet that Trump
also wrote he didn't there's no
indication that probably did not come up
at all when Donald Trump authorized
Conrad black to say this is not just
because I know you but it's because you
really deserved it
what an honor to read your piece as one
of the truly great intellects and my
friend I won't forget 2015 right so I
forgot about it
total coincidence I forgot about that
had amnesia and then I was going through
because you gotta go by the list and so
we read out it it's like at least
several hundred people before you go
through it and after careful judicial
review and there just happened to fall
upon this I just I just love the fact
that Conrad black is like I'm gonna go
on television Rick rather than just sort
of lay low I'm gonna go on television
tell people this definitely was not
because I've written all that positive
stuff about Donald Trump or that I've
known him for a long time if Donald
Trump he wants us to believe that Donald
Trump is not the type of guy to give his
friends favors I don't pay attention to
the press yeah that's not true just I
mean the it's literally the one thing I
think people understand about Donald
Trump Donald Trump was probably like the
third /
and to sign up for google alerts for
their own name like in the history of
the service was how I learned you gotta
use Google actually it's like a hack
that tells you everything sound saying
about you it's amazing I had no idea you
wrote a book about me calling me a
unique president no idea it's magista
mazing that they can just everyone
involved in the production of that that
that hit on television didn't just die
of embarrassment in that one moment well
in a way it would have been even more
difficult if I knew he wrote a book
about me because that would have had the
appearance of impropriety and we all
know that when you're in office it's
it's a tough standard so it's one thing
actual impropriety which you can never
do but even the appearance of
impropriety is a problem so lucky for
Conrad I didn't know he wrote them if he
wrote a month that was nasty about me I
would have punted him sooner if he wrote
a book that was bad I would have had to
pat him on the first day and and frankly
I would have had to have had someone
read it for me and then explain it to me
so unbelievably Grieder big reader I
like to I like to read big things I read
books about ideas here is Fox News Fox
and Friends apparently did not get the
word that Donald Trump felt like he had
gone into the deep end without knowing
how to swim and had told the generals
like I didn't I didn't think it would
turn into a war I just wanted to I just
wanted the mullahs to think I was cool
and before that happened apparently Fox
and Friends thought the war we were
still down with the war and here is Fox
and Friends sean Parnell explaining why
we need to get into a massive war with
Iran with
a lot a lot of people dying but this
truthfully should be should not be a
surprise to anybody I feel like we've
been at war with Iran for 40 years like
I don't like to fight but if I walk into
a bar and a drunk guy starts throwing
punches at me I'm gonna fight whether I
like it or not and the fact of the
matter is is that Iran has been killing
Americans for 40 years now and we've
really done nothing who is that idiot
that is Sharn parnell ve o of where's
the shopper now CEO of branding freedom
yep
now to be fair to Sean he is a retired
Army he was a captain he was with the
10th Mountain Division so he probably
saw a significant amount of fighting at
the very least I would imagine in
Afghanistan but he doesn't seem I
wouldn't make him a general let's put it
that way the whole if there's a drunk
guy in a bar and he's gonna throw a
fight it's you know I impression that
Afghanistan's a giant bar also it would
be in Iraq right I mean the the war
itself I guess would be fought at least
in parts in Iraq and the idea is that
Iran is not just some big drunk guy and
it's not just him who's going to be
taking the punches there's going to be a
lot of other civilians who are going to
be killed hundreds of thousands probably
if we're lucky to avoid greater
casualties but that's basically what it
is this mentality of like let's just
like happens in a bar when people are
drunk that's all that war really is it's
just like that but more a little bit
well I also like and I I mean this
people have been pointing this out about
Iran for a while so this is not you know
a new point but it bears repeating like
and Tom cotton did this the other day
right when he's sitting there with
Margaret Hoover looks gonna be two
strikes you know like doing his like
what a first one
yeah first one last one I'm getting too
old for this
you know like that I am right yeah I am
the danger well okay so if Iran is the
equivalent of first strike last strike
and a fight in a bar fight then that
might contradict the like greatest
threat to humanity and the future of
America's existence right right you're
gonna have to pay you're gonna have to
decide whether like core geostrategic
threat even though they don't even have
the most powerful military in the Middle
East or something like just go and
thrash them a little bit and I mean of
course what's incredible is like the
answer is obviously somewhere in between
of like they're obviously not a threat
to us but they are way more
sophisticated and capable than Iraq and
look at how horrific and disastrous Iraq
was on every level I would also add that
if you're going to use the analogy of a
drunk guy in a bar fight it's the United
States that looks a lot more drunk get
into fights oh yeah yeah I mean you have
basically these rogue elements that are
creating the circumstance for the fight
they're the ones you know who are going
up and saying look hey buddy what's with
those shoes you know or what are you
doing here this is not your bar that's
happening you think you're gonna go to
that bar where people share stuff excuse
me Sarge you say something did you
looking at me watch take picture last
longer and then of course you know
Donald Trump has to tell the generals
like I am afraid of Bolton's mustache
can you please tell him no no war please
they said that if we talked like that
then they would apologize and kiss me
and then give me money but that isn't
happening and now I'm scared can you
help me please
it's I don't know III can't tell if I
feel like oh okay
there is like actually a system here
that is deeply damaged or there's
actually a system that is at least
what rational and working like you know
like where you can have a lunatic
element in the administration but
there's enough non lunatics to push back
I can't tell well they're all lunatics
in different ways right
yes but I'm talking like in ways that
aren't gonna end up killing hundreds of
thousands of people yeah well Trump's
lunacy is he likes to talk on
Twitter but to the degree that he has an
ideology where any of us is concerned
he's an isolationist I think because war
is annoying and he'd have to like talk
about stuff that's not himself a lot and
like you know what I'm saying
well I don't know the repetition I would
have to talk about it every day I'm also
board of what's I know generally I was
my guy through whatever have incited him
the guys there I mean look he founded
the country that was great he tried I
don't think it's accurate to say that
the Trump is an isolationist and in any
shape or form I think it's just that he
people came to him and said it's gonna
hurt your reelection chances to get into
a war that you haven't sold the American
public on and I think he's like oh okay
I think he's just a guy who literally I
don't think he cares one way or another
I think it's just a question of like
what does he think is gonna help him at
any given point and I don't think he has
I don't even think that he is I don't
think he thinks about stuff enough to
consider himself an isolationist I don't
think that he even in pragmatic he's
like this with jeb bush's around yeah i
you know a lot of people think that
macarthur Micaiah 'this should have
gotten credit but my question is why did
you chop down the cherry tree to begin
with maybe more people should be asking
that question Donald Trump is rolling
out a new immigration plan part of that
is there's a couple of parts of it and
we're you know I haven't quite seen all
of it but there was story today where
Trump is planning and we've heard
reports about this right like a couple
of weeks ago and it was unclear but
apparently Customs and Border Protection
has not publicly disclosed his plans but
there was local leaders in Broward and
Palm counties supposedly got wind of the
plan that calls for releasing of asylum
seekers and potential immigrants to
those two districts in Florida they've
been told to expect the arrival twice a
week of a hundred and thirty five asylum
seekers rerouted from the El Paso area
that's equivalent to about a thousand
people per month divided between the two
counties they're not getting any funding
whatsoever for this you're gonna have
people in there obviously who many who
don't speak English I'm in Florida is
not the worst-case scenario for an
influx of of spanish-speaking people to
the extent that they're all speaking
Spanish I mean there's a lot of people
who I think end up speaking indigenous
dialects or languages from you know
depending on who they are we don't know
who's going to be released there but the
idea I guess is to put pressure on these
counties maybe this is you know some way
of creating stress there so that Trump
can carry those counties maybe in an
election I don't know but it's pretty
stunning and here is Donald Trump laying
out the other parts of the immigration
plan which theoretically are is about
getting the best and the brightest which
ends up you know based upon the system
in which we determined that will keep
out essentially people who are poor
people who are coming presumably from
horrible situations in Latin America and
you know will ultimately probably
we'll end up allowing for more
immigration from countries that are a
little bit paler priority will also be
given to higher wage workers ensuring we
never undercut American labor to protect
benefits for American citizens
immigrants must be financially
self-sufficient finally to promote
integration assimilation and national
unity future immigrants will be required
to learn English and to pass a civics
exam prior to admission all right I mean
that's fairly straightforward to figure
out right I mean if you're coming from a
European country where English is taught
in the schools and you have access to
funds because you are a high wage earner
you're going to be able to take the
classes you're gonna have access to all
this information that you need to get in
to the country and so this is you know
there's a bit of a bank shot for them
but that's what it is
and it is it really is basically a
permit of action for white Europeans to
come into this country that's what it
comes down to yeah as if that many of
them want to come into our backwards
nation I mean I imagine some do but you
know there's probably maybe in some
businesses more opportunity for them
here but why is there seeking more
opportunity more legitimate than people
who are less wealthy seeking opportunity
why is their desire to come to this
country more legitimate than people who
are seeking asylum because their country
is a crap show like if there are jobs
for those people come in at low wages
then we have a need for them just as
much as those people are coming in with
seeking high wages it's there's really
ultimately only one way to explain it
and I'm quite sure they have run the
numbers on this they've probably you
know done a reverse model on this in
some way well I mean I think they also
know it was certain sectors of the
people who are doing this know that it's
not gonna totally stop immigration
coming into this country but they want
the people who are here to be
undocumented and in danger so that they
can't you know agitate for their rights
and it's easier to scapegoat them and
say to you know american-born workers
hey these are the people who are
undermining your rights not the policies
that we made this is an amazing story
that it's just the this AOC was
questioning a farmer executive about the
drug
it's a prep drug called qu vida it is
one of I think may be the only drug that
you can take as a prophylactic against
HIV and this drug was developed with
government grants was patented by the
government somehow they're not enforcing
the patent and a private company has it
it's charging nearly two thousand
dollars in the United States it's a
little bit cheaper in other places let's
just play part of this video people
should check it out is this the which
video is this it's the longer one okay
yeah alright let's watch some of this
here so the list price is almost two
thousand dollars in the United States
why is it eight dollars in Australia
[Music]
mr. O'Day you're the CEO of Gilead um is
it true that Gilead made 3 billion in
profits from the sales of Truvada in
2018 the 3 billion in revenue oh yes in
revenue thank you and very quickly at
the current list price is $2,000 a month
in the United States correct the current
list price is 1780 in the United States
and just to correct the 3 billion was a
global figure okay for for true so it so
the list price is almost $2,000 in the
United States why is it $8.00 can you
turn up the buy I'm not hearing any
Senna Truvada
it still has patent protection in the
United States
and in the rest of the world it is
generic there's no reason that should be
$2,000 a month people are dying because
of it and and there's no enforceable
reason for it
[Music]
dr. grant Truvada for prep is the only
known drug that can prevent the
transmission of HIV correct it's the
only medication that's been approved by
the FDA it's also known that tanaka vir
alone is is prophylactic for HIV thank
you and it was dr. grant it was your NIH
funded research on prep that built on
the earlier research work patented by
CDC researchers is that correct yes my
clinical trial was informed by CDC
research in two ways one the CDC
demonstrated that the pre exposure dose
was added to the efficacy of the prep
and thank you thank you dr. grant and I
would also like to seek unanimous
consent to submit to submit this Yale
School of Law study to the into the
congressional record which concludes
that the CDC's patents for prep were
both valid and enforceable thank you
very much doctor lord thank you for your
advocacy here today is it true that the
public invested 50 million to develop
prep that is correct is it also true
that Gilead relied publicly relied on
publicly funded trials to obtain FDA
approval yes if you look at their
supplementary new drug application
you'll see that every sponsor of Truvada
as prep was a non Gilead sponsor when
folks can't access prep because it's so
expensive and we spread you know the HIV
epidemic continues that also comes at a
public cost right so so the public is
paying we pay to develop prep we paid to
finance the publicly funded trials to
develop this drug we also pay and foot
the bill with patient assistance
programs and also we pay when the HIV
epidemic gets spread as well
alright let's pause it here we don't
need to see anymore man the point of it
is it's it's stunning me first off I the
the idea that we're not
we have mean this is like there's like
four different problems that are rolled
up and one in this but we allow drug
companies to maintain their drugs on
patent for way too long we should be
regulating drugs relative to their
importance in their costs to people so
that they are we have price controls the
idea that the same drug in the United
States costs one thousand nine hundred
and ninety two dollars more than it
would in Australia is absurd it's just
absurd it's not even a question to try
to figure out how to lower a drug prices
it's it's why are we why are we with our
mechanisms working so hard to inflate
them I mean we should be upholding our
patent in this and it the another like
major problem is that the the the idea
that that the government the
government's development of these drugs
is completely unseen by the general
population yeah what that's a really
important point to hammer on that I
think she did very well like they're
always justifying these drug prices by
saying oh it's Spurs innovation it's
first research and development when so
much of research and development is
publicly funded alright let's go to the
phones you call them from a for10 area
code who's this where you call them from
hi Sam hi cream hi degenerates the
YouTube chat it's that's Lee from ten
state Leslie from Penn State how are you
doing what's uh what's on your mind so
uh at the top of the program we've
talked a little bit about abortion and
the restrictive rules that they're
making in places like Georgia and
Alabama and I also saw earlier this week
that America's burden megan mccain was
saying something about how science says
life begins at conception and
I just graduated two weeks ago with a
degree in biology with a focus and
develop and development so if you want I
can lay some science on you about how
she's not correct whatever my father was
John McCain so I think you should listen
just wait with rides down go ahead okay
so around week five to six which is
where the Audis heartbeat ills are
becoming restrictive they're not
actually detecting a heart they're
detecting this little bundle of needed
erm cells which is called a heart tube
and we don't really see heart structures
like chambers without swimming post like
into like week seven a week eight and
then for like a neurological perspective
you only have like minor reflexive
movements present in the first trimester
brains brainstem functions don't finish
until like the second semester and you
don't see cerebral cortex higher
functions develop until like the third
trimester so a lot of these people who
are saying like oh life begins at
conception
well die goats are genetically unique
and they're able to generate their own
complex substructures they're still
dependent on the mother for oxygen and
nutrition so it doesn't really become a
question of life it becomes a questions
of ethics as to when it's ethical to
terminate a pregnancy because these
people they often conflate life and
consciousness and we still really
necessarily know when consciousness
begins let alone what it is so it's just
they're not being intellectually honest
because they're like distilling and
simplifying down this debate when the
scientific consensus on when life begins
is still kind of out and it's a really
complex issue so when all right so with
these so called heartbeat bells what
we're what we're hearing at that point
is really not so much a heartbeat
because the heart has not fully formed
it's almost closer to like a pulse right
is that it yeah during week 4
development we have something called
gastrulation which is where you have the
three main tissue derivative tissue
types form which are the ectoderm the
Lederman the endoderm is a become like
all your various organs and windings and
stuff like that so I wear on week five
to six they have a heart tube which is
literally like a tube that sort of
elongates into a bit of an S shape and
you see like some like twitching
activity but it doesn't really become
like fully regulated until it's hooked
up with the neuro - and what becomes the
brainstem and at that point in six weeks
the neural tube hasn't even closed so
like the precursor to what becomes the
brain and the final port hasn't even
formed yet so when is there actually a
heart that is connected to the brain
that creates at the very least you know
what we could really call a heartbeat
well that's sort of a difficult question
to answer because the heart and the
brain develop at different rates you
start to see like little mini structures
of the heart where you have like the
four chambers and some of the veins and
vowels and stuff around week nine
however that's not really connected to
anything very complex neurologically
it's connected to the neural tube but
the brainstem which in humans control
stuff like respiration doesn't really
form until the end of the second
trimester which is around like 2021
weeks okay so really to the extent that
we know when we talk about a heart in
the vernacular we're talking 2021 weeks
is really the begin time there could
there's actually a a heart as we speak
of it well it's not it's the time when
like the you get the heart hooked up to
the nervous system because the heart can
like beat independently if it has to but
like you don't really see that like hook
up of the nervous system until that
those sort of basal functions in the
brain stem the spinal cord begin to
develop okay yeah all right well I mean
there it is I mean I you know I think
Meghan McCain made it pretty clear that
the theory is that life and it's I guess
you know like what
like what constitutes life do you think
in their in their nomenclature and what
would science say is life because like
isn't a cell life just like if I mean I
posed to take a cell from my hand isn't
that life not to mention all okay so now
we're kind of getting into what
differentiates like a living cell from
an organism so a living an organism is
considered to be a genetically unique
entity which is capable of forming
complex sub structures in order to grow
develop sustain itself and eventually
reproduce so that's what we would
consider an organism at least from like
a more biological perspective um so
while like your skin cells and stuff are
alive and like the cells in your heart
the cells in your brain individually
they are alive they're they're part of
an organism so they themselves are not
necessarily like alive per se I don't
know if that sort of answers your
question but that is the dilemma right
because a fetus is life in the same way
that a cell is life but if it cannot
survive distinct from the system in
which it is a part of at that time and
the system is the mother is a woman and
at that time that you know their life
has there's plenty of things that are
that that constitute life that aren't a
person that isn't a live in and of
itself right that that doesn't exist
distinct from being part of a larger
human being and so that is I guess the
the distinction I'm trying to sort of
like tease out here is that is that is
that notion of that entity you know like
and and to a large extent like I'm not
even sure that we need to go through
this exercise but I think it is
important because people are claiming to
cite science and they're not and so that
is the distinction there right like
there is all part of our body is
life it's it's not dead if I might if
you know my organ was dead I'd want it
removed but yeah but if I remove but but
the organ itself is not you know nobody
is giving my my pancreas nobody's giving
my pancreas or my kidney writes outside
of me in my body but theoretically right
we could you know sciences is ultimately
going to get to a place where we could
take my kidney and take maybe some
structure out of it and create a
separate distinct human life right yeah
that's uh quite literally hundreds of
years down the pipeline but yeah through
generation of stem cells from already
differentiated tissues we are starting
to see sort of the very beginning of
processes like that and the thing that
just really gets me is that a lot of
these right wingers they're conflating
life with consciousness and like it used
to be before we have like a lot of like
ultrasound technologies the quickening
which is sort of like when the mother
can first feel the movements of the
fetus which is around 18 to 20 weeks was
generally like considered one like the
fetus transition is like personhood and
when you're talking in terms of
premature babies we've had such advances
of Technology we it used to be the
consensus in like the seventies in the
80s it like we could never have a
preemie survived that was under 26 weeks
then they became under 24 in the 90s now
in the 2010s you're seeing rather
regularly these miracle cases of 20 21
22 week old
um embryos surviving some of them have
disabilities but a few of them pull out
and they're relatively normal and that's
sort of become a double edged sword and
given these via cracks like a bigger
window to push their religious agenda
onto pregnant people right all right
well I appreciate the phone call it is
nice to talk to someone who actually
know
the science yeah my father was in
Vietnam yeah also really really quick in
one of the bills I think it said talking
about what reimplantation sees like
taking the pregnancy from words
implanted in the fallopian tube and
putting it in to the uterus we literally
can't do that we do not have the
technology to do that tell people what I
call fake pregnancy is okay so an
ectopic pregnancy is so when
fertilization occurs the the egg and
sperm are joined in the fallopian tubes
which lead from the ovaries to the
uterus normally around a week three of
fertile is a after fertilization the egg
begins to travel down those tubes and
implants itself between week 3 and week
4 into the side of the uterus and that's
where you get those first tissue layers
to form as well as the beginnings of a
percent a to form and then ectopic
pregnancy it basically it doesn't travel
down all the way so you get the egg this
is I goat implanting into the lines of
the oviduct and as the fetus grows
you're stretching the oviduct which is
not meant to stretch and it can burst
and hemorrhage and cause a lot of like
horrific life-threatening medical issues
from the mother which is why ectopic
pregnancies are basically as a rule
always terminate because it threatens
the life of the mother but their talk is
being able to cut out that zygote from
the oviduct damaging the oviduct
implanted into the uterus which involves
creating another incision in the uterus
making you vulnerable to infection and
somehow magically getting that ramp set
as I go to detach from the oviduct
tissue and reattach to the uterus tissue
we can't do that we don't have the
technology to do that they just wrote it
in the bill like this is what would have
to happen it's ridiculous okay but you
are completely discounting how God would
come in and do that I mean if some
magical person from
I can like wave their hands make that
happen like your current room but I
think statistically the odds are not
good
you want a little bit of an assist I
think maybe I could help with that yeah
I think I mean with all due respect
you're talking science but do you
obviously forgot that it's not some
person it would be a guy gods a guy all
right well I appreciate I appreciate
that a little burst of science for
people hopefully that's going to still
be relevant in the coming years and
folks like you won't be rounded up for
for speaking heresy but I appreciate the
call thank you all right you too
thanks again maybe I could be of some
assistance don't actually be really
funny commercial alright folks we don't
have too much time left here let's go to
come from a to15 area code
who's this where you come from hi Sam
it's Mindy Mindy how are you Mindy hi
sir I'm good first I want to give a
shout out to FDR max Marx FDR Marx yeah
second of all that was uncomfortable
with John Benjamin yeah do that again
super uncle number three what it was
super uncomfortable for me I can tell
you super uncomfortable for me too so
we're on the same page with that third
thing is it references baby thing this
is such complete when I had my
second I know technology technology has
changed in 25 years since I've had my
daughter but when I had my daughter my
second child I was close to 35 and they
wanted me to have an amnio
they couldn't schedule the amnio till I
was 10 weeks pregnant because there was
nothing to find out about the baby other
than I was pregnant
so they scheduled the amnio at 10 weeks
and then they did the amnio and two days
later when the cells were growing they
called me and they told me that there
was something wrong they didn't know if
it was determining
with Denova new first of all I have to
say this is all the rial these stories
that I tell you all the time are not
coincidental this is why I'm so
political okay because of all these
things that have happened to me that's
why I'm a crazy Democrat okay
so let's just get that early so they
called me and they told me that I had to
come in so I went in with my husband and
they took our pride and they wanted to
see if it was de novo meaning that if it
was a new thing because my daughter had
what they call a balanced translocation
two of her chromosomes broke off and
attached to other chromosomes when they
were forming and they didn't know if she
was going to have anything from a slight
learning disability to profound
retardation so during that time there
was no testing I mean not much testing
they told me at 15 weeks I could go in
and get a heart study but not until 15
weeks because there was nothing to study
until 15 weeks so I had to wait from 10
or 12 weeks to 15 weeks to go in and get
an extensive heart study on my daughter
to see if there was anything wrong with
the heart because they say a lot of
retardation starts from the heart and if
the heart was okay there was a
possibility that she was going to be
okay okay so while I was doing this I
kept scheduling abortions in different
states because I didn't want a profound
 child so um I think I
was all the way out and like I don't
know somewhere and I don't remember it's
25 years ago but I remember canceling
and making new abortions and I ended up
meeting every gene specialist genetic
specialist in Pennsylvania and I got up
to the guy that trained everybody
underneath them and I sat in the office
and I was hysterical crying and I said
if I was your daughter what would you do
and they couldn't tell me because of
legal issues so I ended up having her
because I had a choice I had a choice to
have her right because I thought she was
okay because the extensive heart study
came out normal and it's also light it's
also a choice that people make that
their
going to deal with having a child who is
not typical that may have you know you
know challenges that other kids don't
have which is a perfectly valid choice
obviously to make right so I asked my
husband what he wanted to do and my
husband said I don't care because it's
your baby you have to take care of it
and at that moment I just thought I was
divorcing I mean I got divorced from
them a few years later but that's
another another day but I ended up
having her and she came out and she's
perfect I couldn't look at her the first
day she was like the first lay couple of
hours because I was scared that me
wanted to put me in like an extensive
study for like bounce translocation
children and they wanted to look at her
every year like for a year and do like
Studies on her and I did it for like a
minute and then I opted out of it
because I didn't want hard to be
thinking she was not normal
I mean she's 25 now she's perfectly
normal and I had a happy ending
and I was prepared to deal with the baby
if she wasn't normal because I just was
that type of person
but um I had a choice and that's why I
am so crazy about this now the only
thing I want to add is she didn't have a
heartbeat till she was 15 months old
because they wouldn't schedule the
heartbeat 15 weeks at a funhouse 15
weeks or 15 weeks they didn't have the
heart she did not have a heartbeat or
they couldn't they couldn't give me the
study on the heart study and I remember
I had to wait three or four weeks
between the amnio and the hubby plus I
had to wait till ten weeks to get the
amnio in the first place because there
was nothing to find out if there was
anything wrong because there was nothing
formed right Oh last thing I have to add
also it's not my first pregnancy
it was my was my fourth that's another
story but anyway I knew I was pregnant
of four weeks and I felt like I was
fighting because I had been pregnant
before and I took a pregnancy test now
this was 25 years ago
again but I took a pregnancy test at 25
for weeks
and he came up negative like the whole
entire like two weeks until I was six
weeks pregnant so even if you feel like
you're pregnant
it might not I don't know about
technology now but it wasn't showing up
then that you were pregnant and I was
like walking around I'm pregnant and my
mother's like shut the up you're
not pregnant and I'm like I'm pregnant
but it's so it's it's so messed up this
whole abortion thing is so messed up and
it fans out into so many different areas
of discussion with this you know I mean
and then I went on last thing I'll say
about me last week last thing I had her
3435 at 39 I had a gigantic fibroid in
my stomach and I had to get a
hysterectomy and I had the hysterectomy
are they gonna stop women from having
hysterectomies because then they can't
child bear anymore like when I got my
uterus cut out
I couldn't have babies anymore are they
gonna stop the hysterectomy thing I mean
look I I that to me I I it's hard for me
to imagine but it's not hard for me to
imagine that and they want to make it
like if they by criminalizing abortion
they're not really criminalizing
abortion but you're going to have just
like you have like with marriage
equality and before marriage equality
was even was legal you had prosecutors
who wanted to make their in local
sheriff's and and whatnot across the
country want to make their hey on you
know by prosecuting gay people you're
going to have multiple cases in these
states where women who have had
miscarriages are going to be
investigated and and I I will tell you
there right now you have a law like you
do in in Georgia if you have a law like
you do in Ohio like the one you have in
in Alabama obviously in other states
around the country I can it's almost
guaranteed that if these laws are upheld
I don't know if it'll be five years from
now four years from now three years from
now there will be women who are sent to
jail charged with having an illegal
abortion who simply had a miscarriage
and maybe it'll be two maybe there'll be
one maybe there'll be a dozen able to be
20 maybe there'll be more those are
those are women have just had
miscarriages there'll be women who have
abortions
there'll be doctors they'll be in jail
and all the investigations that will
have happened that don't lead to people
in jail all of the regulations that will
be required to monitor a woman's
pregnancy will be instituted it will be
worse than it was pre roe v wade but
maybe yeah I was alive in 74 um I had an
abortion when I was in 77 a clean safe
abortion when I was 18 in and I don't
have any repercussions from that but
people before me were going to back
alleys and I mean that I knew I mean
they were using the hangar and all that
 was going on there was abortion
bans that were driving around they had
like these illegal borsch abortion bans
where like this van would come it would
be like an operating room and like the
the truck and you would have an abortion
in the van I mean all that stuff for
like $300 or something now last thing
what about all these women are they
gonna tell you you can't smoke anymore
like what about the women that are
pregnant that got caught smoking or do
heroin or drink to make it right we're
not eating well yeah what about if
you're promiscuous and you stay up too
late and you are partying what about if
you're with John Benjamin and you have a
threesome right I mean there is a you're
the door is being opened to you know
once you exert this type of control over
means biology the door seems to me to be
open to all that Mindy I appreciate the
call have a good weekend that's my story
I have a lot of stories I know we
appreciate it thank you for calling in
that and that's the thing folks is that
the idea that the gsella tree and the
and this is driven understand this is
driven by a worldview that places women
in a very specific role in society and
it's obviously a subjugated role it's
obviously a narrow role it's one that
says that you cannot have sex without
the you know getting the repercussions
that's if you're a woman for a guy there
there are none but this is why - they
attack birth control you wouldn't attack
birth control if you are concerned about
minimizing abortions you wouldn't attack
sex Edie if you were concerned about
minimizing abortions
it doesn't logically make sense it does
make sense if you believe that women
should not be having recreational sex
that women are on this earth - if not
exclusively primarily be vessels for
potential other human beings
and once you say that that there that
that a woman that is their primary
function and they don't even have the
ability they don't have the sovereignty
of themselves to do more than that and
to have the freedom to choose to engage
in that there's no reason to expect that
these people are going to be like okay
abortion is illegal now now our job is
done I mean because this just is
the just a pillar of what they believe
women's role in society is and should be
they will come after birth control pills
they still are they will come after
things like you know the morning-after
pill if you were concerned about a
heartbeat even though there's no real
heartbeat at six weeks but if you are
concerned about the the baby that you
think is there after six weeks then why
wouldn't you be handing out the
morning-after pill well they want to get
it to a place where people can't get
abortions or the morning-after pill well
but the point is is that if if their
definition of killing a baby is at six
weeks why wouldn't you be handing out
the abortion pill before that happens
the next day money after pill the
morning-after pill why wouldn't you be
doing that the next day that this is my
point is that it is not about abortion
it is not about a contraception it is
about controlling the sexuality of women
because in their mind this is the
purview of God and man and I mean
specifically man and so do not be a
mistaken this is not where it ends this
is not quite the beginning but it's not
where it ends do not do not believe that
a it should it shouldn't take that
realization to motivate people to fight
against this but this is not where it's
going to end folks this is what we are
seeing is symptomatic of a perspective
on women and their role in society this
is not the ends this is just a you know
part of the journey for them yeah I mean
I agree with you about all of these
factors that are driving this but I do
think for some like end of
Jools who consider themselves pro-life
that it is a little more nuanced than
that like there are people who have a
sincerely held belief that a fetus is a
human being and killing it is morally
equivalent to killing a fully-formed
person and to the degree that people can
be persuaded I think we should be
spreading science like our caller just
delivered to us because you know there's
a lot of misinformation out there like
right the one of pictures of fetus quote
unquote aborted fetuses that they often
put on those signs at protests are often
just their dead babies or their
miscarriages the they are not
representative of the vast majority of
abortions and for the for the number of
people who have been fed misinformation
and might be persuaded by the scientific
arguments we should continue to make
them yes I mean I I I think it's
absolutely the case that you have
different gradations if you will of who
is driving this the anti-abortion agenda
there are like Cohen centric circles and
that there are people on the outer
circles who are who are not so extreme
you know ranging from people who
personally feel that abortions are wrong
but don't want to impose that morality
on other people through you know the
different gradations where people are
like abortions after 20 weeks are wrong
abortions after twenty five weeks are
wrong abortions after 15 or six weeks
are wrong but the agenda is driven the
people who are driving this the people
who are raising money the people who are
writing the legislation the people who
are
who are leveraging the existence of
those people I just mentioned their
agenda goes much further than this so
yes there is always there's always you
know nuances invariants amongst a
coalition of people who are supportive
and that's why you're getting some
people who are like wait what what wait
what happens women go to jail wait a
second no I don't want that I just want
abortion to be illegal this reminds me
of a conversation we had on tea MBS with
Joshua Kahn and he has the spectrum of
allies and I put it up here basically
you have active allies passive allies
neutral passive opposition and active
opposition I think like in the neutral
and passive opposition it is nice to
have like that you know the science
factoids about like what's a heart and
where when does it develop and then you
can move on to the more important
conversation like this is not the
government's role to be telling women
what they should be doing and I will and
I will say this too like you know there
are the real anti you know choice people
the real the the heart of the matter the
most extremes those other people who are
you know on that spectrum from there to
you know people who think that women
need to make this choice they've signed
on to this and you know this is one of
those things where they don't want to
make it to be binary but the fact of the
matter is it is there is no doubt
there's a lot of gray area here but if
you want to draw a line in the sand and
say this is where women don't have
control of their bodies understand that
it's the act of drawing the line not
where you draw it which is where you are
casting your lot and that is the problem
those people who have a more nuanced
perspective that's all well and good but
this is a political question now and
they're signing on to this larger agenda
they signed up for it they may not have
realized that maybe they should have
done a little more work but they have
signed up for this agenda this is where
it leads to yep and I think in much the
same way that
it's sort of a holy alliance between the
crazy racists and the bloodthirsty
capitalists on criminalizing migration
it works here too like the religious
right who is driven by all these ideas
about a woman's place in the world and
in society allies very well once again
with the people who mostly care about
money and their position in the
hierarchy and they know that if poor
women and that's usually who we're
talking about right because rich women
will always have access to abortion in
one way or another if if poor women are
deprived agency over their own lives and
how many kids they have and when they
have them they're more likely to stay
poor and so will their kids I and and I
will say this and I think that's that's
largely the case and but but across the
board you're talking about a lot more
women if you outlaw abortion you're
talking about a lot more women who are
not going to have access then will have
access and it is without a doubt a an
economic question in terms of a woman's
ability to a woman's ability to to make
money I mean the argument that like look
women are now forced to carry
pregnancies to term we've got too many
people leaving the office we have too
many women who are who are not committed
to their careers I mean this is going to
happen a and B rich people will have
access to abortions but anything you
know the fact is is that if there are
laws in that state that are going to
monitor your pregnancy they're still
going to be subject to them there's
going to be a doctors who are going to
say like the number of doctors who are
going to be willing to perform this is
going to be you know limited because
they're gonna be risking stuff I mean
this is there are gonna be people who
obviously you're gonna have access to
this wealthy people seem to skirt a lot
of laws my understanding is is that if
you're a billionaire the whole thing
about customs and stuff like that when
you come from a foreign country that
know
that doesn't even exist for you um but
broadly speaking I think there's a lot
of women who I I think this will will
travel up the economic scale further
than most people suspect all right
listen we have run out of time folks I'm
sorry we got a bunch of callers I'm
gonna take some IMS and then we got to
go my kids have been very very very
agreeable but they're going to lose it
in a second
JJ cool I want to offer some comfort for
everyone who's worried about Biden
winning the primary if you recall there
were certain commentators who promised
that if Trump on the presidency we would
see a progressive revolution nothing can
go wrong folks yeah I mean I don't want
to get too caught up in that but I will
say that that having someone like Biden
was probably the safest bet that you
would get following Trump because we saw
after Bush for for eight years we the we
got we got Obama congressional baseball
fan the majority port has been a huge
part of my life over the years I just
want to say thank you to Sam and the
crew for everything you do now for some
reason I'm having Arby's Post mated
using a discount code majority a check
out Joe Biden is quickly cemented a spot
in the lineup for next mission game
against the venezuelan national baseball
team Brad hominem the sequel to Hillary
Clinton's book it takes a village could
be call it takes more than sage Winnipeg
Craig Sam there's pretty strong video
evidence circulating that you are in
fact a participant in h john benjamins
threesome now your alibi that john
called you about it during the threesome
seemed suspect like a cover-up pajama
boy with those new offerings you were
talking about possibly be a jimmy dore
show on maggiore port or maybe michael
tracy taking over for you Sam
Salvatore why do you keep giving British
fascists like Faraj Sargon and Robinson
airtime for the European election you
haven't shown a single clip from the
debates which would have been much more
interesting to your audience that's I
mean I I personally you know
think the the idea that when we give
airtime to someone from a different show
and reinterpret their performance there
and editorialize it I don't think is the
same as basically giving somebody a
platform I mean we're not doing that but
I mean I I I mean I think there's
probably value in us looking at the
debates but I haven't seen any clips oh
they haven't come up on my radar to be
honest shield Jaguar tuned in late why
is Sam doing his HH Goodman
impersonation doc naps hey I'm our crew
what problems would you foresee if you
were to change the Supreme Court to have
for justice appointed by a Republican
and for appointed by a Democrat in any
presidential candidate chooses a VP and
a chief justice as running mates uh it's
gonna take me a while to get my head
around that Judge garsh lay well what
happens when abortion has been
completely will that depress the right
wing turnout maybe the strategic move is
not to play into the right wing hands by
taking these cases to the Supreme Court
and even let them run their course when
the right wing isn't able to use
abortion as a wedge the issue natural
Democratic majority will be able to take
over and repeal these cases I I I don't
think it quite works that way I don't
think it quite works that way the Chris
lapacho I think the bodily autonomy
argument works much better than the
person heard argument whether or not a
fetus is a person shouldn't even be a
factor in the equation no living person
should be legally required to sacrifice
their body for another person otherwise
fathers could be required to donate
organs to their children after birth
there's no exception for the health of
the parent than that of the father could
be required to give up his heart of his
child needs it nobody would require that
kind of sacrifice from men same should
go for women no person is entitled to
the use of another person's organs
I like that argument lopaka yeah I think
that's a good argument but I don't think
they're mutually exclusive brother from
Brooklyn while I don't like him de
Blasio seems to be better than 75% of
the Dems running on Bill Maher you said
only progressives should run for
president and no moderates need apply
we'll play some clips of de Blasio at
the beginning of next week I don't know
people are down on him but you know the
biggest thing that I've heard is is is
housing we've had tremendous cuts the
housing across the country from a
federal level that doesn't mean that we
can't do more locally we actually talked
on this week's anti fada
about all the bad housing policy that de
Blasio has perpetrated on New York City
to worse and gentrification there's so
folks can check that out I also
personally you know I think UPK is
completely underestimated in terms of
universal pre-k is as to how helpful
that's been across the board and you
know hopefully soon we'll start to see
sort of like the data roll in it's only
two or three years old now this program
but this is data that will start to crop
up I think with third graders MV Scott
Trump says I'm not a racist i pardon to
black the DX fool hello Laura Harriet's
Disney recently released their movie
scheduled for next year including all
the stuff choir for 20th Century Fox and
the Bob's Bergen movie still slated for
July 2020 since only the main cast is
listening on IMDB do you know if you
David Cross Andy Kindler Paula
Poundstone are still in don't know yet
and as john benjamin ever run it to
megan mccain while he was writing for
conan and she was interning for SNL not
to my knowledge
why can't Michael Brooks do a voice in
his cartoons peaches alright folks the
final I am of the week courrier 11 hi
Sam I missed the beginning of the show
what's with the Max Headroom routine I
am on the road at the moment and that's
what we got alright folks see you on
Monday I'll be back
got to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
