[Music]
Houston or yeah steer Park Texas
stepping by Houston Deer Park Texas in
Houston a really terrible story
basically there's been a fire at a
chemical plant and people need to be
indoors you know look let's politicize
this in a way so maybe this might
actually not happen in this country
someday this is gonna affect thousands
of people's health this is from the city
city of Deer Park go inside immediately
seek the nearest enclosed structure
whether it's a house business garage or
vehicle if you know of any unintended
child in your neighborhood call them and
tell them to remain indoors keep any
pets indoors also gather emergency
supplies like a going on portable radio
flashlight and extra batteries close all
doors windows and other sources of
outside air turn off air conditioning or
heating systems and close the fireplace
damper to keep chemical vapors from
entering ceiling fans or rotary fans
inside the building's can be you be
safely used to keep cool cover any gapes
holes or cracks wet towels or sheets to
prevent vapors from entering your home
if you have trouble breathing contact
9-1-1 so I mean we're gonna play a
couple clips of it we have a we are a
massively under regulated society where
companies can regularly disregard and
jeopardize Public Health and Texas who
is held up as a pinnacle of how to live
by the right well I don't want to live
like this let's check it out this is a
Mia savage of ABC 13 this is my show
we're coming to you of course upwind
from the ITC containment facility we're
right now at least seven containers are
burning and you know we've seen plant
officials say hey everything is under
control we monitor the air
it's all within the limits we talked to
some environment to listen cluding the
man with Airlines Houston he says hey
your eyes are not deceiving you well I
think you know just by looking behind me
you can tell that this is not normal
this is not and like I said the only
thing that's preventing preventing this
from being a major catastrophe is a
favorable weather conditions everything
is not fine that's why it's important to
stay on top of the information about
what's in these chemicals we must have
transparency from the government and
from the company involved and we will be
keeping on top of this to give you the
latest information um and then we have
just more raw footage of this I mean
again deregulation kills Bravo on that
report to Bravo and that report
incredible reporting from Michele Shea
Maya Shea yeah sorry savage on Twitter
Maya Shea my ashame is a excellent
reporting excellent local reporting
garage and I mean I their and they and
the company is spinning that this is ood
food control was a massive chemical fire
of course several years ago there was a
fertilizer explosion in Texas that
killed several people and then of course
we get more and more disclosures every
day of PG and E's conduct in California
I would say look more provocatively you
know capitalism this is a fundamental
logic of capitalism alright but if you
want to even keep it in the bounds of
that is my fundamental diagnosis if I'm
being you know transparent but if you
want to keep it in the bounds of a more
sort of narrow debate deregulation kills
