[Music]
here's my good friend Grover Norquist on
on Fox and Friends and just trotting out
the lie this is this is a sad thing like
you know they the Republicans thought
they could run on the Republican tax cut
in 2018 and they ran on it insofar as
they ran away from it well what about
come over here so she just said that you
know the tax cut benefits the top 1% is
that accurate well that's what the left
was saying right when the bill passed
remember when the tax cut was very
unpopular in polling when it passed as
we got closer to April 15th of this year
and Americans actually saw the size of
the tax cut they got it became much more
popular
what Harris and Joe Biden they're
talking about taking away from people
family of four posit I want you to just
note they he did not answer the
criticism it just basically impacting
the top one percent but when they talk
about the repeal Grover Norquist is
going to tell us about the repeal now
the thing that they Grover Norquist is
not going to tell us in fact even the
candidates who are calling for the
repeal are not going to tell us is that
all the things he's about to mention the
tax cuts for the middle class the few
tax cuts for the middle class they
automatically sunset by the middle of
the next president's term player 470 for
$73,000 median income that family would
have $2,000 in higher taxes if you took
away the Trump tax cuts that's how big
the Trump tax cut was for a family of
four earning seventy three thousand
single parent earning forty one thousand
dollars one child single parent would
cost that person at $1,300 to lose the
Trump talk set that's how large the tax
cut was these are significant tax cuts
even the New York
times in the Washington Post in their
fact Jackson others had to say this was
a tax cut for most Americans and that's
sinking in now your posit first off okay
it's when he says it's a tax cut for
most Americans alright
what he's saying is that most Americans
may have had a tax cut but the vast
majority of the value of these tax cuts
went to corporations and to the
extremely wealthy and I have misspoke in
2025 all of the tax cuts that he
mentioned repeal anyways and all that
we're left is the tax cuts on the
multimillionaires and the corporations
but let's just see if there was only a
way we could assess how people felt
about the tax cuts coming up on April
15th is there any way to do that Matt do
we have any mechanism like maybe some of
the polling or those are articles no we
didn't pull those because we can get
that right now oh I got it right here
I emailed it to you on tax day Trump tax
cuts remain deeply unpopular from
Politico date April 15th Wow that seemed
on the day of April 15th maybe what he
meant was the tax cuts were super
popular like on the 12th of April and on
the 13th of April but by the time the
April 15th came on Trump tax cuts remain
deeply unpopular because people know
that when you give huge tax cuts to
corporations and tiny ones to the rest
of us ultimately what happens is things
get more expensive because the wealthy
people drive up the prices and
government services get shrunken at one
point if not now then later the end of
this is pretty good too in the world 35
we took it out at 21 percent which makes
us competitive
115 the 21 is good to get rid of the
Trump Republican tax cuts is to make us
the least competitive nation in the
world on tax policy on businesses that
is exactly where you don't want to be
also that tax cut lowered most Americans
yes most Americans utility bills because
those utility bills just pass on your
your taxes when we cut taxes billions of
dollars in lower utility bills for all
Americans though don't piss down my back
and tell me it's raining and all don't
you ever doubt my sneakers in a weird
confused stream those tax cuts were so
not passed on to people remember
remember all the the the supposed jobs
that were gonna be created by these tax
cuts no hell is he talking about with
utility bills that just came to his head
I think he says selves like it's one of
those like Keyser s√∂ze moments he's
looking around utilities spills
