[Music]
and we now know the Republican talking
points they have accidentally been
released and to be fair been told
they've told everywhere disregard those
Republican talking points but here they
are in action here is first office Hogan
Gidley
he is the one of the spokes peoples for
for Donald Trump
here is his spin they're all being sent
out to do some version of these talking
points about the about the the the phone
call that has been the trip you know the
supposed transcript that's been released
that it's probably dubious in and of
itself but certainly damning even in its
current form but here's a Hogan giddily
on Fox News president has admitted to
certain things and events that took
place leading up to that phone call
including the withholding of that four
hundred million dollars in aid to
Ukraine why did the president do that
leading up to this call right well the
president ran on this very issue he won
on this very issue and now he's trying
to implement the issues he ran and won
on they voted for the American people
voted for this listen it was did the
word Ukraine ever leave his mouth during
the campaign particularly in the context
of too much corruption in Ukraine like
the idea that they're selling this to
the American public
this is they've got to come up with a
plan like D I'm just saying it's Biden
that's what they're doing right it's not
Ukraine it's like it's all about I mean
and Biden could not even be running for
president but we'd have to expose this
cuz it's really bad right we can't turn
the page on this one I can't turn the
page on this one remember how before I
said lock her up I meant I was
lock him up that's what that was about
lock him up last she felt sufficiently
embarrassed but Joan is fair too
cocky too cocky too cocky
and one on they voted for the
American people voted for this listen
every tax dollar that is spent every
dollar the American people send in to
this government the president wants to
make sure that spent properly we spend
hundreds of billions of dollars across
the globe and the president looks at
that all the time what are we getting
back for that we want less foreign
involvement others should pay for their
own way should up their up there
sherry but we want more dirt on anybody
the president's gonna run on if we're
gonna spend American taxpayer dollars
this is really tough for them I think I
mean they haven't quite found it yet but
that's that's the first attempt here's
Rudy Giuliani with the other attempt
there's no quid pro quo there's no quid
pro quo all we have is Donald Trump
saying over and over again Giuliani and
borrow we'll give you a call about this
Biden thing and because that prosecutor
was treated very badly and he was very
fair prosecutor so good luck with
everything your economy is going to get
better and better I predict two very odd
thoughts to combine together if they are
not in some way contingent with each
other presidents they don't talk about
the economy I mean I might be from the
country swamps of Georgia play seriously
I hear is Giuliani making the argument
no quid pro quo a complete live from a
bunch of disorders you had a shadow
agenda regarding Ukraine a completely
nonsense first of all I never knew about
the 250 million military aid this whole
thing began with an allegation that the
president said to the President of the
Ukraine I'm not going to give you a 250
in military aid unless you investigate
Joe Biden when you read the conversation
they have no mention of 250 right
there's no mention of military aid
there's no quid pro quo this is the
transcript quote the president of the
Ukraine the only one who said
in here if anybody was pressured the
only one who to be pressured is the
president of the Ukraine not Adam shift
and Jerry Nadler so president of the
Ukraine says I wasn't pressured end of
case
I know ver mr. maryk I ask you did you
read the transcript let's say it was
read to me it was read to you the whole
thing by Pope so in it there did
greg jarrett and fretted Dershowitz and
others are quite right when they say if
the president hadn't discussed the
subjects he discussed with the president
of the Ukraine he'd be a president like
Obama who closed his eyes to corruption
president United States has an
obligation to take care that the laws
the United States are faithfully
executed under article 2 section 3 of
the Constitution something that
Democrats don't read anymore if the
president hadn't done that he's been
derelict in his duty now who else can
raise it with the president of the
Ukraine the head of the FBI can't call
the head of the Ukraine and talk he's
not going to talk to when I needed
something done with the Italian
government or investigating the Mafia
Ronald Reagan made the calls to the
president of Italy right not me he's not
gonna listen to US Attorney the
President did bring up Joe Biden maybe
he didn't bring it up could be possible
the president you came Ukraine it's
possible but even the transcript they
released does not have the president of
Ukraine bringing it up
did he not read the transcript I hope
they sent him out there without seeing
the tray I hope I did a by the way did
somebody bring me this thing because I'm
you know I'm on Fox and Friends but kill
me it occasionally asked a question by
accident it would be dereliction of duty
if he didn't bring up the the potential
for corruption that took place four or
five years earlier it would be a big
major missed opportunity but he's not
like that moly he talks about corruption
he takes it serious Oh through March I
should have said that a look I'm from
Alabama
country lawyer that's the country lawyer
that's that derogatory where I come from
I'm from this the the deep country
swamps we don't know you big-city ways
he's caveman lawyer mom I would to
Ukraine what do I do
I was just helping my friend apply it
who you people think doesn't deserve a
lawyer here is the other way I just very
slat point the president of Ukraine is
not gonna go out of his way in the
middle of all the stability aldo abs by
the way Donald Trump brought it up he's
lying right a periphery country to take
the Twitter of course mr. Trump
exactly you did sir how dare you sir and
I countess with words like McGonagall
and I brought it up I know not only did
you intimidate me sir and bully me but I
know that Mike Pompeo will ensure that
we in the future don't get in any way
maligned by you thank you and I also
know that Mike Pompeo set up the meeting
through Rudy that's right you cuz you
leaked me the minutes of this and then
asked me to email them back and ignore
them we're not worried whatsoever about
the tanks that are arrayed on the border
of our country from another major power
all right so therefore I say screw you
yeah exactly
unbelievable but you know what that's
actually the only talking point that I I
guarantee you that is the talking point
we're gonna hear the most yes that the
it is it's a victimless crime it's a
show called victim says that it didn't
happen I guarantee you that's gonna be
the one they do because they know that's
the one thing that's not going to change
on them that's gonna turn on them it
turns out the transcript Trump brought
up Biden it turns out that in fact the
American public did not vote for Donald
Trump because they were hoping that he
would make sure that there was no
corruption in Ukraine there's gonna be
there's gonna be like I mean it's gonna
be literally how
the white house it was like like oh did
I try to extort him oh wait wait there
goes the president of Ukraine right
there period I do that Solinsky right no
oh I guess so
case closed witch-hunt presidential
harassment how many times do you think
zelinsky's gonna be invited to the White
House and be forced to come over the
next like eight months like every like
every lease was like twice a week he's
in there like oh yeah I know I just
wanted to come this or this one's
actually just a vacation for me now we
were just talking with by the way is
linski stand-up comedian people should
chair is set funny very funny very funny
great leader Greg creme Opera
