because they're bringing out everybody
like and it's you know I always get
nervous when I watch a clip of Kudlow
now fellow looks good thank you you can
healthy carrots he's taking runs I'm a
little bit concerned
this guy's like he's turning into Rudy
Guiliani it's the same sort of power as
a Jew does but my brothers they do don't
think it looks like you know like he's
gonna waste a lot more of our time
before he goes here is here is uh Larry
Kudlow he is the top economic advisor to
Donald Trump guys and some real heart
problems and he he's trying to make the
argument that well he he's trying to say
that you know federal workers are stand
as stepping up now what he you know
people sort of catch him on is the fact
that well if they don't show up for work
they get fired immediately and even
though they're not getting paid and that
is just beyond the pale to remind him of
that posit I should just say that like
prior to this he says look you have
federal workers who are coming in
they're volunteering to work at a time
when there's no pay they really behind
the president that's why they're doing
this this guy's taking off his his I
think his microphone Oh
maybe dressing him yes
they're common note workers they're
showing up you know what I'm not even
gonna go there you know what I'm saying
it's very clear and you know what else
with respect to people who do have
financial hardships that some was asking
they are coming to work and giving them
20 same 24/7 work they always did and I
will say to you whatever semantic game
you think you're going to play with me
and I'm usually an easygoing guy give
them credit okay they honor us they
honors by their service I don't care
whether you're Republican or Democrat in
line and sincerely their honors
Democrats have shut government down or
idly it's it you know what I'm saying
they honor us and they do it because of
their love for the country and the
office of the presidency and presumably
their allegiance to President Trump but
whatever they're doing it give me some
credit
you know there's a lot of wonderful
people in this country there are a lot
of wonderful people in this country
especially some of these young I've
become I've become a great fan of the
Millennial somebody get another drink
another I love it get presumably out of
loyalty for the president you know
control of the country and Trump I I
have no doubt that there is that people
who work for the government have some
measure of pride that they're working
for the government but let's not kid
ourselves they want to get paid and
they're coming in because they don't
want to get fired all of the Millennials
know I'm not going to talk about that he
I mean he was getting very he was
getting more trouble yeah you know what
I mean yes exactly he needs more heart
medication I think maybe not more heart
medication for breakfast but they're all
are the defensive they're all on the
defensive he went full Patriot pray
Patriot mode
yes exactly total last refuge situation
and but he's still managed to get it in
like they're praising President Trump
about going I like saying you don't want
to play semantics games when you're
trying to call that volunteer in yes
you're playing like you know what I mean
right you know what I mean everyone
knows what I mean I don't even need to
say it they're getting paid but Sir
they're not getting paid don't get don't
play semantics with me who was the dude
we played last week with Libby Watson
when I was in the chair of I forget it
was one of the Trump one of another
Trumpy Kevin Hassett yeah this is a
vacation you're just getting an early
advance on a vacation right and they're
gonna get back then anybody paid for it
so actually they're having a great time
I like that he's a fan of the
Millennials now yes that's good he's
really impressed he's on Twitter what is
the thread why did he bring up
Millennials there no I think he was I
think he assumes that most of these
workers are Millennials all TSA guys
they're all Millennials named duquon
beside all dental Etios and air traffic
control I mean I for one am flattered
playing future Thank You
somewhere someone's mocking me and I'm
pretty sure they're a millennial as much
as we think that this is hurting the
Republicans and Donald Trump and I think
we are days away from this basically you
know like we are it may take another day
or two of of shutdowns of airports to to
basically break this dam but it
definitely feels like this is
culminating that there are one or two
senators who are walking down the hall
and and telling Mitch McConnell like
you've got to deal with this this is
time I mean you already have you got
what's his face not gosh I can't even
think in Wisconsin I want to say Norm
Coleman but it's not normal almond
anymore Ron Johnson
not you know semi publicly blaming
McConnell for this you know making sure
that it gets out that he is he's gotten
mad at him which suggests to me that Ron
Johnson is rather concerned and worried
that that you know he's an iron Rand
trust fund baby
yeah that's literally like he's a rich
kid who read Iran and decided he needed
to go torture people in the Senate and
he he's feeling real heat because that
guy's all so dumb well he's not out of
there for reelection until 2022 I'm not
mistaken he's your is he if he's
starting to get worried about it he
knows that it's probably that it's a
problem and I think we're a couple days
away however with all that said Donald
Trump seems to have a different
perspective on it the State of the Union
speech has been cancelled by Nancy
Pelosi because she doesn't want to hear
the truth she doesn't want the American
public to hear what's going on and she's
afraid of the truth and the super left
Democrats the radical Democrats what's
going on in that party is shocking I
know many people that were Democrats and
they're switching over right now this
quickly so I hope they know what they're
doing for their party so far they
haven't if you know I won the Senate
meaning we won the Senate all together
but talk about that they talk about the
house I didn't have any chance to other
than a couple of people like from
Kentucky where I wanted campaigned for
any bar and for some others they ended
up winning their races but I couldn't
campaign too much too many people but we
did a great job with the Senate and
people don't want to talk about it I
will dude he's coming back these are
some of the best Trump he's falling
apart here I mean he really honestly
like he's falling apart
I think he's unflappable I just think
that's his one mode I mean he's falling
apart a little but like the run-on
sentence that consists he's a one
waacking run-on sentence he really did
he really did catch himself though and
he said like I won the Senate I mean we
did we all did well anyway we
whatever when I say yeah we are not Mia
love lost and he was like she gave me
nila did the best story live the past
couple of months is he just like
oscillating between like I won the
Senate historically unprecedented but
then I lost the house because of me in
love and at one point though it becomes
those moments where he's talking about
people can go and work with the locals
the local people you know like there was
a time where you could say this and on
Fox they would repeat it and and they
would see the clip and people would
genuinely be and I think they're still
gonna be 3035 percent
we're like Democrats are bleeding
support right now like they're just
people are walking away the president
said it on television
I don't think walk away is sticking like
I think it's I think it's Republicans
and like Charlie Kirk think it's
sticking no one talks about walk away no
I don't I don't even know
Brandon's Derica the locals are walking
and they're going to the milk people and
they're getting a milk loan and then
they're leaving the extreme the
Democratic Party they don't want the
truth some people said you can't handle
the truth that's that's easy
