meanwhile this week there were some
pretty big developments on the
connection between Donald Trump and
Russia this week not the least of which
is that Donald Trump really apparently
did not want any record of what he said
what he and Vladimir Putin talked about
when they met well that's true and I
mean I think we knew that sort of I mean
we knew that he had a secret meeting or
since a secret a private meeting with
with Putin in Helsinki that lasted for
two hours and then he came out and acted
like a whipped dog in front of the
international press so it was a very
very clear that something strange had
gone on in there and we have no idea and
we've been told by his top national
security advisors like van Coase but
they don't have any idea what it was
said the Russians do have know what was
fed but none of the Americans do but
then it turned out that he'd been doing
this for a while that the other meetings
the earlier one there was one in Hamburg
at the g20 where he apparently told the
interpreter not to talk to any of his
national security people and he also
requested the notes and one pour up the
notes from the from the meeting or took
them anyway these were things we didn't
know and we also didn't know how much
this was bothering members of the
national security establishment going
you know we don't really have a clue
what he's talking about in there and I
think those of us who've been following
this story are you know rightfully
suspicious considering Trump's behavior
that wasn't the only big story there was
another big story that came out this
week which was that Trump had been
apparently the FBI had opened up a
counterintelligence investigation
targeting the president after the Jim
Comey firing and I you know I think we
all sort of assumed maybe that had been
going on before and of course it was
implicitly because they were
investigating the the campaign and there
was a counterintelligence investigation
going on around Russian interference in
the campaign but apparently it was after
Comey was fired that the FBI actually
said look we got a look at the president
there is something going on and it
wasn't just Comey it was also the
meeting with the
Russian ambassador the next day in which
he said you know I got rid of that
nutcase and it took the pressure off
Russia and then he gave right blurted
out a bunch of of highly
important kind of you know classified
information so that all of that stuff
was going on and then there's another
story that Trump has been saying over
and over again that he wants to withdraw
from NATO which is one of Vladimir
Putin's maybe the primary Whistler's
goal which of its primary at the top of
Vladimir Putin's wish list so there's
been a lot going on oh and then Muller
dropped a but big filing on Manafort
showing all kinds of different it
indicates that a lot of it was redacted
that there are a bunch of different
investigations going on I don't know
about right and all of which is it's
pretty amazing and we should say about
the counterintelligence investigation
unlike a criminal investigation
you don't really bring these things to a
resolution right I mean it's possible
historians will write a book about it at
some point but they don't come out and
press charges necessarily I mean this is
there it's almost like some form of you
know low-level warfare in a way and for
all we know even though the the
investigation officially you know found
nothing for all we know there are still
elements in the FBI that perceived
Donald Trump as some form of either
witting or unwitting asset to a foreign
power I mean that's pretty stunning
stuff and and I don't know that we'll
ever know at least contemporaneously if
we'll ever know the answer to that
question Heather I mean we may get
assessments you know five ten years down
the road when people write those books
but right now it's it's a little bit
tricky to tell and and I guess you know
I guess we're just gonna have to wait
I'm hesitant to say like it feels like
things are coming to a head because I
feel like we've said that
a hundred times like it I feel like
every week we convene and we're like
whoa this week's been crazy and it's
coming to a head and then in fact it's
just the week turns out to be crazy and
it does not come to a head yet it
continues to build but fortunately we
will be talking again next week and so
we will we will we will dip in and have
a baby maybe a better sense of of where
Donald Trump is at but as always Heather
I appreciate the time
