CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 29th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today the
great Harvey Kay will be in studio
telling us to take hold of our history
make America radical again also on the
program yet another Trump administration
official says quid pro quo
[Applause]
meanwhile the Democrats have agreed to
hold the meaningless impeachment vote so
demanded by the Republicans meanwhile
goalpost movers have been hired Missouri
could shudder it's only abortion clinics
this week and a new report minimum
minimum wage hike adds dollars does not
subtract jobs Bernie Sanders says he
will leverage US aid to Israel and the
North Carolina congressional
redistricting map thrown out again
meanwhile Georgia looking to boot
300,000 off its voter rolls in
anticipation of 2020 Trump's rescue
fails as the biggest private coal mine
goes bust and over 100,000 new york city
students are homeless is more than one
out of ten students who go to classrooms
every day in New York City are homeless
lastly Andrew Cuomo's secret or not so
secret plan to kill the WFP and all
third party voting in New York except of
course the Conservative Party all this
and more on today's program welcome
ladies and gentlemen full complement in
the studio today including Harvey Kay
who will be joining us shortly thank you
for joining us
just a reminder a i'm quickie every
morning go subscribe to it now you can
get it through our app at majority app
com or you can just go to am quickie com
you can sign up through there or
wherever your podcasts are served give
us a review it's very helpful when we
appreciate
you're listening getting very good
feedback from it and I can't quite
figure out from the the stats how we're
doing it some things are not quite
jiving but we've got about half the
people who are listening when it was on
the majority report feed and we want to
get all the people who were listening on
the majority report feed so go sign up
to it subscribe five minutes in the
morning you will enjoy it and do so
right this minute we will wait okay two
big things have happened on the well
three things I guess on the impeachment
front one the Democrats as you know the
Republicans were saying that this is a
sham process because there is not a
specific vote to start an impeachment
inquiry there is no need for a vote to
start the impeachment inquiry in the
past it was necessary but rules changes
that have happened subsequent to the
last impeachment allow the House
committees that are investigating the
president to do so without having a full
vote in the house full vote would come
later when the articles of impeachment
are introduced
however Nancy Pelosi has basically
decided to call the bluff of the
Republicans because this will give them
virtually nothing to talk about after
the fact so you will see the pivots
begin already they will have this vote
and we will talk a little bit more about
that in a moment we'll get to that but
the other thing was that you all
remember Gordon sunland he was the EU
ambassador hotelier who had given a
million dollars to Donald Trump's
inauguration bust of a festival
exactly and he was the main ring leader
for the attempts to get the Ukraine get
Ukraine I should say
- at the very least hold a press
conference and say they are
investigating Joe Biden and he had
claimed no quid pro quo that was until
Bill Taylor testified and then all of a
sudden he remembered wait a second no I
meant there was a quid pro quo because I
am a hotelier
and I can't run my hotels if I'm in
prison
so apparently his attorney yesterday
today or I should say last night
confirmed that in fact a sunland did
testify that there was a quid pro quo
and as he went back in for a sort of a
corrective disposition deposition so he
did say there was a quid pro quo to the
extent that he can make that
determination because he's not a lawyer
because if you if there's anything
you've done that can be expressed in
Latin apparently you need to be a lawyer
just know whether you've done it or not
meanwhile now we're gonna see part of
the pivot and part of the pivot is going
to be that okay there was a quid pro quo
but that doesn't mean anything and they
have to do that because there's now a
another this is a completely new
individual a lieutenant-colonel last
name of vend√¥me in' who is going to be
testifying today that he was national
security on the national security team
suppose spoke Ukrainian and apparently
was born in Ukraine apparently he was
also bothered by what happened directly
on the call he didn't even know all the
backstory of what was actually going on
and he confronted sunland and also told
john bolton that there was a problem
here so understand there's two elements
really to this whole story in terms of
the quid pro quo one is the not so
specific transcript or at least the
assessment of the call the
representation of the call there were
the people who were actually there
listening to the call
and then there's the whole story of what
all the underlings were doing in the
background relative to that call so you
know I can tell Matt here Matt I want
this show to be successful and get
advertising bot and then Matt goes and
tells Brendan we got to buy advertising
Jamie make posters so we have both
elements of that both my conversation
with Matt and what Matt is coordinating
with other people to execute my agenda
here's Laura Ingram and this is what
they're gonna do they're going to
chuckle a lot when they talk about this
and why are they going to do that
because that's going to communicate to
their audience this is no big deal this
is sort of the inverse of why it was so
important for the Democrats to hold to
have impeachment and to announce that
it's impeachable because when they do it
is a cue to the audience saying like
this is serious but if we chuckle during
it it's not serious
wait till we get to when we talk about
the wildfires in California we all just
laugh and no one's gonna take it
seriously but here is Laura Ingraham
chuckling her way through this whole
thing and it's especially notable
because she has on her on her show a
torture enabler and an accused pedophile
this is buried in the New York Times
piece tonight but I found it very
interesting he's there he's a decorated
colonel by the way in the Iraq war but
because Colonel Vin de Minh emigrated
from Ukraine along with his family when
he was a child and his fluent in
Ukrainian and Russian Ukrainian
officials sought advice from him about
how to deal with mr. Giuliani though
they typically communicated in English
now wait a second John here we have a US
national security official posit it's a
fake laughs all right I worked in the
entertainment business that's a fake
laugh just to be clear Ukrainian
officials were so freaked out by Rudy
Giuliani that they spoke to a
National Security Adviser in the White
House to try and figure out like how we
supposed to like what what are we
supposed to do here had nothing to do
with the fact that they spoke English or
that that Giuliani did the question is
like wait this guy's not a government
official well how are we supposed to
deal with him and we trust you because
you're Ukrainian and you were born in
Ukraine you may have a little bit more
insight as to how we're supposed to
react oh wait a second John here we have
a US national security official who is
advising Ukraine while working inside
the White House apparently against the
president's interest and usually they
spoke in English isn't that kind of an
interesting angle on this story
I find that astounding and you know some
people might call that espionage but it
doesn't actually seem to add any new
facts to what we know why is it for one
more second the president's own
interests were represented by his
personal lawyer
it cannot be espionage because espionage
is when you undertake to subvert
something that hat but has to do with
national security not the president's
own interests this is I mean first of
all he's at Berkeley right
like if you're a berkeley law student
you should go down to the registrar's
office and see if you can transfer now
ya walk out i mean it's disgusting
it was disgusting when this guy was
rehabilitated before it was it it's it's
disgusting
any new facts to what we know if you
know in terms of I think Alan raises a
good point is this a high crime in
misdemeanor whether you have one person
or five people all saying well we
objected to what the president said with
the president of Ukraine we have the
transcript of the call we can all make
our judgment I don't see how this
breaking news actually adds more facts
and what we know about whether this is
an impeachable offense or not it doesn't
have any facts it just has one more
person who who clearly
will testify it was quid pro quo and to
a certain extent I agree with John you
you could you could have impeached the
president three weeks ago
based upon what we know on that
transcript but the fact is it's a
political process and if you have a
dozen people who say there was a quid
pro quo it makes it that much stronger
of a case but the idea that this is
espionage and we should be worried
because somehow he was born in Ukraine
you know who else was not born in the
United States John you born in South
Korea apparently back in 1967 hmm there
was a lot of communist agents running
around South Korea at mid 63 poor so it
could be honestly though for anybody who
has any shock that john yoo is a
right-wing hack i would point you to
every reason why you know john use name
as to which should have established that
for you beforehand we will talk more
about this later in the program but
speaking of which I don't know if Korean
is on the is on the the list but babble
will get you speaking a new language
quickly and with confidence you can
choose from 14 different languages
including Spanish French Italian
Russians on there right what else we
have
Turkish Dutch Indonesian Danish
Portuguese you could go ask people in
Denmark as to how their health care is
doing or you can maybe get a job with
with Michael Flynn and speak Turkish
babbles teaching method in speech
recognition technology has been proven
effective across multiple studies and
babbles lessons unlike other language
apps and whatnot
are created by over a hundred language
experts real people not by a translation
machine lessons are engaging they're
convenient they last about 10 to 15
minutes so you can do it
I know I could do it I could I get to do
two lessons on my way to work you can
learn through interactive dialogue so
you can perfect your pronunciation and
accent babbles available as an app or
online and your progress syncs across
all the devices what are we going to do
this Jamie with the Spanish off anytime
you want is that are you wearing that
because a deal done whitey
oh oh no this is actually a shirt from
the trail Billy's in street fight tour
they gave it to me after I appeared at
their show in Atlanta oh all right and I
love trail Bailey workers party so much
and street fight well we're talking
about Spanish so that's why but because
you listen to the show babble has a very
special offer for you go to babble
dot-com select the language of your
choice once you try for free and already
sign up select the three-month option
and babble will give you three
additional months for free with the
promo code maturity that's six months
for the cost of three with the promo
code majority go to babble ba BB e
elle.com enter promo code majority
babble speak a new language with
confidence and also I'm always proud
that when support for today's show comes
from the The New Yorker I don't need to
tell you New Yorker represents the best
writing in America today you can read
Doreen st. Felix
she's staff right at The New Yorker she
covers the highs and lows of today's
culture this is very important for me
because I don't really have any access
to culture outside of this and she won
the le award for columns and commentary
in 2019 John Cassidy covers politics and
economics for The New Yorker
he's written articles on topics ranging
from the intelligence failures before
the Iraqi war to the economics of John
Maynard Keynes as you know folks we have
New Yorker writers on this show we have
for years when I mean the stories
they've just broken that are you know in
the news not only do they break stories
that make new
but the breaking of those stories often
make news right I mean like all this
stuff with Ronan Farrow everything that
has come out half of the things that we
talk about I feel like on some one level
or another end up our in play because of
the New Yorker it is an invaluable
resource and also just amazing writing
and now you can get 12 weeks for just
six bucks plus you get a new yorker tote
bag its weekly home delivery of the
print edition unlimited access to New
Yorker calm 10 to 15 exclusive cite only
stories every day when you go to New
Yorker dot-com slash majority enter the
code majority you'll also be able to
access the apps online archive crossword
puzzle more again that's New Yorker
dot-com / majority enter the code
majority to save 50% off on a 12 week
subscription and get the exclusive tote
it's worth it just for the tote 12
issues first for six bucks come on and
lastly tonight's the night actually my
land I've been waiting so I'm with the
kids half the time and we were supposed
to play last night but I had to go do
MSNBC and what are we playing Hunter
Killer it's the murder mystery
subscription box that immerses you in an
ongoing detective experience with every
delivery you'll sift through elaborate
case files and evidence eliminating
suspects until you cat crack the case
and catch the killer hunt the killer
gets you talking having fun together
whether it's game night or date night
and if you're a detective that prefers
to work solo hunter killers built so you
can choose how you want to play mm five
star review on Trustpilot no wonder fast
company named it is one of the most
innovative entertainment companies at
2019 plus part of the proceeds of every
box go to the cold-case foundation to
help fund cold case investigations I
ordered the red string came in we've got
the black we've got the bulletin board
we've got a new case our case file came
a week ago or so maybe maybe a week and
a half mile and I are gonna start
putting up the things has to do with a
people came back for a homecoming high
school and now we're starting to
eliminate some of the suspects and we're
go on and it's it's fun it's it's
literally the only thing that mile and I
do together
that does not involve me telling her
don't do that right now just for our
listeners you can go to hunter-killer
dot-com slash majority for 20% off your
first box hard to take advantage of this
offer and embrace your inner detective
that's hunt a killer dot-com / majority
for 20% off your first box hunt - killer
com / majority check it out right now
alright let's take a quick musical
interlude and then Harvey Kate will be
walking into the studio as it were or
walking over I mean just switching seats
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on on
the phone in studio it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the Ben and
Joyce Rosenberg professor of democracy
and justice studies and director of
Center for history it's social change at
the University of wisconsin-green Bay
award-winning author of several books
here to discuss
well maybe not just this one but maybe
others
Harvey Kay is here with his latest take
hold of our history make America radical
again Harvey such a pleasure to have you
here hold it up oh thank you here it is
I mean we could we should be clipping
that in do we this is my con good we we
left Michael you did it without Michael
in charge of the tech on that and that's
why we couldn't hear you and thank you
for having me in the studio thanks for
being here now so now this is a it's a
series of essays and speeches that
you've given really over the past almost
10 year almost 10 years and it it it
both makes a like a cogent argument
across the board but also gives you a
little sense of where things were sort
of going a little bit at the time if you
if you sort of read behind the you know
in the context but let's just start with
you I mean I know who your three
favorite people are at least in history
I think at this point let's start with
max Lerner okay
I mean tell us about max Lerner who was
he why is he important for us today max
Lerner I'll start with the fact that in
the 1930s he called himself Capital m
capital D Marxist Democrat he was a PhD
in social sciences who turned to
journalism and editorial writing and in
the 30s was writing columns for all the
you know major left-wing magazines and
newspapers and he basically offered this
really interesting tape because it was
clearly a Marxist but he had serious
reservations about the Communist Party
and he wrote a book in nineteen
thirty-eight it's variably dative 38 39
basically its Minh Stu late basically
what he's saying is we need a militant
democracy in this book and it's an
argument in favor of democratic
socialism and socialist democracy
basically that the United States should
embrace this kind of politics because
the world is being challenged by fascism
fascism on the March and during the war
it actually came out in a revised
edition he late in life it's my
impression he became something of a
neoconservative but that's not until the
late sixties into the 70s
he also happens to be the father of
someone we've all heard of Michael
Lerner of tikkun magazine but what I
liked about now I'm listening well max
Lerner was it's the kind of writer who
to my mind captured the imperative of
linking the sort of Marxian tradition
and the social democratic tradition by
way of Roosevelt and his essays just
always spoke to me and the essays that
are laid out in the in the sort of
forward area to my mind just speak I
think to the moment that we're in
alright well so what is that moment I
mean and and how is it I mean I'm
compare that to the the moment because
it's interesting yesterday we had on the
program Matt Stoller who wrote more or
less 100 year history of anti-monopoly
ism in this country or monopolies and
and and the fights against them with the
idea of of making sure that we
understood what you know where we've
been in this country I think to expand
our imagination of where we can go at
least in the context of his perspective
which isn't necessarily a social
democratic or Marxian as much as it is
about you know a constraining capitalism
in a specific way
I think last week I had I saw something
of his on Twitter in which he denied
that any in any way FDR might have been
sort of early Bernie Sanders or Bernie
Sanders as a later FDR I may have the
wrong guy right I don't know if that's
the case but but I mean I think he would
argue that he that he probably was
similar and but I think but the point
being that the the value in
understanding his like historic
traditions in this country yeah hey why
is that important but also how does Mack
Mack what max Lerner wrote 90 years ago
relevant okay well let me start let I'm
not gonna make a case specifically for
the radical tradition as in Thomas Paine
Elizabeth Cady Standard I do that all
the time right but I think we're in a
very definitely a situation comparable
to 1938 I mean I think that we are in a
situation we are in a crisis right now
that really does recall the crises of
the 1770s the 1860s in the 1930s and 40s
now why do I mean by that we are facing
a mortal crisis I don't mean just Donald
Trump I mean we're facing a mortal
crisis which is a consequence of 45
years of class war on the solidarity's
of American working people both by way
of specifically trying to bust unions
take back the the Voting Rights of
people of color and literally seek the
invasion of women's bodies and I think
for 45 years it's the Republicans in
cahoots with corporate America that have
pursued that however the biggest problem
and I think if people pick up the book
they'll see my criticisms are also
directed at the Democrats because of 45
years the Democrats turn their backs on
the tradition of wealth in simple terms
the FDR tradition but let's put it this
way the tradition of the Democratic
Party as the party of working people the
party of the people and so we find
ourselves in a situation after all these
many decades in which we really do face
a crisis a moral crisis if you consider
the inequality that prevails in the
United States if you consider the very
events that have been licensed after
these 45 years conducted by the
contemporary of the current
administration whether it has to do with
denying the United States as an asylum
for mankind and denying refugees a place
if it has to do with the fact that we
have we have literally not just
separated parents and children at the
border we've literally engaged them I
mean this is people will tell us well
we've seen these kinds of things before
in America but before
in the seven in the 1770s 1860s the
1930s somehow we found it in ourselves
to organize to press and to turn America
into a into what it should be all the
more effectively
we turned America into we created
radical moments so we confronted the
British in the 1770s and we created not
just an independent country but the
makings of a democratic republic for all
of the faults and failings in the 1860s
Lincoln as president and there's that
speech that I opened the book with in
December 1862 fellow citizens we know
what we must do and he and he makes the
case we the whole world knows what we
must do and what we must do is we must
bring an end to slavery not only for the
slaves but also for ourselves in the
1930s when Franklin Roosevelt is elected
president there's an empowerment of
working people and not just in the
National Labor Relations Act in 1935 but
even in the National Industrial Recovery
Act right at the outset of the
administration and over and over again
in the Roosevelt years we not only see
top-down initiatives of a capital P
progressive sort we also see the
empowerment of working people and we see
even Roosevelt himself at various times
calling on people to mobilize and
organize as in 1935 he says laws in
themselves do not bring the new
millennium okay and what he had his
cabinet members do is literally
encourage working people and working
households to organize we're in a
situation now where we need that kind of
call Americans are yearning to be
American and I think we saw it
especially back in 2015/16 to begin with
when vast numbers every every primary
even in places where that Bernie lost we
saw young people mobilizing to Bernie's
banner I live in Wisconsin we were
devastated by the election of Scott
Walker in 2010 we lost a collective
bargaining rights universities were
devastated eventually it became a
right-to-work state and we were the
first state to grant collective
bargaining rights right Wisconsin can
play famously yeah we were the home of
capital P progressivism with LaFollette
s-- so what we so what we
around us right now is a crisis and I
think young people have responded very
effectively to it and whether whether
you support Bernie or Warren the fact is
that if you put Bernie and Warren
together their support it's clear I'm on
the majority report and we are the
majority
well I said let me ask you this I mean
and this is when we compare what's
happening
you know in terms of the the era of the
1930s let's say it's see one of the
things that that that I worry about is
and in you know Wisconsin's a you know a
good example we know you you are
obviously you writing about the the
protests out there I think one of them I
think one of the first shows are you
know within the first six months of
launching this iteration the show the
first I think live broadcast I did was
walking around the the Capitol building
and the finals that's the kind of
support we needed and we will never
forget it but but but but following that
there was and you know I think there's a
I probably did I don't know a dozen
interviews on was this the right moves
strategically to sort of like channel
this into electoral politics or to the
recall or whatnot but one of the things
that I you know I am looking at and sort
of trying to determine in terms of what
is different between the 30s and now is
that there does not seem to be even the
latent or maybe it's just super super
latent awareness like class awareness a
worker solidarity that may have existed
in the 30s in part because of how severe
the miseration was and maybe in part too
because a lot of these people were like
only a generation or two removed from or
if at all from much broader sort of like
movements like this whether it was from
the old country or not yeah you know
it's interesting as you're speaking
you're actually feeding me well here
okay
we shouldn't project mid-1930s on to
early 1930s when Roosevelt came into
power the labor movement itself might
well have been chomping at the bit to
get going but the 1920s were devastating
to the labor movement really devastating
so when when Roosevelt launches he his
own if you like campaign of 1932
Garner's the attention of John a Lewis
that had the United Mineworkers most
militant in many ways and Sidney Hillman
the head of the amalgamated Clothing
Workers and what happens so he gets the
socialist Hillman and the otherwise
Republican Louis to recognize that
Roosevelt can be the political vehicle
so what happens is when he's first
elected mostly because of the crisis of
the day in the depression it's also the
case he could have just gone ahead with
welfare as you know as we know he could
have literally initiated a whole series
of relief programs but know right away
he recognized the imperative of enabling
workers to organize and similarly today
what we what we look I mean I support
Bernie I'm gonna make it very clear and
it's the case that I think we're at one
of those moments cuz you think about
2015 going into that campaign you had
the fight for fourteen you had black
lives matter
you had the moral Monday movement down
in North Carolina I mean I could go on
and on the movements were there they
didn't coalesce however and and I
believe that have Bernie had been the
candidate and I remember Wisconsin went
Republican yes and it didn't go
Republican because people adored Trump
the more people adored him that I would
have cared to have known but it was the
case of people were pissed they wanted a
punch in the nose the establishment and
there was a poll done in 2015 of
Republicans and Democrats what kind of
change do you want in America and the
majority of America's a major poll I
refer to it in the book the majority of
Americans wanted radical change
so when Bernie is prevented in many ways
from really running the campaign because
of the Clinton establishment basically
where do they go they turn to the guy
who will at least if he's not going to
bring the kind of change they might
really want
I can assure you that they were ready to
punch in the nose the Democratic selfie
so what I'm getting at is don't
underestimate the percolation that
exists in America today I mean I we saw
it
admittedly at the very outset in the
women's March I mean that was huge right
we've seen it in continuing campaigns we
sought you know it's not on the scale of
a million people but we sought a
Queensbridge Park the other day right
there is an enthusiasm and I had plenty
of students plenty of students who were
really ready to go to work for Bernie
okay more importantly I had students
who's who said to me I would like to
voted for Bernie my parents wanted to
vote for Bernie but they just couldn't
vote for Clinton they remembered in
their own way the 1990s right so and so
so the the argument is is that a
president Sanders would would take
office and push legislation that I mean
because this is a this is a pretty
perennial argument that we have about
Democrats is that unlike the Republicans
when the Democrats get in office they go
immediately towards to the extent that
they attempt anything ambitious towards
legislation that is that may or may not
bring material benefit to people but is
not a function of maintaining power and
building power and so in this instance
what you're saying is like you know
Sanders gets in fairly you know not not
terribly radical moves to enhance the
ability of labor to organize could
increase the power and so you're
harnessing all all the things we're
seeing with the teachers across the
states or you're seeing with GM workers
right we're seeing with what not given
statutory a little bit of like some
juice on a statutory level you're saying
will propell yes move you came to
Wisconsin in 2011 where was Barack Obama
who said when he campaigned he put his
marching shoes on if workers were out on
strike now did we really couldn't find
him find the right shoes
did we really expect me to come and
occupy the state catalog ourselves well
you know there was I mean there what
there was there was people I mean by by
2011 it was quite clear that he was not
going to but there was I mean there was
a I think there people felt like he was
going to do this and to a certain extent
look we were also told in 2008 that we
were gonna get F gay and that's exactly
went away immediately right and to the
detriment of the power of Democrats I
mean this is one of the things that they
do not do almost religiously and you
know just this is on a day where
Christian cinema you know said like
we're gonna reinstitute the filibuster
if we if we take this do we take power
yeah that that speaks though to because
I'm always reminded of George McGovern
who a lot of people you know is a is a
hero in many ways but he recorded a
video against fqo I remember this well
he was again he had his alright because
he yeah yeah but I'm saying but the
broader structural argument besides
George McGovern's own personal bad
feelings and the union's being dirty
with him or whatever is is I guess
Stoller talks about this - manuia
reconcile the split between the kind of
professionalization of the Democratic
Party with retrieving the labor aspect
yeah okay I mean a lots of thoughts came
to mind I mean just quickly so for
example Republicans had a president
named Ronald Reagan who when he
campaigned he quoted Thomas he quoted
Thomas Paine Abraham Lincoln and
Franklin Roosevelt that was a complete
perversion of the past and but and a
brilliant hijacking of history but he
let people know he used pains most
radical words we have it in our power to
begin the world over again now my friend
Michael knows that I was I was actually
upset with Bernie in 2016 even if he
wasn't going to be able to win I wanted
into really after he gave the speech at
Georgetown University in November of
2015 I wanted it to him to stay on track
I wanted him to cultivate in all of
these young people a sense of in
Langston Hughes you know let's make
America America again the America that
has never been and he didn't stick to it
he went back to the Scandinavian story
over and over again which she used
against a Miller in the
debates this isn't Denmark or something
to that effect this time however and I
can't tell you read my book but he
surely read my mind in his own way he he
not only goes back to Roosevelt he
actually then makes just yesterday I
believe he tweeted again to this
millions of followers an economic Bill
of Rights we're going to create an
economic Bill of Rights and it is FDR's
Bill of Rights with an additional thing
the green new deal that we should have
an environment that we will feel safe to
live in and to leave to our children I
think there's an energy this time and it
would be tragic absolutely tragic
if if the Democrats really did do
everything in their power to prevent the
will of the people but I mean is that I
mean is that is do you feel like in this
instance I mean I don't want to spend
too much time on this estimate but do
you feel like that's happening I mean I
look at the you know at the polls and
I'm and I think it's quite possible we
we won't really well I happen to think
that we won't really have a sense of
what's going on until Iowa until we
actually see the vote tallies in Iowa
because if if Bernie's theory of the
case is that we are helping with
organizing around the country which they
are that they're building a almost like
a you know everybody talks about a
ground game but they're talking about a
really a different type of ground game
yeah that we you know which which
involves people who've been sitting on
the sidelines who would not be asked or
considered in the likely voter of models
but putting that aside for a moment like
when you look at the right like why is
why are we not seeing more support for
Bernie in this sense and and because
from when I look at the polling even
with Elizabeth Warren a lot of the the
people's second choice is is not Bernie
who it's Harris or Buddha judge or
whatever it is interesting that when
they ran the pub they ran in the poll as
to who beats Trump and I think this was
in Iowa they I mean MSNBC somehow left
the Bern a result I mean these are not
trivial things no I know I mean these
are not and the I mean there is a
significant effort basically I'm
of course you even have you even have
the likes of Mimi Roca on MSNBC saying
that Bernie creeps her out and of course
that should be done that should be on
Fox not an MSNBC you know of course of
course
so all I'm getting at is this what I'm
saying is that Bernie is appealing to
young people and working people and
Elizabeth Warren is especially appealing
I believe my sense of things to white
professional classes yeah and I also get
the feeling that if you look closely and
you imagine you imagine the possibility
that these two things can be brought
together in a single campaign
there's no question that we're gonna
have some kind of progressive candidate
in the Democratic Party and people you
know people think well Trump is gonna
break up the Republican Party look if
the Democrats don't go with the
progressive candidate Bernie preference
I prefer or Warren you'll see the
Democratic Party break up yeah I think
that's true but I mean when we say the
if the Democrats don't do this we're
talking about just people who are voting
I mean III mean yeah I don't write I
don't get a sense that you know III
definitely think the me me Rochas of the
world and you know MSNBC I mean there's
a preference of course I mean it would
be I would be shocked frankly if a
company that is you know half owned by
Comcast and half owned by GE was like
sure yeah we're just gonna play this one
straight down the middle
and you know if right we're gonna well
then we're gonna have to find out how
good the ground game is and I where are
we right right I mean I think that's the
idea I mean I guess and and I think I
mean I I hope I hope you know knock on
wood but alright let's talk a little bit
about Thomas Paine because you also say
that he was I mean throughout the
different essays and the speeches that
you've given over the course of those
ten years you circle back to Thomas
Paine quite a bit why Thomas Paine well
for a start as I'm here in Brooklyn
right now my family's a Brooklyn family
I actually in quotes met Thomas Paine
for the first time over on Eastern
Parkway across the Brooklyn Museum have
we ever talked about that no well I sort
of know this
or you can see because you talked about
it in the book right and it is the case
that that my grandfather a trial lawyer
here in New York City
kept his law books in the office and he
kept his private books at home and when
I was 10 years old I just immersed
myself in this stuff I didn't understand
very much but one of the things really
fascinated me is he had a book that
argued that it was Thomas Paine who
wrote the Declaration and not Thomas
Jefferson which of course was not true
but for a ten-year-old it's to license
my ability to make some kind of argument
that my teachers were wrong ok but I
think lost those arguments that might
never got a hundred percent of it does
but I didn't understand when I read that
I didn't fully understand it was it was
it like saying like the spirit of Thomas
no this was a fella named Joseph Reed or
some name like that he was a he was just
specifically saying like they tell you
it's Jeffrey he wrote a whole book I'm
making the claim and by the way to this
day there are foolish enough people to
make that kind of claim they were so
obsessed with Thomas Paine okay that
they just make that argument now why do
I know it's not true not just because I
didn't get a hundred percent on the test
because if Thomas Paine had written the
Declaration it would have been even more
revolutionary than what Thomas Jefferson
and his buddies put together in
Philadelphia that's why okay because you
could imagine at the end of the
Declaration reading that Declaration it
was still conceivable that you would
have had some kind of monarch maybe an
elected monarch and and which is why so
many of the founders beyond Jefferson
himself feared pains pen John Adams
Alexander Hamilton governor Morris they
feared his pen I mean he had a
confidence in the American people and by
the way during the Revolution the
Declaration was not considered the
important document all the way through
the Revolution it's common sense that
people first toast it's only later years
later that people start laying laying
hold of the Declaration with you know
equality life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness but paying imbues American
life I believe with a radical imperative
a radical impulse don't forget in this
original document he's the guy who's
able to bring together a coalition that
enables the revolution to become a
rebellion to become a revolution well
let me give us some specifics well the
one that the one that most people ignore
about it I'll go right to the heart of
the matter
it he called for the separation of
church and state and common sense he
said government should have no place in
religion other than to pretends to
practice as they please and they were
Baptists and Methodists and
Presbyterians down in Virginia who had
no intention of fighting on behalf of
the Virginia planters like Washington
and Jefferson until they saw that and
they realized they weren't all gonna
have to be Anglicans in a new republic
that's one example okay I mean if that's
the one I would go to you might say but
he also lays out a constitutional a
model of a constitution he called it a
charter and it's a highly Democratic
Charter even has the idea of a rotating
president the open fact he opens common
sense by talking about our if you like
instinctive sociability and our
instinctive Democratic impulses he
doesn't even talk about independence or
anything like it until well into the
fifty page pamphlet so people responded
to this I mean Washington himself never
he was already in battle Washington but
he had never come out in favor of
independence and then he here's sees
that his own men are reading this and he
actually writes to I think it's a friend
of his down in Philadelphia back back
back in the so-called Capitol and it
says this pamphlet common sense is
working a wondrous change in the minds
of the men and that's the moment that he
comes out and actually says independence
but the founders knew all about this
happening they could I mean the the the
Continental Congress would never have
ever declared independence if it wasn't
the fact that hundred thousand people
had bought and innumerable people had
had read common sense or heard it read
and town meetings North and South were
sending notes to Philadelphia we want
independence and it was pretty clear
that when they had in mind independence
they wanted a small D small our
Democratic Republic this is this first
truly revolutionary moment not just in
America this is the first truly
revolutionary moment in modern history
and it was Americans and that's why what
Paine said to him is you think you're
fighting for British rights but think
about what you're doing you've already
thrown the British out basically you're
governing yourselves like anarchists
would have said so now the thing is we
fight for not even Americanized
we fight for Human Rights that's it
sorry I get really excited because I
know it's fascinating and that's why I'm
excited we're in that kind of moment now
we could put wait I'm not telling you
working on this revolution with a
capital R but I think we're at a moment
not unlike the 1930s where with the
right kind of outcome in the elections
of Americans get it in themselves to
think about who they are because I'm
asking for Democratic leaders I'm asking
for people like you and me and Michael
and Matt and Jamie we got to start
reminding Americans who they are
criticism is not gonna sell political
change in this country it's gonna be
when you when Americans hear we're on
their side I don't want to be awkward I
don't want to be awkward here but just
in the spirit of honesty Sam has called
Thomas Paine quote overrated close to
Eastern Parkway
so what do you think about I mean I
think you know as I was reading your
book and I guess you know like I say but
I just had stolen with a a similar
mission maybe a slightly different
perspective maybe I don't know but but a
similar mission insofar as like
reminding people as to what the the the
history has been of these things as a
way of making a future less more
tangible I guess less ethereal and
ephemeral and and more more tangible I
mean to what extent to like you know
were there actually like material
conditions that I'm because I've for you
know fortunately since Bernie's election
I think area I should say candidacy in
2016 I haven't had to do this as much
but but all through the the the arts and
into 2015 I would carry around in my
wallet a laminated version of the top
marginal tax rate I know because I would
go into you know because I would have
arguments with people in bar and
you know before there was smartphones I
used to have to carry around because I
couldn't believe it
well I mean that's the people wouldn't
believe you and and I would do it and
just you would actually whip that out of
the bar
of course you absolutely it's also it's
right on money but I'm literally on the
money but but there it seems to me that
there's also like a whole host of bet
you know just the idea of free college
yeah like this is not such a fantastical
notion we are with you 30 40 years
removed from it in you know the
university the University of California
all right what can I just say well I
came to Wisconsin 42 years ago I'm
emerging from New Yorkers as I've said
well in New Jersey New York and I
arrived in Wisconsin and the student I
say the students you have essentially
free tuition here I mean it's really
remarkable how little you're having to
pay but that's 42 years ago right and
during these many decades not whether
they were Republicans or Democrats the
fact is that took what they're paying as
a share of their education must be at
least 40 percent now in Wisconsin which
was the greatest state system in the
country and now is is in is in serious
trouble right okay so I mean this
question and students wouldn't borrow
when I got there and now I've got
students graduating from a state
university such as Wisconsin fifty
thousand in debt right I'm convinced
that the the the increase in tuition at
at schools like like University of
Wisconsin have basically created an
upward pressure on tuition across the
board and so and because the you you
could talk about what happened in
Wisconsin and you multiply that times
like you know 25 30 times where there
were great school estate school systems
that used to if you were in state the
tuition would be you know it wouldn't be
a hundred percent free but it was like
it's just a reasonable cost that you
could address in in a myriad of
different ways
I wonder too like you know across the
board what other examples are there like
that
of things that we perceive today as
being sort of far-fetched or like we
can't afford that or in a meaningful job
right how about a meaningful job you go
to college
even if you're paying your way through
your whatever it is and you know when
you come out there's a meaningful job I
mean I think back to when I was coming
out of college in 71 and I happened I
was going on to grad school but there
were plenty of opportunities that I
could have gone into whether they were
political or museums or who knows how
many possibilities
today we've completely because of four
decades of this class work from above
we've forgotten the very idea when's the
last time you ever heard of someone
speak of the public good right okay and
by the way here in New York you you
would you do more in many ways for all
of the devastation we've witnessed over
these many years then what's been
happening saying stays like Wisconsin
and Michigan and so I mean you know I
mean people look here's what I'm saying
I believe that Americans actually yearn
I think Americans still feel the impulse
that I'm talking about I don't think we
have to plant the impulse I think it's a
matter of whether it will speak to the
impulse and that's exactly what pain did
that's frankly what Lincoln came to do
it's what FDR did and and I think the
task right now is for all of us and
perhaps with with it's the right guy or
woman in the presidential nomination
seat that we have to speak to Americans
not tell them what they don't know but
literally engage their fundamental
American imagination which I know
younger people have sometimes things
kind of Pollyannish for me to say but I
I can see it in my own students in 2008
when a brocco bomb was running for
president remember that you remember yes
we can right I I was amazed at how many
of my students were ready to go do it
and he took office and it was like is he
dropped it dropped it and the edge I was
even surprised that there would even be
a generation that would respond to say
the likes of Bernie Sanders wasn't it
remarkable believing yes we can
III think you know the interesting thing
is in a head conversations with some
people actually now are working for for
Bernie and had worked a little bit for
Obama and that and about the idea of of
how disillusioned like the III was
genuinely concerned after 2008 that the
issue would be you have people who were
were promised something not
things specific but more of an idea of
of of what it was possible and I was
genuinely concerned that there would be
like a lost generation of people who are
just like politics has disappointed me
so much I'm gonna walk away and I think
really almost the opposite happened it
was like we can't rely on on him we have
to do something more dramatic I mean I
think that's where occupy came from and
and the whole impetus behind that and
it's stunning how far we've come since
Occupy nobody talked about wealth in a
well I mean Bernie was but I mean no it
was not it was just not mentioned in
polite circles or even in plates just
left actually nobody gave 40 years we
were great not a bad right you know yeah
yeah absolutely right and and and I
guess the question is is you know this
time will that energy be harnessed or at
the very least enhanced or in any way
fed as opposed to to sort of left on the
vine to wither and die yeah well I'd
like to think I was a prophet but I'm
not but I I actually do believe I'll be
very clear about it I think the one
candidate who can harness it engage it
is the way I'd like to think of it is
Bernie Sanders look I like Elizabeth
Warren I like her agenda okay but
honestly I don't think she can win in
Wisconsin I don't think she can engage
young people and working people in the
way that I know Bernie can is that is
that a charisma issue for you or is it
as a good personal magnetism it is a
curious thing isn't it well I I don't
know I mean I'm asking is is it is there
something specific about his program or
his approach or is it to something as a
personality did I go with my most
outlandish theory I've been thinking
about this for a long time and I just
wonder to what extent you know they see
him as like the grandfather or
great-grandfather and they know America
in the past was better than what they're
about to inherit and to them to them
does is this their link and you know
they may not do the numbers but is this
their
to that moment of the generation look
the greatest generation and what they
accomplished in the 30s and 40s is it
possibly that that's my outlandish
theory okay otherwise I think it's
because Joe Biden feels older he's not
but he does feel he looks older too has
no and so on yeah but he doesn't carry
any I mean there is something I always
joke like Corbin and Sanders like these
obi-wan Kenobi guys who like hell yeah a
certain tradition so from your
perspective to the extent that he can he
can do that in Wisconsin
and someone like Warren can't that's a
function just of his his Sam as much it
came to me as a surprise I'm Jewish
from the New York area I'm in the
Midwest could I've imagined an even
older Jewish guy could possibly have
come out to the Midwest and literally
become a celebrity a hero that my
students would be talking to me about a
guy into his 70s like that so it's
there's something about it that it's we
could come up with a million theories
but it happened all right but I'm asking
I mean I'm I'm just asking what your
theories are in terms of like why in a
place like Wisconsin it's supposed to
well maybe who knows maybe because it
comes out of Vermont right even though
it brings the Brooklyn with him right
maybe it's because people as people
discovered him he spoke to them I'll
give you the best example that I
remember in 2016 Hillary Clinton went to
Four Freedoms park in here in the East
River here in New York City to launch
her campaign and she never actually even
mentioned what the Four Freedoms were by
the way but she did it from there but
more importantly the slogan was I want
to fight for you I want to be your
champion and I knew was all over
ultimately and why because we don't want
someone to fight for us we want someone
to encourage the fight in us and that's
where Bernie goes when he was asked in
the debates on television by Anderson
Cooper or somebody what are you gonna do
if the Republicans won't give way or if
the Democrats won't even give way in
your policy said that's what Americans
have to step over they have to be
outside the window after
let these folks know what it is that
they elected me for and what it is they
want its little expression but I think
it's very indicative not me us and I I
have more confidence that Bernie won't
turn on Americans as a bomb sorry
abandoned Americans as a young Americans
as Obama did because Bernie's been doing
this his whole life right he doesn't
come out of a Republican background he
comes out of a Democratic Socialist
background sorry I mean I can't believe
I'm missin thews II asked about Bernie
when I think back to how he didn't do in
to that because I wanted him to
cultivate the American imagination more
than he did in 15 and 16 but this time
he seems to he just seems to have it
well here he is actually with hard wood
his name hard know Harwood Harwood from
CNBC and he answers that question that
you just said like you know what if you
don't get Joe Manchin what if you you
know Joe Manchin or you know Chris Coons
I guess or christen cinema or isn't
sherrod Brown or sherrod Brown although
he's gonna be the least of the problems
but absolutely I'm sure right but he
made some remarks recently that really
unsettled me well well we can talk about
that in a moment but here's what Bernie
says he would do which is specifically
what Barack Obama would not do even in
the ACA fight when Joe Lieberman was
basically holding up the potential to
buy into or to drop Medicare to 55 I
think it was here is John Harwood asked
him that same question even even if you
have a successful election you get
elected even if it's successful to the
point that Democrats win a small
majority in the Senate is Joe Manchin
gonna vote for your program is John
tester gonna vote damn Roger bro you
don't whine and their friend
yeah we're gonna go to West Virginia
which is maybe the poorest about one of
the poorest states in this country look
what happens right now your average
politician sits around and hears she
thinks they said let's see if I do this
I'm gonna have the big-money interests
putting 30-second ads against me it's
not better not do it but now they're
gonna have to think if I don't support
an agenda that works for working people
I'm gonna president Sanders coming to my
state and roundly working-class people
you know what at the end of the day the
1% is very powerful no denying that the
99% when they're organized and prepared
to stand up and fight they are far more
powerful so let me ask you this in terms
of like obviously write quite a bit
about FDR and and and and and Bernie
specifically modeled this campaign in
some respects after FDR by launching it
in that way
how did FDR do that what Bernie's
talking about go into a state or go into
what were there examples of times where
he went in and convinced reluctant yes
yes so for example he actually turned on
the Democrats in Wisconsin in 1936 and
in basically back the LaFollette
progressive Republicans hmm look the New
Deal depended on a lot of senators but
there were three senators who were
absolutely fundamental to making it
happen and oddly enough two of them came
out of the Republican tradition one of
them is Robert Wagner of New York
Democrat one of the most progressive
Democrats of the day the other two was
were Bob LaFollette jr. of Wisconsin not
the father who was the famous capital P
progressive but very much even more
fighting in many ways and his father
especially regarding labor issues okay
and then George Norris of Nebraska
another progressive Republican and his
thing was infrastructure and that's why
he and Roosevelt got together because
they TVA
is basically norris's idea that
Roosevelt was keen on because of what he
did up in the st. Lawrence area here in
New York State so so he knew how to
engage those who are not necessarily
Democrats and and by the way sidebar to
all this in 1940
for Wendell Willkie who had been the
Republican candidate in 40 and Franklin
Roosevelt talked about creating
off-the-record talked about creating a
new party a liberal party a liberal
Labor Party and Wilkie said him well
what are we gonna do with the Southern
Democrats and he said let him go off and
do what they want
okay and he figured they there were
Republicans who were still liberal at
least they were gonna craft this new
party Wilkie died very young and
Roosevelt died Wilkie died in his 40s
Roosevelt died in his early 60s but it
is the case that that Roosevelt didn't
hesitate to smack that well to turn away
from Democrats who are not good we
should say you know this is at a time
where 60 years prior maybe less actually
of 50 years you had Republican Party was
it's very progressive the public schools
and all part of reconstruction to
rebuild society a lot of the things like
public schools were invested in and and
but we can correspond to what Marx but
but at least you read him in The Herald
Tribune but the things that you've just
outlined to the extent that you did were
transactional between a senator and in
the president right like you like
infrastructure yeah where where was the
part where he Marshall okay let me give
you a beautiful example that will also
fit in with the teacher strikes and
those things in 1934 the Kohler workers
you know when you go flush your toilet
and wash your hands
Kohler Company okay okay the Kohler
workers went out on strike because
company was not going to recognize their
effort to organize which was supposedly
part of the law now court because the
nationalist Relations Act Roosevelt came
to Green Bay Wisconsin which was a mere
60 miles north of kohler wisconsin and
he gave a speech in august of that
summer in which he talks about how
workers how immigrant generations and
americans had to fight for their rights
as workers and it was clearly his
endorsement of the strike down there and
it was all and it is also his way of
telling wisconsin democrats you better
do the right thing because it was shot
across the bow right okay that so that
that was an example of turning out okay
by the way regarding polls in 1936 one
of the major polls can
ducted showed Rosa was gonna lose the
election and he won by the greatest
landslide up until that time greatest
landslide Americans had ever seen and up
until that time because they didn't
realize it most people didn't have
telephones right so they had cold people
who all had money and everybody else the
working people if they are you just
didn't have it so similarly is-8 eight
on endorsing any of these polls until we
see the outcome perhaps of Iowa I mean I
think that Roosevelt knew how to
mobilize very effectively and how to
endorse pretty clearly also when he ran
in thirty-two most historians get this
all wrong they tell you well he didn't
really know what he's gonna do it when
he when he came into all this bullsh
sorry gonna okay he on the
campaign trail if you read his speeches
I'm putting together by the way a volume
of FDR speeches on democracy they'll be
out this spring it's gonna be FDR and
democracy he went State State and he
talked about the in what he was going to
do and about the imperative of people
being organized defending their rights
he even gave like a Sunday sermon in
Detroit okay which clearly would have
been heard by workers because whenever
he talked about what he would do he
didn't sound like the welfare President
that wasn't him he I don't even think he
really cared for welfare he wanted to
create jobs and he wanted to empower
workers now he hesitated on the
unendorsed in the Wagner Act at the time
not unlike Lincoln hesitated to endorse
his own possibility of issuing the
Emancipation Proclamation because he
needed to know that he had the people
behind him right and when he knew that
in 35 when it was pretty clear he did so
I mean look can I say the Bernie will be
another FDR he doesn't have to be
another FDA just has to be Bernie okay
but we have these precedents and you
said to what extent these things matter
I really do think I'm gonna repeat
myself I think Americans carry around
that impulse planted way back Thomas
Paine and the promise in the Declaration
and the greatest of presidents have
harnessed that Reid Lincoln
it's always the
declaration he goes back to actually you
would have liked have done Thomas Paine
more in his speeches but Paine was a
deist and Lincoln was already attacked
for his religious beliefs
Franklin Roosevelt definitely knew of
Thomas Paine he resisted he resisted he
resisted then in 1941 he goes all-out in
a speech on the Washington's Birthday
address to rally Americans to be able to
pursue the war effort and by the way
Eleanor Roosevelt who was very close to
a lot of young socialists and communists
back in the late 30s she wrote a little
book called the moral basis of democracy
in 1939 I think it was and in there the
most referred to figure is Thomas Paine
because these folks they had a sense and
a sensibility of what their fellow
citizens yearned for and might well
respond to and and I think Bernie's
finally come to understand that I think
for too long he failed to do it we've
seen him doing it now do you think Sam
could go into trouble if he ran against
Schumer quoting Thomas Paine too much no
I think your questions about not I moved
to New York and vote for at least some
of the work I can't believe you didn't
give that breaking news strong I'm
putting that in the war chest and when I
when I open it up and uh you know the
spring of of twenty twenty or twenty
twenty-one I guess I don't know what I'd
have to declare but what does someone
like Chuck Schumer harness in his
fellow-citizens they don't care about
all this mishegoss yeah or a harness on
Harvey Kate the book is take hold of our
history holding it here in my hand
make America radical again will of
course put a link to it it's a majority
dot F M it's so awesome to have you in
studio it's great we finally thank you
indeed all right let's take a quick
break
oh we're gonna head to the fun half in a
moment just a reminder it's your support
that makes this show possible you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report com don't forget
subscribe to the a.m. quickie five
minutes every morning gives you the top
headlines we're getting it Brendan when
do we put post those now
they're out by 8:30 now surly so yo yo
oh yeah that's early and you can also
get it through the app at majority app
comm it's all searchable the app has
been refreshed and so check that out and
don't forget just coffee dot coop
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the couplet code majority get 10% off
now Michael today is Tuesday my
understanding is that my understanding
is that Harvey's not going to leave
are these staying right here that's kind
of the grading our work out that day the
the inimitable left is Bess and lula
libre professor k did you i just saw i
can't believe i'm forgetting his name
but the head of the afl-cio just went
from guy
yeah trump co was in curitiba giving
Lula an award I feel fabulous
I was fantastic professor K will be in
studio with us will be gonna be talking
about more of this type of thing but
probably getting a little bit more
deeper into Wisconsin I really want to
tease out something that Sam certainly
talked about a lot because he was there
but the more I think about things that
uprising against Scott Walker was very
very important in our modern politics so
we'll be talking about that and making
America radical again crystal balls also
joining us we're gonna be talking about
I mean I think it's one in every team
every 17 Chileans are on the street this
is maybe the most important thing
happening on the planet right now yes
and we're gonna talk about that and why
it gets really so little press attention
especially when you can find a pattern
that connects to Lebanon to Iraq to
Haiti to Ecuador and then I mean this
was jam-packed for a bit off schedule
were also have an interview with Shama
so want because November 5th and people
are already voting in Seattle she needs
to hold her seat on the Seattle City
Council I would actually suggest that
her getting elected from socialist
alternative in 2006 2013 was another one
of these little drops in the puddle of
people coming back amazon's alone has
put a million dollars into defeating her
so it was a great conversation with her
but I also just wouldn't per
all of us to do what we can do to help
support her because they're really
trying to knock her out as well as some
actual progressive Democrats so
streaming starts at six o'clock tonight
7:00 the main show pre stream at six
patreon.com slash t MBS elicit history
of pepe escobar this weekend's thanks
everybody
jamie this week on the anti fada we're
also having on professor k to talk about
social revolution and what his take on
that is just kidding although you're
welcome to if you want to usually record
on sundays actually still gonna be in
the studio that's I wanted to ask you
something about got a Harvey case all
right cool well this week on the actual
anti Fattah
we have minions death cults or minion
death cult a very funny podcast that
kind of combs the best of the cursed
boomer comments from the internet and we
go over some of those we tell some
spooky stories because it's Halloween
and that is coming out tomorrow also
last week's episode is still up wherein
we talk about music and the new issue of
commune with sean.conner editor of
coming and josh strong from the band as
respond also history is a weapon just
came out on friday which is our special
premium offering where Sean KB and Matt
Chrisman from Chapo Trap House really
nerd out about history this is a
two-parter in part one they talk about
the rise of suburbia and the invention
of the American middle class as a way to
kind of reduce the class conflict it is
always there underneath the surface so
check it out hey man calm slash the anti
Fattah yeah I did my Salem witch trials
episode a literary hangover among other
things we talked about well I'm a free
speech warrior as you guys like to know
so we talked about a attack on free
speech that followed the witch trials by
Governor Phips on behalf basically
Massachusetts had just got his charter
reinstated by
England and they needed to be on their
best behavior but it turned out that
they as that was happening we're killing
a whole bunch of innocent people as
witches and so Governor Phips
commissioned in Cotton Mather to write
basically a cover-up official version of
events and then outlawed anybody talking
about it for a few years and so we
talked about how that eventually
crumbled and discredited the theocracy
so check that out folks all right folks
see you in the fun
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right you want to
smoke this joint yes do you feel like
you are a dinosaur
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's a win-win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven two
thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow ultimate math bird don't you see why
don't you get a real job instead of
spewing that's real engage with your
left wing will involve everybody's
taking their dumb juice today come on
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the tip in the scroll fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not they
accuse me you you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some ability Ria's out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to know death to America
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
no I
we are back folks professor has a has
something to say to those people who
think that they can get away without
doing their homework just because he is
he is on a brief brief very brief
sabbatical one week one week sabbatical
so he wanted to just make sure that you
understood that you have work to do on
Monday did you want to do a shout out
too yeah well they know who they are
it's the seniors especially okay people
like a bee or gammas out of senior
Guillermo Mike and chase and Ally I'm a
can go down I won't go through all them
but they know that yes I miss all of you
has that there you go and don't slack
off yet alright you get away to the
second semester right before they really
start to yeah right senior writers can
set in after the in the new right you
don't do that before before just telling
for me as a group yes we are reenacting
a 1941 radio play by Norman Corwin does
that name do anything for you the
greatest radio he was very progressive
radio writer and and and and producer I
could tell you later I don't need to
spend the whole time win that name
just there was a guy who was would show
up on Letterman in the early days of a
professor korokoro that's Owen Corey
Corey no that's not cool this Corwin was
really progressive and and he was right
he wrote dozens of radio plays and
didn't hesitate to call out lynchers and
race baiters and all of this I mean it
was just a remarkable guy wrote a play
commissioned by Fiorello LaGuardia and
Eleanor Roosevelt in honor of Bill of
Rights Day which was going to be
celebrated in 1941 in December 15 1941
the Virginia had you know Legislature
passed it acted gave the approval to the
Bill of Rights which made it the law of
the land so so Cohen wrote this thing is
the title we hold these truths which
actually isn't quite the Bill of Rights
but that's beside the point
and it had the largest radio audience
ever in American history tens and tens
of millions of people and it really was
this sort of this this patriotic and yet
challenging cold to remember the Bill of
Rights especially in light of the fact
that only the week before was Pearl
Harbor and we were we were now at war
with fascism and so but that had been
commissioned obviously before yeah now
let me ask you this at Pearl Harbor was
coming but but let me ask you that when
the government commissioned something
like that at that time yes was there
howls of like liberal bias or the
equivalent at that time I mean I know
you had like a father Coughlin probably
around that around that time
well they but with it with you was there
like this is was that was it because I
feel like if you know Barack Obama you
know just had by Angelou all he had to
do is mention a conversation on race
right exactly and then it's just sort of
like biased media by what was that it
was it was that a problem then because I
mean just the idea human mind the
government sponsoring you know any type
of art you know any fash you want to see
those link between past and present so
the greatest force antagonist stick to
Roosevelt and any decent Americans Jews
blacks of America first 1941 Lindbergh
Jack Kennedy's dad Joseph Kennedy these
guys we're all saying you know basically
let's let's deal with Hitler that's
let's deal with Hitler one of the things
says don't forget
in January 41 is when he when Franklin
Roosevelt for freedom of speech and
despite the way talk about mobilizing it
was in the wake of the Four Freedoms
speech at a Phillip Randolph launches
having heard the speech he launches the
original march on Washington movement
first start and the what late basically
saying it's time to cash that check you
wrote the check time right he figures if
Roosevelt's talking for free we're gonna
act but I'm asking specifically like
this yes of course they were of course
they were but but by this time but by
this time the those who would have
opposed worthy America Firsters that's
the thing to remember okay the the the
term isolationism is is weak for what
they were doing is most historians
acknowledge you're filled with
anti-semites so fair enough
all right well there it is so thank you
for the opportunity to pleasure thanks
guys for listening if you're if you're
still listen when Sam was in grade
school he chaired the Jews for Charles
Lindbergh appreciation since it was the
Charles Lindbergh in Henry Ford right I
was like Henry floated Charles Lindbergh
yes Thomas I attended a wedding out in
Michigan at the one of the Ford like
States or something like that oh yeah I
know it was like an estate but it's like
they had weddings it wasn't wasn't
particularly but I imagine it was like
their third or fourth home in that area
or something a Jewish guy marrying a
black woman and I just thought like
sorry buddy
yeah sorry dude I'm gonna ask how much
are we regulated in speech if I can
repeat a story well I mean how risque
does it get okay I'll tell you what no
no go ahead go ahead I was involved in
14 B so I work
in in 1943 is when Norman Rockwell's
paintings the Four Freedoms went on tour
in America to raise money by way of war
bond sales it was huge
so in nine is so in 2018
yeah 2018 was the 75th anniversary of
that so the Norman Rockwell Museum was
going to launch this huge exhibit
basically built around that and they
asked me to serve as the historical
advisor and our very first meeting was
of the illustrators and archivists and
museum people who were going to host
this traveling exhibit out but
eventually it opened at the New York
Historical Society over in Manhattan and
they sat in the opposite the director I
guess of the Henry Ford Museum which had
taken on they were gonna host that and I
don't you know it's funny sharks in the
jet I've sat here and said words when
I've been on Michaels show I just feel
like this is a more sacred place now and
I said to this guy is not wearing a
track suit so I said how the f how the F
do you get away with this this this
exhibit and I said what do you do about
the anti-semite for induja and he goes
well we try to address it and he and I
and I the guy I scared the guy I think
and he was a decent guy but I I scared
him but I but it is the case that
Americans just you know Lindbergh was
celebrated in a Hollywood movie right
okay which by the way was starring who
James Stewart Jim Stewart Jimmy Stewart
and he was the next star and narrator of
the play by Corwin oh that's funny yes
yeah actors a horse yeah fun time no but
that's I mean it you know
well I've referenced this this has come
up quite a bit in the past couple months
I'm not quite sure why but you know had
gore Vidal in studio back during the old
majority report days multiple times and
I'm not a fan of gore Vidal just for the
record did the FDR knew about Pearl
Harbor thing which is how I learned
about FDR knowing well Pearl
that's attack was coming they
didn't know you know what joke is a joke
it's a joke
how pissed you get about it
just his you know he I think at that
time had written United States of
amnesia
and and and I think that is you know a
relevant dynamic of of United States is
that our I mean I don't obviously I've
never lived in another country as
another countrymen you know I mean this
is I'm I'm an American and that's the
but my sense is that our our capacity to
even remember what happened 30 years ago
I mean I guess it's I I have a better
sense of this since doing what I do now
for 15 years and seeing like a couple of
different small eras and saying like wow
it's it's unbelievable how little memory
there seems to be amongst nevermind just
the American public but even like the
institution of the of the press yeah you
know like people
John you how could it be this horrible I
could spend the whole day tweeting to
the likes of MSNBC CNN hosts and how
they completely botched history can I
say you should I mean Kevin Cruz has
made a oh yeah yeah and and I think he's
not a big public service yeah I mean I
think there should be AI think
historians should be doing more of that
frankly and this is a perfect I don't
know if there's ever been a better
vehicle for for that for that
reeducation or not a ready re-education
just education of of the American public
and there should be a consortium of
historians who basically just like
putting in my two hours of the week out
of the that's a great I should float
that idea you should I mean there should
be you know like a at the very least you
know a Twitter handle that is like
excuse me this is you know yeah excuse
me you're wrong you know
just 24/7 every every historian duh you
know a whole coalition of historians
take a turn at the thing and they might
not all agree that's true too well you
got it like mice I want to say if I can
it it isn't just amnesia
I mean em Nisha lets certain classes of
folks off the hook it's more willful
there's a it look as I said we forget
what conservatives don't want us to
remember and liberals have too often
forgotten right that's I think that you
know this plenty of stuff liberals don't
want us to remember either absolutely
have a look this my critiques are Carter
Clinton Obama I mean the Republicans do
what you expect them to do it's that the
Democrats do what they thought they
should be ashamed of doing right all
right Harvey K thanks again so much
thank you
now here is an explanation particularly
apropos after having sat down with
professor Harvey Kay where Heather
Higgins the Fox Business host and
analysts explains to us why Millennials
support socialism and the numbers that
they do Oh quite the contrast right
there these conversations we have about
Millennials wanting you know being
supportive of leftist economic policies
or the like your point is maybe they
shouldn't be but that's a crisis point
it's long and understood in in sociology
circles that the difference between
being poor and poverty is the mindset
about time and if you were focused on
this week or this month or even just
this year you are likely to be in a
poverty situation for a very long time
the higher up you go the income ladder
the higher the probability that people
are not just thinking about my lifetime
but the next lifetime and maybe even the
generation after that and the real
correlate between doing well is how far
ahead you can look and take seriously so
my biggest concern with the Millennial
cohort is there doesn't seem to be a lot
of
long-term looking a lot of them think
the world's gonna end in 12 years and so
they need to look beyond that in order
to handle this wealth what this is such
a grotesque bastardization of the
sociology I mean I I don't even have to
look into this study to to say that it's
much easier to do long-term planning
when you don't have you're not living in
a short-term crisis I mean this is the
the most obvious dynamic that anybody
who exists must be aware of when I know
that I am making enough money that I can
pay for food for my kids and pay the
rent then I can start thinking about
saving money or reinvesting money or
whatever it is this is just an absurd it
honestly like if you had told me that
this is like the onion put this out and
like their new show I've been like yeah
you know it reminds me of just real
doodled over the top one real quick real
- I mean Paul Ryan actually set money
aside one of the only things he was
willing to invest money in when he
wasn't cutting everything for our life
coaches for poor people it's exactly the
same thing it's like the secret it know
literally and also there was this to me
I remember at the time I heard it I
thought it was kind of a glib analogy so
I had a bit of a problem with it but I
in some ways the point came across
because I've unfortunately experienced
both things but this academic who
studied poverty one time was like he was
saying look this is a kind of a stupid
analogy himself he said but like you're
in finals in college you know he was the
speaking to a college audience and he's
like and you're stressed out of your
mind and you don't have enough time
you're like you're not gonna maintain a
diet while you're in that level of
stress more likely than not you're not
gonna go to the gym more likely than not
when you have 16 hours of your day
spoken for and you're on and he's like
so you know it's much more serious
by an order of magnitude of a thousand
but that's what poverty is it's just
being in finals week every day of your
life yeah and the conservative idea is
to individualize it and blame it on like
a culture of poverty right you each
individually just didn't try hard enough
or you didn't want it badly enough
whereas what's actually happening is
Millennials are starting to cut through
the and the garbage and the
myth of the American meritocracy that
says if you just you know be poor a
little bit longer work really hard a
little bit longer someday you'll be a
millionaire and that's absolutely not
true well I mean and I think I don't
think it's necessarily some type of
superpower they have to cut through it
it's just that they're in a materially
worse position and so harder to maintain
the fantasy well yeah because if you
have if you are on the receiving end of
a series of generations that has gotten
progressively more wealthy and upwardly
mobile then it's much easier to believe
that that that's what's happened in the
peripheries has been pushed to the
center yes another way of putting it so
that people who and that's what's so
great about the Chris Hayes book is that
a lot of people who expect and could be
reasonably really considered to expect
like hey you know I come from a long
line of people who are pretty well-off
who've done better than the people
before them all of a sudden I'm not that
does recalibrate politics when people
basically in the upper middle class
start getting those declining fortunes
oh yeah I also think a Q PI that's
another thing occupy deserves credit for
just the amount of people that literally
left their bad situations and all of a
sudden looked around collectively and
we're like wait a second this isn't my
personal failing and we're all out here
together yes for me that felt
unprecedented in modern America I think
it's much more normalized to understand
that now but occupy was a big deal oh
yeah I definitely played a role in my
political radicalization absolutely I
mean it didn't hurt that I was also
dating a communist at the time but also
like I graduated call
in 2007 and had been raised being told
like oh just do what you love and the
money will work itself out and with a
certain level of like upper middle class
entitlement right and then I graduated
college found out that that wasn't going
to be the case for me and lots and lots
of other people in my generation and
started to ask questions about the
system I like the idea that she's making
this case about how the executive class
is so forward like future oriented right
meanwhile like like a second later she
talks about climate change and blows it
off it's not gonna end in 12 years well
they have like trading algorithms it's
like nanosecond trade like there's no
she's sitting there saying like you know
she is celebrating the fact that we look
forward right yeah you know and we're
looking down the road and also I'm going
to now turn around and advocate we do
nothing about climate change see how it
works out
well I've been thinking forward was pump
dump schemes not climate change the
supposed ceasefire between Turkey and
the Kurdish population in northern Syria
ends today it has been not terribly CC
as far as these cease fires go but here
is the president of Iraq by Rama Saleh
Sally Sally
I think with Jonathan Swain responding
here's the the president of the Iraqi
president responding to the claim that
Donald Trump made about the Kurds not
and it's I mean it is the case I mean
you gotta give Trump credit for this
the Kurds did not fight with us at
Normandy nor at Gettysburg right
President Trump said that the Kurdish
region on the Syrian border that it
needed to be cleaned up and senator Tim
Kaine Democrat said he found that
language chilling given the history of
ethnic cleansing
how did
sound to your ears I'm worried about
ethnic cleansing and this has been the
history tragic history of the Kurdish
people and this dangerous and tragic and
the humanitarian cost is just awful and
Trump said that the Kurds didn't fire at
Normandy did you see that I did see that
what did you think of that
anyway that's beautiful yeah I mean urns
have been being betrayed by us back to
Kissinger yeah uh-huh I mean yeah how do
you do how do you respond to your world
leader I mean I have a world leader but
you're a leader of the you know I guess
world leader you're president of Iraq
and you just the guy who owns basically
the keys to the machines they can
destroy the planet you think is it
complete effing and I don't know
how any foreign leader foreign to us can
look at the United States and think like
that country is not effed up like I'm
sorry it is we supposedly supposedly
have the freest elections in the world
and we made our choice that guy's there
that's that's that's our guy
unbelievable he's just I mean and for
what it's worth they you know there's
plenty of conflict inside the you know
Kurdish politics and it's just like it's
United revulsion out of this idiot and
also I don't remember this but a Kurdish
group
rose up in Iraq in such a way that in
fact they were they essentially they
were opposed to the German proxies
during World War two so even that
ridiculous stupid point he's making is
actually
kind of wrong on the merits as well okay
so the Democrats have decided Pelosi has
decided to hold the vote authorizing the
impeachment inquiry which was considered
such a big deal by the Republicans
because they wanted to really argue the
the the the process here because the
facts are looking really really bleak do
you remember hashtag released the memo
yes I do the the Nunez stuff and this is
the same type of thing so House
Democrats said on Monday the house will
vote on Thursday of this week to
formalize procedures for the next phase
of the impeachment inquiry the I mean
this I guess Pelosi wrote a letter to
the the house and said the move quote
establishes the procedure for hearings
that are open to the American people
authorized as a disclosure of deposition
transcripts outlines procedures to
transfer evidence to the Judiciary
Committee as it considers potential
articles of impeachment and sets forth
due process rights for the president and
his counsel all of these things are
already exist but it was super important
to to have them you know to make them
more explicit I guess and here is and
the reason why she's doing is we're
taking this step to eliminate any doubt
as to whether the Trump administration
may withhold documents prevent witness
testimony disregard duly authorized
subpoenas or continue obstructing the
House of Representatives so how do you
respond if you have caught the car as it
were here's the Minority Leader Kevin
McCarthy responding after his face hits
the bumper of the car
happening you say the process is
delicious I applaud the speaker for
finally admitting it is a hoe tire sham
but you can't put the genie back in the
bottle a due process starts at the
beginning it doesn't affirm a miss sham
investigation all the way through if you
are in the immediate term it'd be the
fruit from the poisonous tree it'd be a
mistrial none of this is none of this
information would go forward
ruff-ruff-ruff so he is equating
deposing people as a congressional
committee taking remember Republicans
are there it's just a closed-door
committee hearing to torture right that
is inadmissible in court and I don't
know how long this can last I don't know
how long Canton McCarthy's gonna say
like point fruit of a poison tree fruit
of a poison tree oh really it's not one
of those yeah it's one of those fruits
of a poison tree meanwhile the the right
now is trying to make it about this the
the latest guy to come out in this no no
there is a national security adviser who
was in on the call because he's an
adviser about Ukrainian relations he was
born in Ukraine
speaks Ukrainian grew up in this country
served in Iraq a lieutenant colonel
I would imagine heavily vetted more so
than say like a Mike Flynn type of guy
and he has now come out to be the latest
person to basically say like yes I
expressed problems with this in fact
their exchange this is what he he's
released some of his testimony I think
he's going in to testify I know within
days if not today he says vind Minh this
is the guy
Lieutenant Colonel Alexander VIN Minh
top ukraine expert on the national
security council he was part of the
small group of people in the white house
who is assigned to listen to
July 25th call to find out how badly he
was gonna have it up and that must be
what it is like you're on fire duty
today
oh yeah you're that your firehouse today
and VIN Minh and his family fled the
Soviet Union it was the Soviet Union at
that time when he was three he was
assigned to the White House in July of
2018 after a tour in the Pentagon where
he writes that he authored the US
military's principle strategy for
managing competition with Russia in the
spring of 2019 I became aware of outside
influencers that would be Rudy Giuliani
promoting a false narrative of Ukraine
this alternative narrow narrative
undermined US efforts to expand
cooperation with Ukraine ven-ven's cites
a July 10 meeting in which Gordon
Sundlun this is the hotelier who gave
rise to the the inauguration campaign
became the ambassador your creme Union
emphasized that to secure a meeting with
Trump the Ukrainians would have to quote
deliver investigations into the 2016
election the Biden's and burries ma
there's just no subtlety yes I stated to
ambassador Sundlun this is from his
testimony his statement rather that his
statements were inappropriate that the
request to investigate Biden and his son
had nothing to do with national security
and that such investigations were not
something the National Security Council
was going to get involved with or push
five briefings indeed stayed reported
his concerns to the national security
council's top lawyer and he notes that
an investigation to the Biden's
embarrassment would likely inject
Ukraine's new president into u.s.
politics and caused the struggling
democracy to lose bipartisan support in
Congress this is so deep it's a deep
state and here is Fox and Friends Brian
Kilmeade is gonna weigh in he's got the
talking points can we trust this
national security adviser who
in the Pentagon was a million lifetime
military career guy in the Pentagon
assigned to be in the room with the
president during this phone call so one
would imagine he's highly vetted however
he left the Soviet Union when he was
three alright let's hear what kill
Meade's got literally holding his
talking point so if you look at this
lieutenant Colonel's backgrounds got a
Purple Heart he got hit by an IE D in
Iraq we also know a reunion everybody
with his family young he tend to feel
some padico with the Ukraine also if
he's been in that position for a while
and he's a Ukrainian expert he's
simpatico with that's what expertise
this job is literally his job is
literally to develop the strategy in in
competition with Russia which we have
someone has been positioned to do that
in every probably we have someone with
China probably someone with all I think
I should take the Ukraine brief up
subotica yeah me you create wavelength
in that position for a while and says
he's a political to me it must upset him
much more how the previous
administration handled the conflict with
Ukraine when the Russians came in and
carved up the country and took Crimea
and we responded by giving them MREs and
sleeping bags this administration gave
the money would bother Lieutenant
Colonel reportedly is July 10th
conversation between ambassador Gordon
Sunland and a joy twenty fifth call
which we all know it's been transcribed
so we'll see from his point of view but
I don't know how much color he can add
to this since we already had a ball
bottom line as he heard the call he
complained to General Counsel he
complained his boss and said there were
some concerns in that call it's the same
transcript that you and I have read
we've all read everyone has an opinion
either you think that the President did
quid pro quo or you don't most of his
most of his base doesn't believe there
was anything there that that's just how
he does business okay first off Kilmeade
defeats his own his own point there by
saying that like this guy should
have a real problem with the last
administration's behavior versus this
administration he very well may
but he's complaining about an
impeachable offense that is goes beyond
so like one would expect that based upon
what kilmeade has the premises laid down
that this guy would say like I'll let
that pass but he was so offended by it
and we also know that he talked to
Sunland and Sunland now has also
admitted quid pro quo and wasn't talking
a policy dispute right Ainsley Earhardt
then also makes the argument that like
look facts are irrelevant because his
base doesn't care which is the most
astute thing I've ever heard on Fox and
Friends exactly right and yes
gosh knows that we've been doing a lot
of work on that level but and here is a
was this Sean Duffy said his name Sean
Davies former congressman right from
with an on former reality show star
before that basically just this is the
the talking points right we saw this on
on Fox and Friends we've seen it across
the board this is the the talking points
is like this adds nothing new as John
you would say this is just color
commentary this is just more people who
are who were witnessed to the
impeachable offense I want to go back to
the beginning here because it's been
nagging at me the whole time here which
is that when I asked you about Colonel
women the very first thing you said was
he was Ukrainian so yes or no do you do
trust ambassador bill Taylor more
because he was born in the United States
where does the location of his birth
matter mark meadows oh I'm a goober
booth was born in France is is my bro
French by definition that's a pretty
stunning comment what you may just
they're in it's reportable and notable
given that Laura Ingraham last night and
her apparent talking points brought it
up as well so I read a statement John
and I'm sure you did as well and it
seems very clear that he is incredibly
concerned about Ukrainian defense
simpatico I don't know
turn about American policy but his main
mission was to make sure that the
Ukraine got those weapons I understand
that we all have an affinity to our
homeland where we came from like me I'm
sure that vid Minh has the same affinity
or like Mark meadow I'm just suggesting
you you would put Irish defense an Irish
defense over us defense is that what
you're saying
so are we saying are we saying that by
giving this money to the Ukraine that
absolutely is the money that's gonna
secure American national defense against
Russia I mean I don't I don't believe
that he's entitled what Sean Duffy
believes is irrelevant whether even if
that's the case that it would secure
Ukraine against Russia is irrelevant in
this instance because Congress
appropriated the money and so you can't
just sort the will of Congress because
they won't investigate one of your
potential running your opponents in the
next election that way you can't really
do so much good
Wow good is the money that's gonna
secure American national defense against
Russia I mean I don't I don't believe
that and he's entitled to his opinion
he has an affinity I think for the
Ukraine he speaks Ukrainian he came from
the country and he wants to make sure
they're safe and free I understand that
that's an ass my point is the president
is the one who gets a second policy and
he's the one who looks out for America
first he does not the policy he does not
get to set the policy the president has
no authority to say I'm going to let you
get this money that Congress has already
appropriated to you if you investigate
Joe Biden the president has no such
authority to do that but that is where
they're trying to argue here policy and
he's the one who looks out for America
first in the American taxpayer and the
American citizens today are you saying
that Carl Levin men decorated war
veteran isn't looking out for America
first yes or no literally what he said I
don't know what he's doing I think what
an you can't say yes
tarita you can't say that is what I have
read first you can't say that you have
been a decorated war veteran is looking
at for America person
don't be there's no reason for you to be
surprised about this do we have that Max
Cleland at this is this has been the
Republican the idea that anybody would
get offended or even be surprised like I
can't believe you a former congressman
is making the argument that this guy who
went to Iraq does not have a US security
interests in mind doesn't remember what
they did with Max Cleland who was a
triple amputee from Vietnam in a
wheelchair when it came time for for his
election re-election as a senator from
Georgia
here is the ad who is who did this ad I
can't remember was it saxby chambliss
America faces terrorists and extremists
dictators next clue runs television ads
claiming he has the courage to leave he
says he supports President Bush at every
opportunity but that's not the truth
since July max Cleveland has voted
against the president's of vital
homeland security efforts 11 times Max
Cleland says he has the courage to lead
but the record proves Max Cleland is
just misleading Wow yeah he doesn't have
America's interests in mind I'm trying
to think of who the campaign manager was
I think it's like one of the the the the
guys we hear from you know one of the
never Trump errs wasn't rick wilson it
may have been yes I think it was Rick
Wilson
yep Rick Wilson there you have it
shocking he ran the saxby chambliss
campaign shocking where he was would
denigrate a man of service I'm sure Rick
is something I'm sure Rick Wilson has
said this week or next week or last week
maybe all three your your modern
Republican Party folks don't be fooled
this is not about Trump not about Trump
call from a three one five area code
who's this where you come from
hi Jim this is a teaching session ooh
good Kiki from Chattanooga how are you
Kiki actually if I could get us so far
for feeling a lot better I got back on
my meds and I haven't been this
productive in about three years
[Music]
Congrats thank you so much so I called
in specifically because I worked and
Kiki's not my real name but I worked at
the Volkswagen plant here in Chattanooga
it's always really funny walking into
technically German land in the middle of
Tennessee but I was there working for
one of their independent contractors and
I had left just before they did the big
vote on whether or not to do the labor
union and I had a question that maybe
you guys could answer for me I don't
seem to be able to find the information
elsewhere so because there's so many
different companies working out of that
specific plant like Volkswagen really
only does the assembly you got several
companies that do logistics and like
running parts and other such things so
if they were to unionize and mind you
even the temp agency that like staff
half a Volkswagen they do not get a vote
on all that so um
small percentage got to vote on whether
or not they unionized if hypothetically
that vote had gone through and we all
know it wouldn't have what happens to
all the other companies that work in
there do they all just kind of get like
assimilated into Volkswagen or do like I
don't know how I would get assimilated
into Volkswagen I don't know if I mean I
would imagine maybe those other
companies the workers there could have
attempted to unionize as well I'm not
sure I really don't know I don't know
enough about it on that granular of a
level yeah there's nothing that would
say that the those unions would have
would have folded would have caused the
other companies to fold into Volkswagen
the question is would they be would that
vote apply to them and my I think I
would vote doesn't apply to anybody
other than the people who were in
Volkswagens matter
yeah and they they do a lot of temp
staffing too there's actually a company
called Aerotech that does the town
staffing for Volkswagen it's concerned
it's conceivable if the if the if the
factory becomes a union shop that even
those temps would get the would be you
know it's possible that I mean I I think
it would be a negotiation but if the you
if the workers at the at the factory had
unionized it's not inconceivable to me
that the part of their negotiations
would be you need to have less temp
workers and to the extent that you do
you need to raise their their base pay
because they obviously want to create a
disincentive to use temp workers and to
get more permanent workers so that's my
guess
but I but I don't know for sure well
there is the object of industrial
unionism versus craft or trade unionism
the difference being craft unionism
unionized it's only specific workers
with a specific skill set often at one
specific company industrial unionism
tries to go for all the workers working
in a particular industry no matter what
they do and there are definitely
arguments for and against it but
typically it benefits the bosses the
more you limit the size of the
bargaining unit that's just math yes oh
yeah we don't have yet sector-wide
Bernie's proposed regs but Bernie's I
mean that's one of them and I actually I
just definitely um so this might be of
interest so a few months before they
actually did the whole like we're gonna
vote on the union vote they did a vote
to see if we wanted to change our
schedule because we were having
difficulties yeah we do the same day
shipping with the parts and everything
vienna sorry my cat's knocking things
over and brat anyways um she uh my boss
was talking to me about it and she said
yeah only the volkswagen people get to
vote on whether or not we have a
schedule change because we went to eight
hour shifts as opposed to ten we were
talking about maybe shifting the start
time until later so not only did most
the factory not get to vote but not a
single night shift worker that I know of
voted yes for that and they went day
shift so even though it didn't affect us
at all and so I was talking to people
and I was kind of gather
information and didn't seem like anybody
had really voted for yes get changed the
schedule and I kind of wonder if maybe
that was like a trial vote you see if
they maybe they could get away with some
doing some some some things well I don't
know but I imagine at the very I don't
want to planned everybody know yeah I
would imagine I would imagine at the
very least it's an attempt to you know
tell the workers like look how
responsive we're being to you with how
to Union we know yeah we don't need
anybody get in between us but Kiki I
appreciate the call thanks so much
I think already let's go back to the
phones calling from a 3-1 to area code
who's this we calling from three one two
three one two going once
three one two going twice bye-bye
calling from a six one seven area code
who's this where you calling from
damn yes I am from Boston Tim from
Boston what's on your mind Tim um I just
had this I just had this thought that I
thought others should be aware of
as far as I know the internal polling
that the RNC does about negatives on
their presidential candidate are
historically shared with all all their
Congress people so they could like make
choices based on that like run against
the candidate I mean if they've got high
negatives right but Trump Trump's Calton
personality is so based on his fears and
insecurities that he's the first
presidential candidate to not share that
data and I think it explains
a lot of the behavior of the Republicans
because none of them know they don't
have that data but Shelley tre there
must all surely there must be other
there must be other you know other
places making you know doing those polls
they don't have the internal polls at
the White House is done but they have
other polls showing the favorability in
their state about the other sources but
they know that he's gonna drop the
hammer on them as well if they come out
again Jim well that's true I think
that's I mean look the this is all quite
you know out in the open I mean you can
look and see you know what his
favorability rating is amongst a
Republicans still quite high in the
eighties I think high eighties and yeah
back to ya is that date and that's and
that's without Trump coming right at
them like you know none of these people
want the Donald Trump to start singling
them out and basically telling his
supporters in any given state like we're
gonna punish you I mean without a doubt
I agree it's a good point I appreciate
the call Tim thank you this is this is
the dynamic that's a play they're afraid
of their voters who love Donald Trump
the Republican Party voters love Donald
Trump they do why wouldn't they
call from a 561 area code who's this
where you come from
exam with the hosts otter gay apartment
J post Marxist neo modern J in Orlando
driving on a I think you're driving now
aren't you okay alright we'll make doing
Nick malaria and bad connection
preaching to the choir a little bit but
I find that the closer for the further
we get into the primaries I've kind of
become less and less tolerance of well
maybe that sounds a harsh but let's
tolerance the trying to concede with
Warren supporters as someone who I was I
wasn't Hillary supporter 2016 because I
was just becoming it was my first
presidential election and it seemed you
know safe in comparison to what you know
the right was offering and coming around
that election and obviously seeing the
fallout of it becoming much farther off
ideologically it's become clear that
with Warren I think it's it'll be kind
of conceding a little bit to try to meet
the middle and I think that what Bernie
represents is the radical change that we
need in order to actually you know
change and award you like these so off
of the apparatus because the apparatus
is and helpers right for so long and
maintained by conservative values and
Bernie represents you know a challenge
to that in a way that actually matters
to where you know coming out and just
voting every two four years it's not
really going to change things and at
least Bernie sorts earth represents the
the idea of getting a running start
again changing something like that so I
suppose my question is where more inside
ideologically a little bit to the right
of Bernie represents like this
fashion is we really is is there room
for for this kind of back and forth the
professors talking about it earlier with
Eleanor Roosevelt she kind of conceded
to appealing the liberal sentiment in
her book and despite being I think is
you said she sent the fuzz of Communists
and socialists earlier on in our life
you know we got we got to get to the
point here you're meandering just a
little bit what's the what's the point
you like Bernie more than more all right
yeah as a reaction to trying to concede
to more towards the middle for far less
what what is it that the left can do to
cultivate more wishing the Overtoun
windows to the left in a way that
actually that actually matters besides
just you know going out you know in
voting the presidential election vote
for Bernie yeah I I appreciate the call
Jiang you let you go and answer I mean I
think look go out and and in and
volunteer for the campaign and and then
simultaneously you know if you know find
a I don't know a DSA chapter in in your
neighborhood if there's not one around
there find the next closest thing or I
don't know run for local Democratic
position and you know pull it to the
left you know all those things I'm not
100 percent sure I fully get all the
chatter lies people on Twitter if they
disagree with you you terrorize them
exactly warrant supporters there have
been a lot of discussions and debates in
the past few weeks about the
professional managerial class which is
the term first coined by Barbara
Ehrenreich and which constitutes
warrants base of support and there are a
lot of people out there who think that
this class is monolithically aligned
against class struggle and then there's
also an argument to be made that certain
fractions of the p.m. see what I like to
call the lump in PMC have fallen out of
this degree of comfort and can
absolutely be convinced to side with
Bernie Sanders or even a even more
radical program of class struggle so
given that fact I would hope that
fractions of the PMC teachers nurses
media professionals who make $30,000 a
year the Bernie folks can see them as
not enemies but natural allies in this
fight well they obviously don't Johnny
and actually the biggest donor to bernie
is teachers educators so yeah I I would
suggest if you want to convince Warren
voters to vote don't talk in those terms
I would simply you want to be part of
the lobbied proletariat digital economy
boxes of to them talking about well I
mean I think look I think there are
plenty of Warren voters and and frankly
I think there are plenty of Biden voters
I think there is I think you know the
merits of the case are that that Bernie
Sanders has a better shot of getting his
agenda through because he has structured
his campaign and his work to appeal to
basis of of support within these states
where you may have reluctant senators
and whatnot that are rarely engaged in
politics and their engagement in
politics will force the hand of a lot of
these you know basically foot draggers
as it were and I mean I think that's the
the the the best send them screenshots
of the Emerson poll showing Bernie 10
points over Trump in Iowa with Biden and
Warren in a dead heat
I mean some of that type of thing can
help a little bit so I I think so I mean
you know polls are fickle
that one actually is fairly steady and
you know again I really do think this is
going to come down to I mean if if
Bernie wins in Iowa and there's a new
poll that came out that shows he's gonna
win that did you know he's ahead in New
Hampshire but but understand that
polling out this far out still if you go
back historically you know in 2000 I
think and you know in 87 i don't know it
was Dukakis was like at 5% at this point
I mean there's just no there was even I
mean it's such a different dynamic but I
was shocked that it was this close out
when Clinton still led Bernie by some
astronomical number yeah in the last
cycle I mean yeah just you know that's
the thing I look I'm quite willing to
critique Warren and spell out these
differences I think they're really
important on a variety of different
policy areas and I do think these
conversations matter but I think the
bottom line is is make phone calls knock
on doors and contribute if you can
that's how Bernie wins let's go to the
phones calm for me two one five area
code who's this where you come from -
Pete yes - 1 5 - I'm calling to talk
about sort of the news going on Lebanon
right now ok yeah yeah
am i ok great yeah so this morning in
America in the afternoon in Lebanon
Prime Minister Abbott had a design and a
lot of people are hailing this is sort
of like really like good news like
protests are working or whatever and I
mean it's news that the process for
doing something but you know first
really assess whether it's good it or
not depends on what happens after you
know because with him resigning the
government is missing like a huge
faction of like the country he
represents the largest party of what's
called the March 14th coalition which is
the sort of anti Hezbollah you know anti
Syria coalition is his resignation this
means that the government will be mostly
made of the March 8th coalition which is
the one
sort of dominated by Hezbollah Pro
steering and very anti-israel and this
is kind of it's it's a strange
development in that with this like
government being made up of these
factions to a worried that this will
lead in the Western countries
distinction the Lebanese government
given that now it's like almost totally
anti Western image so people are looking
towards you know the whole thing dislike
a new coalition will like call for a
technocratic government step down and
call for new elections no these protests
were were ostensibly spurred by a tax on
whatsapp right yeah yeah I imagine that
was more there was a lot of like dry
tinder around yeah for that to be the
absolute yes as you talk about these
protests so yeah it was spurred by
whatsapp or whatsapp is really just but
it was just like the straw that broke
the camel's back so right before that's
what that tax happened there's a big
economic crisis I mean the country's
been in yesterday that's a pretty
horrible economy for a long time but
it's just it's been even worse since the
end of the civil war if paid the
Lebanese lira to the dollar at 1500
liters to a dollar and up to now if you
go to Lebanon they use both currencies
lira and a dollar you can pay for most
things either one and but in the past
few weeks the lira the dollar exchange
rate has gone up like 1,600 1,700 and
that's just you know really made the
economy so much worse they were there
was a strike of gas station owners a
striped of Baker's people worried about
food shortages and gas shortages it was
just the chaos in the streets people
trying to get gas and bread before the
strikes when it please the government
came up with a temporary solution for
that but then a few days later there was
massive wildfires all across the country
and I don't know if they killed that
many people I don't think it'll anyone
but it
the homes of so many people and in some
of the most beautiful areas of the
country and people found out after the
fact that the government actually had
three helicopters they'd do anything to
stop these wildfires what about the
wildfires was a storm that came in but
the government ended up having three
helicopters with like thousands of
leaders just many with big water tanks
the combat forest fires they literally
had these before for the purpose of you
know preventing you know natural
disasters like the one that happened but
they didn't use them because they hadn't
like delineated funding to them in the
budget or the kenseth didn't really need
funding for the upkeep of them either
that or they just do disposal even know
that they had them that they could use
them so people found I found this out
and we got understandably very
frustrated and then finally it what's
that tax game and people really just you
know lost their minds because the
telephone companies in Lebanon have it's
some of the most expensive phone plans
in the world even more offensive in
America and I'm not even saying relative
to wages just like in like dollar value
it's just more expensive in America so
everyone uses whatsapp to call so when
you tax whatsapp to pay for like this
debt is debt that really is not they're
not going into debt paint for social
programs they go in was that taking in
these big international loans we can't
pay off and there's you know
implementing austerity on the last thing
that people had but they can use the
call people for free so that's really
you know what made it all happen John
yeah and this is also ya know I mean III
I mean I guess the point is is that now
that Harare is stepped down the real
question is what what comes next
exactly yeah I really think I really
hope that Hezbollah decides to call it
taking credit government days not so
there's been a lot of immediately
abysmal media coverage of this whole
thing in in the Western press and also
in the Gulf media like Al Jazeera our
via
a lot of them say that with these
protests or like all this anger it's all
because of Hezbollah people are set up
with Hezbollah and that is not there is
a lot of anger towards Hezbollah and as
well as a lot of things janay people
angry but it's not for the reasons that
the Western press is saying so Hezbollah
is you know I have this image of being
the sort of revolutionary organization
they call themselves the resistance and
they've only been a participant in
government since around 2006 and before
then they were explicitly not joining
the government because they didn't want
to be associated the neoliberal policies
of the government with implementing and
even when they joined them if they only
made sure that had a small share of
steeping cabinet and Parliament so that
they wouldn't you know bear the
responsibility for the neoliberal
practices as well as a party that you
know they claim to be anti-capitalist
and you know for social justice and you
know for economic you know the quality
and throughout these protests like they
basically said you know listen like we
recognized your demand actually the LLC
they were the only party in the cabinet
and in Parliament that voted against
this whatsapp tax no one's talking about
this but anyway so they voted against
let's have tax but then there's protest
to come about and their response is
basically saying listen they respect you
guys we don't want to join your protest
because if we join then everyone will
say that you're an Iran back you know
yes exactly but that's not saying this
and they they they did I thought that
was interesting you want to take the Hat
well but they also said listen like we
are doing to support this government
because there's no there's no other
choice and then they've basically said
that their alliance with the father a
Shia party the MMO is more important
than their economic agenda which is
being sidelined by the other Shia
parties and they're our allies and I
will say one more thing the Western
press has been reporting that Hezbollah
has been going to the streets
attacking protesters that is
categorically untrue let me ask you this
let me just ask you yeah where are you
getting your information from
yeah so I follow there's a guy named
epidemic Lydia he's a Lebanese leftist
he's based right now in California but
he's critical of every single political
faction in Lebanon and he said I don't
work for any of them yeah none of them
represent my views there's also a woman
in command aside she's an academic
scholar on Hezbollah has followed the
group since the beginning okay and you
know the perspectives in which this you
know the this information is coming but
I appreciate it because we don't hear
that much about what's going on there
and thanks there's a you know that's uh
there's a take thank you for the call
well it's going down all over the world
right there's a lot of stuff going down
right now
it almost makes me hopeful that social
revolution might be possible within our
lifetime well I mean it might be of
course if you also want to keep up with
what's going on at pop culture you could
be we could spend time talking about the
Lebanon or we could talk about protests
and in Chile or we could be talking
about you know what's going on with
brexit or we could get caught up on some
pop Tala tics what is it
politics too dumb to even pronounce this
politics here is where some of that
sweet sweet
turning-points USA money is going into
now I I both want to mock this and say
that it also terrifies me because it's
not inconceivable to me that this could
actually be very successful for them and
and I I'm super nervous about it but
it's something that you should be aware
of because if you have kids or kids in
college or or whatnot make sure that you
know you check their phones to make sure
they're not watching this garbage
welcome to the first ever daily
conservative pop-culture show that gives
you the latest pop culture
without the leftist propaganda today I'm
bringing you spooky huh stars a fan who
refused to cut out Donald Trump at a rap
concert and Beyonce's hollow life advice
I'm Alex Clark and this is pop with it I
love how they all they had for that the
opening sequence on key was her sitting
on the table kicking her legs like we
shouldn't we shoot this somewhere else
now let's just shoot it all here we'll
just jump cut it in spooky season over
the weekend the stars were out in
Hollywood doing what they do best
pretending to be someone they're not
what they came up with Jessica Biel
dressed as NSYNC era JT and he went as a
microphone adorable cardi B was a
nurse boring Lisa Rinna mihaylo and her
famous Versace dress show-stopping
Nina Dobrev when it's Billy Eilish stage
panic Demi Lovato when it's Marie
Antoinette missed opportunity should
have gone as poof and Justin Trudeau
when is Aladdin nice not that miss Clark
whatever her name is what you know about
cardi B that's a cool show I mean it's
it's it's not a stupid thing to be doing
no on some level and it's a you know but
people should be aware of it gotta
compete with Teen Vogue right or as I've
taken to calling it guillotine vogue
nice team focus woke also folks just
wanted to remind you that if you have an
opportunity you should always take it
and this listener what's his name again
Christian listener Christian was at
politican this past weekend I guess it
was right was it this past weekend and
ran in to my good friend Jesse Lee
Peterson who has been so supportive your
stableman of he's been so supportive of
of me and of free
discourse he called out steven crowder
as you know in a very famous video that
he made and i will make it clear I did
not ask Jesse Lee Peterson to do that
video I did not I did I never even
brought it up with him yet he released
the video calling for Steven Crowder to
debate me and I just want to say kudos
and I appreciate it and now he's taking
it one step further listener Justin has
gone and spoken to Jesse Lee Peterson
here it is
oh he's got one more I thought that was
great and I want to make clear I would
love him to be the moderator of course I
would take anyone as moderator or no
moderator I guess I guess it wouldn't
take anyone or someone's dad ISM I guess
I wouldn't take anyone although I would
have taken Gavin McGinnis as a moderator
for Crowder himself but that's about it
I don't know if I would you know but so
I'm not gonna say any moderator I'm
gonna say I will take Jesse Lee Petersen
up on this he's been so gracious in
supporting this call for steven crowder
to debate me even though cold feet
Crowder has refused to do it
hashtag cofee Crowder but let's let's
here Jesse want to say more
[Music]
the crowd goes wild up yeah the crowd
was super excited about that that was
terrific
oh they were very happy everyone goes
everybody was crazy about that so thank
you kudos to Jessica Lee Peterson I
really appreciate that that took a lot
of it takes a lot of guts you got to be
a real power your friends yeah gonna be
a real alpha for something like that
what's that one right there what is that
one oh it's some crazy wall rhetoric by
the new CBP guys oh okay yeah okay this
is the acting commissioner of US Customs
and Border Protection they have a now a
more expansive notion of what the border
is now I think most of this is illegal
but so every town every city every state
is a border town a border city and a
border state with every mile the wall
that's being built we are all safer
because of it Thank You mr. president
[Applause]
and just real quickly I'd like to say
that that the officer of the year agent
Morales and all the other nominees I
think that they embody the law
enforcement spirit they represent who we
are as a profession and what we stand
for that we get up every single day
doing something greater than ourselves
and thank you - I ACP and your
leadership for everything that you do
and thank you to you
the leaders of law enforcement for
supporting you doing what you do best
supporting the men and women who get up
every single day put the badge on their
chest and safeguard this country thank
you for what you do we will round up
mothers we will round up children we
will round up fathers who owned pizza
restaurants or moms who are working at a
dry cleaners or owning a dry cleaning
facility we will round them up and send
them home and separate them from their
families if possible well left just take
note every
des is the site of struggle on this
issue and you know what you know why he
was saying that about about the reason
why I was saying it border town and then
in the wall it's because he's still
covering for Donald Trump getting out
there and saying there was a wall in
Colorado you really like two or three
days ago
a trumpet said we're building a wall in
Colorado and it was basically somebody
will backfill this I get the acting
commissioner of of Customs and Border
Patrol to backfill that statement he's
fighting for something bigger than
himself
lastly crossed the Atlantic ladies and
gentlemen Jeremy Corbyn who has now
signed on to a quick election snaps it
is let's do this it's Labor decision
time ladies and gentlemen this is this
is sort of like sudden-death right I
mean this is like a several week
election cycle I mean they don't they
don't mess around like we do rip the
band-aid off and here is Jeremy Corbyn
basically laying out a laundry list of
Boris Johnson's list of or I should say
yeah list of lies mr. speaker this is a
prime minister who cannot be trusted
[Applause]
having
having illegally having illegally
prorogued Parliament for five weeks for
his Queen speech he now abandons that
Queen speech he got his deals through a
second reading then abandoned it he he
promised us a budget on the six of
November and then he abandoned that too
he said that he would never ask for an
extension and he said he'd rather die in
a ditch another broken promise promises
Prime Minister makes he abandons he said
he said he would take us out of the
European Union by the 31st order let's
have some measure of decorum in the
debate the leader of the Opposition mr.
speaker he said he would take us out of
the European Union by the 31st of
October do-or-die Pete no he spent 100
million pounds mr. speaker 100 million
pounds on an advertising campaign to
leave on the 31st of October but fail to
deliver there you go
so the election they said an election
date I have no idea how they do these
things it has to do with how many
buttons the opposition leader is wearing
on his coat on a Thursday this is the
Prime Minister's meaning with the Queen
after you know debating on the previous
they're debating it now I don't we'll be
set for the show that sinneth when the
last snap election happened I chose that
as the topic of my presentation for my
Spanish class
yeah which was like probably a little
ambitious because it's I can barely
understand it in English i I don't
understand any of it it doesn't make any
sense to me I I was just having a
conversation with someone who was
English and and was like I don't
understand anything that's going on
there and they go yeah well it's there's
a couple of things there's I mean yes no
it's weird all right one more phone call
then we're getting out of here
I know a lot of people been holding
calling from a 201 area code who's this
where you call them from you're the
final caller of the day we'll take a
bunch of dolls come all right thanks and
we'll take some items
forgive me who's this sorry Sam I'm
coughing I'm out in California we can't
breathe from the fires is it there's no
it's there's no global warming out here
here yes and I understand that you're
you're it's nice to have I mean the idea
that we have for days on end power
blackouts as if it's like this is a
regular thing rightly this is something
that's gonna have to happen
theoretically
every year during this during this
period of time where there's fire
damages this is a perfect example and I
don't mean to interrupt you but this is
a perfect example of a of of why we
should have I mean there's no better
example of why we should have
state-owned electrical company than this
where they are basically taking money
that should be sunk back into
infrastructure and they're sucking it
out to pay their shareholders big
dividends and by shareholders I mean
obviously they're CEOs and their board
of directors and the C Suites and then
some of the shareholders and this is
this is a perfect example of it I mean
what of an entity that yeah
the state could run it much better
because they don't have the profit
motive and they have the motive of just
maintaining the the the grid so that
it's not a fire hazard but go ahead yeah
well you're right I was talking to
someone the other day down by not far
from where on that and they were out
they're out they put them out of power
for a day or two it's not so what's
going on around Los Angeles here well
not right now what is going on like you
say yeah all right what's your what's
your comment but oh why I really called
was you know what bugs needs to him why
is everybody saying quid pro quo why
don't we just call it blackmail why
don't you start the trend of calling it
blackmail with this Ukraine well I don't
understand why again you know like it's
not black man it seems I think it's
arguably extortion all right quit
procane I'll tell you why it's a sake
quid pro quo because quid pro quo is a
bribe and I think it's an experienced
extortion more technically but extortion
is really a form of a bribe right it's
like I'm gonna get something out of you
to give you something or to make sure
that something doesn't happen to you in
this instance it wasn't Trump's money to
give it was only Trump's money to
withhold and so that's why I say it's
extortion
but in terms of a bribe it's a form of a
bribe and bribery is a very specific
it's specifically named in the
Constitution as something for that that
that is a basis of an impeachment and
that's why you're hearing that a lot
quid pro quo and I guess me yeah I know
I know I know you make a good point
that's great but my point is what would
the Republicans do they don't worry
about all this other stuff we got to go
toe to toe man you just gotta care about
the exact definition you know darn well
if it was turned around the Republican
rhetoric course
oh no yeah the rhetoric but I'll tell
you something I don't think that we are
at the public presentation stage of this
we're in it okay well I just don't think
we are I think we're at the media
presentation stage where the Democrats
are convincing the media of the
narrative and then it goes to the public
but you know right now we're in we're
not even in previews we're sort of in
previews if you look at it as like a
Broadway play we're in previews people
know the story but again you they note
how it I honestly think excuse me I hate
to interrupt that you interrupted me so
I'm gonna do it once I'm just kidding
but um the advice you think you'll hear
Congress people or MSNBC will ever
switch to like you make a good point
all right down the road they won't
change the language it just becomes part
of the conversation mostly everybody got
along with at this point are either
Republicans or former Republicans do I
think the Democratic Party will will
will get this right not quite but this
is gonna be so damning that when you
watch this on television and you look at
everybody saying like this is damning
for the president that's all you need
mm-hmm and and so I or consternation at
the lack of Democrats ability to sort of
rhetorically frame things in an
optimal way but in this in the Democrats
yeah and it's it's not gonna be so
important appreciate the call
folks that is all the time we have for
our show today we will have more time
for our show tomorrow check it out
oh and I was supposed to push the
Instagram if you haven't if you are not
following us on Instagram right now and
you're still listening to this show
after 2 and a half hours you got a real
problem so get out there we're just a
couple hundred away from 10,000 I think
so see you tomorrow in that to get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
oh the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
