here's the problem that any Democrat is
gonna have in beating Donald Trump and
that of course is because Donald Trump
is punk rock or so Candace Owens from
the talking points USA what is it
Turning Point USA Foster Friess and
Foster Friess and Charlie Kirk she was
on Fox News explaining and I'll tell you
something if you do what I do long
enough you will hear this talking point
apparently comes up every ten years ten
years ago I think it was maybe it was 12
now the Conservatives word the punk rock
really that's an old yes the free market
Fonzie was telling us that that dude
from yeah from reason who wears the
leather coat ten years ago
conservativism was the punk rock this is
what is this is what reactionary this is
what when Corey Robin talks about the
react reactionary mind it is the idea
that conservatives keep pitching this
sort of like new edgy idea that we
should maintain the exact same power
structure that we've always had and
they're the only ones bold enough to say
it saying you know we can pull up a poll
here Trump's popularity among young
people sixty nine percent of people aged
15 to 26 disapprove of presidents
trumped performance as a president can
decide go back to you wait a minute
isn't the economy doing great now or
well first of all most we don't pay
attention too much to the polls I mean
they told us that Hillary was gonna win
and they were eighty percent sure and
she's not sitting in the Oval Office
last I checked but look I think that
this president particular is going to
appeal a lot more to the youth
generation because something about him
feels very punk rock and rebellious he's
a rebellious president he's rebelling
against the establishment he's rebelling
against the mainstream media and it's
something that we identify with when
you're younger you're sort of in a more
rebellious phase
it's something that this country needs
to rebell against these socialist
principles that are being taught on the
left all right
yeah like all the young people hated the
clash right just hate it the
socialist principles that we're all
getting infused with but they just I
don't know where exactly they're sure of
showing themselves those mainstream
establishment socialist principles it's
just Billy Bragg song is about anti-shah
actually this reminds me of the who is
America episode that Sacha Baron Cohen
did where he got these three right way
get hurt at trolls to go like he was
testing to bring them underground that
he's just like in order to infiltrate
auntie fun you need to know girls it's
just like what is your favorite episode
of girls you're going to say season 2
episode 6 but he beats Ladd who is the
neighbor and he's like hey hey man
what's your favorite episode of girls
just like season 1 episode 7 what is
your favorite episode
ah hell that would be a season 2 events
which meets all aired that Barty comes
over we can't do a whole bunch join
anti-fog that's one of the funnier crock
wonder how much punk-rock candace
Ellen's lessons do yeah Lots
there you go Paul Ryan likes Rage
Against the Machine
oh yeah well he's he's total punk rock
