this is nice we have government shutdown
which of course involves multiple
agencies there's 800,000 workers who are
either working without pay vast majority
are just simply not working and we are
right on the brink of a breaking point
we are 30 days out more or less from
snap funding ending that means food
security for over 37 million people at
this point we are potentially close we
just don't know at this point on housing
support via section 8 the those farmers
who are waiting for relief from Donald
Trump's tariff policy they will stop
getting that relief and also ability for
loans or grants for housing Coast Guard
is going to be starting to completely
shut down it's things like licensing and
boat boating safety checks patrolling to
make sure that fishing laws are being
enforced DHS people are starting to shut
down obviously all the museums in the
National Zoo
the IRS IRS workers you know we're
getting close towards tax time the EPA
is had some extra money to operate over
the first week of the partial government
shutdown but after that you're going to
start to see a lot less enforcement etc
etc you're going to start to see
training slowdowns at the FAA
you're going to see federal courts are
going to start having problems operating
past
the second week of January all this but
you know why we need to do this right if
not let's let Fox and Friends explain it
to you if you're coming to Washington to
see the Smithsonian 19th Minnesota
Smithsonian museums are closing if you
go to the National Zoo no reason to wait
to hit both of the tigers because you
can't get into there I was in st.
Augustine over the weekend or a few days
ago and I want to go to that ancient
first settlement America shut down no
one was allowed in and a lot of people
plan their vacations around that so
already people be inconvenience and you
wonder if they're gonna ramp up the pain
if that'll improve the process for
negotiation isn't inconvenience yes but
the president is saying most of the
people are good people but there are
some bad apples in the group and even
though it is an inconvenience he's
saying that your safety and your
security as an American he said you
deserve to be able to go to sleep at
night and not have to worry about being
killed by an illegal immigrant and we've
seen that happen we've totally I think
you should be able to go to sleep at
night and not be worried about being
killed by anybody oh I will I'll match
them and all right I mean that's a bit
pie in the sky I mean make sure you're
not killed by an illegal immigrant
yeah just living here I think the the
odds of being killed or even harmed by
an undocumented immigrant are
significantly lower than your chances of
being struck by lightning over the
course of your life do you remember when
you did that segment or we did that
segment a couple weeks ago about the guy
used to work at Breitbart
and he was saying like you know Kurt
bargain yeah yeah and he was saying
apparently that like it's a little bit
more emotionally taxing to be on the
left because you're more empathetic and
I get that but I mean it's got to be
somewhat emotionally taxing and not good
for your body to be like in a constant
state of like anxiety about fictitious
things that will never happen to you
that that fear impulse is caught is like
basically what they eat mostly literally
the cortisol just shooting through your
body all day about things that
legitimately in a complicated
world you actually could just totally
let right like I wake up every morning
and it is never it's like I am I'm not
gonna get killed by an illegal immigrant
that's Jed that is not in the menu about
it with one eye open that's all you you
got to do the Earhart is a demon who
eats your fear you heard it here first
folks there it goes she's the one who's
gonna relieve you of your fear in the
morning she like chews it up like a
mother bird and then like except the
babies are all 90 years old
[Laughter]
delightful image all right
