you told us you gave us a general
overview of how how corporate governance
in many respects was was changed in the
1980s by things like the SEC allowing
for massive stock buybacks and about a
CEO pay becoming based on stock as a
main ingredient to their compensation
and so we have this political change
where we have corporations are deemed to
be to have value based upon their
shareholder value and a almost
simultaneous change in the way that CEOs
perceive themselves as instead of people
who are in charge of a building a
company they become one of the most
prominent shareholders of the company
and if they're not the most prominent
they're certainly the ones with the most
control of what the company does and
they ended up running their companies in
a way that would maximize shareholder
value because that was their value as
opposed to maximizing the value of this
company in terms of putting out a good
product or taking care of the workers or
dealing with the community and we're
talking about the Boeing 737 max which
is a narrow-body aircraft produced by
Boeing it is the fourth generation of
the Boeing 737 and it has been involved
in multiple fatal crashes over the past
a couple of years and so tell us how it
was that the Boeing 737 when this need
for a new narrow body craft versus the
Airbus well how it was you know what
choice did Boeing have at that time when
they were talking about creating this
new plane yeah so basically you know as
time went on and by the first decade of
this century there had been a sense of
time that the original 737 had been
launched which was in way back in 1967
there had been
advances in avionics advances and
materials and the alter the alternative
was to forget the 737 do what they call
a clean sheet replacement that is a
wholly new plane design it from scratch
and that they could have done that and
they still had a project to do it and
they start started looking into it we
don't know exactly when they drop that
project but the other the route they
took we call it the flight path day that
they took was the 737 what became the
737 max and the problem was that to get
the benefit of fuel efficiency which
come from engines which are produced by
GE and the friends company Safran called
leap engines which became available
around 2008 they they have these engines
are much bigger than engines that
existed before for the same aircraft
that's how they get the fuel efficiency
they're made out of more advanced
materials be bigger but not as heavy and
the 737 had been built close to the
ground because when it was first
designed it was based on an architecture
we didn't have jetways and all kinds of
machinery for unloading and loading
loading planes and so they already with
the previous version called the 737ng
had reached a limit of where you could
properly put the engine position it
under the wing without it hitting the
ground basically and so there could be a
repositioning of the engines and
basically it appears but everybody seems
to agree with this that this created a
certain change in the stability of the
plane when it was in take-off where you
could get the nose pitching up too much
and if it fits it up way too much that
aircraft can stall you basically
interfere with the aerodynamic lift that
is necessary to get the plane off the
ground ended up - it's a you know it's a
tight
that where it's going to go on automatic
pilot and during that period actually is
in manual so the the pilots are
controlling the plane and what did it
what happened what we now know happened
is given that they went with that option
there was this problem of potentially
what they call nose up incidents where
the plane could go up at too high an
angle they call the angle of attack and
so the pilots would have to adjust to
this but rather than have the pilots
know about that adjustment and make that
adjustment basically without them
knowing it they put in a software fix
which is now known as the maneuvering
characteristics augmentation system em
tasks MCAS and that was working in the
background and so the problem was once
they had made that choice and there was
this really a structural design flaw
with this aircraft and that exists today
there's over almost 400 have been
delivered this 5000 disordered you now
they now had a software fix and they
didn't tell the pilots and maybe not
even the airline's about it it wasn't in
the flight manuals in fact they
deliberately took it out of flight
manuals and ambition to do that okay so
so bill let me stop here because we got
about two two-and-a-half minutes left
here so we have a situation where
instead of doing a clean slate redesign
they kept the old design because any
want to invest the 7 billion dollars now
of course all through this period of
time annually they were doing 7 billion
dollars worth of stock buybacks because
the incentive the CEOs had was to
basically make their stock more valuable
and had they basically announced to the
world hey we didn't do a react lien
redesign we probably needed to do
because now we have a software fix for
what is a structural problem they didn't
want to announce that because that would
have impacted their stock their stock
prices and of course that's how they all
get paid yeah and so this is and they
you know even if they hadn't been paid
that way if you're top of a company you
might not have wanted to admit they were
producing
an unsafe plane particularly when it's
it became their fastest-growing plane in
history but so basically but having this
individual incentives which are mounting
for the CEO about two million dollars
per month that they've been raking in
it's kind of super charging that
incentive and they're making out while
they're actually knowingly it appears
producing an unsafe plane and you know
to make matters worse is yes that it
would have cost him about seven billion
more to do the clean sheet replacement
they had already done about eleven
billion of buybacks between 2004 2008
that one and a half times what they
would have to spend but starting in 2013
as the plane was just the orders were
just rolling in since then they've done
forty three billion in buybacks
Wow that's where we get this seven
billion a year after the first crash
there were the two crashes for well
listening right yeah well we're gonna
we're running out of time here so folks
gotta check out your piece in The
American Prospect because this is a
major problem in this story that you
tell in this piece about CEOs being
incentivized to essentially cut corners
because it's problem we're profitable
for them personally rather than maybe
the long-term health of the company or
what not is in many ways a metaphor if
not a direct reproduction of a problem
that we have writ large in our economy
with corporations and their relationship
to incentives but Bill lisanna thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it
