CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in that hate call me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday May 22nd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today House
Intelligence Committee makes a deal bill
bard does not have to be arrested in
held in the congressional dungeon for
now anyways newly revealed the IRS memo
shows that Steve minuchin lied about
Trump's taxes and the all-out assault on
immigrants spans multiple departments of
our government and uses children as a
club meanwhile the EPA's incredible
assault on our health continues unabated
Nevada ditches the electoral college
getting somewhat closer to the national
popular vote initiative Mitch McConnell
attacks blue slips once more as the
trumpet cessation of our federal
judiciary marches on and speaking of
marching Austria's far right has an
oopsie that's always good for the world
and abortion rights protests held across
the country as states begin to shore up
their protections for women's
sovereignty over their own body all this
and more on today's program yes ladies
and gentlemen welcome to the program oh
this is um this is sort of cute Mac can
you put this up on the on the board here
this just came across my transom as it
were
I just IMed you this is really fun y'all
recall that Harriet Tubman was going to
be placed on a $20 bill it was supposed
to coincide with the hundredth year
anniversary of the 19th amendment which
granted women the right to vote and
looks like that's been punted to 2028
just because according to uh Steve
minuchin we couldn't get the the
drawings done pretty stunning that I
mean supposedly it is a function of some
I don't know trouble honey 10th
anniversary is fun too
yeah maybe it'll have Trump on the other
side when it comes out
this was the Tubman design was announced
in 2016 which I followed like a
year-long process
maybe maybe was about a year of people
pushing this now I I don't think it was
going to completely it's Jackson right
on the on the twenty now I don't think
it's completely gonna get rid of Jackson
I think it was gonna be
along with Jackson although why not why
not have a did they take any pictures
together maybe we could just put a
picture of both of them oh that would
have been very sweet but
it's nice you have somebody who was sort
of you know known for really I mean
known for a lot of things but really his
genocide skills right and and then
someone who was was working for the
rights of people who were denied rights
in this country um so it's a nice
supposed to like balance out Negus we're
just gonna have to wait another eight
years cuz it's so hard to find a good
crowd graphic design person apparently
it's a lot of reason by a lot of people
that work for me didn't get paid gotta
wait for the right right is there is
there any is I mean is there any doubt
that if it was the opposite if if if
Tubman somehow was already on our twenty
dollar bills and they were like you know
we really act you know we really need to
put Jackson on our bills that they
wouldn't have gotten this done under the
trump administration what are you
implying I know what I'm implying
venusian says he's focused on security
features not on imagery here is here is
representative jana presley from
massachusetts from my old hometown of
Somerville and she is questioning Steve
minuchin on this decision you understand
like you know it's US government this
day they had no idea this was coming
down the pike so as it were here let's
play this see this exchange and to play
this exchange and currently our current
does not reflect the diversity of
individuals that have contributed to our
great American history he followed the
announcement by directing the Bureau of
Engraving and printing to accelerate
plans for the redesign so the final
design concepts would be unveiled in
2020 the 100-year anniversary of the
19th amendment which granted women the
right to vote which we celebrated
yesterday
as you know 20/20 is only one year away
and since secretary Lew's departure we
have not heard anything regarding the
status of the currency redesign will the
redesign meet the 2020 deadline yes or
no so let me comment that the primary
reason we've looked at redesigning the
currency is for counterfeiting issues
based upon this the $20 bill will now
not come out until 2028 the $10 bill in
the $50 bill will come out with new
features before hand so the answer is it
is my responsibility now to focus on
what is the issue of counterfeiting and
the security features the ultimate
decision on the redesign will most
likely be another Secretary's down the
road I'm sorry I just want to be clear
for the for the record so you're not so
yes or no will you meet what was
originally the 2020 redesign deadline
yes or no again to be clear the redesign
that we are 20 no we will meet the
security feature redesign in 2020 the
imagery feature will not be an issue
that comes up until most likely 2026 and
I'm just wondering if you could explain
that to me because after an exhaustive
community process where people who
organized for quite some time and you
said you you do share my my sentiments
an opinion that our currency should be
more reflective of the contributions and
diversity of those contributions and so
why the delay no I didn't say that the
currency should be reuse that imagery I
said imagery not referring to okay so do
you believe do you support Harriet
Tubman being on the $20 bill I've made
no decision as it relates to that and
that decision won't be made in it as I
said there was a there was a national
there was a community process yeah I
really I just I don't know what it is
about Harriet Tubman that makes those
$20 bills so insecure so so insecure
I just cropped Asian features easier to
to counterfeit yeah it's so it's very
its science its science ladies and
gentlemen alright let's go to this clip
I'm gonna get to some of these stories
about what's going on with HUD and also
with immigrants in this country and
particularly children are being are are
being leveraged by the administration in
a despicable but maybe not terribly
surprising way but before we do we
haven't spent too too much time on the
2020 primaries I mean still heating up
obviously we're paying some attention to
it we have not said the words Beto
O'Rourke in any meaningful way for weeks
and it has been strange I've never said
that word in a meaningful way though I
just want to be clear fair enough
and but Beto Rourke came out with a huge
splash he since lost some of his key
organisers Becky bond who a lot of
people I mean Becky bond has been on
this program both in regards to her
organizing during the Bernie campaign
and the book that she wrote with her
co-author as well as she was on this
program many times when she was working
at credo and both when they were
sponsoring us but just in terms of their
actions she's a big activist she left
the campaign not clear why really but
you know it's not hard to figure these
things out in some respects as to they
moving in different directions and
apparently the direction they were
moving in was down Bette O'Rourke is
dropping like a lead balloon which is
impressive to the extent that he wasn't
that high up anyways so there was no
ability for the lead to gain velocity as
it dropped right was like standing high
up on a table but you know metaphorical
sense it was born to pole at 7% and
a lot of ridiculous that's the point he
was at go away and now he's closer like
three or two percent it's Becky blunts
fault you know part of it is in this
again like this is why I will reiterate
my prediction and it's it's just uh it's
just I mean part of it may be
aspirational that I think Joe Biden in
particular is not long for his his high
poll numbers or at least this high
because Joe Biden has the advantage that
at Bay Toa Rourke does not have in that
he is a that people think they know him
or at the very least they know his name
and they know him as the vice president
and just like with Beto O'Rourke as it
became clear that there was a certain
lack of that his rhetoric did not match
up when it started to talk about actual
policies and it's much more difficult in
this round it seems to me in this
primary been in past primaries to get by
without having fully developed in
concrete and and frankly appealing
policies than it has been in the past
largely because Elizabeth Warren has
been coming out with so many proposals
largely because Bernie Sanders is so
specific with his proposals it makes it
much harder for the other candidates to
sort of ride sort of broad themes and
here is Bette O'Rourke he had a CNN Town
Hall last night in Iowa he's asked the
question by a woman who has I think a
ALS her ms/ms MS and basically she's
talking about how expensive her drugs
are and so Beto you know gives a fairly
you know unspecific uh you know fairly
sort of like a a sufficient answer from
in the past which is you've just told me
about a problem I'm going to read or a
the problem but with different sets of
facts which you know all candidates do
this all candidates do this and that
communicates to you in the audience that
I understand the problem and for the
most part every campaign in the past has
been to do that part about it is like 75
to 80 to 90% of what is expected
acknowledge the problem I as a citizen
who you know has some passing awareness
of politics I mean I'm not talking about
me I'm talking your average person I
just want you to acknowledge the problem
and I will leave it up to you to solve
it and figure out what the solution is
but if you acknowledge the problem to me
you've won 90% of my vote that's the way
it's worked in the past to a large
extent I think people are just getting
more savvy particularly in the context
of the primary where that's not enough I
mean I've mentioned in the past that
Barack Obama during in the run-up to
Iowa came out and said Social Security's
in crisis and he didn't offer any
specific policy later on before he
became president he was talking about
entitlement reform but the fact is
Social Security was not in crisis
however it was an acknowledgment to
older voters in Iowa that he understood
what was most important to them which
was protecting their social security and
the fact that he would notice that there
was a crisis even though there wasn't a
crisis made them feel like I don't know
if there's a crisis or not I believe
there's a crisis because I'm so worried
about getting my Social Security but the
fact that he's acknowledging it he's my
guy
he's now in my trust circle as it as it
was a call it because he acknowledges my
experience which is anxiety about you
know getting that check every every
month and so Beto does that and then he
sits down and he thinks okay it's over
and because there has been so much
emphasis on policy
Dana Bash asked a question that in any
other cycle I don't think she would ask
which is like why your proposal which is
Medicare for America which it to be
honest with you like it's so narrowly
tailored that it's hard for me to see
how it's really fundamentally different
from like just a public option in the
ACA which I think it is maybe but it's
it's a public option that is really not
even you can't even compete with it you
actually have to be means-tested into it
and you have to it sounds like you have
to be Brooke
it sounds like sort of like a Medicaid
option
is it like what they did in New York
here I I mean it's I'm not sure how it
measures up to that but if you're
destitute enough we'll kick in Medicaid
I mean that's what it sounds like now
but you know I don't know the specifics
about the assets that you can have with
Medicaid you can have virtually no
assets I mean it did vary slightly it's
make it more generous in terms of who
can access it maybe maybe that was the
expansion of Medicaid sounds like Obama
care yeah but it's not you know he calls
it Medicare for America because of
course that sounds like Medicare for all
like well I'm just in America so that
works for me don't you support I'm for a
Medicare for Singapore - exactly
all right but but so that's that's my
position in any other year that would be
sufficient but Dana Bash has to ask the
question because it it is the most
obvious question in the context of with
so many candidates coming out making an
issue of this and here this goes and it
doesn't I don't think it goes very well
for bad out because I his answer is just
not sufficient here it is your plan but
the plan that you signed on to Medicare
for America why not Medicare for all
I think about Diane I think about Joey a
young man 27 years old that I met in
Laredo Texas he's been to a doctor once
in his life because he does not have
insurance and that doctor told him that
he had diabetes that he had glaucoma and
that he would be dead before the age of
40 because he's not getting any care
right now in this country Joey
Diane others they don't have time for us
to get to the perfect solution if we
were to start from scratch maybe we
would start with a single-payer but
we've got to work with the system that
we have here today the surest quickest
way to get there is Medicare for America
it guarantees every single person in
this country gets the care that they
need to live to their full potential and
do those things that they were placed on
this planet to perform in the first
place so that's why I support that plan
okay so if I understand his answer it's
Texas still hasn't expanded Medicaid so
Joey's Sol this kid this guy Joey aged
27 so it goes by Joey that's fine and
but it's a zero in on like I'm sorry
thinking that maybe Beto's taking some
liberties I don't know I don't know
about that but let's just assume let's
just call you Joey okay
Edwin let's Jose maybe it's better if we
just call you Joey okay but anyways
Miguelito but you're Joey his answer is
we if if we if we attempt to get
Medicare for all I guess it's either it
will take too long because which
presumably only could mean like we won't
get it we won't get it at all because
the legislative process there's no
reason to believe that his Medicare for
America when we have already seen the
Republicans fight against Obamacare is
going to be any quicker it's not like
what he's talking about can be
instituted with any other
alacrity and if it's just about
expansion I mean if he's just if his
whole plan just relies on executive
action
why not just say I'm for Medicare for
all and in the meantime these are the
executive action steps I'm gonna take I
mean there is the answer falls apart
with the next question which is what do
you mean what do you mean I don't get it
you're are you saying that Medicare for
all can't pass and yours can with a
Republican Congress like what is it that
you're arguing and Dana Bash doesn't ask
that question but it's it doesn't matter
at this point for Beto because that is
clearly not sufficient all right this
stuff like Beto is not going to go from
3 percent in the polls to 40 percent the
polls by saying I know what the best
thing is but I don't think we can do it
so I've got something that is subs
subpar then maybe we can get through I
mean that is his answer and that's not
going to work but the point is that's
Joe Biden's campaign except for Joe
Biden has a little bit more attitude
like I'm sorry forgive me father and I'm
not cool enough to want to subscribe to
the thing that works I love me tell you
what we're gonna go for is something
that maybe we can get the Republicans to
sign on to even though they have signed
on to nothing even though the the guy
who sits atop the Senate right now has
made it his thirty year long project as
a lawmaker to wreak the havoc he is
wreaking now not only on the Senate but
on our country I mean it is a completely
in many respects when Joe Biden gets
asked that question his answer is going
to actually be worse than Beto
O'Rourke's
I far prefer Joe Biden's style though
and I have to say like there is
something at least Joe Biden is giving
you like it's not gonna happen versus
like here's a whole bunch of words and
filler and idealism and complete
nonsense
and it's not gonna happen and we can
just let people give you I mean why is
possible that there are a lot of people
out there who are gonna vote for Joe
Biden because they liked his style
better and he doesn't seem as
namby-pamby I think that's the most it
is mostly comes down to style but I have
a feeling that in the context of a
primary and debates that that's just not
going to be sufficient now part of it is
also a function of like who he's on the
debate stage with because there's gonna
be two debates each time and it's quite
possible that Joe Biden may be in the
you know the the bateau Budaj
you know heat and isn't a you know
paired up with someone like Warren or
Sanders where the contrast will be that
start so this isn't they're not how are
they breaking those up for they breaking
those up by poll numbers there were none
no I think it's by lottery oh so he
could look if he's not up there with
Sanders are Warren he could luck the
hell out because if he's in there Budda
judging and reworking first of all he'll
look good relatively speaking as I think
compared to yeah the fake charisma bado
and Budaj is ridiculous kind of faux
Wong Curry Biden will come off better
and no one will hold him accountable
well it's a corporatist - hmm sad bata
though still into it Satur he gets well
I want to have him over to listen to
Fugazi records but you know I mean I
know that and I don't know quite what
the when the when you have to declare
for Senate in Texas little Marco was
able to get out of the Florida with it
was able to run in Florida even after
his failed presidential bid so maybe
there's time for Beto to get in and
maybe he can transfer that over but I
mean honest is do it do it come on
you're wasting everybody's time I mean
run what a beginning
what better soaring rhetoric than to
hold a press conference and say when I
look about how I can serve this country
the best it's clear to me that even
though I know I was meant to run for
president I'm going to sacrifice
my myself destiny in run first it would
be like the Ted Cruz challenge era all
over again everyone would be like yeah
better we loves that man yeah all all
coverage will be positive here on out if
he runs for Senate there you go there's
our promise to you bat out positive
youtube titles hey do you love the
thrill of an escape room looking for
clues and solving puzzles introducing
hunt to killer it's a monthly
subscription game when you become where
you become a detective immersed in a
murder mystery each month you'll receive
crime scene photos evidence motive and
suspect information that you'll need to
use to solve a crime it's so interactive
and convincing that it looks and feels
real
you'll be racking your brain to solve
the mystery and anxiously awaiting the
next box of clues it's perfect to play
solo during date night or with friends
for a game night so you can swap
theories I gonna do this I have some
friends who are starting to get into
game nights like this and this could be
pretty good I mean there's you think
about how many people just watch all
those crime shows and listen to the
crime podcast now you have a chance to
be the detective it's like literally
walking around and playing clue but
better right now just for our listeners
you can go to hunt a killer dot-com
slash majority for 20% off your first
box
they only accept 200 members per day so
you get a hurry to take advantage of
this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com slash
majority for 20% off your first box do
not email me and complain that you
didn't move quick enough for this and
you got shut out that day hunt a killer
dot-com / majority for 20% off your
first book your buy your first box
Hunter Killer calm / majority
matter-of-fact don't email me at all
exactly don't ever complain to me TV
feminine panel is on um so
get hunt to kill him I am so close to
this and Brendan's been been was telling
me about this company that is Brendan's
personally vouching for this company
that's right
I would say every aspect of this really
comes down I'm talking about boosting
you know I you know Brendan Tom all
right well his friend works there and he
says it's good company time spent in
traffic is not time spent exploring
creating and having fun either
the the amount of time that I just like
getting places you know there's always
like a 25-minute walk that I've got to
take that would be great if I can make
it five minutes well you can use boosted
when you need to get there faster it's
designed to provide a luxurious
experience boosted vehicle grade
Electric skateboards and scooters of the
modern solution to your transportation
woes they have a 22 mile range maximum
speed of 24 miles an hour boosted is
perfect for both running to the store
and traveling across town particularly
high when you live in a small town even
this would be even better in many
respects why take the car could own a
small town they have five options to
pick from they have their new scooter
the boosted Rev either way there's a
personal electric vehicle that's
tailor-made for you and they start at 61
dollars a month with financing
it's no wonder boosted was one of Time
Magazine's best inventions of 2018 and
I'll tell you what I like about boosted
when I been all over their site now
everybody's wearing a helmet that's
super important folks wear a helmet
there's no better time than now to
change how you move because now boosted
is offering our listeners seventy five
bucks off the purchase of an electric
vehicle when you use the code majority a
check out go to boosted boards calm and
use the code majority a check out to get
75 bucks off your vehicle that's boosted
boards
calm and promo code majority a check out
for 75 bucks so cool these things
alright let's let's get into this what's
going on with with the immigration I'll
just briefly tell you that the House
Intelligence Committee will not enforce
their subpoena against a bill bar which
was the plan after Wednesday the Justice
Department agreed at the eleventh hour
to produce redacted material in
underlying information from the special
counsels report that the panel sought
albeit more slowly than it wanted I mean
they're just stringing this out I mean
and we're going to talk more about this
I get Mehdi Hasan coming on Friday we're
going to talk more about impeachment but
it is becoming more and more likely it
is becoming more and more clear that
this is what the administration wants
they think and that rightly or wrongly
they look at Bill Clinton and I and I've
been saying this for four months it
would not be a rational for them to look
at what happened to Bill Clinton and
assume the same things gonna happen to
Donald Trump which is Republicans win
seats bad politics well the the
impeachment came in the second term 98
in 98 right so you help him get
reelected and well no it helped I'm
saying Trump if he's transferred is that
what you're saying he already went up
his favorability went up I mean that's
basically it I mean he went from you
know maybe I think in the 40s or 50s of
favorability high 40s low 50s to you
know close to like 60s in mid sixties in
terms of favorability because in fact
the whole movement of move on was first
a function of get move on
from the impeachment and so from their
perspective I think it's quite possible
they believe it's going to help them now
there's really no way to know there's
really no way to know if that's the case
you people can speculate I think there's
arguments on both sides but what is
becoming apparent in terms of the
dynamic that was not the case during the
Clinton years is that the cost to
Democrats for not impeaching is much
higher than the cost it would have been
to Republicans in that day and age so
but we'll talk more about that with
Mehdi Hasan but but that should be in
the back of people's minds because
that's what's going on here we have even
the EPA is refusing to provide
information to house oversight
committees which of course has nothing
to do with the witch-hunt
so this is not about them this is about
them being I think purposefully
obstructionists I mean in the purpose
being to convince Democrats or to put
Democrats into a position which is
basically a rock and a hard place and so
it's not just a question of goading the
the Democrats into impeachment it is
putting them in to untenable positions
and generally I think it's just simply
as a as a life rule when you're in two
untenable positions choose the one that
actually is just the ethically and
morally right thing to do I mean if both
both options are going to be problematic
for you do the one that makes you feel
like that you're not doing a bad thing -
never mind an unstring
because those tend to end up working out
better meanwhile there was a
confidential IRS legal memo that was
prepared in anticipation by the IRS for
Steve minuchin anticipating that a
Democratic Congress would could seek
Donald Trump's taxes and it's a
confidential IRS memo or was
confidential not clear how this how this
got out but the Washington Post got a
hold of it minuchin has rejected as of
last Friday a subpoena from the House
Ways and Means Committee to turn over
the tax returns this legal memo says the
tax returns must be given to Congress
unless the president exerts executive
privilege this is according to a copy of
the memo obtained by the Washington Post
it contradicts the Trump's
administration justify a justification
for denying lawmakers requests for the
tax returns minuchin denied the returns
by arguing there's no legislative
purchase for purpose for demanding them
there's a statue and the statute says
that Congress can demand them they don't
need to justify it and they certainly
don't need to justify it to Treasury
Department the disclosure of tax returns
to the committee according to the IRS
memo is mandatory requiring the
Secretary to disclose returns and return
information requested by the tax writing
chairs that's of the Ways and Means
Committee it's a 10 page document and it
says specifically that the law quote
does not allow the secretary to exercise
discretion in disclosing the information
provided the statutory conditions are
met and directly rejects the reason
minuchin has cited for withholding the
information the Secretary's obligation
to disclose return and return
information would not be affected by the
failure of a tax writing committee to
state a reason for the request so not
only does the reason not have to
be sufficient that there isn't have to
be a reason this is a substantive as the
Harriet Tubman explanation exactly now
supposedly the agency can refused to
comply if executive privilege is invoked
but it's unclear to me what possible
reason justification there could be
invoking executive privilege when these
are tax returns that were filed before
Donald Trump was president never
involved any people who work in the
executive executive privilege is
supposed to protect the deliberations
private deliberations that you need if
you're going to be present in the United
States
if I'm president the United States I
need to be able to say to my advisers
you know stuff that I wouldn't want to
be public even if I'm not just
expressing my deep hatred for people who
are not white as Donald Trump there
could be other things that are actually
like not racist that he says that really
also you don't want to be made public
I'm sure there's something that he said
but that allusion of things
there's no one's a thing it's impossible
to contemplate I mean I guess arguably
it's possible to contemplate in the
context of his taxes that he files as
president although I find that hard to
believe - and I can't come up with a
scenario but there's can't possibly be a
scenario for taxes that have been filed
before he was president so but be that
as it may that is going to help with the
court cases in attempting to get his
taxes all right but let's go to to this
HUD stuff yesterday ben Carson was in
front of
Congress in the house oversight was this
the house however site committee that
Ben Carson was in quite sure but it was
a HUD hearing and Ben Carson is up there
and this is a following a the publishing
of a proposal on Friday of last week
right now if you if you are a child and
you are an American citizen you are
eligible if you meet the financial
requirements for subsidized housing and
your family can join you in that
subsidized housing however the way that
the subsidy is calculated is based upon
only those members of your family who
are American citizens so if you are born
here in this country maybe your parents
came here on on a some type of visa
you're born here you're an American
citizen they're visa expires they stay
here they're not an American citizen or
their visas their visa is expired or
maybe they came in through the border it
doesn't matter the policy has been if
you are an American citizen you cannot
afford housing that housing can be
subsidized however if it's a two-bedroom
apartment and the price cost I don't
know eight hundred dollars let's say and
they will subsidize it prorated based
upon how many American citizens are
living in that apartment so they may
only give you there's four of you in
there it may only give you $200 if
there's only one American citizen but as
long as there's one they will give you
that $200
this new proposal would prohibit
families in which at least one member is
undocumented from obtaining subsidized
housing so you could be that there are
three of you who live in that apartment
who are citizens and your grandmother
you brought in from another country or
there was one child who stayed behind
who was not an American citizen or one
one mother or the father huh tis only
subsidizing the American citizens in
that apartment
but now HUD is apparently going to
prevent the entire family from being in
there or uh not allowing anybody else in
there except for an American citizen HUD
assumes that most mix households will
leave the HUD assisted housing as a
result of this rule according to this
analysis by HUD because of the fear that
the family being separated would lead to
prompt uh you know would lead to people
leaving the humps now here's the thing
about this you've got Ben Carson is
grilling I mean excuse me is justifying
this by saying it's common sense to just
have American citizens in there but what
makes us even worse Ben Carson's up
they're calling for 15% 16% reduction in
HUDs budget this will increase the
expense for HUD because now they will
subsidize every member of that apartment
it will not decrease the amount of
people who are unable to afford decent
housing because you're gonna put four
different people in there and you're
gonna kick four other people out you're
gonna increase the homelessness amongst
children fifty five thousand children
are anticipated by HUDs own and Alice
is to be impacted by this 55,000
children so it does not in any way help
the affordable housing crisis that we
have in this country it cuts into hud's
budget which he wants to shrink anyways
which means that they're going to take
the money because they're not going to
get new money to deal with this greater
expense they're gonna take it away from
the upkeep of these places and the
upkeep of other housing that HUD
sponsors it's gonna cost HUD at least
almost two hundred million dollars more
their own analysis says it would
exacerbate homelessness and there's an
anticipation that it's gonna cost the
agency money in rent because
undocumented families with undocumented
immigrants living in there pay their
rent more reliably because they are
afraid of the scrutiny right this is why
undocumented are not going on mas to
vote in local elections or any elections
because they're afraid so here is Ben
Carson on the hill and this guy knows
apparently we played this yesterday
about the the Katey Porter exchange
where he didn't know what a an REO was a
real estate owned which is a term about
basically when an agency or a bank takes
over in a foreclosure because they can't
they can't resolve it for the homeowner
here he is talking to represent of
Sylvia Garcia why HUD is looking to make
children of
immigrants homeless so you're gonna she
have 55,000 children from being with
their families to them to a homeless
status status what's gonna happen with
these children have you thought this
program through well maybe what will
happen with them is you and Congress job
and solve the problem
there you go the the problem was solved
well not solved but slightly mitigated
because of at least theoretically what
HUD is supposed to do but this has been
a policy to have 20 meeting only policy
that was the slight dent in the problem
I mean that that's just such a moral
sophistry yeah yeah now this is all
again part of a broader program to
attack immigrants in this country and
we'll get back to that in a moment
because there's a horrible story about
about immigrants who are being put in
solitary confinement in at least half of
the occasions for no reason at all or
really horribly despicable reasons and
this is more of a problem with the
agency of ice than it is necessarily
just the Trump Trump administration and
we'll talk about that in a moment but we
have more to say about about Ben
Carson's tenure at HUD and the pathetic
nature of it
so yesterday ben Carson and this is also
a failure of media I saw a very good
tweet about this Ben Carson it's not
just that he got humiliated by Katie
Porter yesterday when he didn't know
what a real estate owned or what that
term meant in the context of a
foreclosure and in the disparity between
the number of foreclosures under FHA
auspices versus Fannie or Freddie Mae
Fannie
Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and to make
light of it the fact that Ben Carson
thought that real estate owned that
Katie Porter was saying Oreo he put out
a funny tweet his agency did here's a
picture of him holding a bag of Oreos to
make the joke of like ah at the end of
the day and here he is he's sending a
package of Oreos family size to
representative Porter seeing I don't
have any hard feelings about the fact
that I had no idea about what a major
component of my of my agency does talk
about the banality of evil yes well
what's even more problematic is that
that he did this got more write up than
the actual issue itself because
reporters to go in and look at like why
is it that the FHA is basically
executing more foreclosures than then
Fannie and Freddie I think this is on a
per capita basis and Katie Porter made
the point after
ben Carson humiliated himself that this
is also leading to a lot of urban blight
because when you have a foreclosed home
that is owned by a bank or an agency in
this instance they are not keeping
they're not mowing the lawn they're not
keeping vandals out they're not I mean
when you don't live in a house even for
like a couple of months things start
falling apart on their own the general
upkeep
things like water and an H HVAC stuff if
these aren't used on a regular basis it
becomes problematic it's like if you let
your car
sit for too long the brakes start to
rust out I mean this is what houses need
to be lived in and when they're not they
start to fall apart and when they start
to fall apart and you start to get this
type of blight you start to hurt the
entire neighborhood you know I mentioned
that real estate speculators could come
in and make money on blighted areas well
sometimes sometimes it's just they sit
there in blight no most of the time it's
like the girl with tattoos said it turns
into good things for speculators that's
but that's actually not the case okay
there's a lot of times where that blight
just exists for years and years and
years and people get trapped in these
neighborhoods and they can't sell their
their homes because nobody wants to move
in to that area because there's so much
blight it breeds crime and obviously
other problems and not to mention the
people who get foreclosed upon they lose
their homes so Ben Carson went on a
little bit of a tour on the right - I
guess in some way relieve the
embarrassment who better to rub solve on
that embarrassment than Stuart Varney
yes it was first of all I was it was
three and a half hours of testimony so
you can see that some of the networks
are only interested and those kinds of
sound bites I'm used to ridicule you
know the fact of the matter is I was
having difficulty hearing her yeah and
of course I'm very familiar with
foreclosed properties and with Aereo's
have read extensively about them knew
about them even as a teenager there was
a lot of blighted areas posit posit for
one second he didn't just say REO when
she said that she said no our EEO do you
know what that stands for and he said
real estate organizations
it had been going on for three hours and
maybe some of us are human beings and
don't spend all of our lives looking at
Social Security and Medicare updates
that's called a sub tweet or or some of
us may not even spend our lives digging
into any of the literature about the
agency that we're running for the US
government continue Troy where I grew up
but what is interesting is that you know
we when a family gets into a problem
with their mortgage and it's backed by
our agency we go through a lot of
procedures with the banks to make sure
that they don't get foreclosed upon in a
few cases where they do obviously we
were able to sell those properties very
quickly and the the REO portfolio just
over the last 10 years has dramatically
decreased by tenfold
you know $65,000 6500 positive what
happened ten years ago ten years ago was
2009 there was we had the greatest crash
in the value of real estate perhaps
perhaps in the history of the country
would you like to know it really and so
the number of foreclosed homes there
obviously now of course it's dropped ten
years because those homes at one point
they go away it runs out the number of
foreclosures that are happening there
but the bottom line is the FHA the
agency that he oversees as Secretary of
HUD is having more foreclosures
continues to have far more foreclosures
she stated to him after that moment that
exchange that there is a massive study
that shows the FHA is responsible in
many respects for an enormous amount of
blight he is lying lying to steward
Bernie
you know $65,000 sixty five hundred so I
suspect when Katie Porter
was an expert in this area things were
very different that's why I invited her
to speak with our staff that deals with
these so they can bring her up to date
maybe she would then be able to
understand what's going on I think they
would just have an eye gouge yeah yeah
what you call a maker sows Katie what
she did was she she was at university
years ago and now she doesn't know what
she thinks she knows well one of us
doesn't know what's going on I think I
know who doesn't think y'all know who is
I didn't want to be rude it was
embarrassing to watch her throw these
terms around they're out of date and now
you have this smug guy whose ass is on
YouTube just talking all sorts of verbal
nonsense meanwhile the economy collapse
because there was a lack of prayer
Katie Porter and Sylvia Garcia with the
only ones who embarrassed Ben Carson
Jana Presley went on to ask Carson about
the disrepair of HUD houses now
understand this policy that they
announced in addition to Carson looking
for a cut in his own budget at HUD the
policy that they announced about kicking
out families separating families who
have any undocumented immigrants living
in the household is going to increase
costs for HUD they're gonna have to pay
more subsidies they're gonna get less
back and rent according to their own
analysis and they're gonna have to take
money away from upkeep of HUD homes so
just understand that in the context of
this color of this of what Presley is
asking him when we are eliminating a
stock but not increasing supply people
in the Massachusetts 7th congressional
district would have to work 84 hours
to afford a decent one-bedroom at fair
market rent doors bunty I was a former
Massachusetts state representative in my
district and was the first African
American woman to hold the position of
head of BHA the first public housing
tenant to lead a public housing agency
in a major city she said being poor is
not a character flaw I agree but again
given your medical background perhaps
you could weigh in on the health
consequences of failing to invest in
safe housing mr. secretary since I am
short on time here yes or no is stable
and safe housing a social determinants
of health
sounds like you have not been here and
heard most of my tests please just
answer the question we're claiming my
time yes or no is stable and safe
housing a social determinants of health
there is no question that housing is an
important part yes or no no question
that it's a
it is well-documented that health
problems such as lead poisoning asthma
and injuries from trips and Falls
especially amongst our senior population
can be linked to substandard housing
conditions combined these conditions
result in billions a year in health care
costs many of those most at risk of
developing these conditions reside in
public and federally assisted housing
yes or no if less left unaddressed do
you believe the substandard public
housing conditions pose a risk to
tenants physical mental and emotional
health if left unaddressed yes or no can
you ask me some questions yourself you
don't get to dictate what my line of
questioning is reclaiming my time you're
a very smart man very clearly you
understand the question please answer it
yes or no if left unaddressed which I
believe they are unaddressed because
this budget does not reflect the need do
you believe the substandard public
housing conditions pose a risk to
tenants physical mental and emotional
health you already know the answer to
that yes or no you know the answer yes
or no I know the answer do you know the
answer yes or no reclaiming my time
you don't get to do that the time
belongs to the gentlelady the evidence
is clear that if we do not invest the
necessary funds today we will pay the
price in people's health tomorrow and
what is this administration's response
cuts cuts to crucial funding like the
public housing operating fund in the
family self-sufficiency program section
202 housing for elderly in section 811
housing for person with disabilities and
even the complete elimination of the
public housing capital fund these
policies are devoid of empathy and
humanity and you've been talking in the
abstract but I want to get specific
there's a missing North Cross a mother
and a grandmother living in Brighton in
my district she's raised her children
and now cares for her grandchildren in
property the thick mold on the walls
her son was recently hospitalized look
at the pictures here because of bone
tumors in his arm and leg he needs
surgery to save and improve his quality
of life but he won't get it because the
family must have a sanitary stable
housing condition first their actual
home literally poses a risk of post-op
injury and infection her question to you
is what do they become when you raise
children in these conditions what can
they become so yes or no do miss
Norcross and her family deserve to live
in these conditions because they are
poor if you've listened to and yes
or no do they deserve to live in these
conditions because they are poor oh very
well
would you like your grandmother live in
public housing you know very would you
let your grandmother live in public
housing yes or no you know very well
endure you're watching at your helm
would you allow your grandmother to live
in public housing under these conditions
would be very nice if if you would stop
you stated they the gentleman from
Florida mr. law say is recognized
he really cycle there let me ask you
this do you think do you think that he
would have done that if a Jana Presley
was white I was thinking that like that
level of disrespect like I I just I just
don't think that he gets away with that
if if he is talking you know to anybody
but a black woman that attitude is just
unbelievable I think do it to anybody
that was advocating for people in
low-income housing I would definitely do
it to Bella Abzug I'll tell you that
much I don't know I reserve the right
for my time back I wish she would stop
in that way I reserve my time would you
stop being that way the contempt he
liked the way I mean honestly it just
it's disgusting he had one moment in the
campaign I think it was actually after
when he was a surrogate for Trump and
you know they were outlining you know
all the trumps various disgusting
behavior and saying look just the basic
look hey you know you're a Christian and
he snapped he has this very weird thing
some and he was just like that's crap
can I finish
and he died it's interesting he does
have ya know a but behind that sort of
like you know coma exterior he's a
genuinely very awful person and a
disgusting empathy free person exactly
who they want torturing people in public
housing it's disgusting is this he's got
the same thing as Trump going on he's
like no matter how serious it is he's
gonna act like a high school bully it's
unbelievable
unbelievable it really is just sort of
shockingly disgusting all right we got
to take a break ahead into the fun half
we've got we've got clips of Steve
minuchin at the House Oversight
Committee hearing this on what's that
was the Financial Services says House
Oversight here
no House Financial Services okay and
this is all and particularly just sort
of becomes a little more hyper charged
with this leak of this IRS memo the
we've also got clips of some of the
abortion protests across the country
people seeking their rights to have
sovereignty over their own bodies and a
horrible story I guess this is the fun
half let's just I want to play this clip
too before we go because people should
be aware of this and this is and I want
to make this clear this report from NBC
is is about the use of solitary
confinement by ice for people who are I
mean this is just I mean this sounds
just it's unbelievable but it's
basically for people who are mentally
ill or disabled or some instances
because they're transgender or gay or
because they have reported abuse from
guards or other detainees they are put
into solitary confinement remember that
most psychologists will say solitary
confinement is a form of tort
and for folks with mental illness it's
even worse this is a practice apparently
that has been going on with ice for at
least since 2012
these records document solitary
confinement cases from 2012 to 2017 they
were obtained under the Freedom of
Information Act by the international
consortium of investigative journalists
they were shared with NBC and apparently
other news organizations so this
predates Trump in nearly one third of
the cases one-third of the cases of
people put in solitary confinement were
determined by ice itself to have a
mental illness only half the cases of
where people are put into solitary
confinement according to Isis own
documents only half the cases involved
punishment for rule violations the other
reasons were just because I guess
theoretically to protect them from
themselves or other people and which is
not to say that there should be anybody
going to solitary confinement but but
even according to their own records ice
only put only half the people they put
in solitary confinement would done so
because it was being punished here is a
here is a part of that report from NBC
we have created and continue to support
a system that involves widespread abuse
of human beings
Ellen Gallagher works in the office of
the inspector general at the Department
of Homeland Security in 2014 she was
with a different DHS office where she
reviewed civil rights complaints and it
was troubled by what she saw in ices own
files
hundreds of immigrant detainees being
put in solitary confinement every week
most troubling for her cases involving
the mentally ill a schizophrenic
detainee sentenced to 390 days in
solitary for throwing human waste at a
guard another mentally ill detainee got
15 days because he had a green pepper in
his sock the notes specifically said he
had hidden the green pepper green pepper
1/2 a green pepper Isis policy states
that detainee should be segregated only
after a careful consideration of
alternatives solitary confinement was
being used as the first resort not the
last resort and sometimes it was the
only approach in a statement to NBC News
a spokesperson says ice is firmly
committed to the safety and welfare of
all those in its custody the use of
restrictive housing and ice detention
facilities is exceedingly rare but at
times necessary to ensure the safety of
staff and individuals in a facility
between 2014 and 2018
Gallagher sent memos detailing her
concerns up the chain how would you
characterize the overall response to the
concerns you raised muted why are you
speaking up now because if I didn't
speak up I don't think I could live with
myself an NBC News review of ice data
found more than 8,000 cases of
immigrants held in solitary confinement
in local private and federal facilities
under both the Obama in Trump
administration's a third of them
involved the mentally ill including one
put in isolation for nearly two years at
least seven have committed suicide while
in solitary Dulce Rivera an immigrant
from Honduras tried to hang herself
while in solitary in New Mexico I mean
imagine if that report the everything
word-for-word was done about I don't
know China or any other country for that
matter Russia we've invaded countries
for way less than that I mean views as a
pre-test
just just imagine that that is just
presented in you know the all the
participants in there just
we're speaking a different language and
we were just reading subtitles it would
the outcry would be amazing I mean this
is you know when they talk about
abolishing ice which apparently has not
been you know it's sort of like you know
left the consciousness for the moment
this is why this is a perfect example of
an agency that is simply out of control
and is so decrepit and corrupt at its
core that it's incapable of being
reformed this is I imagine also a part
of you know the privatization because
the controls over who administer this
stuff is just you know much more I guess
relaxed I mean it's really seen absolute
obscene by doing a lot of bad news today
the good news is is that the right-wing
a-holes who were in the government of
Austria all got caught on tape basically
willing to accept bribes for a Russian
oligarch favorite be open this is
something to resign so how's that for
some happiness I would say they're a
bunch of losers we also have some fun
brexit around bricks that are violence
yeah let's save that
yeah that is so good that's it
definitely improve everybody's mood
we're gonna go into the fun half and
mostly mostly fun stuff in the fun half
folks just a reminder you can support
this program by going to join the
majority report calm when you do you not
only support the free show
we give you extra content every day and
not only do we do that but we also give
it to you a commercial free on Monday
for instance Memorial Day we're not
going to have a free show we're just
going to put up members show and it's
going to be an archived interview that I
did with Chris Hayes back in 2000 like 9
or 10 when we're talking about it's an
interesting interview because we talked
about some of the problems that
we were anticipating coming forward and
the Republicans attack on norms at that
time I know this was only supposed to be
about Trump but we will put that out for
members you will have access to it if
you remember how's that also introducing
hunter-killer
monthly subscription game where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery it's so interactive and
convincing that it looks and feels real
right now just for our listeners you can
go to hunter-killer dot-com slash
majority for 20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hard to take advantage of this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com / majority
for 20% off your first box Hunter Killer
calm / Majority Michael last night was
Tuesday
apparently you you did your so-called
play real quick real quick before we get
to that do you want to talk about the
more Crispin Miller thing oh right yes
we're gonna put a link in this lanza
link on the blog post ok longtime
listeners of this program will remember
that one of our regular guests back on
the radio was a guy named Mark Crispin
Miller he was a professor at NYU
communications professor in fact I had a
very funny moment with him on the
original majority report I was quoting a
piece that I had read about television
this was you know 10 or 15 years ago
that and that I had read maybe 10 or 15
years earlier maybe I read it in the
early 90s and I couldn't remember where
it was from I thought it was from a
David Foster Wallace essay but it was
basically about the dynamic of
television where the act of watching
television and this may have changed
based upon you know all the technology
frankly in the bar being lowered but at
the time the act of being television
basically the subtext of it was because
you're not being watched because you're
not on television you're less than and
like the whole experience was to put
focus on on people
- glass and it somehow this came up in
our conversation with him and I said you
know I can't remember I think it was
David Foster Wallace but and and he goes
that was me
I actually quoted I didn't realize that
he had written the book that I had read
and it was a total McLuhan moment and he
said that was me I wrote that and I was
like oh I'm so happy to meet you
and perhaps I should have done a little
more research but he apparently and this
is I mean this is another one of stories
it's like what the the f but he
apparently has had undiagnosed Lyme
disease that he's had from since 2011
and I have a lot of experience with Lyme
disease my ex-wife had had Lyme disease
it took about a year to get rid of and
fortunately she had she caught it fairly
early but he is suffering from all sorts
of secondary symptoms from the Lyme
disease he is he has an opportunity to
get some oxygen oxygen ization therapy
but apparently my guess is is that his
insurance doesn't cover it and so he you
can find I mean he has been and his
production has been way off obviously as
of late but things like hidden news in
the past and so if you have the ability
to help him get to his $20,000 goal do
so we put a link
he also curated something called the
forbidden bookshelf series yes which has
a bunch of really great books there's
one called Lords of creation by
Frederick Lewis Allen that's great one
of the Phoenix program in Vietnam really
like I want to read everything in that
series um I think we may have had him on
early on and this in this version of the
show to talk about that I feel like back
in 2000 maybe around the time that he he
got he got the lines yeah there's one in
the orlando letelier's assassination -
really good so check that out help if
you can
meanwhile last night was Tuesday night
otherwise otherwise known as the as the
sting people are calling it in my emails
this thing of course is a reference to a
famous movie from the 70s with Paul
Newman and Robert Redford about the long
con and and people are equated Michael's
whole like if we get to 2,000 patrons
I will eat from a one of these survival
a post-apocalyptic dinner things people
didn't realize that what he said well I
will eat as much as I want as opposed to
some type of challenge doing stuff that
you want not a challenge do yeah doing
stuff despite the fact that you don't
want to do it a challenge I will say we
do like he wanted to do it I do not want
to do any of it and not and I'll just
say this too
I mean I think Matt should should maybe
sort of explain the break don't try and
implicate madding on this I mean this is
not oh this was a life I take owner Matt
opened the bucket and was the first to
say that doesn't smell like bad food
that smells like industrial not food and
if Matt says that with his dietary
habits that's extremely revealing then
we were shocked that I mean basically if
you're in a survival scenario I don't
see how this is that handy it's very
heavy to carry around it's impractical
to pack presumably you don't have a
water heater around you I guess you'd
need to like build some sort of fires
you think you're not gonna you're gonna
survive a post-apocalyptic
the world without being able to create
fire and not voice not but I'm thinking
more like things are burning down you're
running you want to throw six meals in
there how all of which are not that
stationary bunker when you've got the
generator hooked up yeah if you were in
your stationary bunker when you have the
generator hooked up I'm gonna recommend
you go for some some better product but
so we didn't and I and and Jamie
helpfully reminded us cuz we thought we
were gonna be lead any of it and she
promptly texted me and said there's a
water heater here and I was only imagine
what your reaction to that was like
Janet no my react my reaction could have
been to ignore it my reaction was to
publicly say on the show hey we actually
do a theater here we know that a meal
out of water heater in there I don't
know I don't know if Jamie's our rat I
hold her and hires it's not yeah it's a
consumer advocate so do I care more
about my solidarity with you as a fellow
worker or as somebody of whom I am your
boss in that scenario there you go
euro you're your consumer you're like
somebody would write a yelp review which
is just slightly above a rat so
basically I I we we that one reports
dot-org again that was so disgusting
I I we have to put it on it if we want
to watch it we have some footage of this
this is real this is disturbing this is
all you're gonna see by the way because
we're not clipping this alright alright
I'm taking my full bite here baby
[Laughter]
Wow
Brendon Sutton sat there and watching us
do this that was like it was like his
reparations but all these excuses it's
like we just replayed the HUD the hut
hearing of course I said that I wouldn't
do more than take a bite I have been
very clear the whole time well in
addition to that I'm announcing my
survival go eat that go eat it Sam how
many meals you had you had two meals
yeah we we tasted from know he tasted
from three meals Oh you tasted we had a
little sample menu it's like I like one
of those like expose on a Sunday like we
got like a hundred and sixty-two
restaurant yeah I'm Brooklyn we just
tasted I don't say it like as someone
who tuned into this like very excited to
watch we we got what we came for
like we definitely there was a
sufficient amount of like retching
unless he was just faking the whole
thing like I was mad none of us were
faking I will I mean even our even the
person is Buchi Wally insisted our
friend a patron who is there visiting
insisted on trying it and he went very
quickly from basically guys stop it
this is like whatever stop being babies
tasted it and went whoo gee I don't know
if that's it people any leftover there
are people who are eating bucket is
still right here he's not floating the
idea that I would taste from four meals
go for it and but the challenge would be
if 500 of your patrons leave to join the
majority report wow man I would this is
just pure oligarch class warfare you
know
is from nothing pull it up with in total
poverty you're the son of a lawyer
hold on once I just rent here you
already leech from my broadcast on a
regular basis and the fact that you
would oh this is your true color see
this is what cam really thinks poor
people this is what Sam really thinks in
the struggle this is what Sam really
what I think about consumers why Sam the
tree for voting for Biden Sam is not a
good guy folks he doesn't care this is
why he was always like I don't think
Hillary's really that bad
I don't think Hillary's really that bad
I didn't think she would you get Tim
black I was gonna do like I would like
for me to know Michael Brooks he
revealed Sam cedar Seth Meyers finally
got fed up said the truth about Oleg
arcs Sam that's why I said talked about
Russia every single second I was
protecting that is why if we talk about
Russia that maybe my Upstate second home
won't be taxed maybe I could steal money
from my employee exactly exactly yeah
exactly
no that was the first a lot of our
oppression with the world has been
hypnotized just like they spin their
dray poles then everyone is this eat
yeah whatever
Brandon and I talked about capitalism
that that that that anti-semitism is
Semitism came from an earlier
anti-semitic joke I made well the
trouble is okay I'm using my earlier yes
people like you working so hard to
fortify it means move the Jews
oh we should save this for the fun half
yeah Matt what else we talked about in
the distinction between Warren and
Sanders why Green imperialism is not
going to do the trick and we did a
history of this idea of greening the
military as like a way of triangulating
the climate message going back to Thomas
Friedman and the global business network
Sanders foreign policy history we gave
shout outs to the Union that went load
did we talk about that yesterday on
majority report yeah we headlined the
Italian okay Italian Union that would it
load arms shipments for Saudi Arabia
notorious b.i.g loading arm shipments
they were loading electrical equipment
onto a ship that had our Adams right
right right so they refused to do that
in Genoa and Brandon and I talked about
about ideology I mean I won't explain
much Brandon's a brilliant really
interesting guy and so I would listen to
and watch us and I'd also check out the
discourse and we should have him on a
Friday sometime and we also inaugurated
a new segment called The Daily Show gone
bad where we did some media criticism of
Hasan Minhaj discovery a coverage of
Brazil yeah it's where we criticize
media figures were envious of me yes
vivia figures that were purely envious
of but who are also genuinely not funny
and are perpetuating horrible beliefs on
Brazil patreon.com slash T MBS Michael
Brooks show on YouTube Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah
our producer Andy is back from his
travels presenting on Posadas at Cuba's
first Trotsky conference as well as red
May in Seattle and he's got four
interviews which we ran this week
Isabel Diaz Taurus from the anarchist
bibliotheca Opera in Cuba who was
actually arrested after this interview
for staging a protest against homophobia
which is kind of insane
Simone Rodriguez from partido so CEO
Lee's mo y libertad of Venezuela who is
part of the left opposition to both
Maduro and Guido a producer of the audio
zine podcast resonance audio and Philip
walls letter of read May
who wraps everything up with his story
of backpacking to Chile in 1973 during
the coup Matt yeah literary hangover the
Margaret Fuller episode will be out for
patrons I believe tomorrow evening we
are seven patrons shy of 200 we're not
going to be eating anything for that
celebration well no more debasing good
that you daren't over-promising all
right folks we're gonna take a quick
break ahead into the fun half 643
thousands a transient laughs on wine bar
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty
[Music]
you
the fun 1/2 Sam saw 1/4 wedged books oh
I needed to go get it I can't take any
calls or Iams because I'm sitting at my
my my seat um I guess we should hold off
on playing any sound until Sam gets back
depending on how long he's delayed um we
did inaugurate that daily show gone bad
clip yesterday and Oh Sam's here but I
was gonna ask was the Daily Show always
bad or now we just realized it's bad but
we'll talk about that another time Sam
is back did you get it yeah find it Sam
did you find it you told me to vamp for
you where he could get a quarter that
was wedged underneath the least in the
right with Mandela voice hey Samantha
was it tool wedge whoa that's better the
difficulty of the jewel and on one hand
they want to go to win convenient places
to find quarters dimes and nickels even
pennies but yet at the same time because
of their profound lack of athleticism
and telophase mask and to uh know that
part that has been that has been I think
that I already percent in all you know
hitting aside I think I do really need
to because I I need to when there's a
slight bit of pressure you immediately
go to the anti-semitism I write fairy
tale just a slight bit well I think that
it's it's like well it's because of the
Jews is because I think it's like when
you think about just how they act
[Laughter]
Jesus I had a borderline serious point
to make but I'm not going to try to do
it mmm it's pretty borderline right now
very very close oh boy super borderline
bless me Father for I said yeah Oh who's
that joke too much for you
one night Russian Lemonade Stand what
are you implying about the motivation at
Trump Treasury secretary Newton's
unwillingness to go through with the
Harriet Tubman on the 28th just about
anti-counterfeiting security features
for these guys and these bills are much
easier to fake if the face on them is
one of them
one of those who all live see to them
yeah exactly
Jonathan Armstead we have an interview
actually kind of on that topic
don't we some the pre-tape oh that's
true Jonathan Armstead Sam I held off on
a joke about Ben Carson yesterday but
after seeing this latest clip I'm gonna
make it Ben dr. Carson obviously got
confused about an REO because he's so
used to thinking himself as an Oreo
black on the outside but white on the
inside seriously what's this guy problem
he steps away from asking Ayanna Presley
why a common field hand was speaking to
him that way he thought he'd gain
respect after working in the big house
for so long
bull Prague's we should equip those
Congress members with belt buckles to
protect them from Ben Carson after that
humiliation Colin from Nebraska hey I'm
our crew good news I got married this
past weekend to my beautiful wife I am
so happy can I get a shofar sure
Gregory from Oklahoma I plan on
overtaking progressive voice and being
the leading generations II left his new
show get him like I I'm having on even
plan on having worse takes on TV shows
and music than him please support the
Green Corn rebellion show on patreon and
SoundCloud where are these you should
start kicking in Wow
alright let's let's get into the fun
half in a fun manner the the brexit vote
obviously it's been a little bit
problematic for Great Britain and it is
a lot of the motivation of Braga's it I
think was problematic and you know you
have conversations like we did yesterday
where you realize like you know it's
also problematic in terms of like the
greater implications for the EU in terms
of multinational organizations even if
they are problematic the organizations
in and of themselves in the way in the
policies that they come up with because
of the power dynamics within those
organizations but much of this is a
process to get to the more benevolent
multinational organizations you may have
to work through some of the less
benevolent ones but here is a rather
hilarious exchange and you know we've
tried to make the point on this program
that it's not just Trump is the problem
in this country it's all the people who
support Trump and really even that maybe
too narrow because it's just the problem
is a lot of times is just largely people
just in general and here is a here is I
guess
Exhibit A that I would offer to the
court here is blaming the electorate
hero political Global Edition this is
apparently I'm not quite clear one of
these MPs is David Davies I'm not going
to tell you anything else about him
and he wears a camera on his chest like
an iPhone contraption or something
presumably to protect himself from
people who come at him with cameras and
there is a brexit supporter who
approaches him who has a an accessory
which is basically a wearable microphone
that broadcasts her voice as she it
looks like films near helm this is like
it looks like a beer helmet no
understand and he's cultured he's Pro
breads oh nothing like tip and the joke
I'm sorry
understand this country there's a lot of
pressure going on here because they
can't they can't quite figure out a plan
to exit the EU and they can't figure out
whether they're going to do a redo on
the vote there's a lot of I can't even
follow it frankly and here's part of the
reason why here here is that MP and is
running with a Briggs a tear how does he
make you feel well obviously what I will
do is recall it so I'm actually gonna
tear my camera on out recalled this lady
so somebody's asking a newsperson to ask
him like well how did it feel to be
attacked all the time and he's like well
I'm I record with this camera on my
chest and I immediately put it to
Twitter so this is very 2019 like
technological warfare yes this is a
Twitter conversation right real life
this is this is the like the 2019
version of two bald men fighting over a
comb because I think
I was quiet when I came here I was
closed for saying but now I can tell
he's a Ramona
I haven't no I didn't eat well I don't
know so have you done something to be
accused though say anyway that's a
that's a funny funny enough I think this
lady's actually on the brexit side which
is my side of the argument but basically
the same you know I look like a predator
you know only thing if you are a
breakfast here then this is how this is
progressing where were you where were
you people when I was out campaigning
for breasts you in nowhere you behind
your keyboards and now you come out
right how is it for attacking so
understand this MP is waiting for
remainders to come around and harass him
but he gets harassed by a brexit er who
when she realizes that he voted for
brexit then she stuck needing a reason
to be antagonistic towards him so she
just basically asked well is there
something that I should be accusing you
of have you done something wrong and
Billy day
she's wearing a baked Alaska hat isn't
it or no but says based Amy o face
doesn't all right term that basically I
guess it's just essentially is that who
she is basically and maybe that's her
but it means that your your red pilled
so it's do Baked Alaska she's a lot more
entertaining now right yeah baby Baked
Alaska was like hey I was just being a
show business I'm not sure I'm
totally into it
see her also she calls him he's a
browser but not brexit her enough for
her like because he voted for something
to like double well that was what out
yeah whatever Teresa Mays delay where
were you where were you people when I
was out campaigning the best you in know
where you behind your keyboards now
you've come out right you would not a
brexit
aye aye a sieve wash campaign with
brexit have been for years giving
lectures but I did vote for the deal for
the deal oh my god and that have you
read the deal yeah I've read the dish
that means not to know how many of em
peed right
that means we don't know mean so you are
a liar you did not vote to leave very
early people have you want to join the
BCI ready
it was totally unlike this man who's an
MP and shame were you named that if
you're a never mind what my name is I'm
not talking I guess I'll find out when I
watch the beauties of I'm deal in this
guy's pretending like he's a beaver what
a liar you're a liar shame on you you're
a traitor you sign that document there
is nothing it's not even you can't even
say it
that's what you put up with we're here
out here all the time no I mean this guy
I think you pick the wrong job if you
can cope with somebody walking along
like over there sit here all day to be
honest it feels like you should feel
uncomfortable you betrayed 17-point lead
off your sister keyboard as well yeah
this guy he owes either mr. méliès me
so what position did you get to it
tell me your MP am I good Annette so
this man discerning about the anything
there's a total betrayal of friendship
it's a total down you know what you guys
are just gracious well how much how much
would BBC been paid to promote the
European Union yeah III mean this hand
wow I hate to see it well no I feel like
this is it literally is like Twitter in
real life like it just the these two
people who ostensibly are both like what
they're doing is about politics and it
clearly has nothing to do about politics
it's just they're just searching
desperately for a reason to get into a
fight with each other or to avoid it's
just so a extremely emotionally
disturbed but in different ways
exactly I don't want to be pedantic but
I'm pretty sure that predates Twitter
well no it does pre day Twitter but it
it is I think it is basically
three-quarters of what Twitter is yes
Witter let's right but but and I don't
think there was nearly as much of this
type of stuff frankly pre Twitter
I bet she's got Monty Python 5 from it's
very money yes except for it wasn't a
comedy show it was literally just two
people on the street like inclusive
being an MP no this is the future with a
body like that's what I'm saying this is
the future of the info war he's got like
his rig he's got a he's got like a
camera to his chest and I can't add a
camera and then she's got like some sort
of
everyone this is how mech suits started
with this until they're both wearing
jetpacks and so that they can just fly
up and then just sort of like yeah this
is from the sky smites them both I don't
even want it to my jetpack on for you
it's like transformers but everything
instead of like streamers like can he do
technology even turn on his jetpack look
at that she liar but I think it'd be so
interesting to me is like disaggregating
like the difference between people who
vote for things like greggson I think
Briggs it was more so than Trump of
people that are really just disgusted
and fed up and like the people are
disgusted and fed up or the opposite in
the ecosystem like they don't want to
talk to an MP I think they want to be
like left alone and have things change
and then like the actual like Trump
brexit ear voters I mean I'm guessing
that that woman is not you know that's
not the and I think it's real I don't
mean it sarcastically but she is not in
the misdirected populist anger or
economic anger I would be very
interested to hear so the loss on the
Romanian question the Jewish Question
the Pakistani question the Nigerian
question I think she probably was into
the category of misdirected anger but
just based Amy is who she is and she is
a free speech and anti Sharia activist
right of course angry at Sharia right
free speech and anti Sharia we have
another angle of this
oh this is hers she's gonna tip my
camera now call this lady bloody great
camera they're on him for God's sake
what's that there is my phone when
you're talking
I was quiet using I stopped talking but
I can't no we are truly living in the
spectacle oh my god but you know what
this is the other this is this is the
most compelling argument against
socialism because even after all of the
Tory cuts the the UK slows things like
the NHS which allow this woman to be a
pest yeah all of her basic needs are
taken care of
quiet yeah that voice projection
technology could be some type of like
advanced speaking capacity thing that
labour introduced or people with the
soft voices need have this lady crap on
the street about Sharia um she call him
a Rome owner yeah I love the fact that
it's just like oh you you're on my side
politically well then why is such a
snowflake well that's the part that is
Twitter like we played that thing where
a Gordon Brown talked about that
woman that was complaining about Polish
workers and like 2008 and she didn't
have any sort of vocabulary like that
this woman had like an entire set of
talking points that were like oh so
you're a Ramona you know like a
that was actually fascinating can we
take her detour on this for just one
second it was fascinating conversation
we had because in 2009 to Gordon Brown
was caught on a hot mic he was out
campaigning and a woman who and I and so
I she's an old lady and maybe today she
wouldn't I don't know how bad she was I
feel kind of bad trashing her but she
did give him like she said why are there
so many Romanians here right this is
2009 so maybe today she would be really
awful and brexit or maybe she would have
pulled back from that trajectory who
knows but she said that she didn't have
any of this other rhetoric that was as
far as it went
and he kind of was like alright like
well first he actually tried he said
well there's a million Britons in the
eurozone too so that's not exactly true
that they're just flooding us we go back
and forth and then you know he wrapped
it up and basically like I hope you vote
Labour then he goes in his car and he's
on a hike my hot mic and he's like who
left me with that woman and they're like
what what she's like oh just this awful
bigoted woman she was just awful we're
complaining about Romanians just just a
bigot the whole thing was ridiculous and
what I wondered today though it was like
on one side that woman could have the
whole brexit lane for her if that's
where she was and she could get
amplified in her bigotry but conversely
Gordon Brown it was a disaster at that
time but I think today there would be
shows like ours though fair enough buddy
right it might have worked really well
for him right well I mean we didn't have
me I mean we had memes but they were
very far and few between like they were
like where's the beef
or lies I got milk god you're getting
Adele yeah that stopped me right all ads
that's all or you know not that's still
pretty good
oh god my Sacha Baron Cohen was so good
I want to go through Steve Newton
because he's in some hot water this is
this Rasheeda Talib and Steve Nugent is
this from yesterday this is me this
morning okay House Financial Services
hearing this is following the reports
that there's an internal IRS memo that
had been drawn up long before Steve
minuchin pretended like he could reject
the the Congressional demand to see
Donald Trump's taxes based upon his
assessment that there wasn't a
legitimate reason to do so the IRS had
already
informed him that not only does there
not have to be a legitimate reason there
doesn't have to be a reason if they
request it we have to give it the only
way to even stop that would be the
extraordinary measure of the president
invoking executive privilege it's not
clear to me why that would even hold -
but at the very least it's clear that
Steve minuchin did not even follow the
the actual advisement that he got from
the IRS despite the fact that he claimed
otherwise and talib is just like you got
problems buddy I will be remiss as
somebody that truly believes in the rule
of law as somebody that has practiced
law and as an attorney I would revise
you secretary to get personal legal
advice because the cover-up by this
administration it goes beyond just
providing the taxes you can consult the
Department of Justice but you personally
making decisions not on the best part of
the American people but to cover up the
the occupant of the White House I think
you need to be very very clear about
what your role is and what your
responsibility is to the American people
this is goes beyond just providing taxes
right it goes about transparency and the
fact that no one is above the law so
secretary please seek out legal advice
personally what your obligations are
because the Department of Justice is not
protecting you it's protecting the
president oh boy
you know I would remind Steve minuchin
the best time to get a defense attorney
is when you don't need one now I would
imagine that time has long gone
Maruchan should have probably gotten
probably had a defense attorney on
retainer for the past ten years really
procrastinating this I know the campaign
contributions take care of it I mean
this is this is the type of stuff that
is going to lead to impeachment here is
representative Alma Adams questioning
minuchin about this IRS memo that
clearly
undercuts every excuse that minuchin has
even been trying to pretend that he can
get away with for you to release your
tax returns are you aware that I am but
that's the president's decision and I'm
not involved in the president's decision
right let me reclaim my time I want to
get through my questions so are you
familiar with Congress's oversight
authority yes I am okay so it's found in
the Constitution and public laws and the
House and Senate rules and it does say
that when the request is made by the
appropriate offices that that he should
release him are you aware of that I've
read the law I've also been advised of
the interpretation of the law and I
understand the constitutional issues all
right so why haven't you complied with
with Chairman Neal's request because I
think that would be unlawful as advised
by the Department of Justice and that's
why there's a third branch of government
that most likely we reclaim my time so
so are you aware then that by denying
this that you are in direct violation of
the law no absolutely not I have been
advised I am not violating the law I
never would have done anything that
violated the law and quite the contrary
I've been advised to the had I turn them
over I would be violating around once so
are you alleging that chairman Neal
lacks a legislative purpose and that is
the basis for your refusing his request
well given that this is now most likely
going to litigation I think my letters
have been quite clear and why we have
denied the request and that's all right
thank you very much so are you intending
to comply with the request at all no
I've made clear to him a letter that it
would be unlawful for all right okay sir
I'm with claim in my time now have you
told the IRS not to respond to Chairman
Neal's request the IRS independently the
Chairman independently wrote a letter
concurring with them can you give me yes
or no have you you repeat the question
have you told the IRS
not to respond to the bequest again I
just said the IRS independently wrote a
letter okay let me clean my time can you
give me yes or no I don't all right okay
you might not you you now he understands
the question the question isn't whether
the IRS wrote a letter the question is
did you tell the IRS not to do it
because now it seems very suspicious
that the 10 page memo outlining all the
reasons why the IRS must comply with
this request from Congress was ignored
like on what basis would the IRS chief
make an independent determination that
he shouldn't give the taxes to Congress
when their own internal review says
they've got to so Steve minuchin will
not answer that question as to whether
he was the one who directed the IRS to
not give it and he's asked the question
two times there and he keeps saying they
wrote a letter well that's not the
answer to did you tell them to withhold
the taxes was it against your
instructions
there's no follow up he won't answer the
first one that they wrote a letter
independently could have easily happened
after he said don't release the taxes
and then the IRS chief was like I've
been told by my boss at Treasury don't
release the taxes and I'm getting a
request so I'm gonna write a letter
that's how you write a letter
independently after you've been told not
to do something he's a mean you know
where does this lead to
I'll tell you where it leads to here's
Nancy Pelosi who so far has probably
been the most outspoken bulwark against
impeachment in the Democratic caucus
not spoken I mean maybe she's doing it
on behalf of of members of hers that are
in purple districts maybe this is the
price that she you know is paying to get
them to vote with her another thing I
don't know but what I think we're
starting to witness now is her plan B I
think she did not want to go to
impeachment but I think this is where
pressure starts to have implications and
not just pressure I mean look the
pressure is founded on events that have
taken place in the past two or three
weeks bar refusing to testify minuchin
lying withholding of documents not even
going with the EPA EPA ignored Congress
to talk about their their plans to
basically allow for more mercury in the
air so here she is she's she's talking
about well listen to this it was a very
positive meeting of a respectful sharing
of ideas and I think a very impressive
presentation by our chairs we do believe
that it's important for the to follow
the facts we believe that no one is
above the law including the President of
the United States and we believe that
the President of the United States is
engaged in a cover-up
and a cover-up and that was the nature
so they've shared ideas and they believe
that the president honored States is
involved in a cover-up what we're
watching is I think and I don't think
this was Nancy Pelosi's plan I think
Nancy's pelosi's plan was no impeachment
let's just try and focus on doing
business so that we cannot be criticized
as it do-nothing Congress I mean a dumb
idea but that was our plan but now I
think that the actions of the Trump
administration and I think the drum
administration is probably baiting the
Democrats into calling for impeachment
but again they're between a rock and a
hard place because it's not just you
don't just do you don't just do things
we don't just not impeach because you
think
Trump wants you to impeach you also have
to calculate and what are the costs of
us not doing this and maybe Donald Trump
is not such a great strategist maybe
he's just a better tactician maybe he's
just a good blowhard maybe he can just
motivate racialized politics I mean
there's a whole host of other things
that you have to take into consideration
so I think what's happening with Pelosi
right now this is my sense and I don't
think this is a fait accompli I think
there needs to be more but III think
it's it feels like it's inevitable that
it's going this way
I think we're watching Pelosi change her
mind and do so in a way I believe that
she's coming to the conclusion that like
okay the the pro-impeachment force is
too strong so instead of me just
reversing myself I am going to publicly
show how I'm being convinced and this is
why the American public should be
convinced I think this is a plan B for
her but this is what you would do to
execute it yeah I mean here's what I
think happened is that they polled
people and found out that Democrats
don't believe that impeachment is gonna
do anything and they kind of mistook
that for they don't want impeachment
when in fact like I absolutely want
impeachment but I don't believe the
Democrats are gonna do it like that's
why I groaned when Rasheeda to leave was
like let's impeach the not
because I don't want it to happen but
cuz I don't think they're gonna do it
and now like they are finally responding
to what their base actually wants well I
mean I think her calculation could also
be to protect those Congress folks who
won from purple districts who are going
to be up for reelection in two years in
districts that you know aren't safe
districts and I protect those members
because that's what protects our
majority and in return from them they
know I'm protecting them so I get
certain votes they they they have to
make some hard votes
XYZ I protect him on impeachment but
it's unclear whether impeachment will
like you say actually in danger these
people and the more that she has and
shows political pressure on her the
easier it is for her to keep those
people in line
even if she ultimately comes down in
favor of impeachment I mean this is this
stuff is look and here's the thing
people and I'm not I'm not saying you're
doing this but but but you read this you
know too many people who on the left
I'm sure there's similar problems on the
right but there's just too many people
who perceive this as an ideological
thing as opposed to just straight
straight a Stratus you know strategy or
tactical questions and her and Pelosi's
perspective on this is obviously
different than ours she has a better
sense of on some level of like what's
going on within her caucus than we do
but at the same time you know she's also
in a bubble and she also you know is
naturally those in power and naturally
very often more conservative not
ideologically but in terms of the way
they they use their power I had a friend
who was on a plane next to a staffer I
can't remember what the senator was a
Democratic senator from the Northeast
and the staffer was currently getting
their mind blown by Jane Mayer's dark
money so that's where they were right
right right I mean the there was a piece
that I saw that oh here's a piece
actually by a guy named I don't know his
writing Jonathan MCATs and it talks
about the pros and Contras of relying on
political reporters it was really
basically long think piece on that
interview that we talked about yesterday
with Bernie and the writer from the New
York Times who incidentally some
sent an email and apparently she married
into a family of like bain capital or
something like that but I think she used
to work at Blackrock herself right I
don't know if that's the case but but
regardless the issue is less that it
seems to me and more
the problem with political reporters is
they have no they do it's not
necessarily I mean we presume it right
we presume that reporters are going to
have a deep understanding of history we
presume that because we we want to be
able to trust that what reporters are
doing is putting the events that they
report on in some type of broader
context so we assume that and certainly
I mean when I started just doing this
which is not even you know I just
where's exposed to reporters more I was
often shocked in the course of
interviewing people you know I came in
as a comedian and I was like I need to
do a lot of work and I was shocked at
sometimes the lack of depth of people's
understanding of reporting ostensibly of
reporting on a topic and so the problem
with interviewing the problem with
interviewing Bernie Sanders about his
stance on the Contras in the context of
a political race is it that that
political reporter may know nothing
about what what she's talking about and
so you end up getting simple questions
like that are in some ways completely
divorced of the context in which they're
talking so so if the question is you
were at a rally where you heard
anti-american chance did you leave that
could you could ask that question about
someone in if they were in Philadelphia
in 1995 if they were in
Russia in 1982 in Iran in 1987 in San
Francisco in 2003 at a Dixie Chicks
concert in Germany in 2002 you could ask
that question about any you know any
time in any political context it's it is
essentially a meaningless question if
you're asking about a specific act and
it works as a reporter but it doesn't
necessarily work in terms of giving us
more truth and so I'm not sure why I I
brought that up even but there is a I
don't know what inspired that but here's
a sy Hersh talking on on c-span about
this about this in this back in 1983 why
shouldn't be I've generally treated very
favorably by the press I really have
been I have no complaint given Kissinger
status but they really don't really know
that I was press secretary McCarthy when
he ran against Lyndon Johnson one of
McCarthy's lines that always struck me
is very apt funny but also more apt than
people realized he said the trouble of
you reporters is he said is you're right
but you don't read and we do have that I
mean there's not enough it seems to me
thoughtful stuff that goes on in the
media which makes it possible for a guy
like me to make money now I Got News for
you he's complaining in 1983 if you look
at what happened to like journalists
jobs compared to say PR jobs over that
span of time right I mean this is you
know this is the thing you know that
people have to understand that that like
that reporter from the New York Times
isn't I think in her mind doing a hit
job on burning I think she just doesn't
have the skill set to actually really do
a thoughtful interview about the
topic now maybe the editor is aware like
she's a good person to pick for this
because I'm not gonna get that one over
there with the chase shirt who do you
know it was like you know singing Billy
Bragg songs about Salvador Allende
because they're just gonna go in there
and they're not gonna try and get Bernie
so I'm just gonna put somebody in there
who really doesn't have the skill set
that's involved in asking this specific
angle or she does know as a member of
the ruling class and she's defending her
people yeah I would probably go with
ignorance I mean I think ignorant is I
think like I have a feeling that she you
could sit her down and ask her about the
Contras and about the Daniel Ortega and
the Sandinistas and about Batista and
about the the earthquake in Managua and
can I just say more that's worth you
would just be like I do think there's a
synthesis here which is that I agree
with you she's clearly totally ignorant
and the ability to have that ignorant
sand that's sort of like matter of fact
essentially jingoism is a product of her
class position that maybe too and she
may have a natural sort of like she
knows identity yes she has no thought
process about the other and she doesn't
need to yeah this this kind of status
quo attitude is not ever portrayed as
being political right but and I could
imagine it's not hard for me to imagine
someone who you know I mean I you know
I'm just basing her class off of what
the what I read in the wedding
announcement that there are people who
you know women men similarly situated
coming from similar families who would
actually have an awareness of that stuff
and not everybody can be all of paul me
yeah i go back to this ben rhoades quote
from this profile of him in the new york
magazine from years ago but says mostly
outlets are reporting on world events
from washington the average reporter we
talked to his 27 years old and their
only report and experience consists of
being around political campaigns as a
sea-change they literally know nothing
yes
literally yeah and I mean the profession
has become so proletarian eyes that it's
mostly just like downwardly mobile rich
kids who really don't know anything and
don't realize yet that you know you take
a job for $30,000 a year and you don't
form a union and it's gonna stay that
way that's also true you can afford the
unpaid internships yes exactly you can
do all the unpaid internships you know
everybody from school it's it's gross I
let's go to the phones calling from a
six one zero area code who's this where
he come from hello and it's Michael from
Pennsylvania my work from Pennsylvania
how are you sir I'm good
yesterday was Election Day here in
Pennsylvania
our primary for this on-ear and I was
involved in a couple campaigns and one
of them and one of them was here in my
home city of Allentown third largest
city and we want everything and one of
the people we elected one was a woman of
color 28 years old and she was she won
by a thousand votes over the
second-place person for City Council and
we also elected the youngest ever
candidate for City Council in Allentown
history my friend Josh Siegel he is a
member of DSA and we now stood
Democratic incumbent who the machine was
behind so it was really exciting wow
that's great congratulations Mike hey
Mike yes does that I mean does those
number how does that bode would you say
for 2020 like I mean there's this
narrative out there that people have
been demobilized and I wonder if that
people have been just immobilized in
terms
like I'm not going out and protesting
anything that has to do with like
national politics or you know because
there's nothing legislatively happening
anyways although we did have people out
you know protesting against these
abortion bans but I mean what what is
your sense about that demobilization if
it does it I mean what is it is is the
demobilization there or is it just
simply the mobilization continues to be
organizing on the ground and is less
sort of like seen by reporters so I
would say that like my impression was
that kind of the average everyday normal
person is kind of feeling demobilized
but what we did is it was all grassroots
retail organizers we had a group there's
a group called make the road if it's on
the Left immigrants right organization
and basically we were focused you know
for Josh as a very young candidate we
had to build a coalition of young people
people of color immigrants and we also
folded in organized labor and so it was
we had to do it the hard way of dragging
people out because of that you know I do
think there is a bit of kind of
everyone's waiting for something to
happen like everyone was fired up last
year for the Democrats to go after Trump
and kind of put him you know put him on
trial for the good people and it's not
happening because you know frankly like
when I look at Nancy Pelosi and a lot of
the people when the establishment Nancy
Pelosi is not a response the 2018 she
was somebody that's been there for a
very long time
she's risk-averse she's the Speaker of
the House like why should she take any
risks you know and imperiled her
position right you know that's not what
she's about she doesn't feel the same
pressures that you and I feel
and so like she thinks we're children
for risking her speakership right by
doing something as dramatic as openly
opposing Donald Trump they kind of feel
like he's unpopular and they're just
gonna win their you know I think they're
pulling a 2004 playbook out try to find
somebody who is an offensive against the
quote hated Republican right and I think
that strategy is absolutely insane
anyhow you lose agreed it's you well
something happened last week or I'm
sorry on Sunday here in the Lehigh
Valley which is this is my area so I
always try to contextualize my views
through where I'm from so it's not just
something disembodied pundits three we
had we're the former home of Bethlehem
Steel which used to be one of the
largest steel manufacturers in the world
and on sunday martin tower which was the
global headquarters of Bethlehem Steel's
and the largest structure and the Lehigh
Valley was imploded and so it was
something that used to employ 300
thousand American steel workers so here
in Pennsylvania you know when Bernie did
the townhall was in Bethlehem on Fox
News and I know there was a big debate
about whether he should go on Fox News
or report just came out this week that
people who watch Fox News are more
likely to vote for Bernie Sanders the
Democratic primary that people that
watch MSNBC so and that's the surprising
number of Democrats do watch Fox News I
think it's something like twenty percent
of which is wild but it is what it is
so we have these people out here who
Donald Trump talks to and when you look
at 2018 there were a lot of places that
did go for the Democrats but there were
a lot more traditionally Democratic that
didn't right and if I see a risk of
Donald Trump winning it's exactly the
same place he carried the last time
which is very like Pennsylvania is 85%
white by
you can't rely just on the Democratic
base demographics to win and it's
absolutely vital that we build that
coalition of young people immigrants
people of color and organized labor and
we need to that's something that we did
last night in Allentown but it's not the
strategy that it seems to be that the
Democratic Party wants to do and you
know Josh does have a general election
and Cece Gerlach who is the other person
we didn't manage to get all the
incumbents thrown off but we got two of
the three seats so that was a pretty
great amazing achievement something that
doesn't happen in local politics I'm
sure you know that Sam is that you know
defeating these local machines is like
so more hard because you and you have to
mantled it oh that's awesome Mike
congratulations oh wait I got a job Sam
I have a quick question Mike does your
shoulder hurt why would my shoulder hurt
from patting yourself on the back
because you're egotistical in one week I
hear you brag and say I'm not admit that
I've been calling impeachment for over a
year now he jumps on the bandwagon
pretending we've had the same position
all along but no that's okay anyways I'd
like to get to do some polling on South
Carolina's northern district gotta let
you go Mike woo it's like a product one
quick quick quick promise Lee so like
some of the majority reports super super
fans and contributors like myself
they're all Georgia Kentucky Fried
Conrad we're going to be sitting down
and talking to Nancy Pelosi's primary
challenger I'm gonna call weeks about
his plans and in San Francisco if you're
interested in that you can check out I
think we're going to put it up on
soundcloud or whatever under the name
into deep I recommend everyone check
that out
gonna be interesting what a great car
when it's at when it's up calling and
and we'll promote it they did one on the
white supremacy politics in California
that was good to you there's a huge
amount of talent out there all right I
just got one one minute folks we're not
gonna have time for another phone call
I'm so sorry I will take it just gotta
be two minutes on this call from a six
one two area code gotta be quick oh yes
Oh Sam yes who's this hello hello Brenda
Brenda Brenda from Minneapolis how are
you Brenda yes yes I'm just sitting here
that's my milkshake oh they well I'm
sorry you don't have anything left did
you know that if you take an Oreo and
crumble it up put it in your milkshake
it's really good
oh really you're crossing the streams
all right Brenda we got one literally 60
seconds okay very quickly there's been
an issue within the skeptical rational
atheistic Krauss that I travel in a
person a youtuber by the name of
rationality rules posted in extremely
transphobic video and it was she fear
monger about trans women competing
against assist gendered women in the
Olympics and in sports in general and it
was very uninformed and and it resulted
in a huge blow-up with between him and
the ACA which is the atheist community
of Austin Texas which does the Matt
Dillahunty atheist experience as well as
some other shows and this resulted in a
huge blow-up and as you can no doubt
guess a man who calls himself
rationality rules on YouTube knows
nothing about what he's talking about
did no research not at all the
scientists size does not support a
single thing that he asserted and there
is a youtuber
I believe her pronoun is she but our he
I don't know
I called essence of thought who has
posted a couple excellent takedowns very
respectful very thoroughly researched
about exactly why and I and I think this
will be something that will be coming up
with the Olympics coming up this will be
a major sort of like moral panic on the
right about trance trance women
competing with other women all right
well I'll tell you what Brenda I'm gonna
check out essence of thought maybe we'll
we'll do a video on it as well to
promote that yeah yeah thank you all
right appreciate all right folks that's
it for calls today and just gonna do a
couple of IMS and then get out of here
do we have Trump responding to Pelosi
how long is that okay so let's let's
play this Nancy Pelosi like I said
earlier basically said the Trump has
been engaging in cover-ups this is a
function of at the very least what's
going on with minuchin and bar are
withholding parts of the the redacted
parts of the mauler investigation
keeping Muller from testifying in front
of Congress etc etc and so here is
Donald Trump responding to the idea that
he is involved in any type of cover-up
he's got nothing to hide folks nothing
whatsoever so that Nancy Pelosi just
before our meeting made a statement that
we believe that the President of the
United States is engaged in a cover-up
well it turns out I'm the most and I
think most of you would agree to this
I'm the most transparent president
probably in the history of this country
hmm we have given on a witch-hunt or a
hoax the whole thing with Russia was a
hoax as it relates to the Trump
administration and myself was a total
horrible thing that happened to our
country it hurt us in so many ways
despite that we're setting records with
the economy with jobs were the most
employed today that we've ever had in
the history of our country
we have the best unemployment numbers
that we've had in the history of our
country in some cases 51 years but
generally in the history of our country
companies are moving back in things are
going well and I said let's have the
meeting on infrastructure we'll get that
done easily that's one of the easy ones
and instead of walking in happily into a
meeting I walk in to look at people that
had just said that I was doing a cover
up I don't do cover-ups you people know
that probably better than anybody
oh my god he is transparent in a certain
way yes open about his crimes never
cover up get the 30,000 emails and don't
forget to stay at Trump Towers tonight
Trump hotels do everything in the open
they can't get you out just think how a
monuments do it alright five iambs
middie doctors please tell everyone to
hit the like button ask every can you
ask everyone on YouTube to hit the like
button it's a YouTube solidarity thing
okay hit the like button
contagious chameleon the lottery debates
section is why it's important to have
Tulsi Gabbard and Mike Gravel in the
debates they are there to attack the
establishment when questions fall short
that isn't really you know what now that
I know that it's a lottery system I am
so much I I my position is flipped they
should definitely they should be in the
debates yes totally flipped totally
flipped totally different position
although it's always the position I had
been Shapiro's doctor's wife can you
guys talk a little bit about why anyone
think communism is an ideal way of
running society I meant in a
hypothetical way as I think Jamie's the
only one identifies the Communist PS
food bucket challenge really bummed me
out last night that was gonna have to
wait till tomorrow listen to the anti
Fattah if you want to hear us yell about
communism indeed a capitalist answer to
communism rather brother from Brooklyn
damn candidates needed pounce on Biden
I'm not buying that he just fades scary
that his fav unfav is better among
Americans than any other damn
left hand leftist is it possible Nancy
Pelosi won't impeach because Wall Street
donors are telling it it would affect
the stock market or is a fear of some
electoral backlash the latter JB
REO I can't fight this feeling anymore
yes Carson Trump and the GOP or
sociopaths sadistic cruelty is the point
that's why the base loves them and the
final I am of the day J tingle great new
character gratuitously anti-semitic
Michael Brooks killing it that voice
would be great would be great doing a
rat a riff track during a screening of
the sorrow and the pity alright folks
see you tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I was I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
they're bears
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
