[Music]
this was another important part of the
hearing Alexandre Cascio Cortez does not
have a law degree and once again
improving proving that people put way
too much stocking credentials she
actually made just in a forensic and
extremely effective case for getting
into this guy's Trump of course sure to
be incredibly dirty tax returns I would
imagine first my colleague from Vermont
had asked you several questions about am
i the parent the parent company of the
National Enquirer and in that you
mentioned a treasure trove a quote
treasure trove of documents in David
peckers office relating the information
assembled from all these catch and kill
operations against people who
potentially had damaging information on
the president you also mentioned that
the president was very concerned about
the whereabouts of these documents and
who possessed them does that treasure
trove of documents still exist I don't
know I had asked David Becker for them
so you would say the person who knows
the whereabouts of these documents would
be David Packer David pecker Barry
Lavigne or Dylan Howard okay thank you
I'm secondly I want to ask a little bit
about your conversation with my
colleague from Missouri about asset
inflation I'm to your knowledge did the
president ever provide inflated assets
to an insurance company yes who else
knows that the president did this Allen
weiselberger Ron Lieberman and Matthews
Calamari
and where would the committee find more
information on this do you think we need
to review his financial statements and
his tax returns in order to compare them
yes and you'd find it at the Trump org
thank you very much the last last thing
here the Trump golf organization
currently has a golf course in my home
borough of the Bronx
Trump Links I Drive past it every day
going between Bronx and going between
the Bronx and queens in fact the
Washington Post reported on the Trump
links Bronx course in an article
entitled taxpayers
built this New York golf course and
Trump reaps the rewards where many that
that article is where many New Yorkers
and people in the country learned that
taxpayer spent 127 million dollars to
build Trump links in a quote generous
deal allowing President Trump to keep
almost every dollar that flows in on a
golf course built with public funds and
this doesn't seem to be the only time
the president has benefited at the
expense of the public mr. Cohen I want
to ask you about your assertion that the
president may have improperly devalued
his assets to avoid paying taxes
according to an August 24th to August
21st 2016 report by The Washington Post
while the president claimed in financial
disclosure forms that trump National
Golf Club in Jupiter Florida
was worth more than 50 million he had
reported otherwise to local tax
authorities that the course was worth
quote no more than five million mr.
Cohen do you know whether this specific
report is accurate it's identical to
what he did at Ramez naam Gulf Club at
Briarcliff Manor do you know to your
knowledge was the president interested
in reducing his local real estate bills
tax bills and how did he do that
what you do is you deflate the value of
the asset and then you put in a request
to the tax department for a deduction
thank you now in October 2018 the New
York Times revealed that quote President
Trump participated in dubious tax
schemes during the 1990s including
instances of outright fraud that greatly
increased the fortune he received from
his parents which I'm and it further
stated from the quotes he also helped
formulate a strategy to undervalue his
parents real estate holdings c55
hundreds of millions of dollars on tax
returns sharply reducing his tax bill
when those properties were transferred
to him and his siblings mr. Cohen do you
know whether that specific report is
accurate I don't I wasn't there in 1990
who would know the answer to those
questions
Allen weiselberger
and would it help for the committee to
obtain federal and state tax returns
from the president and his company to
address that discrepancy I believe so
thank you very much I yield the rest of
my time to the chair excellent and and
necessary and everybody really should
read the New York Times report on
Trump's family and how they you know how
they stole my hit money from the federal
government and set up this trust fund
all that because I think you know that's
the type of thing that is a reflection
of American Oleg Archy that's not about
the Trump's per se this is as so many
other things Trump is the perfect
embodiment of all of the pathologies of
our society take a look at everyone else
in his cabinet and if they come from
money ie Betsy DeVos exactly yeah I mean
this isn't about Trump Russia this is
about like oligarchy and how it operates
in an endear generationally but well
that was actually another thing too that
was interesting to me about the hearing
and I you know some people are saying
because you know Michael Cohen said that
the BuzzFeed story which we already knew
was inaccurate was inaccurate that you
know again it loops us back to all this
Russia stuff which I'm just I'll I'll
reiterate the company line here we'll
see what Mahler says I think there might
be some slight variations of
disagreement in this office about the
Russia thing but not anything dramatic
and we already know that there were
sketchy connections and sketchy meetings
does this amount to some type of like
grand conspiracy I would actually I
think no I think we can just start to
say that I think that that's very clear
unless something totally new emerges by
you know Muller and all and what was
fascinating to me was that all of the
questions that emerge more and that kind
of fever dream you know like stuff
alluding to a P tape and other stuff
not only did Cohan say no he actually I
would say in my view he enhanced his
credibility by actually being like the
same guy that I basically said as a
huckster racist who would not give up
our peacefully no he wouldn't do that
and no that's ridiculous right but the
most effective indictments of Trump
we're just going as AOC so effectively
did on stuff that we already know like
we know that the fortune is built on tax
schemes we know that all of this stuff
is built on ripoffs and corruption and
and abuses we know how this whole thing
works and we know that Trump has been
involved in his own you know uniquely
grotesque petty odious way and all of it
and we'll see what Mahler says and again
anybody who says there's no nothing
nothing nothing to do with Rush I mean
that's the monstre Blee not true but
even the extent to which there is stuff
to do it Russia it is so clearly on this
pattern that it could just as easily be
Israel at the United Arab Emirates or
the but you know whatever Bronx
local officials we're involved in the
stupid golf club that's the game that's
it and it's actually quite disgusting
and it's actually a serious fundamental
structural threat indeed even to our
democracy if you want to use that
language so you know the biggest hits
were on how grotesque is it that a this
racist is in the White House or let's
look at the dudes tax returns you know
this is clear stuff all right I'm gonna
read a few more items and then we'll
keep going through this video
