[Music]
here is Justin Amash one having to
explain to a Mogga hat-wearing
constituent that you know pretend like
things aren't as tribal as they are in
some ways and Justin Amash is in a tough
position here because he's gonna argue
that his bona fides as a Republican as
being or conservative as being you know
fiscally prudent or you know Pro
austerity or etc etc the problem is is
that like that's there's nobody else in
his ideological bent that is actually
pursuing any of that I mean I remember
back during the Iraq war when Andrew
Sullivan would refer to himself you know
or that era that Bush era is as a as a
as a conservative and it was like it's
like someone going around speaking Latin
and just wondering why no one under
status and there are people who go and
speak Latin but they're usually like in
churches and there's a you know it's
ceremonial that's sort of like when I
see Justin Amash say what he's gonna say
here that's what it feels like to me
he's speaking Latin in some type of
ceremonial ceremony
[Applause]
pause it right now this is a room full
of Michiganders now maybe they're all
Democrat but this is a big auditorium it
is packed to the gills
I look at this thing it's tough to see
you know exactly but it doesn't look to
me like this is not a bunch of college
kids and this looks about as Grand
Rapids Michigan as it gets now maybe all
just all the the you know Trump haters
came out but I don't think so but they
seem to really have a problem with this
Mogga hat-wearing uh I think a woman
right here but first I have one of the
most constitutionally conservative and
fiscally conservative Bonilla regulars
[Applause]
than any member of Congress in either
chamber since I've been in Congress so I
voted for less spending when I got
elected as part of the tea party
movement people cared about limited
government they cared about fiscal
conservatism making sure that our
government wasn't spending too much
under the current administration
spending is skyrocketing
so experiment spending is gone way out
and
unfortunately haven't said that much
about it I can continue to vote to
reduce spending at the federal level I
talked earlier about how I think we do
too many things at the federal level if
you look at my scorecards from
conservative groups I bent the top of
like nearly all the scorecards so you
won't you're not going to find me
[Applause]
Republicans I'm I'm at the top we're
near the top of every scorecard so let
go now I heard your comments about the
Muller report but I mean Monnaie ting
right I mean it's fascinating because
the kamistan him and the rest of the
Republican Party now I it's also sort of
just bizarre to see someone sort of like
I have consistently been on the side
that says we must create more
deprivation more we must admit more
people we must adhere to what basically
amounts to a religion that is based on
faith and has nothing to do with
real-world results and I have stayed
true to those principles and and that's
weird and then also to hear the Mogga
hat-wearing person going like yes
absolutely I was part of that tea party
thing yes absolutely
all that stuff but because you're
against the president who is doing
everything contrary to why I voted for
you I now perceive you as being the
enemy like it is it's like a there's a
snake eating its tail quality to this
but then you need a snake eating its
tail eating its tail eating its tail
it's crazy that the Tea Party people are
now like the moderate conservative
somehow was the same thing with what
weren't flaking sass both yeah almost
yeah yep like it kind of speaks I mean
we've never had like one class in one
party in one class in the other party in
this country quite but like it used to
be more that Republicans were like you
know the ruling class the bosses they're
for the rich and austerity and fiscal
responsibility or whatever and the
Democrats were more
not a labour party but labour was
certainly a strong constituency in it
and now like I mean they talked about
this in history as a weapon like it was
really is prefigured in the 70s by Nixon
but like this kind of aggrievement has
zero links to class anymore it's just on
another level it's on a another level I
agree I think on some well it's zero
some that agreement but
