Donald Trump out in California here he
is with gavin newsom the california
governor elected I guess the lieutenant
governor as well Jerry Brown I'm not
sure who the third person is in camera
frame here but it is it Trump is this is
a stunning example of someone who
resents California because that's where
all the votes came to make him lose the
general election tally and California
has the power on things like cafe
standards and whatnot to push back on
Donald Trump and someone who knows
nothing about what he's talking about
but feels obligated to pretend that he
does this is like this is this is a sick
individual but let's hear him here yes
and I know
Gavin's committed we're all committed
I'm committed to make sure that we get
all of this cleaned out and protecting
them take care of the floors you know
the floors of the forests very important
you look at other countries where they
do it differently and it's a whole
different story it was with the
president of Finland that he said we
have much different we're forest nation
he called it a forest nation and they
spent a lot of time on raking and
cleaning and doing things and they don't
have any problem and what it is it's a
very small problem so I know everybody's
looking at that to that end and it's
gonna work out it's gonna work out well
yeah and all the adults surrounding him
are thinking this guy's a complete total
 for one reason
he's a total is this this is the
average climate of May to October in
Finland in California the red signifying
California the blue Finland the numbers
on the left is that the the y-axis is
the average precipitation totals between
May and October and inches of rain might
have something to do with how they rake
the floors yes you will notice that the
precipitation in finland versus
california is almost seven times greater
and the raking is about seven times
greater as well right
it makes the raking easier that's the
whole point because things are looser
and you don't in raking water there's no
maybe if you raked more in California
you'd get more rain I would also add
that the is that the prime minister of
Finland has no recollection of that
conversation the president reportedly
according to the AP isn't sure where the
US president Donald Trump got the idea
that raking is part of his country's
routine for managing its substantial
forests the finished president said in
an interview published Sunday that he
spoke briefly
Trump about forest management on
November 11th when they were both in
Paris for arms this day's events
he said the conversation focused on
California wildfires in the surveillance
system Finland uses to monitor forests
for fires
he remembered telling Trump we take care
of our forests but couldn't recall
raking coming up I mean what are you
gonna say the guy's a all right we
have more of Donald Trump being a
in a bit but first we're gonna take a
break
