[Music]
let's go Larry Kudlow is out there and
they are right now
the president is contemplating better
he's contemplating still contemplating
Stephen Moore who is the right-wing hack
deadbeat dad which you know should not
preclude you I understand from being on
the fed and managing money and whatnot
but his hackery I think is is enough to
keep him off or Herman Cain who do we
have that smoking head did you post that
no Herman Cain who apparently is worried
that he's not going to be able to
sustain the vetting to get onto the Fed
but here is here is and I can't quite
understand why they that they can't find
anybody else but I think it's just like
we're gonna put a movement conservative
on the Fed and I don't know what it what
the theory is in the White House as to
why they would do these guys other than
like I want somebody who's a complete
crony and maybe there's a lot of people
are like you know can't bring themselves
to pretend like they're a crony of Trump
that would also be like suitable for the
Fed I don't know but here is a Larry
Kudlow saying that it's sort of trying
to I guess carry water for these two you
were not but let me ask you about
Stephen Moore he was a contributor here
at CNN he's clearly qualified to talk
about the economy on bangable television
the first guy to say that you're so
you're so even-handed bucks take a
listen to what he said about his
qualifications to serve on the Fed board
I'm kind of new to this game frankly so
I'm gonna be honest deeply don't
learning curve myself about how the Fed
operates how the Federal Reserve makes
its decisions he's gonna be on a steep
learning curve about how the Fed
operates and how the Federal Reserve
makes its decisions this is one of the
most qualified candidates in the country
yes he's a smart guy a really smart guy
there's nothing wrong with a little
modesty a little humility you learn
know pretty much every job I've had out
through the years you have to learn
we're both broadcasters I had to learn
to do it I don't know maybe you were
born into it we all have to learn we
know it I think Steve is being very
humble about this again oh my god Wow I
really want someone with a steep
learning curve I had to learn to run
this board that's true it's true I've
never really done something that right
stakes not quite as high
sometimes I left Michaels mic down it's
that's true and I would argue like if we
had introduced this board on day one I
think probably nothing would have ever
happened right like you had to learn the
other board first stages yeah just
imagine being so privileged that you
don't need to have qualifications for
the job before you start doing the job
I mean steep learning curve trying to
figure out how the Fed works it seems to
me to be a little bit you might want to
put him like in the JV team for a while
like there's a curve and then there's a
cliff the best part of that though is
Jake Tapper trying to skirt over the
past that they had him as an economics
adviser on CNN four years right well
he's good enough to talk about it yeah
apparently and to completely mislead the
country about it unbelievable
there are people with college degrees
who can't get a job at Starbucks right
now
