[Music]
so we reported earlier that that the
Acting Board of protection chief is
resigning in response to people's
response of how we are treating children
and warehousing them here is Brian
Kilmeade Fox and Friends albeit prior to
this resignation defending the failure
of the US government to treat these
children humanely to do things like get
them bets or to provide them medical
care or food or lice combs here he is
just amazing that these got these news
outlets seem to be on the same page of
the democratic talking points what they
say on Sunday all of a sudden is parotid
and featured on Monday and Tuesday and
it is look at how bad these conditions
are for kids at the border keep in mind
so you don't build the Border Patrol
wasn't in charge of building a Marriott
or a Hyatt they're in charge of
detaining people that come across and do
the best they can but they're trained in
law enforcement so what do you want
their accommodations to be it's not
George Bush's fault or Bill Clinton's
fault of Barack Obama's fault
the accommodations haven't changed the
number of people coming through app yeah
well the number of unaccompanied minors
has increased because they've changed
the definition of what unaccompanied
means and they have kept reunification
of these children they have
deprioritized it they are not getting
these kids to family members they have
in the country we know this this is
their stated policy their stated policy
is to omit dees peeple as a way of
basically she of firing warning shots
that's what their stated policy is
that's what they're trying to achieve so
this isn't a failure it is mission
accomplished to the extent that there's
a failure it's that they haven't been
able to keep it from the public in the
way that they had hoped that they have a
problem how do we make these people
suffer so that they actually make the
decision to stay in some of the most
violent situations in the world the most
dangerous situations in the world for
their kids the most desperate situations
in the world how can we make these
people suffer enough and get that
message back to people in those
situations that the suffering here is
going to be equivalent to the suffering
that you'll go through there so you
might as well just stay there without
the American public finding out that
we're doing this that's their dilemma
and of course there's no way to do that
not over time and I think we're also
finding that you can make these kids
suffer but they're not gonna be dead or
some of them are I guess but they're not
gonna be subject to the same measure of
violence but I think there are at least
a decent a number of Americans who sort
of feel like that shouldn't be the bar
for us that we can't maintain our sense
of our exceptionalism if we're literally
treating kids in this way we just we're
not that inhumane now there are some who
are we play video the other day of Trump
supporters saying like I don't want to
be made to feel bad for these kids it's
the parents fault they're using bad guy
the bad guys are using kids yeah
I mean that's basically it right it's
like it's all about the children unless
you decide that you don't want it to be
so there's kilmeade it's not it's not
the it's it's just the fault of these
these kids as if like getting beds is
that difficult or as if saying you know
what we're gonna go back that the
best-case scenario that we can do is
just to make sure that family members in
this country aren't afraid to come pick
up these kids or that we allow and
enhance their ability to connect with
these people they could do that but the
problem is that's not their sales pitch
to get reelected that's what's going on
here you know we talk about
externalities in the context of chasing
profit this is an externality that is in
in the context of chasing votes kids are
gonna suffer and that'll earn us some
more votes that's the plan so pretty
effing disgusting
