[Music]
talented listener Sam are you jealous of
Tucker's comment about Chris Hayes and
do you as a single man wish it was aimed
at you seems wasted on Hayes since he's
married let's let's revisit these
questions here is Tucker Carlson talking
about AOC and the green New Deal Town
Hall that took place on Friday night of
last week
Tucker's upset and he should be
apparently like they can't even get
erectile dysfunction drugs to advertise
on on his show anymore it is literally
like full of filler my pillow my pillow
that's what I saw
there was a two-minute now my pillow
that guy's been advertising on WABC back
when it was the station that carried
Limbaugh and Hannity in fact I saw him
folks will remember in the last in the
debate in Las Vegas between Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump I was in the
press area and at one point they had
like they cordoned off an area where all
the Trump people came out and the my
pillow guy was traveling with them or
was a guest of there so he was walking
around with like James O'Keefe and that
whole crew is that some sort of AOC
shaped body pillow girlfriend thing it
is I think it's just like a where's mine
god only knows what kind of material
they my pillow is made
what is it too bad for the earth alright
let's play let's play this clip of
Tucker Carlson really really jealous
that AFC will not come on his show but
if you think New Year's is depressing
how would you feel if you thought that
all life on this planet was ending soon
three million years of human history
erased forever plaid
now no one thinks that all life on this
planet is going to cease to exist that
is not the that is not the the concern
the concern is is that our civilization
and our societies will become highly
highly tenuous and destabilized because
of the massive changes in our climate
that are in the offing within a decade
or two maybe more or at least within a
couple of decades we will be beyond the
ability to mitigate these changes at all
and what you're going to have when you
have broad swaths of the earth that are
if not in uninhabitable because of
constant flooding or because of constant
droughts or because of radical changes
in temperature and ability to grow food
you're gonna get a lot of refugees and
we have seen what a one conflict in
Syria and the refugees that have poured
out of Syria has done in terms of like
destabilizing the body politic in in
Europe what if we see this times ten or
twenty that is the problem but first
you've got to start with the straw man
before you knock it down sad isn't it
Chris Hayes think so Chris Hayes is what
every man would be if feminists ever
achieved absolute power in this country
apologetic bespectacled
and deeply deeply concerned about global
warming and the patriarchal systems that
caused it on Friday Hayes hosted a town
hall event
[Laughter]
oh you're a little to have a serial what
do you mean this is the future that
feminists one just allows construct em
inist laboratory close no haze bro I'm
you're not you're not you may be version
two I'm like version one where it's like
we need we need a little too much
assertive okay I'll tell you what
Michael Tracy it's like whoa whoa whoa
calm down that's actually yeah that's
not good all right but let's continue on
Friday Hayes hosted a town hall offense
on MSNBC with congresswoman Alexandria
Kazuya Cortez it was designed to promote
her green new deal this apparently
seemed like a wise idea to executives
over at NBC the very same news outlet
that spent two years lying to you about
Russia brings you a 29 year old former
bartender to teach you about science
Hayes framed the terms at the outset of
the show unless we do exactly what dr.
Acacio Cortez says the entire human race
has only 12 years to live citing experts
I'm sorry I'm just so bad about that
oh yeah I mean Fox News could have
scientists on if they wanted to teach
their audiences about science right they
don't do this as opposed to all the
scientists that we never allow on this
network to talk about things all that
you're all that you're that cable
television can do is either is promote
white nationalism that's well they have
their expert in-house eventually we
actually die out following a long
horrible decline yeah but that's not the
argument I mean that that's possible but
that's not the argument the argument is
that we're going to have mass you know
massive loss of life and stabilized what
not Hayes know so right there sorry
about it I said you you exactly right JB
I'm sorry
now I apologize for having
