[Music]
joining us now is Ana Kasparian she is
the host a host and executive producer
of The Young Turks Anna thanks so much
for being here my pleasure Michael so
Anna we almost had a massive catastrophe
yesterday with Iran it didn't happen
because Donald Trump is like Gandhi and
was like there's a hundred and fifty
people should be talking about this what
do you make of all of this this is such
an incredible story because first off of
course Donald Trump is not Gandhi no but
to his credit and I never thought in a
million years I would give him credit he
seems pretty devoted to his base and his
base
does not want these wars they do not
want regime change wars the American
public in general does not want another
war and so he luckily isn't allowing the
war mongers in his administration
convince him or persuade him to launch
any type of military attack against Iran
and even yesterday after that drone was
shot down and I personally believe that
that drone was in Iranian airspace me
too
you really downplayed it while at the
same time members of the administration
were fear-mongering about it and what do
you the other thing that's kind of
amazing look yesterday I had I had us
play a clip of um of George W Bush
actually after the invasion of Iraq
still basically trying to kind of
obscure but also like defend the lies
that they were telling about the
connections between Iraq and al Qaeda
before the invasion of Iraq that's
incredible
that they're bringing that out with Iran
especially just on a basic level
I mean Saddam Hussein would not be close
with al Qaeda because of their very
profound differences just in terms of
secularism versus linked religious
extremism Iran is obviously Shia and
Iran
excuse me Iran is Shia and al Qaeda is
extreme Sunni like what do you also
think of the process of like watching
all of these lies and all of the
spin and all of this hype like it's like
getting debunked in real time in a way
yes yes so what I find fascinating is
politics in America in general is just a
completely different ballgame from what
it was during the Bush administration I
mean the Bush administration of course
lied to the public
dragged us into this pre-emptive war and
part of the reason why they were able to
do that is because Americans were scared
they bought into the fear-mongering we
were just attacked they all you know of
course on 9/11 and that type of
fear-mongering resonated with people now
we've had you know obviously over a
decade or Jesus Christ like over two
decades of this nonsense fear mongering
and these Wars and people are just
smarter now they're savvy ER and you can
play the same game for so long until
people finally catch on to what the lies
are all about and it's incredible
because while there's so much division
in the country the reality is there are
some issues that do unite Americans
regardless of political ideology one is
the issue that we talk about often which
is you know economic injustice but
there's also this notion that you know
there is a military-industrial complex
these wars are pushed by entities that
stand to profit from additional wars or
perpetual war and people are just
smarter now they're savvy ER now
we do have real time debunking and what
was also different this time around
is that our allies are not willing to
play ball they're willing to come out
and speak out against what the United
States is lying about we saw that with
Japan after the oil tanker was attacked
and we're seeing it with some of our
European partners as well yeah totally
and it's yeah it's interesting I mean
McCrone is a lot like Tony Blair in many
ways which is a total insult obviously
but he's not willing to Blair it to this
level like he's not willing to be Tony
Blair for a war on Iran I mean just just
briefly - um you mentioned that yeah I
mean part of the reason they would lie
about the connection between al-qaeda
and Iran and try I mean first of all I
think is you're right it's just
old-school fear-mongering but it's also
that Pompeo was trying to set it that
strikes on Iran will be covered
under this AUMF which isn't the one
passed right after September 11th which
they're still using for global drone
wars all of the stuff and Barbara Lee
finally got a sort of I mean it will
surely die in the Senate but she
actually has been working to end this
finally got it out of the house I mean
that's some progress to definitely its
progress but it should also be a lesson
and a cautionary tale for members of
Congress because the reality is once
you're willing to give up congressional
power to the executive branch and
essentially go against our system of
checks and balances well that power will
be abused by the executive branch and
you also have to consider the unintended
consequences in the future so I'm glad
that Congress is fighting back a little
more I mean that date of all people is
fighting back and trying to ensure that
the Trump administration does not move
forward unilaterally this is not
something that we experienced during the
Bush administration right yeah to say
the least but I think one thing that we
did experience during the Bush
administration that we're still
experiencing is you know the atom shifts
of the world the you know dumb Twitter
pundits who think that the right
response the Donald Trump not engaging
in catastrophes to you know basically
call him like a whoops bag what is that
about like how do those people still
exist you know the same people that are
most freaked out about Trump might be
the same people pushing the same
propaganda about Iran and actually
trying to instigate something like this
well you know obviously everything is
political and sometimes I think members
of Congress Democratic members of
Congress you know in their effort to
quote-unquote resist Trump will you know
make all sorts of stupid mistakes and
and the fact of the matter is there
should be positive reinforcement when
Trump does something right yes so if
Trump has decided to call off airstrikes
against Iran you don't go on Twitter and
start
egging him on you you should give him
positive reinforcement the last thing we
need is another war and so I think
partisan politics in a lot of
has kind of blinded some of these
politicians like shifts from doing the
right thing and I mean I have no problem
keeping Trump positive reinforcement
when he does the right thing and I'm
obviously a progressive I don't want war
with Iran and I think the right thing to
do is to applaud him and you know
continue trying to persuade him to avoid
this war without a doubt um yeah I agree
with you a hundred percent and I think
yeah I mean and it's also you know the
other thing I think about people like
Schiff is is still that so much of DC is
still run on this you know this axis of
like the defense industry and then just
this kind of like foundation that pretty
much no matter how reactionary or
dangerous their what they're doing you
know may or may not be but right now it
really is that Saudi Arabia in Israel
are just like the axis of the Middle
East and what's funny about Trump is
that on one hand his relationship with
Saudi Arabia and with Israel is totally
Craven and you know but I guess it's
just his political instinct in this one
area where you know fair enough he gets
it on some level definitely definitely
and and back in the day starting a war
in the middle of your administration
would probably get you reelected but in
this day and age especially if he's
going to go against what his base won it
could really hurt him politically I
think that's part of the reason why you
have people like Tucker Carlson it's
fising him behind the scenes it's
telling him don't go through with this
this is a bad idea and don't listen to
the war mongers in your administration
absolutely
