a Ryan Grimm was on EMBs last week and I
frankly I love Ryan and his work and I
can't wait to have him on again and I
said stop being such a Warren cook and
he well I didn't actually say we
actually have I that I thought one of
the more smart conversation / debates I
will say Ryan is a infinitely bigger
Warren fan than me as is Emma biglan and
these are like the smartest Morin people
and they both still say Bernie should be
at the top of the ticket I think that
that's pretty important information
here's Ryan grim though who again who is
just I mean he's obviously his politics
are of the left and he's a progressive
and he's quite open about that but he's
also I mean he is first and foremost a
very serious reporter um so him laying
out the reality of the just complete
media erasure of the Bernie Sanders
campaign on MSNBC with Chris Hayes who
of course is the only one who treats
Bernie with some fairness on MSNBC is
significant and I think the one kind of
consistent pulling story we've seen over
the last three months is that Elizabeth
Warren has gained across polling that
the challenge for the Sanders campaign
and I thought it was interesting them
doing the event where they did it with
the numbers they did is that his
challenge is just building out from the
core they have they obviously have a
core supporters extremely devoted but I
thought the last part of riff of his
speech was about fighting for people
that don't look like you and like seemed
to me a rhetorical leaning into the idea
of addition to the coalition in a way I
hadn't quite heard him make the case
before that's kind of been there kind of
underlying case the entire time was in a
good news I'm sorry I mean that's Ryan
very politely saying you don't sound
like you've been watching the speeches I
mean that I mean that's certainly what
it sounds like to me I mean Bernie yes
it's a new formulation but that's been
the campaign how would that follow like
there are lots of different kinds of
people in the Bernie Kohl
and already fighting for people who
aren't like them well that's what part
of that implies that it's too small
that's always erased and it's been part
of socialist politics for ages the case
before that's kind of been their kind of
underlying case the entire time and the
good news for Sanders is that you can't
survey his strategy you know in other
words pollsters look for likely voters
and the way that they look for likely
voters is you know what's the electorate
looked like in the past and what are our
projections about what it's likely to
look this time whereas Sanders is trying
to change the complexion and the face of
the electorate so he's trying to
organize enough people and inspire
enough people you know in Iowa
particularly to come out and caucus for
Bernie Sanders he's running up against
this huge problem though that I
mentioned earlier of this media blackout
you know in in the Democratic primary
this this network and the New York Times
having done an enormous amount of
influence and this this show in
particular is an exception it covers
Sanders pretty regularly but but outside
of that he often either gets a dick
ignored or or kind of just kind of
laughed at as not a serious candidate
even when polls come out showing him you
know in reasonable contention yeah and
you know then one quick point on the
Buddha judge he spent an extraordinary
amount of money in Iowa and we can't
forget that because you can move the
needle a few you know several points by
dumping a ton of money into a state and
he's been very smart about burning a ton
of money in those states to make himself
look liable until he becomes viable
right I mean that's a very good point
about I mean really Buddha judges only
path to viability is that Iowa
performance and look this is a hundred
percent right and this is where you know
I'll say one concrete thing I want that
I would like the Sanders campaign to
hire some you know really top-notch
outside television consultants to make
ads that look like the ones in 2016 that
is an actual tangible thing that I think
they can and should do to improve but
with regards to over ninety percent of
what they have are supposed to do and
what their task has been this cycle
they've achieved in terms of they're the
only ones with a move
they've built out and brought in their
base they're bringing the best policy
set to the table they have a theory of
change that is plausible and hasn't been
tried before all of these things are
unparalleled in modern politics at least
going back to Jesse Jackson in terms of
integrating all of them different
campaigns have different pieces of them
but not the same synthesis and not to
the same leftward nests in cluding the
Jackson campaign so you have all of that
going on what has been the problem well
the vast majority of the problem has
been that they are dealing with a press
that is viciously and relentlessly
biased against them and that has to be
factored into their strategy I don't
know where all the answer is to dealing
with MSNBC in The New York Times I don't
know how you deal with having some
trust-fund kid cover them for the New
York Times I don't know how you deal
with the endless bias against them at
MSNBC and CNN I think they need to more
aggressively cultivate alternative
networks frankly but that's the core
problem not anything they're doing and
so that is very important to to be
registered I mean you know just even I
mean if any other candidate had a rally
in Queens that got the biggest rally of
the campaign season that had the most
dynamic young politician in the United
States of America that would be full
court coverage obviously if it was
Warren it would be you know double full
court coverage so you know let's just be
real here there is an unbelievable bias
and erasure there's a tantrum any time
Nina Turner points out differences and
they need to cultivate alternative
networks and they need to be extremely
aggressive and then just keep doing what
they're doing because a lot of what
they're doing is right so I have a
question and that question is how much
do you think this mainstream media
blackout is ultimately gonna hurt
Bernie's campaign considering the
majority of people like I think the
majority of working-class people in this
country I'm not totally sure about this
don't trust corporate media I think it
I think that things that I think in a
general election the fact that Bernie
has an independent brand from the
Democratic parties to his advantage I
think that even the press stuff might be
to his advantage in a general election
and a primary I think Ryan grim is right
I think unfortunately and you see this
in the polling with the huge astronaut
you know the very wealthy people to
congregate around Warren and Budaj
and the conversations that get fed I
mean to me there's broad distrust sure
but then it's like it's not as powerful
but it's like no if if if Fox News
doesn't like you and you're running in a
Republican primary that's tough so I
think that it no the biased against him
at MSNBC in the times matters and it
might and it does matter particularly
amongst you know conventional like
wealthy people who voted forever that
that is another part of the Sanders
argument he's trying to mobilize a
totally new base I could tell you
anecdotally he's achieving some of that
but I don't know at the scale I mean he
needs to also have a fighting chance
with all voters and that's why you know
it's incumbent him on people to read
books and actually check out other news
service you know sources and don't just
be a you know a cable news regurgitator
you know absolutely no I mean
independent news is legitimately
important and frankly I think Bernie
Bernie should be Bernie should be doing
appearances I mean he's done some he's
done this show he's done Chapo he's done
Kyle kolinsky but he should be doing way
more on the independent sir
those those would be my dual print a pen
sir strategy I would say you get someone
who makes incredible television ads who
is a traditional consultant um or
whatever I don't care where you find
them but just somebody who it doesn't
matter what their ideology is it doesn't
matter what they're in it for the check
and they know how to make good
ads you take the money you have you
blanket television and maybe you
counteract some of the relentless
propaganda and erasure with fantastic
advertising you get people at least go
well okay that doesn't look like what
I'm hearing
I'm all the time maybe I should check
out his website maybe I should check out
of social media then on the other hand
you aggressively cultivate the
independent sphere in terms of your
direct messaging and mobilization I
think that is what they should commit to
I mean we can't believe in any votes on
the table here but I feel like for at
least a large chunk of the people who
get their politics from MSNBC and CNN
they weren't going to vote for Bernie in
the first place it's a bad deal yeah I
think just as a man for the sake of the
mental preservation don't act like the
media has a veto they're gonna they're
gonna continually they screw Bernie over
this entire process but you know you
look at like the UK like Corbin they
like the British press is nuts insane
they're not insurmountable basically no
and I think I think that's really the
only important part though is just so
that you on the yeah and so that but
then that when somebody gives you some
talking point they picked up from MSNBC
about Bernie you say okay I I know what
that is that's here it is well
if Corbin can face down the British
press giving out psycho and bloodthirsty
they are maybe Bernie can face down the
u.s. press well I think they're gonna
need a bigger strategy I mean it's it's
hurt Corbin but yes um there's things to
learn in both successes and failures
