[Music]
so I just want to draw your attention to
that last story that I I mentioned that
on Wednesday in New York State
there will be hundreds or at least a
hundred but probably close to two
hundred at least lawsuits filed against
institutions and individuals for sexual
abuse that has occurred in New York
State between the late 1940s and early
2000s at the very least we know of a
hundred cases seventy-five against the
Roman Catholic Diocese across New York
the rest against the Boy Scouts of
America and Rockefeller University there
are there's a law firm that's
contemplating filing another five
hundred additional lawsuits this is
coming out as a function of the passage
of the child victims Act and it
basically gave a one-year window to
suspend the statute of limitations and
allowed people who were children who
were sexually abused to file lawsuits
and at the time in fact I think it was
just literally when we did this
interview on April 11th 2019 we were in
Las Vegas for the for the mass torts
conference where we spoke to a bunch of
trial lawyers and sometimes we speak to
other advocates and what not one of
those advocates we spoke to was Bridey
Farrell and
she was a an Olympic figure skater speed
skater excuse me and she had apparently
it was a fairly well publicized or was
assaulted sexually assaulted by another
figure skater and she became an advocate
to push for this child victims act when
we sat down for the interview and you
can find this on YouTube it's Sam live
from Las Vegas de 1mr live for 1119 I
think if you'd have to search for it and
she explains the whole dynamics here but
that was right I think on the day or the
day before her day after Andrew Cuomo
had signed this bill and so check that
out just to follow up and the
implications of these legislation you
know stuff makes a huge difference makes
a huge difference this type of
legislation type of activism that brings
this stuff about she been working on
this for I don't know maybe a decade the
specific piece of legislation and now
you're gonna have over 500 people maybe
more who are going to in a many
instances it may be about trying to
recover money and other instances it may
just be about trying to get some type of
closure and and hold people who have
raped people who have sexually assaulted
people hold them to account and this
this concept of opening up the courtroom
in this instance it was about statute of
limitations that would been unfairly
limited not only with the statute of
limitations there was a one-year
moratorium but it also expanded from
like if you were assaulted under the age
I think of
so New York at one point prior to this
bill had one of the nation's most
restrictive statutes of limitations
survivors in the state had only till the
age of 23 to file civil lawsuits the
average age that victims disclose their
abuse is 52 from when they happen as
children and so now you have until the
age of 55 to file civil claims I mean a
lot of this sounds like so obvious but
it wasn't the case and and part of the
reason was frankly the power I think of
the church to limit this and the law is
a very very powerful tool and one of the
interviews that we have actually over
the course of our vacation is about the
law basically creating the market but
you see it in the case of every aspect
of our society I mean it's a fairly
obvious thing to say but people lose
sight of this stuff I think a lot and
how that law gets implemented and
adjudicated obviously a function of the
courts
