[Music]
but today is a day of mourning for
George Herbert Walker Bush like I said
yesterday perhaps one of the more
overrated presidents that we had this is
a guy who pardoned three for maybe more
people involved in the iran-contra
scandal to probably protect his own
culpability mm-hmm he waged a war
against the Saddam Hussein after
basically either purposely or mistakenly
opening the door to Saddam Hussein's
attack on Kuwait he encouraged the Shia
in Iraq to rise up and then did not
offer them and any support therefore
leading to mass slaughter he also of
course was instrumental in bringing some
of those Phoenix program folks from
Vietnam over into Central America as the
CIA chief and the implications of which
we see reverberate to this day in terms
of the massive violence and breakdown in
societal structures in many countries in
Central America
I mean it's not inconceivable that he
was one of the midwife's
of the crack epidemic we had back in the
80s as the CIA was using cocaine as a
means in which to finance some of their
illicit activities I mean there's a
whole host of of issues as to why we
should remember this man on this day
yeah but he was polite to other
politicians so he was better than Trump
he was incredibly polite and very
patrician and also extremely extremely
wealthy which of course is well not that
rare for a president
but here we have Donald Trump very
appropriately heading to the funeral
today let's take a look at the video
this is the video of Donald Trump
heading to the by motorcade to the Blair
House the presidential guesthouse across
Pennsylvania on you to visit with the
family of President the late President
George Herbert Walker Bush let's play
the video because it lasts only seconds
because he gets into motorcade and yeah
can we expand that let's take a look at
this video here it is there he goes and
it's quite a motorcade and then they
stopped right
there
that's nice easy means in which to shoot
that because you just have to pivot your
body about 15 degrees to capture it was
about here let's split take a look at
the map this is about let's say they
they say okay now according to according
to Google Maps from the White House to
the Blair House is approximately a two
minute walk walking sucks yeah it's
actually a nine minute car ride but it
is a two minute walk I have to conserve
my energy but I don't know that Donald
Trump has walked for two minutes
straight might have a walking it's
possible he's afraid of stare too many
Cubs too many can't do it how long till
he gets one of those motorized scooters
for places that cars can't go I would
not be surprised if that comes out in
some White House memoir that that's what
he's been using inside the White House
maybe like those motorized stair
climbers for the elderly but indeed and
as George Herbert Walker Bush was an oil
man I guess he would appreciate the
probably gallons of guests that were
used in the multi-room vehicles opening
up some markets there you go appreciate
what you did that's not to mention he
replaced our guard Marshall do you know
that with yes with I don't know who
replaced him with with uh
what's-his-face I creep I found one hey
he gots it
