[Music]
PETA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday May 16th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday and
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report were broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Juanes canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's program
Laura Carlson she's the director of the
Americas program at the center for
international policy we're talking about
the first several months of the ammos
presidency Mexico's progressive
president where he's moving the ball
forward on labor and wages a new push to
decriminalize drugs Plus Trump's war on
refugees and immigrants looking at the
other side of the wall of the Trump
administration's assault and white
supremacy John Bolton and Trump are in a
different place on Iran
tensions apparently Donald Trump is
getting fed up with Mike Pompeo and John
Bolton's rush for conflict and
catastrophic war with Iran he's having a
rock anxiety let's reflect on the fact
that Donald Trump has more sane
instincts than his two prime national
security people let that sink in it's
Republicans folks it's Republicans folks
of course also Trump is an unstable baby
and has been rolled by his advisors
before Trump's immigration plan that he
will run for on re-election is gonna
emphasize skills over family ties even
as new rules roll out that would strip
birthright disenfranchised children of
LGBT families horrifying move
over a million hit the streets mass
protests in Brazil against the bolson RO
regime's efforts to eliminate philosophy
sociology departments and savage science
spending they have Republicans there too
and they're meeting them with mass
demonstrations Donald Trump feels the
heat as his trade war with China is
hurting farmers he whether he's a twenty
billion dollar fund but some of that
money is actually already gone to
similar money's gone to bailout
Brazilian farm Brazilian agricultural
oligarchs as those ties continue Trump
administration's also censoring and
erasing references to the affordable
care act on government federal
government websites the Missouri Senate
readies their own fundamental assault
not only on women's health but their
basic sovereignty and rights with a new
abortion bill as Pat Robertson questions
not the ethics for the extremism of the
Alabama bill the political and legal
efficacy of it
contrary to credulous headlines a
toddler a toddler who was apprehended
think of how disgusting that sentence is
we shot him the firt yeah we got a two
and a half year old Guatemalan boy who
was apprehended at the mexico-us border
died Tuesday night after several weeks
in a hospital
Texas has used money from the help
America Vote Act to pay for its botched
voter citizenship review and the Met
Museum will top stop taking donations
from the opioid crisis fueling sackler
family protest works protest works
bernie sanders hitting the trail calling
out the oil and gas industry joe biden
heading to new york to gobble up
oligarch money as his dreary corporatist
coronation goes through the nation and
elizabeth warren unfortunately reaffirms
her
two great green policies by anchoring it
in ongoing US military domination which
might echo her troubling votes for
defense increases all that and much much
more on today's majority report folks
the three of us are here and we have
obviously a lot to get to Donald Trump
clearly enjoys nothing more than being
in campaign mode you have this
dysfunctional White House populated by
disturbed twisted really sick you know
grotesque people Mike Pompeo John Bolton
Stephen Miller Sarah Huckabee Sanders
and then you have this you know this
very unstable needy baby bouncing off
the walls he does have an instinct of
how to campaign and I think it's really
and his perception of at and the
adulation of the crowd I think is really
the only part that he actually really
enjoys about this and his instincts
obviously take him to - to xenophobia
and every other kind of bigotry as well
as false populism and he's taking aim at
the green New Deal he's taking aim at
ecological policies of course as with
every single Republican Donald Trump has
raged an unrelenting war on species on
air on water on basic public safety and
of course his EPA head
I believe recently just said he's not
losing sleep over carbon dioxide
concentration but Donald Trump is losing
sleep about one thing that has to do
with the environment
check this out he's out a campaign rally
in Louisiana talking to about the
wonders of natural gas and his apparent
a huge affection for birds under the
green New Deal that are like clean
beautiful natural gas
they don't like anything they don't know
what they like they sort of like wind
even though it kills all the birds you
want to see a bird Cemetery go under a
windmill sometime he is such an idiot
so it's true that birds are fact yes of
birds are sometimes killed by windmills
yes yeah it looks horrible numbers
estimates I mean from a few years ago is
about a quarter of a million that's a
lot sure I just lost the thing hold on
let me find this again okay so basically
Donald Trump is going of course you know
as I say this is an administration that
is doing its all to strip away
protections in every single
environmental category it's making it
easier for coal companies to pollute
it's removing even the most modest
restrictions on oil and gas and of
course natural gas I mean I guess
everybody is subjectively free to think
of it as beautiful but it is in fact
also profoundly dangerous and
environmentally harmful to water huh for
starters yes this was from five years
ago wind turbines killed between two
hundred and fourteen thousand and three
hundred sixty-eight thousand Birds
annually a small fraction compared with
the estimated 6.8 million fatalities
from collisions with cell and radio
towers and guess how many deaths from
bird or from cats how many deaths from
Cathy's billion that's just nailed it
it's between 1.4 billion and 3.7 billion
so I also cats are good cats are on a
 rampage excuse my language I'm
sorry but that's that's a lot solidarity
with the birds
forget cats no I'm on team cat you're on
team cat and bird I'm a bird watcher
folks so so once back in mode one cat is
like a Z wind turbine one it's like 80
wind turbines and meanwhile the the side
benefit of the turbines is that we're
not cooking our planet and we might have
some ability to survive as a species and
actually that same ability to survive as
a species also affects the beautiful
birds
because they don't do well with a
choking on polluted air either in having
the global planetary weather systems the
global weather patterns completely
uprooted and destroyed by endless oil
drilling and balsa narrows plans for the
Amazon supported by fossil fuel
companies in Wall Street and of course
Trump and the Republicans I don't think
mass extinctions of different kinds of
bird species is included of in this
calculate in Trump's calculus God esteem
very specific very specific alright
folks we we don't have any answer to do
today so I will just say that of course
this show is made possible by you over
ninety percent by you even as the ads
roll in so become a member today
majority that if M / become a member
keep us free and independent we're gonna
come back in a few minutes with Laura
Carlson we're gonna be talking about on
low we're gonna be talking about the
border as viewed from the other side as
this in this you know quite literally I
mean a absolutely fake crisis which is
turned into a real crisis of human cost
generated by the all the the endless
obscenities of the Trump administration
with regards to the border we'll be back
with Laura Carlson
you
welcome back to the majority report
joining us now is Laura Carlson she's
the director of the Americas program at
the center for international policy and
she's based in Mexico City Laura thank
you so much for being here well thank
you Michael for the invitation so I want
to start by asking you about the Trump
administration's war on refugees and
immigrants as seen from outside I mean
since seen specifically from the Mexican
side or the latin-american side we
report on it on this show
there's certainly you know it's covered
in the kind of mainstream media I think
you know very much in terms of the sort
of different political calculations
playing out and there are some people
who will you know call out the obvious
racism and fear-mongering of the
policies and I think other outlets focus
more specifically on how the crisis is
completely sort of hysteria and
self-generated and fake but by acting
from a place of this you know this fake
crisis has I guess created a real crisis
in terms of refugee populations and also
people at the on the other side of the
border as well as people getting
detained here I mean I we did top line a
a two-year-old boy from Guatemala just
died after spending you know weeks in
the hospital after being apprehended
which is just such an incredible word to
use with a toddler at the border so
you've been covering this you looking at
this you have a very deep understanding
of it what does it look like from from
the other side as it were yeah well he
mentioned that was the fourth child
who's died in ice custody and as he
mentioned we've looked at the aspects of
how this serves for Republican and
especially Trump Miller politics we've
looked at the aspects of detention
but perhaps and I think this is very
clear to everyone south of the border
the the most important part of this
policy is the downright human cruelty
that it involves right now you're
talking to me in Tijuana at the border
in Mexico
within the last couple days doing some
investigation and reporting on what
happens to these people who's coming up
who's coming back because as you know
there's new policy now to send people
back to await their Asylum hearings and
what kind of stories they tell about
this one of the most impressive things
has been that the individuals are
talking about the kind of treatment they
receive after they relinquish you know
they're basically the asylum process
it's important for people to understand
because it's much different than then
undocumented immigrants people are
actually going to the border and they're
presenting themselves to immigration
officials and and asking for asylum
which is an international right that's
guaranteed under a number of different
international human rights pacts that
even the United States has signed on to
who these people are taken into custody
and they're talking about acts that can
only be described as torture when in ice
custody particularly there's a part of
the process that's called the year later
or the ice box in Spanish and the ice
box is where they're literally throw
people into a room that's freezing and
they keep them there for a certain
amount of time their explanation for why
this room is freezing is that it's
supposed to keep contaminants or insects
I don't know some kind of you know again
that image of immigrants as as a form of
contagion and you know we're talking
about human beings but they keep them in
there and we would we just talked to a
couple people who said that they were in
there from 10 to 12 days and they take
their jackets in many cases as well and
then there be in there and they'll just
be finally able shivering to go to sleep
and the agents will come in and wake
them up which again is a torture tactics
sleep deprivation that's used in
interrogation and that's used in some of
the worst authoritarian
in totalitarian states in history so and
I guess I want to just I mean there's so
much to get to and it you know it just
is appalling it's disgusting but what
remind everybody I mean what is the
context for a lot of these people coming
and again I think that's very important
I mean it's one thing obviously there
needs to be I would support amnesty for
undocumented people in the United States
that's another I mean it's a connected
and linked conversation and it's
important but these are people yes
fleeing situations and going through a
formal process of asylum what are those
situations I guess particularly in
Central America but there's also people
obviously from Mexico there's people
from Haiti at the border and what are
the u.s. policy roles in those crises I
mean even down to undermining some
really interesting work that was done
several years ago and I'll Salvador to
sort of soothe gang violence that ran
counter to kind of u.s. tough-on-crime
policy there quote-unquote
tough-on-crime policy what's the context
what are what are people fleeing and you
know it just a really underlying that
these are absolutely refugee status
people absolutely and it's very
important to understand each country has
a different history but their common
threads through that and one of those
common threads is precisely u.s. foreign
policy in the past u.s. foreign policy
has created many of the crises of
violence and other forms of violence
that we talk about less often and that
don't fit as neatly into Asylum
categories which are extreme hunger
displacement internal displacement and
and constant threats from the security
forces themselves the violence we're
looking at is both criminal violence and
state violence and you can go country by
country and and break it down and see
why people are forced to flee and hear
it all the time we hear it all the time
in in the stories that people tell us
other cases let's just look at some very
concrete examples in El Salvador
yesterday we talked to two Salvadorans
who have already gone to the United
States they've asked for asylum under
the remaining Mexico program which is
insane
they send them back to Tijuana the most
dangerous city in Mexico according to
the recent statistics that came out and
they're waiting here for sometimes their
3rd 4th 5th court hearing to see what
will happen with their case in the
United States one individual was grafted
in to join the Salvadoran army he
actually therefore became a target of
the gangs he actually has a bullet in
his hand and another in his hips and yet
when he's gone up his asylum hearings in
the United States they haven't even
allowed him to present yet he has
personal evidence for why his life is
under threat back in El Salvador there's
another man who said very clearly if I
go back from Honduras if I go back
they'll kill me
I won't last a week in Honduras because
of again a problem with gangs you know
Salvador the roots of the gang violence
in the United States are very clear
these are gangs that were bred in Los
Angeles then there was a massive
deportation program of Salvadorans who
many of whom had no experience living in
Salvage in El Salvador and they
reproduced the kind of violence that
they grown up and with in Los Angeles
and it became an even more virulent form
of violence in El Salvador where the
problems of poverty that are still and
the problems of fear and violence that
are still a result of the death squad
area again supported by US policies are
very much still prevalent and felt there
then you have these programs where they
say ok let's try something that's not
fighting violence with violence let's
try something that looks at reinsertion
that looks at rehabilitation of gang
members that looks at giving them other
options besides
crime and that was completely rejected
by the United States government those
kinds of truces or or other kinds of
arrangement and they still have a policy
where they won't even talk about what to
do with young people who are in gangs
and how you can look at programs that
would make them you know productive
members of society
yet when you talk to many of these
people it's not a life that they they
choose
it's a life that's been left to them and
then and then both them and then and the
victims because we're talking about it's
a huge and a blurry picture there than
the denver's of the people the people
who are actually in crime in gangs their
families their cross of the way that
that crosses over into businesses the
way that it creates victims
you know the whole it's a whole
structure in which oftentimes and
especially in countries like Mexico and
El Salvador you can't really tell even
the good guys from the bad guys there
are so many people here in Mexico
government officials and security forces
that are working with organized crime
that it's impossible to even draw the
lines clearly there then you look at
Honduras and you have your support for
the 2009 coup there that destroyed
constitutional government and as
creative of situation where democratic
institutions simply do not function you
can't expect the government the police
forces to protect you and in fact in
many cases they may be precisely the
forces that are persecuting the people
who are fleeing there's daily
demonstrations against what's considered
an illegitimate government again
supported by the United States of Juan
Orlando and Mendez you see have these
very deep structural problems in these
countries that nobody's talking about
and the victims of these problems are
being re-victimized as they come up to
the United States seeking safety for
themselves in their families and are
treated as criminals are worse so in an
in this moment I want to transition to
armed law so we have
this the direct link between I mean and
obviously you can pull you know put
these policies back decades and decades
you know starting wherever you like
right that the us who in Guatemala
against our bends in the 1950s and now
it's all sort of or you know the
reversal of the pink tide starting in
Honduras in 2009 with the Obama
administration backing that coup against
Manuel Zelaya you just talked about and
now it's intersecting with this you know
I mean this acceleration is particularly
obscene Republican administration policy
which I always say I mean I think
there's a strategic dimension to making
sure that you you keep a certain
demographic in the electorate I mean I
think that you know there's some real
strategy here from a Republican
political perspective and so and then
you know and I cover a lot people will
laugh you can take your drink at this
point you have you know a great
president like Lula you know I think
undoubtedly in in prison and politically
chumped up charges and this huge
reversal and in Brazil with Paulson ro
US efforts in Venezuela and amlo really
is a distinction from that very negative
trend so not to you know glorify him or
put him on a pedestal but I do think a
lot of us are looking at him as
definitely a progressive counterweight
and only in one of the only sort of
potential political bright spots
electoral II right now in Latin America
of course there's always very powerful
social movements so maybe you could
start you know we could go to several
different areas but I mean wherever I
mean how but I'll just start broad I
mean how is it and maybe particularly in
relation to these policies in Central
America and this war on refugees and so
on how is your perception of almost for
several months in power so far and what
would be the main areas you think we
should be judging him on or thinking
about it on yeah well since you started
with the geopolitical that this was one
of the few elections in extremely
powerful country the biggest economies
in the region
that went left instead of going hard
right we can start there and so what
that means so far we have seen a real
chip a real shift in the geopolitics
mainly because for example in this an
important example in the showdown on
Venezuela where the Organization of
American States under right wing Trump
puppet basically Margo is taking a hard
line for intervention in Venezuela and
other countries are as well the Mexican
government has taken a firm stance for
mediation and dialogue and saying that
it will help no one for US intervention
to try to resolve what's an internal
matter in Venezuela we also have Mexican
government taking a firm stance again
hardening the embargo against Cuba and
so we see real differences there on the
immigration issue it's been much more
mixed the administration of Andres
Manuel Lopez Obrador
and lo as he's called has been very very
careful about the relationship with the
Donald Trump administration despite the
fact that it's been a Mexico bashing
administration who's the campaign that
it takes every possible opportunity to
insult the country as a whole there's so
much economic dependency between Mexico
and the United States and not just in
trade directly but particularly from
financial markets you know one decision
by the the unelected and illegitimate
forces that run the right financial
market and the peso can drop and the
investment rating can fall and all of a
sudden every plan for trying to create a
stronger and more equal economy here in
Mexico can go out the window and they're
very aware of this and so this is not a
justification I think that they've gone
way further than they needed to or than
they should have in terms of placating
administration which could very
possibly be called neo-fascist in the
United States but that's kind of what's
happening and on immigration we see it
unfortunately very clearly at the
beginning there were strong declarations
that they would be taking another
another tack on immigration may be
looking to the root causes there'd be
less crackdown there'd be less
criminalization there'd be an effort to
try to create a situation where people
don't have to flee their home countries
whether they do Central America or
Mexico because there still is
immigration from Mexico and it's
important and there's still refugees
coming out of Mexico as well the
violence has gone up here unfortunately
and then after that we began to see
Trump's threats to close the border and
we began to see the Mexican government
responding with more crackdown on
immigrants with policies that were
seemed very erratic between the
declarations of human rights and what
was actually happening to Central
Americans who were coming up through the
country so now everybody between Trump's
decrees you know from one day to the
next that oftentimes people in US
agencies don't even know how to apply
what's happening here with this
ambivalence between clay painting the
Trump administration and trying to you
know respect in some senses human rights
with migrants what we have is just a
real mess nobody even knows what they're
doing and there's there's thousands and
thousands of families that are caught in
the middle
what and then so how do you take as a
pot as a really positive signal than the
last couple of days this rejection of
money for the Merida Initiative I
believe it's called and this talk of
reshaping basically stopping
participating in the us-backed drug war
which is fueled so much of the violence
and instability in Latin America not in
the sense obviously they're connected
but not the same issue but that this is
maybe one area where in the first
several months the Obrador
administration has been willing to start
going in a direction
of directly confronting I mean not only
Trump that would that would seem to me
to be very bipartisan us consensus
foreign policy I mean a lot of this
accelerated my understanding under the
Calderon and Obama in terms of this real
radical escalation of militarization of
drug conflict and in Mexico and us
support for you know basically just
these standards highly militarized
extremely violent policies so does that
give you I mean first of all what is he
actually proposing and does that give
you some hope that maybe the next phase
here might mean more confrontation yes
we consider absolutely good news that
Lopez Obrador came out and said the
Merida Initiative is over now just
saying it does not mean that the America
initiative or the drug war are over so
we have to see what happens after that
but Durbin grassroots organizations in
the United States and almost every major
victims organization is that is to say
victims of drug war assassinations and
the many organizations that exist of
family members of the disappeared here
in Mexico have come out specifically
against the Merida Initiative the Merida
Initiative is the vehicle for the drug
war imposed by the United States on
Mexico it's the violence against
violence kind of a strategy we were
talking about that has exploded the
violent rate here in Mexico to homicide
rates that we never even imagined we'd
be seeing in many of the cities across
the country so changing that strategy
has been a principal demand of
organizations on both sides of the
border and it's a very good sign that
that's been announced now for that to
actually happen we need to see a
demilitarization of everything and
that's where there's been some questions
Lopez Obrador announced a National Guard
the National Guard is supposed to be
more civilian and and yet he's announced
an Army General to be the head of it
now there's some limitations on what the
Armed Forces could do because one of the
first things that has to be done is the
gradual withdrawal of the Armed Forces
from domestic security its basic in the
United States and every major
international human rights organization
has said that the Armed Forces are
trained for something different they
should not be involved in criminal
policing we have to see how fast that
actually happens and then in terms of
the United States the Pentagon has
really taken over under the Merida
Initiative the us-mexico relationship
now there's a lot of organizations or a
number of organizations in Washington
like Ola and others it's Washington
office on Latin America who have argued
that the Merida Initiative is now a
benign police and judicial training
program primarily because a lot of that
direct military funding then went into
international narcotics where it was
going to these programs but what we see
here in Mexico is that it's still a drug
war and it's still beating the same
violence against violence model that has
caused so much human tragedy here in the
country even when you're training police
you're training them in that same kind
of a model and there's been no positive
results in terms of Human Rights or in
terms of ending impunity here in the
country I want to get back to omnes
record in a second and we can end on a
focus on on issues around social
investment and labor rights and
austerity but I just briefly if we could
go on this track for a second - I mean
what is also the relationship between
you know the various cartel factions and
different political parties and even you
know there was reporting a couple of
years ago that the DEA was sort of in
reading different political arrangements
with different cartels to sort of share
intelligence and and and then maybe sort
of you know treat them differently than
others again that's not particularly
surprising or exceptional I mean we sort
of
work with heroin traffickers in
Afghanistan we definitely informally
worked with you know the rival cartel of
Pablo Escobar as an example there's
nothing particularly exceptional about
it but I think it also illustrates if
I'm right and you'll correct me
obviously if I'm wrong the other
dimension that we're helping fuel all
this incredible violence when as you
said before even structurally figuring
out you know which is who is on what
side and disaggregate I mean you know
the politicians implementing these
programs forced by the United States
could be partners with different cartels
and us you know foreign policy could be
sort of informally aligned with
different cartels depending on you know
different arrangements I mean is that
also a dimension of what's going on
that's definitely a dimension now I've
done in-depth work on the DEA in Mexico
and in Latin America in general I
remember once I was interviewing an
investigative reporter here in Mexico
who has worked a lot on the poppy
growing region in Guerrero and other
states which is now you know one of the
biggest problems with illicit substances
and he said why do you think they call
it the Drug Enforcement Administration
they administer the illegal drug trade
they don't fight it they administer it
you know and we there were often times
where it's not something that you can
like smoking gun proof but there were
often times and we said ok you know we
can see that there's a crackdown on one
cartel and a certain favoring of the
other that they're looking to be able to
deal with either a larger cartel so they
can so they can have a single
negotiation or you know or there was
clearly favoritism in terms of how that
came down and the DEA by way of working
with inside informants what they have is
they will actually protect and encourage
criminals within the organization's on
the theory that they're going for a
bigger fish but sometimes you know the
ones
TEKT interacted bigger than fish they
end up getting and in the meantime they
could out there they're actually working
with you know homicidal maniac so so I
can't add good guy bad guy line it just
it's completely non-existent in that
sense the reason that the violence has
gone up so much with this model is also
what they call the kingpin strategy the
kingpin strategy says okay if we take
out the leader of the the drug lord you
know the main guy in these cartels then
they'll gradually fall apart shop that's
what everybody focuses on they'll chop
and it not only does it never happened
and the strength of the Sinaloa cartel
after the capture of el chapo was worse
or even worse cartels took over some of
their territory and again the violence
always goes up when you take out a drug
lord not to say that they shouldn't
prosecute criminals but you have to
consider what the impact is on society
it creates instability it sometimes
fragments that cartels and those smaller
ones are they even prey in a worse way
on the communities in which they they
have control than the other ones look so
the impact as they be as they Herald
having captured you know in this macho
language another drug lord the impact on
on communities and on on civil society
it is terrible and so and they're also
under they're also not you know it's
funny because it seems to me like in the
reporting and in and even in like you
know pop culture it's like there's this
acknowledgment that these cartels are
very sophisticated that they're embedded
in the global economy if we get into
like you know how they wash their money
it would implicate you know and as in
the past me we know with HSBC could
implicate like major Western financial
institutions and so there's this
understanding on some level that like
these are these are their own for these
this is just part of globalization this
is just sort of illegal globalization
and it's very sophisticated it's very
mobile it
you know but then on the other hand it
is sort of like oh yeah but I mean if we
I mean you know if Jeff Bezos quit
tomorrow Amazon would still exist and
Amazon would still have an incredible
power so there is that kind of funny
contradiction of on one hand sort of
emphasizing the sophistication of these
cartels but then yeah right it's always
oh no if you get rid of El Chapo then
you're good if you get rid of Escobar
you're good when as you said I mean not
only not necessarily it might it might
even cause even further instability and
it won't disrupt these supply chains
yeah when you look at the absolute lack
of positive results from this particular
from the model the counter narcotics the
drug war model that exists eventually
you have to ask yourself what are the
ulterior motives here because nobody
would consider with the glutton nobody
would continue with a model that was so
completely failed if there wasn't
somebody benefiting from it and that's
when you begin to see what kind of
contracts are coming out the defence
companies the security companies you
know the lucrative State Department and
Mexican government contracts that come
out of keeping a country in a state of
permanent war we have a war economy we
have a defense economy in many senses
Donald Trump is trying to increase that
and that's what happens with Mexico you
know they were beginning to be afraid
that there'd be a wind down in the
Middle East and suddenly the drug war
appears as the new frontier in terms of
who can economically benefit and then
also the Pentagon had long wanted to
have greater penetration in Mexico but
even under the corrupt
and authoritarian pre government it had
a strong nationalist vein that didn't
permit you know the United States
government to be as involved in Mexico's
national security so when the drug war
comes along with a very weak and
contested presidency of Felipe Calderon
they destroy the doors open and if
you're the first
the first thing that you'll hear about
the drug war in Mexico is that the
Pentagon's just thrilled with it because
they've never had so much access so
you'd be Washington national security
priorities being imposed on Mexico to
the point that you know the Southern
Command of the Pentagon is on the Mexico
Guatemala border repressing immigrants
that are trying to come up because
that's what the US government wants it
to do so an yeah and right that's per
you right looping it back to the the war
on immigrants and refugees how in the
last couple of minutes what about on the
sort of you know labor increasing social
investment the sort of classic because
my understanding is that aam low is some
type of you know kind of good social
democratic kind of left sort of soft
nationalist kind of political force what
about on just those issues of if you are
middle class or certainly if you're poor
or your working class in Mexico is your
life starting to improve a bit in this
presidency or is there greater room
that's being opened for as an example
independent labor union organizing and
things like that yeah well so far I mean
there's some people who have seen
immediate improvement the minimum wage
on the border on the northern border was
doubled to create a strip where the idea
was to try to keep more people from
feeling that they had to migrate or
attempt to migrate to the United States
there's also been a raising minimum wage
nationally and the rest there it's still
it's mostly not being felt there have
been some operational glitches some of
the pensions that were promised to youth
and older people are still not being
delivered
you know efficiently but supposedly that
will come under control eventually and
in the labor on the labor front in some
of the reforms that are are going into
effect yes should have a very positive
fact you know there was a huge problem
and there is a huge problem with
protective contracts what they call it's
when a union or kind of a fake union in
a sense goes in and there's a contract
with the owners of a company that the
workers don't even know about they have
no idea what it even says and basically
that contract exists to keep any kind of
real representative contract from you
know from winning in that workplace so
they're beginning to go after that kind
of thing in terms of you know guarantee
guaranteeing more labor organizing right
there's a possibility a lot of these
kinds of changes are still at the stage
of space as you say and the
possibilities and the one important
thing and this is kind of a concern is
that people will have to continue to be
organized and to pressure the government
in order for this to happen this is not
all going to happen the way it should
just from the top down and the concern
is that the Lopez Obrador government so
far has had a negative attitude toward
organization of civil society and
actually has been trying to close off
not through direct repression but
closing off some spaces for that to
happen so I think you know that one of
the biggest factors in whether or not
this can turn out to be a real
progressive center-left government that
becomes an example for the rest of the
region is how organized and how much the
people themselves push during the next
five years well Laura Carlson I hope we
can continue having these conversations
they're credibly important and we I feel
like we've covered a lot of really
important ground so I really really
appreciate it Laura Carlson as the
director of the Americas program at the
Center for international policy Laura
thank you so much for doing this well
thank you it's been a pleasure take care
alright folks and I and yes I could say
with confidence that both on majority
report and tmes more conversations with
Laura Carlson that like
it's really awesome when somebody can
cover so much terrain but then also a
you know there's a lot of connections
there that you can tease out and I just
thought she'd do that really well she's
the Carlson you want to hear talking
about Mexico that's true I think it's
spelled differently yes it's the good
Carlson there's the bad Carlson we
talked to the good like okay we don't
like that guy cuz well cuz frankly he's
a bad guy he's got a frozen food air
brain and we don't like it and he up
talks he up talks and we don't like it
I mean look that is the context you know
what it what is so incredible before we
even get into like warden you know these
more complex conversations and enter
their important conversations of borders
and culture and look in the United
States is a melting pot culture is a
broad-based culture even though it's
also a white supremacy alter but it's a
good thing that so it's a wide based
melting pot culture that's a good thing
that's a strength of this country
undeniably that's a liberal talking one
that's true and and there's also just
another truth that most people I mean
just take them take away less serious
way less melodramatic example we rightly
note that you know look if somebody
wants to you know leave their their town
in the south or the Midwest or the
industrial belt and go pursue a career
in New York or Seattle or whatever if
they want to do that great salut go for
it
but you should not be forced to do that
because your economic base of where
you've grown up is so hollowed out that
you don't even have an opportunity to
pursue what you want to do there right
you know and vice versa I mean obviously
so many people are priced out of places
like New York now not even just a
working class in the poor but a lot of
people in middle-class because these are
oligarch inequality cities
but we know that like I you know the
long-winded way of saying like most
people actually have an affinity for
where they've grown up so if you even
had like the most you know and and I
don't you know I'll give no quarter on
the concerns of people like Tucker
Carlson because I think they're paranoid
and bigoted and ludicrous
but it's like you know you want less
migration I don't know why you would
want less migration but the only answers
to that are setting up a situation where
we're not terrorizing El Salvador or
pushing the Merida Initiative and people
actually feel like hey yeah I kind of
generally might want to stay I mean you
know I don't live in Massachusetts but I
like that I can go see my parents pretty
easily I think most people would I think
most people would like to not feel you
know they're not walking thousands of
miles with small children to like life
optimized its basic human survival and
we are the prime instigators of those
problems in it in a geopolitical sense
that's just objective reality so you
know any conversation including also you
know the liberal perspective that
doesn't start there is ludicrous because
you know sure it's great I look it's
better to to speak out obviously against
racism but then on the other hand I mean
you don't think it's a form of racism
that we've muscled through you know this
obscene drug war in Mexico essentially -
I mean I like what she the way she put
it it is to create new markets it is
literally to create their defense is a
huge market it's a growth industry folks
anyways we'll get to the fun half and
actually and this is gonna because I do
think we need to start talking about you
know who how do people vote on defense
increases how have people voted on the
Trump budgets you know and and I think
how people are framing their plans
relative to
our impact on the planet you have to
think on some level if you're a voter in
the United States you're voting on
behalf of literally everybody on the
planet and that is not true you know
somebody who's voting in Denmark it's
not true
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M / become a member
that's how the show happens check out
just coffee dot co-op Fairtrade tea
coffee or chocolate amazing socially
cooperative enterprise work around
improved enterprise that's what we're
talking about Richard Wolfe style
Enterprise in the great state of
Wisconsin on the Michael Brooke show on
Tuesday we hosted Emma big 'land
presented a mini illicit history of the
different ideological strains of the
Iranian Revolution in the postgame we
had a huge amount of fun as always
including the debunk with Ben Burgess
this Sunday we're doing a deep primer on
Iran next week a primer and mini and
illicit history of Hezbollah as well
patreon.com slash T MBS and Michael
Brooks show on YouTube and tomorrow
people that aren't patrons can buy
tickets to our Chicago live show August
24th
they're already patrons have already
gobbled up a bunch of them we look
forward to seeing you Chicago be my
second straight fall in Chicago
well August 24th is still is that was
late follow so that's last time I was in
your second Indian summer yeah I thought
Cubs game last time I don't know if that
again this time I stopped Cubs game when
I was in Chicago that's funny
Wrigley Field that literary hangover
yeah the song of heel water by Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow was the most recent
episode yesterday I had a really good
day I went to B dubs by myself to look
over my note cards for recording the
Margaret Fuller episode of the literary
hangover what you did last night a fun
quote from her is basically the the and
this isn't coming out for another week
but I'm excited about it she was in she
was the first female foreign course
bounine for American newspaper ready any
probably not any I guess maybe some
Brits got over in America but she was
over in Italy for the 1848 revolutions
and she wrote this dispatch on April
19th my country mean in America is that
present spoiled by prosperity stupid
with the lust of gained soiled by crime
in its willing perpetuation of slavery
shamed by an unjust war meaning the
mexican-american war which a Hawthorne
himself didn't think was that big of a
deal noble sentiment much forgotten even
by individuals the aims of politicians
selfish or petty the literature
frivolous in view no to go back to the
Hawthorne thing he said I don't think
it's as much of a calamity as everybody
else seems to think it is which is like
it's like the a mexican-american
derangement syndrome right right it's
the conservative like I'm not going to
say one way or the other on the actual
thing being argued about I'm just gonna
say the libs are overreacting right a
bit right it's telling West
sorry for swearing no that's perfect
that's all right there only to F words
we have a ton of stuff to get to in the
fun half i just opened the im's check
out the anti Fattah on patreon as well I
would actually also just want to say in
light of this episode really do check
out the redirect Ronald Reagan's podcast
Steven Robbins on iTunes and of course
also and in fact first and foremost on
patreon really important show for
understanding this stuff we'll see in
the fun half
[Music]
[Applause]
you
welcome to the
half let's take a quick call out of the
gate you're calling from a nine eight
nine area code who are you where he
calling from hey Michael this is JJ
calling from Washington DC how you doing
hey JJ what's going on what's on your
minds not much just first of all I
wanted to say thanks you know for
everything you guys do I love the show
the conversation today with absolutely
awesome appreciate it I'm just off the
bat I wanted to say real quick that I'm
really worried about bowls or bowls are
in a row or whoever it is Boston arrow
whole scenario you can say it I can say
it yeah I'm really concerned about what
he's doing with the humanities I'm
actually graduating tomorrow with my
master's in philosophy and social policy
so it really concerns me about you know
people should be studying these things
people should be learning about the
humanities well you know history
philosophy the art so you know just
worried about that you know and and I
know you're gonna probably talk about it
later in the show here but you know just
wanted to bring that up because I think
it's so important as someone who's who's
getting their degree in that as well so
and then the fun thing I wanted to say
is that have you ever thought that the
Dave Rubin impression you do sounds a
little bit like Bullwinkle and if that's
the case that that Magel sounds Zen
Shapiro yes
rocky I don't you know I like the
direction you're going and I don't know
these cartoons enough though I don't
know you know I buy it though I'd buy it
then is Bullwinkle stupid okay yeah a
little bit yeah right he's usually
they're like fast-talking smart one next
to him trying to guide him through
things so trying to make sure that he
understands that he will not be going to
his bachelor to his anniversary party
yeah making a cake for him yeah yeah all
right well thanks for the call but I
appreciate the show thanks guys for what
you do thank you appreciate it
hey what is that that was a bit of Rocky
and Bullwinkle mixed with another
version of Lupe
I can't find just a scene with him and
rocky though but I think Oh more alcohol
you're calling from a 401 3 area code
who are you where you calling from hi
there this is artist J Andrew world from
well Western math hey J Andrew how you
doing what's on your minds thanks for
calling pretty good hey I just wanted to
uh first of all thank you for today's
episode it was absolutely fantastic
because this is going along with my
graphic novel that I've been working on
Oh awesome
what is a graphic novel about yeah um
it's about ice and immigration I'm
actually trying to tell like not like
the news and facts like like you know we
kind of heard but like really kind of
humanized everything yeah
you know do it through humor through
through mostly it's kind of like like
like uh I'm very inspired by like
classic horror comic so so there's a lot
of like really ambiguous dark stuff that
goes on with it cool okay great
look forward to like yeah I was actually
planning on going to El Paso to actually
see some of this stuff firsthand are you
having a crowdfunding campaign that's
been going on oh great do you want to
plug that yeah I got uh you know if you
go to my uh my Twitter on right about
now - I have like 40 million links to it
I don't think I've done it today because
I've been a little difficult
but I'll get that out real soon great
thanks for the does there anything else
you want to touch on before you go yeah
just real quickly um I know this
conservative who keeps posting links to
Snopes that debunks everything that he
says because like snoke's has like the
the mean that he likes okay
would that be a self cooking ice cream
count yes I buy it okay thank you for
the call I buy it so in Brazil it's been
an interesting couple of weeks there's a
couple of things that have been
happening one Lula has been doing
interviews and in addition to you know
restating
the fully political nature of this case
it's in demented you know Hasan Madhuri
who I think has a show on Netflix did a
segment recently I haven't watched it
yet but it was you know shown to me
basically he going rightly to attack
bolson arroz plans to destroy the Amazon
which is a threat to every human being
on the planet um that you know again he
just uncritically repeated that you know
Dilma was removed for financial Quran
for financial you know serious financial
allegations even though that that even
at this point sort of even mainstream
media sort of admits that her
impeachment was completely baseless and
just repeating I mean if you read any
piece in The Washington Post the New
York Times The Guardian they'll say
Lula's at the BBC Lula is in jail for
corruption at the very least a fair
legitimate report would say disputed
charges orchestrated by a prosecutor
whom now serves as justice minister in
the current government he's been doing
interviews he's been actually
articulating very well the failure the
catastrophe of bolster on those first
couple of months in office now there's
an investigation into balsan ro son
emerging about with actual real charges
with material evidence having to do with
potential money-laundering charges for
millions of dollars bill de blasio
rejected basically balsan ro coming to
New York City he's been in Texas where
he was greeted with protests and now in
just nah I mean just a hugely I mean the
type of thing that not only is usually
significant but we need to learn from in
the age of Trump and the age of all of
these horrifying bills targeting woman
being placed you know passed in places
like Alabama people have taken to the
streets to protest the bolson ro regime
both snarl government's war on education
this is a continuity of the austerity
that started as soon as DOMA was removed
from office but this is also
specifically trying to get rid of
sociology
and philosophy departments so there's a
huge ideological component of this we
have video here Brian Mayer of Brazil
wire and terrorists tell us or she'd
definitely be following Brazil wire and
brian merida understand all things that
are happening in brazil look at this
mass amount of people on the streets in
brazil incredible result and as of this
video he said i think was a two hundred
thousand now estimates are that there
were up to a million people striking to
defend education i'm gonna quote a
little bit from a piece on I on Latin
America by Fiona Edwards is also a good
journalist on this stuff based in the UK
the National Confederation of workers in
education described the day of Education
strikes as a quote unquote warm-up for
further mobilizations against this and
other aspects of bowls and arrows
austerity offensive that threatened to
impoverished the Brazilian people and
undermine Brazil's national economic and
social development
the next big anti austerity mobilization
is planned for June for a June 14th 2019
with workers preparing for a central
strike against bowls and arrows proposed
attacks on pensions which is currently
being debated in Congress both scenarios
project is to dismantle higher education
by starving universities of state
funding as a first step towards opening
the door for poll privatization of the
education sector now this is so crucial
because of course rightly we we put a
lot of attention here on his homophobia
his misogyny his racism which are
massive and and relentlessly documented
his literal neo-fascist background he
was a captain the Brazilian military
Hunta that the term neo fashioned
fascism was coined to describe but these
attempts to cut pensions to destroy
labor unions to privatize public
education these are the reasons that the
Wall Street Journal endorsed a full-on
fascist candidate for the presidency of
the largest country in Latin America
this is the ideological impetus against
the for the war against the social move
in Brazil the war against Lula and Dilma
and the Workers Party and the way the
Western and Anglo press has worked hand
in glove with u.s. foreign policy and US
corporate interests to put this
catastrophe in office remember Ian
Bremmer Ian Bremmer
is one of these you know again these
horrific mediocrity Davos soothsayers in
the you know in the Fried's Acharya
Thomas Friedman molt sort of and there
was a great piece on him in the Baffler
I forget who wrote it but it came out a
couple weeks ago everybody should read
it and he runs a political a risk
consultancy called Eurasia group and you
know his job is to advise banks and
advise corporations and then you know
pontificate on CNN about how sometimes
somehow we can get back to because all
of his arguments always lead back to
well there's this huge rides from
right-wing populism and first of all
let's make a false equivalency let's do
what Jonna Oliver did and you know I
don't know if he and bloomer has done
this but I would be shocked if he didn't
you know do something as a ludicrous as
comparing Trump and I'm low and let's
just get back to stability and stability
always somehow means opening countries
up for foreign direct investment
austerity and then a form of kind of
basic social moderation but of course
actual things you know are potentially
negotiable if you look at another figure
like this Tony Blair or Hillary Clinton
they're quite willing to negotiate on
refugee rights as an example so he wrote
a piece in Time magazine where he called
ball scenario was his nominee for Person
of the Year and in perfect perfect
symmetry he literally you he said he
called him he had toxic masculinity
which like if ever there was your signal
to maybe consider retiring that phrase
it would be in Bremer deploying it in
the context of giving himself plausible
deniability because he knows how
disgusting ball scenario is and he knows
that things like bowls and arrows saying
he'd prefer to have a kid be you know
die than be gay and that there's
potential links between bowls and arrows
family and the gang that assassinated
Mariel
Franco which I'm sure Bremer doesn't
even think about but he said he also
might be the person to finally reform
Brazil's economy and what does that mean
because when Michelle Tamara came to
power after the totally illegitimate
process the judicial congressional coup
that removed Dilma Rousseff from office
he immediately started gutting the
achievements that Lula and the Workers
Party and put in place and what that
meant was that Brazil which had been
taken off of the human hunger list went
back on it and as Lula said last week he
said look there's a bunch of people in
this country in this country's elite
want this country to work for about 36
million people which might be generous
and he said the rest are just a
statistic they don't matter to them
doesn't matter if they starve to death
it doesn't matter if their bodies are
you know miss shape it it doesn't matter
it doesn't matter that a young person
like Lula who grew up in extreme poverty
and worked his ways a metal worker and
lost a finger doing it they don't care
and Ian Bremmer doesn't care you know
Ian Bremmer is there to do kind of
intellectual shell casing around the
ruthless march of neoliberalism which is
willing to negotiate with fascists like
balsan ro Brendon what would you say oh
just that Ian Bremmer also just this
morning said that he would rather vote
for Howard Schultz for president than
Bill DeBlasio well really a hot streak
yes
I mean Ian Bremmer is very bad not good
the charlatan charlatan folks and not
bright and this is and so and Bill
DeBlasio look he's running for president
that's a joke the idea that you would
you know contribute $1 to him and not to
a fund to fight to protect abortion in
southern states is obscene and you know
I don't know whether he's just
delusional and wants a vacation or
whether there's something more cynical
about you know a new way to ring out
bucks from the real estate industry in
the last couple years he's mayor and
gets some consulting contracts going but
credit where credit is due
he told balsa Niro to basically that he
was you know garbage and not come to NYC
so balsa Niro went to Texas and
this is where I want to do a trigger
warning this is gonna be one of the most
horrifying disgusting stomach-churning
pictures you will see ever that's right
Gerry bull cenar oh and Ted Cruz was I
think I mean that's Heidi Cruz I think
that's Gerry bull snarls wife but I'm
not sure she looks like Callista
Gingrich yes she does
sorry sorry if you're eating this is
evil folks does it get more evil than
this picture folks yes I kappa the--
doesn't get more glamorous than this
actually it really does but again I want
to re-emphasize I mean this is the
depths of humanity but the heights of
humanity or that the Brazilians are out
there striking you know the landless
workers movement is still going Lula is
roasting this guy from prison
totally undaunted after being a
political prisoner for a year so we
should have solidarity and we should
learn and we should also as we measure
our choices for president be thinking
extremely attentively about our global
footprint and that's why I do want to
you know we'll have one segment labor
later where we'll give you know
Elizabeth Warren some credit but I
really did have a problem with this
tweet so and it's part of a larger you
know because you know as is Warren
strategy you know this isn't it just a
tweet she put out a medium post where
she's framing the climate crisis in
terms of Pentagon strategy and she's
definitely noting that look the
Pentagon's reliance on fossil fuel does
make Pentagon operations more dangerous
in terms of transportation of fuel in
terms of refueling in terms of emergency
response so she said today I am
introducing my defense climate
resiliency and readiness Act to harden
the US military against the threat posed
by climate change and to leverage its
huge energy footprint as part of our
climate solution senior and military
leaders have warned Congress
the national security challenge that the
climate change poses the military is
taking steps to become more energy
efficient and resilient but instead of
meeting this threat head-on Washington
is ignoring it making it worse I think
just one more tweet is there one more
tweet above yes so this climate it's
real and it's worsening guys this is her
first tweet and it's undermining our
military readiness more and more as
accomplishing the mission depends on our
ability to continue operation in the
face of flood droughts wildfires desert
of desert desert off' occation i'm sorry
i cannot pronounce that word and right
now an extreme cold so here's my problem
one it's objectively true that the
Pentagon as a DC bureaucracy is both
massively and definitionally wasteful
and harmful to the planet right
operating a global us a global Empire of
any sort leaves a huge equal ecological
footprint then there's also the
ecological footprint of you know
munitions being exploded across the
world the ecological footprint of
everything from drone warfare in Somalia
Pakistan Yemen ongoing military conflict
and refueling in Afghanistan look at
what we have done to the ecology of
Pakistan rafia Zakaria writes about this
down to the fact that a place like
Vieques in Puerto Rico under ongoing
colonial occupation is still recovering
from being used as a US military test
tube so I do have a moral objection to
this and I think there is a central
contradiction between a serious climate
strategy and the frame of hardening u.s.
military capacity now conversely the
u.s. military has been well well ahead
of other branches of government in
moving forward on efficiency and
recognizing the threat the climate
change poses the muted pentagon going
back to the Bush
ministration would have Pentagon reports
where they would note the security
challenges of climate even as you had a
in practice a full-on climate denying
administration and that's why people
like Thomas Friedman when they were
doing their muscular green butt dot
green let's call a geostrategic
capitalist patriotic we're always
talking about the Pentagon as the sort
of vehicle now the third component is
there's no doubt that the Pentagon has
always been a massive source of R&D
that's where the government spends we
starve other sectors but we spend a huge
amount on the military and that money
goes to state funding and the Pentagon
it goes to huge systems of contractors
and there's a massive amount of
double-dealing and corruption there um
and sometimes those innovations as we
know of filter out into society the
internet right pretty big stuff but I
think we're gonna need to question
whether we want that relationship to
continue now in conjunction with this
Elizabeth Warren is also proposing some
very good stuff on dealing with the
corruption issues in the military you
know appropriations process and she's of
course rightly calling out Trump's new
defense secretary Shaheen is a defense
contractor the classic double-dealing
swamp corruption of Washington which
again this is the stuff where the Trump
administration looks very similar to the
Reagan administration the Clinton
administration and so on but this is
also in light of the fact that with
regards to Warren's record there is a
disturbing consistency of a gap between
her global view and her domestic view
and also as she frames these issues they
actually matter
I want Bernie to go further but Bernie
says we need to take on the
military-industrial complex
I saw him say that in Brooklyn Bernie
has opposed intervention in Venezuela
Warren has not Bernie was willing to
criticize modestly Israel while
Warren was defending even the 2014
onslaught and mass killing in Gaza where
a UN school was shelled a behavior that
was so atrocious and abominable that
even Joe Scarborough criticized it and I
want to point out and we're shrinking
here if we go back for the whole career
I'm sure you know Sanders has voted and
protected military programs and defense
allocations I would disagree with and
you know conflicts that maybe in
retrospect were wrong like the bombing
of Serbia that's fine we criticize that
have an honest conversation I think the
comments that Sanders made about drones
in 2016 were wrong pretty goddamn dreary
in fact again none of them including
Tulsi Gabbard have said anything clear
and strong about a radical change in
drone warfare I have to say on the basis
of who has the best advisors and people
think most seriously about this it's
definitely Sanders who would
theoretically guess the closest there
but he hasn't said it yet but he has
been the one who's talked about cutting
US military spending and most
importantly in the Trump era he's been
the only one who's done it and we should
have put this on screen but I have it I
mean this is a basic graph this is in
the Trump era in 2017 in fact the Senate
passed a military spending allocation
that was larger than what Trump asked
for presided over by John McCain who was
still head of the Armed Services
Committee Warren voted for that in fact
here's the 2017 budget 218 billion
dollars for military spending Sanders
voted no in 2000 2017-2018 695 billion
Sanders voted no 2019 717 717 billion
Sanders voted no so Sanders has voted
against all three Trump military budget
now let's go I think it will be of a
surprise to no one or that Gillibrand
has voted for one of these budgets that
Harris has voted for these budgets that
Klobuchar has voted for all three of
these budgets that bethe O'Rourke has
voted for all three of these budgets
that Cory Booker has voted for all three
of these budgets but I want to point out
to that might surprise people so let's
start with Tulsi Gabbard again I've been
giving her a lot of credit great
position being clear and firm against
intervention and us c'mon gringa
Venezuela
well tulsi gabbard voted the right way
in 2017 and 2018 she voted no on both of
those she voted yes in 2019 on a 717
million dollar budget these figures do
come they come from veterans for Sanders
but these are sources gov track us now
Elizabeth Warren did the the opposite
path she voted no on 2019 717 billion
but she voted yes in 2018 on six hundred
and ninety five billion and she voted
yes in 2017 on two hundred and eighteen
billion and I really fear that this
frame along of course with her inability
to say anything about Latinamerica her I
mean to put a generously total lack of
clarity on Venezuela her very late in
the game sort of moved to even slightly
moderately criticized Israel as well as
when he also put into the fact that
Bernie Sanders was the only member of
the entire Democratic caucus to vote
against new sanctions against Iran now
two more ins credit again she's
co-sponsoring the Udall bill that's
being put forward to stop the Pompeo the
Trump administration Pompeo Bolton March
to war with Iran but these are seriously
uneven things in her record and they're
serious problems and to me you can't
look at a US global footprint
an afterthought you can think about this
stuff you have the luxury in the United
States of thinking about what we do you
know in Honduras not at all
you have less of a luxury about it Iran
but in any scenario you are impacting
people and it's clear to me that there's
only one candidate who is far from
perfect on these issues but as even the
beginnings of a sketch as well as the
advisers who at least are taking
seriously the relentless impact the
lives the cost of a US global footprint
like this and so it's not okay with me
to go for the sort of superficially
appealing tactic of enlisting this
machine in a climate argument when the
overall impact of this machine is both
again fundamentally incompatible with
dealing with the climate crisis in terms
of the raw amount of uses that resources
that even a more efficient Pentagon
would use as well as the human global
footprint of what the US military
actually does whether we're talking
about Afghanistan or Puerto Rico and
again Elizabeth Warren obviously great
on many areas of domestic policy
definitely my second choice but the idea
that we're gonna have this whole
conversation that I think by the way is
already especially this early in the
game this the Wong curry does not matter
as much as people want it to matter but
if you're not gonna can if you're not
going to include in that a global
analysis of how we are actually
functioning in the world you have a
radically narcissistic us-centric view
which I fundamentally object to and this
reifying of US Empire in service of even
a noble end is fundamentally undermining
of the actual confrontation that we are
going to need to have both for planetary
survival but also for a far more humane
and just order because you know you
frankly you can't be
closing down tax shelters while still
presiding over global fleets and every
continent and killing you know civilians
and unregistered drone wars so that's a
problem Colin from Nebraska Nebraska
governor Pete Ricketts quasi owner of
the Chicago Cubs and son of racist
anti-union TD Ameritrade founder Joe
Records tweeted yesterday saying that
Nebraska is a profile state is a
pro-life state and was proud that
Alabama and Georgia legislators were
proud were brave to champion their
dranconian anti-abortion bills Pete
Ricketts I welcome people to come to
Omaha's maha festival in August for a
female-dominated lineup to chant
 pete ricketts repeatedly as we have
done last year yes
 pete ricketts and all of these
legislators it's obscene and dangerous I
I don't want to dwell too much on this
but you know there's a lot of headlines
and there's always the impulse to you
know I mean I don't even know what it is
maybe it's just as simple as it's a
counterintuitive take that will create
clickbait but the Washington Post says
televangelist Pat Robertson claims
Alabama abortion bill is extreme and has
gone too far now
what does that make you think when you
guys read that headline what's your
first thought it's too crazy even for
these crazy conservatives wow they've
really gone too far this time they've
really gone too far this time even Pat
Robertson is terrified that a 12 year
old rape victim might be forced to keep
the baby or face criminal charges even
Pat Robertson gets that right Matt what
did what did you what did you keep take
from the headline same same sort of
reaction do you guys want to go to the
tape I feel like Jon Stewart here you
know we do have tape of what he actually
said or in fact if you read the body of
the text will you go to what he's
actually saying I think Alabama has gone
too far they've passed a law that would
give a 99 year prison
the people who commit abortion there's
no exception for rape or incest it's an
extreme law and that they want to
challenge Roe versus Wade but my humble
view is that this is not the case we
want to bring to the Supreme Court
because I think this one will lose so
that's a strategic argument he might be
right on strategy but this is not a
moral objection to a fundamental assault
on women's sovereignty and I really
think in a time we were talking about
putting doctors for performing a
procedure in jail for 99 years and you
are absolutely terrorizing woman in
these states and across the country it's
just not the time for the dumb
counterintuitive clickbait what's this
Ben Shapiro he doesn't have the
strategic concerns that Pat Robertson
lately really the guy from the
intellectual dark WA the New York Times
cool kid philosopher that really smart
guy because he uses Jerusalem and Athens
in his book no if you believe that a
human life is a human life in the womb
the fact that he grave wrong was done to
initiate the creation of that life does
not mean that the life itself is of no
value there's a logical distinction
between the evil that was done to create
the life in the first place and the
presence of the life now that the life
is present that's why I've always been
in favor of an exception in case of
serious danger to the mother and that
would include mental health the woman is
going to go crazy and harm herself for
example if a woman is going to to be so
depressed that you become suicidal then
abortion in my view becomes an option
because now the more the mother's life
is in danger well he's trying to create
a back door out for himself and not like
that leads any we're awful incentives
yeah yeah right I mean that's yeah
that's an even more that's a whole other
totally disturbing gotta catch 22 for
yeah I mean this is and again I mean
ultimately you know I don't know I I
just think it's so you know these things
are settled legally and I know that Roe
is written in a way you know because so
sorry to go all postmodernist here but
law is constructed law is a political
project that is not a natural thing that
has descended from the sky but we have
made a basic political moral judgment
that women's capacity to control their
own bodies their own sovereignty their
own life trajectory is going to
supersede the potential of life I think
really I mean the potential of a human
life and again I mean you know there's
no we're also in a time here where the
president and Fox News is literally
going out across the country lying
saying that people are actually
suggesting the fully born babies can be
killed so Ben Shapiro is suggesting that
- yeah sure and you stake her life
against the life of the human life in
her womb Alabama I think by the way does
the right thing from a pro-life
perspective when it comes to rape and
incest concessions with regard to rape
and incest have always been sort of a
stop to public opinion rather than a
principled stand about the value of
human life they also opened the door to
the argument okay well if you are saying
that a human life is not a human life if
you don't want it to be a human life
then why wouldn't you extend that to
cases other than rape and incest it's
also worthwhile noting that the left
tends to point out arguments about rape
and incest because those are the most
emotionally resonant cases in which
people who are generally pro-life would
say well maybe an abortion should be on
the table yeah I think it is pretty
emotionally resonant that a
twelve-year-old girl in Ohio might be
forced to keep her rapist a child in a
way that might totally physically
overwhelm her body because men have
voted to control her sovereignty I think
that is actually pretty emotionally
relevant to sentient human beings even
even very flawed human beings if you
have the most basic capacity to think
outside whatever sort of bizarre
religious
you know isolated empathy free
fanaticism that Ben Shapiro is living in
I mean it's like he needs a like a
guidebook like here's a Psychopaths
guide to what is emotionally resonant
right right and again look Ben Burgess
will be releasing a tape in a few days
where he sort of explains the logical
fallacy of asserting you know basically
a continuum fallacy right like because
frankly and I'm sorry to get kind of
gross here but I mean if you want to go
on a continuum fallacy and if you want
to follow the logic of what bench
Bureaus saying masturbating should be
illegal right like that literally is a
you're you're getting rid of and and I
don't want to be gross here but like you
know your your your Expo your disposing
of something that if it meets another
thing can create a person so you could
even call that discarding human life
it's human biology
it is literally human biology so what we
do in a sane world is we make a
distinction right like and again I I
don't think that this is I do think that
this argument is actually one that does
need to kind of be foundationally built
on different politics and different
value sets but like the way he is able
to do - by the way and then articulate
to his young fans such an incredibly
totalitarian horrifying policy as the
one in Alabama but you know because you
know you've walked by a tree on the
street in Brooklyn does not mean you're
in a forest right like if you want to
just talk unlike a continuum fallacy if
you think that an embryo is the same as
a delivered baby you're not able to make
basic distinctions in your mind so he's
using you know a fast voice and
quote-unquote logic to draw an insane
equivalency and and collapse
basic distinctions that any person using
an empirical sort of guides that would
make you know and it is also great I
think asan made this point on
Twitter like you know that this is sort
of like the end you know if you if you
see the IDW x' roots an atheist YouTube
it goes from you know complaining about
Ave angelical z-- and certainly of
course having endless Tantrums about
Muslims to you know having a guy I'm
sure Ben I'm you know I'm sure mr. Paine
a Sam Harris I'm sure he probably
opposes the Alabama bill but he'd be
willing to have a you know calm Drury
conversation about bench bureau but one
of the leading lights of supposedly all
of this sort of logic Lord stuff
supports the most totalitarian bill
imaginable and you know I'll just say I
think these points are generally stupid
one way or another but uh Iran abortion
totally publicly available do you
thought you had something um my friend
the great Ana Kasparian
who does great work on T YT but also
really good work on her show unfiltered
I really appreciate that she did this
because you know look first of all it
goes it's an opportunity to make fun of
Megan McCain Megan McCain is trash Megan
McCain is the walking embodiment of the
need to eliminate all inherited wealth
maybe look maybe if Megan McCain had to
do look an honest day's labor and didn't
have like the easiest life imaginable
handed to her because of her father
maybe she might be a halfway decent paid
up member of the human race we don't
even know what Megan McCain could have
been if she wasn't the ultimate
trust-fund baby case I always thought
that Megan McCain's kind of shtick was
basically like you know I want to be
given money I want to be handed a huge
inheritance my dad my dad my dad and of
course because of my dad I'm sure like
of course I support Israel no matter
what it does I think the United States
should go and bomb other people as much
as possible
particularly in the Middle East but like
hey I have gay friends and you know like
and and I remember when John McCain was
running for president there was one time
I think in 2000 when he was doing his
maverick run he got in trouble because
someone asked him he was pro-life but
someone said hey if your daughter got
pregnant what would you have what would
you do and I believe he actually said
like well we'd have to talk about it and
she'd have to think about it which was
you you know he might have even said it
was her choice which is usually
controversial thing at the time so I
thought Meghan McCain's whole shtick was
you know why about Ilan Omar
throw tantrums mention her dad but kind
of do like the spoiled millennial
equivalent of on a fiscal conservative
not a social liberal but this clip
actually I guess according to what Ana
saying that is actually what her
position is but she's going out telling
the public something very different kind
of making it far out let's check this
out
following the state of Georgia passing
the fetal heartbeat bill into law
of course the conversation about that
legislation and now law was had on the
view and what's interesting is how
Meghan McCain supposedly supports the
legislation in this next video and how
she supposedly supports scientific
evidence for the legislation take a look
honestly I think what we need to do on
this conversation is I'd like to see
much more doctors and medical experts
get out of the way I'm sorry it is
politics I'm confident if you polled
most doctors they prob I'm assuming most
of them would in fact be pro-choice and
probing sovereignity but it doesn't
matter you can find Paula you can find
dr. you can find doctors who were so
committed to providing the service that
they were assassinated after Bill
O'Reilly called them killers every night
on national television and I'm sure you
can find doctors who like bench panels
life probably the problem pro-life it
doesn't matter it's ultimately isn't
a political decision and the political
decision is that women have this choice
and this capacity to govern themselves
period wait overwhelmingly shows that
life does start at conception and the
science Bal set and people liberals
always want to believe science when it
comes to climate change and things like
that when it comes to life that is your
belief that is your you know a leave
science this is what I what I don't want
to do don't say you don't believe that's
not what I'm saying
I'm saying I don't believe that the
minute you conceive you are with child
what I don't want is I don't want anyone
telling me what I have to feel that a
nuance there what you're talking about
[Applause]
last part
toss to the right you mad anyway was it
about Megan I mean the eye rolls are not
sup but I just have a quick message for
Megan look I just wish that you were
honest about your real views on abortion
because her public statements about
abortion are very different from her
private statements about abortion I'm
just putting that out there because I
think it's important for you to be
honest because women's lives and
livelihood is really you know being
jeopardized here by you trying to win
political brownie points by
conservatives by saying things that you
don't actually believe so I'm just
putting that out there
secondly I know shots fired but I think
it's important I didn't call out
people's dishonesty so that happened so
Anna's basically was saying like you
know cuz she does she did know Megan
McCain I think they worked at it on a TV
product they were hired at the same
plate not like dating worked to
collaborate together but they were hired
a part of the same project together so
she's basically saying like yeah I've
had private conversations with you we're
pretty different than your public stick
which does not surprise me at all John
McCain's ghost may be the biggest
downside of being dead right now is that
no matter how hard I try I was in the
going through the back wall now on the
subject of my daughter Megan it's time
for some straight talk you can do better
okay all right no I can't I can't finish
that one Brock from VA right after
Kavanagh leading up in the midterms the
big mobilizer was a blue wave and
stopping Trump in the Republicans do you
think that just saying Biden was against
the blue wave is a good simple bumper
sticker way of showing less informed
Democrats that say that was just a way
to beat Trump that Biden is not on your
side and working against their interests
I mean not that bumper sticker but I do
think you could make some hay of that
yes I do I definitely think the fact
that he went and did that speech
praising Fred up
and in addition to all of these just in
unbelievably delusional things that
Biden is saying about Republicans can do
something um and also I think this let's
play this sound I want to be really
careful in terms of how we talk about
policy on the show because again I think
voters do care about policy and they
increasingly care about policy and if we
just say they don't care about the
substance then it becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy so you know and
there's a lot of debates and nuance
within it because on the same time of
course a lot of people are voting on
instinct and all these other things and
I also think as an example again I think
Bernie Sanders is amassing an actual
movement is far more significant than
crossing every you know dotting every I
write and there is like some argument
there but at the same time you know of
course it matters that Joe Biden is
saying absolutely nothing of substance
and Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders
are putting forth extremely important
plans starting with the foundation of
things like single-payer to change your
life in a fundamentally positive way not
only as Joe Biden not doing that not
only is Joe Biden signaling that in
addition to helping keep a seat red in
2018
that he wants to work with Republicans
and when you hear this rhetoric remember
that this is the guy who worked inside
the Obama administration to cut a deal
to savage Medicare and Social Security
and that should worry you if you're a
even very moderate let's be Trump
oriented Democrat because that is both a
political loser and a real-life loser if
this guy gets in office folks
the fact of the matter is why in God's
name say she paying a lower tax rate
than firefighters police officers
teachers it makes no sense everybody's
got it apart I'm not talking about
choking the wealthy I'm talk about every
pay their fair share the wealthy have
been soaking everyone else since at
least the 70s like at least this cycle
or accelerating in the 80s or if you go
back to the research out of prints and I
think it goes back at least maybe even
to the 60s of like no major policy
battle that has ever been lost by the
wealthy in this country so in a time of
such unbelievable inequality and all of
the uncertainty and all of the crises
that have come out of it Joe Biden is
going back to 2010 stuff because don't
don't ever forget that the corollary of
the tiny tax increases I mean you're
talking about embarrassing tax increases
that people like Obama and Obama and
Biden were are there was one big
argument about a a private plane
surcharge middling nonsense that is not
gonna pay for middle for single-payer
health care or free college or an
aggressive plan to save the planet
because I get you know easy for Biden he
doesn't support any of those three
things he has no serious plan for
anything but you both have the actual
human need over fifty percent of people
in this country cannot get together a
couple hundred dollars in an emergency
and this is talking about
paying a fair share and not soaking
everybody when people are suffering and
dying on a daily basis even in a
so-called good economy where people are
working these horrific temp jobs by the
way the same guy who has no sympathy for
Millennials Millennials entering the
worst economy in decades
come millenials getting their start
after college people like me totally
unemployed in 2018 2009 2008 2009 2007 a
Wall Street meltdown all of the major
precursors of which Joe Biden voted for
including repealing glass-steagall and
he supported every single trade
agreement that has gutted the industrial
base of this country and written global
rules that favor pharmaceutical oil
companies and financial firms and he's
coming with this yeah let's let's take
up the box on the margin we'll read a
little bit I mean it's like and this
will not solve the Krait you you put
this in office for four years you think
that's gonna get reelected you think
that's gonna beat back a global surge in
far-right populism and that already has
bought us Trump Modi balsan ro Orban are
you kidding me it's obscene it's obscene
and it's delusional and of course no Joe
Biden is headed to New York he I miss
okay Joe Biden plans his first New York
fundraising biz blitz as a 2020
candidate for president the front raiser
will supposedly be hosted by Andrew
Cuomo Andrew Cuomo came into office 2010
2011 any hard distill deeply just a
massive aftermath of the Wall Street
meltdown so many people losing jobs and
houses he cut taxes for rich people in
the state
he cut services he's been in a war with
labor unions he savaged poor people and
has done everything that any industry
wants in this state the whole time he's
been here and that has been slow moving
as hell on headline-grabbing things like
marijuana legalization which boat Joe
Biden I believe still absolutely opposes
Joe by an ardent drug warrior ardent in
prison industrial complex expander Summa
Biden's most ardent supporters are based
in New York and quoting from CNBC
including hedge fund manager Jim Chanos
founder and president of the Kaneko's
associates
the famed short seller who will be
attending one of the events according to
the source has been a growing guest a
growing guest list political fundraisers
are sometimes known as bundler and have
been critical components in helping
candidates raise millions of dollars
behind the scenes a Biden spokesperson
declined to comment
New York is considered a hot spot for
campaign fundraising during the 2016
presidential campaign cycle donors
throughout the state combined to give
more than six hundred and seventeen
million dollars to political causes
Biden's trip comes to New York comes
after a successful swing through
Hollywood where he raised more than
seven hundred thousand dollars and an
event with a host committee that
included ha-la-lu Hollywood luminaries
such as DreamWorks co-founder Jeffrey
Katzenberg executive and producer Peter
Chernin actor Rob Reiner and Terry press
president of CBS Films Biden has been
leading the way in the overall
fundraising game he beat out all 2000
and 2010 contenders in their first day
halls raking in 6.3 million dollars and
finished just ahead of beta O'Rourke and
senator Bernie Sanders so Hillary
Clinton Hillary Clinton except more
conciliatory to Republicans with a worse
record because he was in politics far
longer to do far more bad things from
school segregation to NAFTA to Iraq to
Anita Hill and you don't even get the
victory for representation and you don't
get the victory for representation
including by the way I'm gonna keep
saying this you want to talk on that
level
the first non-christian president the
United States is not nothing um Jesus
Christ let's let's play this this is
funny just a little palate cleanser
means TV worker cooperative Jake Flores
who are the other people in this video
Melissa raka Rocha Melissa Rocha
melissa Rocca and Anders Lee this is a
great because you know you watch vice
and vice like I've seen a lot and vice
does some good work but they'd also do a
lot of like not good work and unbalanced
not good
and so but you'll notice like Vice will
do like that you know like a documentary
on the drug war I mean these and people
have worked for Vice worse myself
included nuclear yeah yeah buddy Anthony
la Paix but they'll start with like you
know we read you know Guadalajara
Sinaloa cartel and they'll get some
amazing footage and you know some little
bit just kind of like anthropologically
fascinating and then the segment ends
with like let's go talk to the Western
Hemisphere affairs head of the DEA to
you know where they go and reinforce
basically all of the presuppositions of
u.s. foreign policy about said topic so
this is a funny bit of the intersection
of Vice the types of people that you
might run into the children of the
Venezuelan elite that you would probably
run into who might have like I don't
know they might do something like I
don't know say this example just I don't
know they might be like a YouTube comic
where they ramped about things
yeah where they like do like funny Corky
rants and then as an example maybe a
really prestigious outlet like the New
York Times would for some very
inexplicable reason would give a YouTube
comic a video platform to attack people
opposing intervention in Venezuela and
then not disclose that the YouTube
comments father is a prime advisor to
the us-backed opposition something like
that might happen but this is the vice
version of that means TV with Jake
Flores Melissa raka and Andrews Lee it's
pretty funny check it out
what's up fights international this is
branch Rockefeller I'm coming to you
today from beautiful Bushwick Brooklyn
New York today I'm going to be talking
to two Venezuelan refugees / artists
we're gonna be stuffs on how to bring
democracy back to that authoritarian
countries
[Laughter]
hey Reggie sup Connor so pumped
to be in your car today
oh my interrupting a little artistic
descent here I'm just finishing up a
blog post it's about my favorite coffee
shops in Brooklyn
oh and you do it by head I've always
done it this way for sure and I bet like
as a Venezuelan like from what I've
heard
computers are illegal in Venezuela it's
absolutely correct
okay well again muchas gracias for
answering my preguntas why don't we
start with when it was that you ended up
havin to flee Venezuela there was a
slave worker uprising on my dad's
plantation and I just had to get out of
there we all did
technically I was born on my father's
yacht as we were leaving Venezuela
legally speaking I am recognized by some
countries as a pirate and now we live in
my parents building here in Brooklyn I'm
so sorry for your hardship like I
apologize why do support
internationally-recognized president of
Venezuela one wideout
best friends with my dad and I've known
him since I was a little kid he's always
been around he's so funny
um I actually think he's my godfather
I'm just tired of seeing so much
discrimination in Finnish went off
against POWs prisoners of war know
people of wealth all right so I gotta
ask you the bro question cuz you know
let's be honest like it's literally only
white male bros are asking this question
but like given the history of u.s.
imperialism like economic exploitation
military expansionism in the global
south like whatever you think of Maduro
why should the u.s. intervene the u.s.
needs to get involved in Venezuela
because sometimes hands off means blood
on your hands
[Laughter]
that's so good man that's great
you're calling from a 6-1 for area code
who are you where you calling from
oh hello is this me yep
hey cool I'm so glad I got a Michael
Thursday because Sam's very unfair to
know that callers it's uh it's Kirk from
Brisbane Australia hey Kirk what's on
your mom so firstly we just recently had
former prime minister named bog Bob
Hawke died a few hours ago and he was a
Labour leader and he introduced a lot of
sweeping social reforms though you know
props to Bob Hawke hi I'm Bob Hawke
anyway
Volquez hawk with a name so I had a kind
of a broad the brief question about the
political situation in Australia which
you know a few years ago I think nobody
wanted to admit that you know Trump that
a new America was going to influence the
rhetoric and political outcomes in
Australia but it really has and I think
it's change the landscape a lot over
here so just generally broadly speaking
there's this kind of very fox news II
IDW influenced rhetoric popping up all
over Australian both coming from
politicians and in the media which is
obviously heavily Murdoch influenced in
Australia so my question is having sort
of suffered a pretty terrible failure on
the left specifically Trump and and
embolden Republican base and then you
know some inspiring victories in the
midterms did you have any advice to the
combating these cash stuff dishonest
right-wing groups and they brought a
political project that you think would
resonate with the public in a better way
than well in a better way than what
happened for you guys back in in 2016
well I can't you know I know that
obviously some of the things things are
very specific to the dynamics of a place
so I've never even been to Australia so
I need to learn a lot more about
Australia but you know it seems to me
that like there's always this sort of
like you know there's there's two steps
right I mean one step I do think that's
really important and I think was one of
the catastrophes of 2016 and the Trump
Clinton dynamic was you know part of
this is an outgrowth of the center left
center Sparty's totally failing over
decades in terms of confronting the
claps economically of most you know of a
huge swathes of these populations so I'm
not I don't know as much about Australia
actually I do know though that in some
ways Australia's Labor Party was a
pioneer of third way politics even you
know the Labour Party in Britain under
Blair and Clinton they looked to Bill
under a Blair and Ann Brown looks at
Bill Clinton but they actually also
looked to Australia so one part I always
do think I do think that there is a
dimension that has to deal with the
serious economics material conditions of
people and dealing with it on those
terms then I think you have to you know
you have to argue and defeat bigots and
I think part of the way you argue in
defeat bigots and what I'm working on in
my book is in addition to rightly
calling these things what they are you
have to remind people that actually
being global and being part of a mass
culture is is both more historically
accurate because that's how the world
actually works there are no isolated
separate cultures from each other these
giant feedback loops that inform and
reinforce each other and that's the
nature of the world and that's a
potentially an incredibly Liberatore and
good thing and that you know secondly
it's it's just boring you know I mean
it's just at the end of the day you know
particularly when you talk to like I
think like something like the young men
that get drawn to these like IDW type
characters it's like what is it what is
everything you like in sports in pop
culture right like it is all a product
of cosmopolitanism of globalism of
people doing things together and
synthesizing across boundaries and
that's what these people and all of
these Continuum's want to eliminate
which is both immoral but it's also
incredibly boring and stupid so alright
but I have to look more into it I also
check out what Ange Angela Foucault
she's running for local office she's at
EMBs person she has a good YouTube
channel really good YouTube channel D
there I'm the Progressive Party yeah
yeah so we did a conversation to get
that on t MBS because we always like to
encourage you know people in these
communities are doing cool things um
like run for office but uh you know so
that's another thing to check out thanks
for the call appreciate it
um speaking of cool local political
initiatives
Nigel Faraj who was one of the
architects of brexit one of these you
know Bannen foxnews character's
far-right xenophobe fake populist type
he's no longer at you Kipp I guess now
he's in the brexit party is the new
thing yeah he he he Sargon and those
types of taken over you Kipp and now
Farraj i for some reason i even sussed
out started his own new party what's
actually different funding opportunities
or something who knows it's polling
better than you Kipp apparently - thanks
I mean more effective communicator than
sorry only Sargon's not much of a
political talent make jokes to deal with
the terror of life alright this is a
funny new initiative in the UK this is
the end you know trigger warning this
isn't us saying it but this is the eff
off Faraj campaign Garage is back why
he's filmed the party the brexit party
to fight European elections and make
sure that his precious brexit Congress
stop not only that but he's leading the
race just like could even last European
elections I am bored of seeing his face
and we can stop him now is our time I'm
voting in the European elections because
brexit has been a mess
not just a mess it's a national disaster
it's stopping us from dealing with the
issues that young people and pretty much
everyone else actually care about
climate change
the soaring rates of knife crime
actually sorting out the NHS crippling
inequality in our country and it's
promoting hatred anger and intolerance I
don't know about you but I don't want my
future in my generation defined by
braixen that's on May the 23rd tell now
your Farraj and his brexit buddies -
 off once and for all are you with
us
sign the pledge at wwm news calm towards
/pq election that's a good unitary
message to be I mean obviously I'll be
voting labour in these elections but
that can apply towards anybody I mean
that that is the broad anti brexit tent
you know Green Labour lived them I think
a better way of confronting the climate
crisis then this sort of trying to
enlist the US Empire in it is to
fundamentally anchor and name it in the
fundamental corruption and rot and
fundamental oiligarchy an inequality of
the US political system and Bernie
Sanders is relentlessly on message doing
that I want to go to clip number 5 this
is a new Sanders ad which people should
be people should be passing these around
the media operation there is doing a
really good job please of course
consider this contrast with Joe Biden so
I'm not looking to soak the rich while
jetting between Hollywood and New York
to gobble up oligarch money this is
Bernie Sanders on the fossil fuel
industry subsidies and tax breaks it is
time to end all subsidies and tax breaks
for the oil and gas companies for
I'm at the pod IMF report found that
direct and indirect subsidies for coal
oil and gas in the United States reach
649 billion dollars in 2015 in the last
decade alone the oil and gas industry
has pumped more than 700 million dollars
worth of campaign contributions into
federal state and local elections during
that same period they spent more than
one and a half billion dollars lobbying
Washington
maybe providing massive support federal
support to an industry that is
destroying our planet makes sense for
some people but sure as hell does not
make sense to me that's the fundamental
connection there the fundamental
corruption of it and the fundamental
confrontation that needs to happen
that's what needs to be put across and
you know Joe Biden is part of that rot
he's talking about and when you watch
that video or think about these actual
issues I mean you just with a certain
you know a Buddhist distance just roll
your eyes and dismiss all of the endless
talkers and mediocre idiots in sort of
you know subpar media that have decided
to fixate on and hate Bernie Sanders
because it's just it's truly pathetic
relative to the types of issues and
things that this campaign is
foregrounding JB some birds may die from
getting hit by weren't wind turbine
blade even more even more even entire
species will die from permanently
changing the global ecosystem yes Jay
cool hey Michael do you know why Trump
cares so much about this trade war with
China do you think he has friends or
investments in the handful of
corporations and may benefit I mean
that's always my assumption with with
Trump that there's something like that I
don't know but I mean if you listen to
Trump's appearances on conservative talk
radio for like the last few decades he
loves this sort of stuff right and me go
back even he was like one of those big
like Japan guys in the 80s right I mean
he he does have a consistency on trade
war stuff and bigotry which isn't to say
he understands it terribly well he just
likes to posturing and he gets the
instincts of it and he's a bigot and
he's competitive you know Greg Gregory
from Nebraska I'm receiving
love and support from everyone on the
left is best community after starting my
podcast I just want to say thank you to
everybody who's reached out or tried to
help oh that's awesome but Greg you got
to remind us what the name is what is
the name of Gregory the Green Corn
rebellion show Green Corn rebellion show
check it out
pickpocket Hetrick Zion is going to New
Orleans Matt not a fan that Winnipeg
Greg Michael I want to thank you and the
crew for a lovely informative episode
yesterday that being said I've got some
feedback for the next episode
central Winnipeg labor history I'm
thinking that the 18th anniversary end
of the Buehler of a steel lockout the
summers great opportunity to address
that let me know when you're scheduling
that interview and I'll sent you my
notes I would appreciate what you got
buddy I've been to Winnipeg I need to
that you're calling from a 70-200 area
code who are you worried calling from
yep I don't think it's enough come on
hey this is the Eric from Colorado Eric
what's on your minds uh so the
libertarian socialist that called in a
while ago he got up some things that I
agree with actually okay I'm an
anarchist and well one thing that guys
may not agree with okay Sam said that
you do not agree with I will pretend to
be Sam for about 30 seconds okay so
you're an anarchist how would that work
oh poor horribly but that's Mike what's
your said about direct democracy I
really took issue with what is our sorry
I'm sorry you got to reset it what who
said we okay what did Sam say about the
wrecked democracy I certainly don't
remember he basically just said they
could hurt that the country stupid
okay okay so I don't think that that's
there might be some literal logistical
limits in that type of thing because
well I mean I think there are some
legitimate single when all these I think
that it's also there's a lot of well the
reason that I wanted to call in was that
Mike Ravel who's running in 2020 he is
like mainly running on a legislature of
the people and he hasn't come out with
his book yet it's I think it's supposed
to come out before the debates I'm not
sure about that but he's done a lot of
work on this and I'm not honestly the
most well researched on this but I don't
know anything I just think yeah yeah
well I just wanted to I guess bring up
Mike Ravel he has a lot of policies that
I actually really agree with that like
actually kind of put him above sanders
for like just like a weekend at Bernie's
is my thing okay great that's all I care
about
I think my cool Twitter feed and it's
out rate but we gotta get burning really
trying to be President so yeah that
makes it easier yeah but I I mean this
is like yeah I mean any look I'm
anything that cuts into Bernie's totals
when things actually start happening
you're gonna piss me off
yeah so but you know it's bad Michaels
cool yeah I mean I think most of the
people who were supporting him or mostly
just giving him a dollar and then
supporting either alright so he endorsed
Gabbard all right cool all right so
we've got Gravelle he is noted thanks
for the call brother yeah all right all
right mom thank you you are welcome no I
don't know that he I'd be surprised if
Gravelle is sort of addressed the issues
with logistics of direct democracy for
you know I mean look I think recurs of a
billion it's so much more interesting
think about how you could turn companies
into democracies which is in fact
radical and is in fact democratic
socialist but I don't see any scenario
even and again it should it be
infinitely more transparent and people
have way more power absolutely
but like you don't want anything in your
life delegated I mean I don't I don't
see how it works
I like to delegate more of my life it
does not work I think people can be and
I do think like look there's and and and
to the extent those things are there
like in the 88 Brazilian Constitution I
mean there's there's a lot of local
initiative I think it would be great but
even there you know if you have like a
citizen review board of budgets or you
put citizens in control of things like
rent control in New York which you
should do you would still have I mean
you still have like that's still a form
of delegation I don't know what that
means I mean if you're literally there's
a million different ideas of engaging
people much more deeply in democracy in
all levels dry hundred percent support
yeah but it's a good conversation to
have
those are great and they we should
explore those ideas but if you're
literally saying like you know everybody
get on your touchscreen at the same time
now vote you know and I guess you know
as far as this election goes it's like I
don't know man I take this really
seriously and and I think any even on
ways that really piss people off like to
me I'm sorry
I think in 2016 it would have been
better if Warren was the candidate than
Sanders as a Arden and Sanders supporter
I think she might have had a bit of a
better chance she was positioned to do
that I think in 2020 Sanders is
undoubtedly the progressive leader and I
don't care how many policy proposals
come out and I don't see it look if it
changes all great or not no I mean I
won't say great because I support
Sanders but if it changes that's another
story and Warren is the only other
candidate in a general election that I
would support with enthusiasm and energy
but I don't know as I see it I don't
think that this is a primary winning
candidacy and I think it's gonna take
out of Sanders
so I don't appreciate that and I
certainly don't appreciate you know like
that was part of the reason that I was
very critical of Tulsi out of the gate
I don't think Tulsi is more than a 1 or
2 percent candidate even though she's
putting forward some very good things
but if that 1 or 2 percent is the
difference between Sanders / Biden I had
a big problem with that just as I have a
big problem if even you know Andrew
Yang's point 7 percent and you know Mike
revels whatever like I think we got to
do this here I think we need a president
who need gets we need single-payer I
think we need a president who's serious
about what's happening with Iran who's
saying what he's saying about climate
about the structural corruption in this
country I think we actually need to do
that yeah I don't want calls about Mike
Gravel the only thing I'm interested in
Gravelle is him as a propaganda agent
right and when you're calling into this
show and we're talking about him and not
bernie sanders for instance he's having
the opposite effect that yeah greville
two halves he's having a bad effect yeah
he's having a not good effect but um but
I will you know of course I mean you
know obviously Warren's in a different
candidate category and she is running a
very you know two serious candidacy so
this clip was great I mean I think you
know she does this so well of her just
you know basically destroying a Treasury
official who was as you know I mean
Wells Fargo engaged in criminality gets
their customers and Treasury did nothing
about it
here's Elizabeth Warren talking Treasury
official Joseph adding will you commit
to publicly disclosing the OCC's
evaluation of the quote competence
experience character or integrity end
quote of the next well CEO I will not
why not because it'll be confidential
supervisory and Furman well it's
confidential if you make it confidential
the point is you have this is going to
authority I do not have plans to release
that information publicly and what is
the reason that you don't have plans why
are you keeping it as you indicated it's
my prerogative
okay and our job is oversight here so
I'd like to know why you want to
exercise your prerogative to keep is an
exercise the oversight the OCC has
ducked repeatedly um senator Warren no
one has been more tougher on Wells Fargo
than myself no one has been more out you
mean at the OCC that's a low bar I would
disagree that I find that insulting that
you would make that good that's the
energy that is the energy we need
so yeah but you know what go vote for
Joe Biden yeah go go go go look at you
know Pete Buddha jigs I don't want to
talk about gentrifying my mid-sized
Indiana City but I do have plenty of
pablum for you I mean you know look
again I'm you know ardent and consistent
and why I think Sanders is clearly the
best choice but my god there is another
argument where it's just like these two
verse and you got to be kidding
me
like really beetle Roark over that yeah
nine out of ten of the people running
for and that's there's obviously more
than that but nine out of the ten
roughly our complete waste of your
attention and should be treated as such
absolutely do we have the view clip with
beta or work speaking of which because I
would like to play that it's pretty
funny I hope we have that I believe the
the women of the view had some questions
about beta or orcs ongoing presence in
the race now I think not so you know
I've been I think I've been kind of
right about Biden so far and I think
I've been right about bado so far which
is I was pretty early
I feel saying this isn't an amount to
much
this guy is delusional he's confusing
the mass adulation you're gonna get when
you're like a halfway paid up member of
the human race and you're running
against Ted Cruz and he's confusing the
energy he got from that candidacy with
any type of like actual natural organic
appetite for him to run
for president so it is really not
surprise me at all that this hasn't gone
off of the grounds and he still has an
opportunity now I think there's a
candidate Hernandez who's already
declared and she's probably she's who I
vote for in a Texas primary because she
seems to me to be the clear crusading
progressive choice against Cornyn at the
same time I know that beta O'Rourke
could buy himself a hell of a lot of
goodwill just even this is even a total
nothing nothing nothing nothing like
hicken burger could Hickenlooper or
whatever the hell his name is
could have bought himself some goodwill
by running for Senate
you know beta or or could still avert
this embarrassment and become a
candidate for Senate against John Cornyn
but he's still running for president and
as the sort of momentary caffeine high
or sugar high or whatever the hell that
sort of embarrassing rollout was with
that incredibly embarrassing Vanity Fair
interview wears off he's gonna get more
questions like this do we have this
ready oh damn it I've been setting this
all up they didn't say it what did they
say alright let forget it it's fine it's
fine it's fine
man you want me to be like Sam you know
what they just forget it
don't play the clip I might have I
thought that what I had been led to
believe was that the was that somebody
on the view asked him why he was running
still running which is awesome no but we
instead have a Vicksburg er clip all
right let's do is this about bado
all right let's do a beta Vick burger
clip why not
around don't
oh geez right
what a empty narcissist oh my
god
who's your comrade there's a lot of talk
of tech companies lately and no one is
discussing Amazon Amazon is one of the
largest tech companies Amazigh well I'm
sorry that's not true I think people are
talking about Amazon I think there's a
few that people discuss in Amazon's
write-up yeah yes they're involved in
cloud commuting they make most their
money okay I mean I yeah I got a key
Amazon's bad for stance Amazon is very
bad and they're talked about frequently
Kentucky Fried camera at hey mr Crew
enlighted assault on women's
reproductive rights too important to
shout out the national network of
abortion funds WWE bortion funds org
which helps women in restrictive states
both financially and logistically
receive the care they need hashtag left
is best yes we should be tweeting that
out so is there any more oh this is
alright let's let's play this aoc sound
this is her at the oversight hearing
asking how does the FBI what are their
metrics for monitoring terrorism now I
find you know these conversations to be
very complicated because on one hand
look there is a small very vanishingly
small but there is an actual threat that
are posed from groups like Isis al Qaeda
there's a more significant at this time
threat posed by white supremacists and
the onazi and KKK groups in this country
and clearly this is administration that
the Trump administration winks at and
plays footsie with those forces and
going back to the Obama administration
there was a massive Republican meltdown
about a homeland security report on the
danger posed by far-right groups and
then at the same time this is all in the
context of I'm I want to repeal the
Patriot Act I want to
Homeland Security and I don't want to
use the language of terrorism security
and surveillance to describe everything
because we already have a really
dangerous situation in this country in
terms of incarceration and civil
liberties and even in terms of thinking
structurally and culturally of how you
actually deal with extremism
whether it's neo Nazism or al-qaida so
these are really important things you
need to put in the mix but what AOC is
foregrounding at this hearing on
ethnicity and identity is also very
important so let's check it out you know
attack of December 2nd 2015 was labeled
as a domestic terrorist incident is that
correct I believe so and mr. Austin do
you know the June 12 2016 pulse
nightclubs shooting was also labeled as
a domestic terrorist incident that's my
understanding mr. Salim when Dylan roof
a 21 year old white supremacist entered
the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal
Church and murdered nine African
American worshipers was that labeled as
an incidents of domestic terrorism I
don't believe it was like there's no
question that it was so it was in your
in your belief as as a leader in this
space it was an incidents of domestic
terrorism but it was not labeled as such
that's correct
was the white supremacist shooting at
Pittsburgh tree of life synagogue
labeled as a domestic terrorist in this
incident I'm not aware that it was
although then attorney General Sessions
came out and called it that but the the
charges that were that had been brought
to bear and are currently playing out in
court are not ones of terrorists so
despite all of that rhetoric that we
were hearing they weren't actually
labeled these white supremacist
incidents were not labeled as domestic
terrorist incidents and you know I
really dug into some of these
distinctions what was labeled as
domestic terrorism what was labeled as a
hate crime and I could not help but as
much as I tried to dig in and explain I
could not help but feel and see that
attacks committed by Muslim
Americans were almost automatically
labeled as domestic terrorist incidents
yet white supremacists shooting after
shooting after shooting is not and I
can't help but come to the conclusion
that these labels what's being labeled
as terrorism is almost exclusively
coming down to the identity and it seems
as though white men invoking white
supremacy and engaging in mass shootings
are almost immune from being labeled
domestic terrorists in their violence
that's absolutely true now those are
broader context questions that I think
are important but that's undoubtedly
true and of course reflected in this
administration policy just recently they
will not sign on to a sort of global
condemnation effort on Christchurch and
they're saying it's because of concern
about quote-unquote free speech issues
which is as we know free speech issues
are marshaled by fascists often let's
play one final piece of sound because
this is just kind of funny so into it
which is a tax service they offered a
basically they offered a free tax filing
software that's something that they and
they've been part very publicly facing
that they offer this software right I
mean and but what they were less
publicly facing about is that they
basically made in Google searches it's
significantly harder for people to
access the free service
now another element of taxes in addition
to the fact that of course that they
need to be infinitely more progressive
and and of course the fact that you know
the wealthy evade taxes and the IRS is
drained of funds to apprehend all of the
stolen wealth by the wealthy and
corporations there is another there is a
third element that actually they could
be much less complicated to deal with
and part of the reason they aren't
complicated to deal with is because
companies like H&R Block and to it have
influence in Congress so that's another
stream of the tax conversation so and
I'm quoting now from ProPublica the
company promised the IRS would offer
free
options tens of millions of taxpayers
earning less than thirty four thousand
dollars in responding to our reporting
which shows that Intuit an HTML block
and other for-profit software attack
software companies were steering
customers to their paid products so they
were available we're gonna do a big PR
blitz that we have them but in actuality
in search terms we're gonna push these
people that need relief to our paid
services now the answer as to why they
would do this is I guess obvious to
anybody with any kind of functioning
brain but the CEO of Intuit it says on
gazzarri had at an amazing and shall I
say innovative answer as to why they
were doing this our choice around search
was intended to be the best interest of
taxpayers so they were more and fully
informed about their options and could
choose what they felt was best for them
but given the misinterpretation of our
well intended actions we decided to
remove the limitations we put in place
literally saying and I think he reminds
us of one of our old friends that we'll
get to in a second but he's literally
saying we offered a free option we made
a big show of it then we that we juked
Google so people couldn't find the free
option they were put into our paid
services and the reason we did this is
because we want people to take their tax
Pig this is because we take you know
their responsibility seriously he's
given a paul ryan spiel for this for
this con he also sounds like another
great american between the white house
and their press corps so we'll see what
happens in the end but that relationship
absolutely needs to be repaired as we
said on a recent bottom-mounted boris
that how many more subscribers is
literary hangover and have now more than
boris f science YouTube channel oh I
mean even we've been well lap I think I
might have more patrons all right well
Matt looks that up let's take the last
call of the day your
falling from a 7 1 8 area code who are
you where he calls 332 you're calling
from a 7 1 8 area code who are you where
you calling from
hey Greg from New York
uni hello Greg I'm due York how are you
Greg I think you know the ground rules
or Peter comes on wrong how are you Greg
what's on your mind
well good man I actually agree with a
lot you had cause you of Cortes I just
wanted right off the bat to say so you
don't send me to it I'm a big fan of
Bernie Sanders I think she's spot on
about the terrorists and the color of
their skin if that's what such so I
totally agree with that but I just
wanted to say with your Australian
caller and you're saying about the book
how we win a war of ideas you got to
look at the larger picture man your
radio shows obviously on the left and
that's cool and I love listening to it
but the American populace essentially
has a self-described nationalist which
is Donald Trump and he energizes the
right to hope he will be even more
nationalist that he actually is and then
you have a self-described socialist it's
simply a fact but he is really a social
democrat okay Greg Greg Greg Greg yeah
what's up what's the question or the or
the comment that's all you have another
school so you got to understand there's
a palpable fear on both sides so you
understand if you're on the left of
nationalism and totally that's right
okay but I'm right on the right there's
a palpable fear of socialism and I think
that's misguided also in some ways but
they point to Venezuela as a point to
USSR and you need to address those
things in order for people to accept
left ideas okay well Ernie is definitely
not advocating a Venezuela scenario or a
USSR scenario so people can rest easy
and take deep breaths Greg thank you for
the call I appreciate it I mean I'm not
even trying like there is some truth to
that
but I also think that like the
distinction between the handful of
people that we need to be clear in our
communication about that with versus the
relentless cynicism of right-wing media
and politicians about that
they're gonna call Seth Moulton the
socialist I mean that's the other thing
they're gonna call right exactly and
this trying his best that were being
 but it's such a funny drop we
love you but we like you great thank you
all right sorry no more calls I mean at
this frequency it's fine at this
frequency it's totally fine
and I mean I get the point but I also
you know there's also like what are you
gonna do it's I mean you know that's the
thing too is like you know you're not
are you calling in I don't know maybe he
is maybe Greg Greg might be calling
until like rush limbaugh shows and
saying like hey don't be a nationalist
or you know or recognize that people are
scared but you know I don't know okay I
get it yeah he's getting a
medicare-for-all I don't give a
yeah you're the Phantom's and yeah I am
sorry you're having an anxiety attack
but we're gonna give you clean air and
characters huh yeah American sir I am
sorry that you're absolutely terrified
but we are going to put your child that
they choose to go to college for free
your child's asthma will also be helped
because we're not gonna be polluting the
air as much I'm sorry that this freaks
you out Tomcat hi guys
just to ask if the TMV s food challenge
is happening next week it's my 30th
birthday next Wednesday DMBS goes on at
midnight in the UK and it's not often
I'm able to watch live due to my work
schedule so I'd love to spend the next
the first hours of my 30s watching you
gag what the hell is in no but yes we're
gonna do it some I I don't by the way I
don't I might pie I very likely will tap
out after one bite so I do not commit to
eating a lot of that food I think 6 6
p.m. ish Eastern NYC time let's the
dirty 5:30
can I get a shout out to Audrey Denning
running for California first she's
running a grassroots campaign against
Doug lemme loml thea who visited the
u.s. Tex Cote us-mexico border with
Trump a month or so ago Audrey doesn't
take big donor doll
like he does yes shout-out to her
Wolverine soon Alabama will be
impractical to practice self-love right
that's what I just said
bender dad Bullwinkle is an alumni of
Watts Mata you okay all right the final
I am day I have to find a good final I
am let's see you have a wonderful day
bro and I'll see you again soon
Gramps Gramps pisacas is it me or has
Jorden Peterson's already started to
evaporate from the zeitgeist love the
show you sit on a throne of ideas and it
hurts my brain I think that they are
still extremely influential and they
matter and they're sort of the prototype
of modern right-wing arguments but yes I
mean the level of exposure and obsession
was bound to significantly deep I mean
there's not a lot new there Yeah right
it's also the feeling it's not like this
guy is a particularly fluid thinker is a
huge amount of repetition so we will I
guess Sam's upstate but of course
there's a show tomorrow we'll be in the
studio hopefully there'll be some tech
problems can you hate me we'll see you
tomorrow thanks everybody
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
