[Music]
here's Donald Trump reacting to the
Supreme Court saying hey the DOJ lied to
us and the Commerce Department lied to
us about their reasons for including a
question on citizenship in the census
they left the door open to the idea that
DOJ or commerce could come back and give
another justification for it but it
seems really hard to believe that a
grown-up could rule that this is a
legitimate response when they had made a
point of saying no there's only one
reason why we're doing this and it turns
out with the exposure of documents that
came from a Republican operative that
they were lying about that it's hard to
imagine the Supreme Court doing that but
it's also from a timing perspective very
hard to imagine because the 2020 census
is I think scheduled to go out in
October they're gonna start to do the
counting because it takes several months
so I don't know what you could do to
foreclose the or to reopen the question
of literally the question of what
citizenship you have here's Donald Trump
though coming up with another idea
we're looking at that we think that a
census obviously if you do all of this
and nobody can believe this
and you're not allowed to ask you don't
knock on doors and houses
check houses you go through all this
detail and you're not allowed to ask
whether or not somebody is a citizen so
you can ask other things could you do
this whether or not somebody's a citizen
so we are trying to do that we're
looking at that I think it's very
important to find out if somebody's a
citizen as opposed to an illegal I think
there's a big difference to me between
being a citizen of the United States and
being an illegal and you know the
Democrats want to treat the illegals
with health care and with other things
better than they treat the citizens of
our country if you look at a poll binder
that has black lung disease you took it
about people that can treat it better
than the coal miner and these people got
sick working for the United States and
we treated people that just walked in
better you look at what they're doing in
California how they're treating people
they don't treat their people as well as
they treat illegal immigrants so at what
point does it stop it's crazy
what they're doing it's crazy and it's
me and it's very unfair to our citizens
and we're gonna stop it but we may need
an election to stop it they need to get
back to the house okay so I want to show
you spoke something that's really
interesting about this I guarantee you I
will bet you everything I own that if
this case returns to any court and the
DOJ comes in and says oh the real reason
we need to ask this question is because
we have another provision of the Voting
Rights Act that we want to promote the
opposing attorneys are going to say here
is exhibit well we know what Exhibit A
was that was the documents that we found
on the hard drives of the godfather of
the gerrymandering
here's Exhibit B the Prez in the United
States when asked why do you need this
question on there it had nothing to do
with the Voting Rights Act he didn't say
a word about it all he said was it's bad
the way that anybody's giving benefits
to immigrants guess what the census is a
constitutionally mandated count of every
person in the United States when the
Constitution enumerates a specific role
for government and a specific task
anything that you do that in any way can
be conceived and construed as inhibiting
the efficacy of that task must attain a
certain high standard before the court
will allow that thing to go forward and
so Donald Trump thank you for protecting
our census by being such an incredibly
racist blowhard
I don't know and yeah black lung disease
advocate I mean that guy gutted funding
right for black lung disease wall in
fact and another one of his plays you
know speaking to misdirected frustration
in West Virginia which does have like an
almost you know colonial extraction
status inside the United States with
those indices industries and a huge
public health problems including that
guy who ran for Senator himself and
brought us cocaine Mitch who shouldn't
be in prison but just the I mean if it's
Trump so whatever it's not a surprise
but it's like II I love how he reaches
for the one example of like oh you mean
the program that you lied about it and
cut right okay all right we got that
that's how I remembered it that was a
good lie so
