[Music]
right now folks there's been as you know
in in Poland there has been a climate
change summit cop 24 is what they call
it what is it climate I can't remember
what it stands for it's in Poland not
sure what the theory was doing it in
Poland I think they were sort of pushing
coal is the country but maybe that's
part of the reason you take it into the
sort of the belly of the beast there was
a massive protest hundreds of frontline
leaders in US youth just completely took
over the Trump administration's farcical
clean fossil fuels panel at cop 24 and
then walked out here's the room before
the action as you can see a ton of
people in there a lot of immediate and
then after the action virtually all
empty but for the media and here's a
video of that last movement a moment
during the Trump administration sided
event I guess it was at cop 24 where
protesters interrupted to urge the panel
to essentially not dig up any more
fossil fuels
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
there you go
so I guess they started off by basically
as a group just starting to laugh
hysterically at what the the Trump
administration was presenting in terms
of the clean coal technology it's a good
bit and and then moments after that they
they walked out I'm sure
Tucker Carlson's gonna do a half-hour on
where's the civility listen know what
that was saying yeah why why why are you
afraid of clean coal technology
it says clean coal what more do you want
that's why I think this is disingenuous
and all they want to do is make
everything socialist and never make them
happy do you really want to drive when a
horse and buggy yeah I wonder how did
they get to Poland they take a steamship
what or what a nuclear-powered steamship
or solar powered wind boat no they all
flew with their iPhones probably that is
just I actually think we could probably
put a bet down on that so you're very
predictable see if trade sports is
offering a does that spill around or
predict it it's a different one that is
it predicted go see if predicted has
what the odds is that Tucker Carlson
says something to the fact that they
flew those protesters flew there with
jet fuel how dare they
