[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday December 4th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today from
Mother Jones Ari Berman on the
thoroughly anti Democratic Republican
Power theft meanwhile it's Muller advent
calendar time sadly this one may not
last until Christmas we're actually
happily I mean the Advent thing was a
metaphor the non Gentiles election fraud
in North Carolina looking like it will
lead to arrests as well as a do-over
a new report corporate tax breaks are
costing public schools billions of
dollars Republicans stopped a plan to
lower Medicare drug prices and the CIA
torture head to brief Senate on the
Khashoggi killing meanwhile Milo Yan
innopolis at least two million dollars
in debt
contemplating selling vowels from his
name it's day four of the hagiographies
as bush senior awaits burial all this
and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen yeah I was wasn't
sure about that Dionne innopolis joke
thank you we will be talking to Ari
Berman soon the stories that are coming
out of Wisconsin are stunning and and
it's ongoing right now I think the votes
are happening almost are very close to
happening as as we speak there's a lot
of activism that's going on there at the
Statehouse again I think we mentioned
this yesterday but call your state
representatives if you're in Michigan if
you're in Ohio if you're in Wisconsin in
particular those three states North
Carolina of course folks have had to
deal with this for some time but really
important story we'll be talking to our
Berman about it soon also this story
about a week ago I flagged for you that
in the ninth district of North Carolina
for some reason they hadn't certified
the congressional race where the
Republican had ostensively won by nine
hundred and five votes something like
that and this thing's been unraveling
ever since and it appears we're gonna
play a clip in a bit but it appears like
there's been rampant rampant fraud
perpetrated against voters in addition
to installing a Republican we will get
to that in a moment in the meantime
though this is funny
look it's the holiday season and so
videos like this are for whatever reason
particularly enjoyable for all
here at the majority report we'd like to
see people fight we like to see people
we disagree with be on the wrong end of
an argument and there's nothing more
heartwarming and to see it all play out
on national TV with Christmas trees in
the backdrop so and a very questionable
dress choice from one of the peripheral
players that's right yes No so this is
the program called the view and I think
they are obligated to have two
politician daughters on at any given
time so Abby Huntsman and
what's-her-name McCain Megan McCain
Meegan Megan McCain are on Abbey
Huntsman you'll recall worked at MSNBC
then went over to Fox & Friends and now
apparently has landed on the view and
Megan McCain has worked just about
everywhere and is on the view and
[Music]
apparently Megan McCain and joy behar
are having a little bit of problems now
I've known joy for many years I used to
be on her program on CNN and then I was
on our program at current she's smart
she also does not take much grief from
anyone and so this is particularly
enjoyable they were talking in this
instance about George Bush Senior now I
think I think we've made our opinion
about George Bush Senior pretty well
known on this program I think the guy
was you know I don't know enough about
the history of the way the presidents
are perceived to say that he was the
most overrated of presidents relative to
what he did but I don't know if that's
true or not but
honestly the damage this guy did far
outweighed anything beyond the fact that
he appeared in public to be somewhat
somewhat appropriate so there's that but
here is this debate and apparently it's
sacrosanct you don't you don't talk
about anything but just in a vacuum our
president because he's like our daddy in
a way I would say one thing about him
that was not picked up really because as
a candidate he said those who think were
powerless to do anything about the
greenhouse effect are forgetting about
the White House effect and then he's
signed into law the Clean Air Act
Amendments of 1990 one of the most
sweeping environmental statutes ever
yeah this president that we have now is
trying to unravel everything that he did
and Obama did and if I ever become a
one-issue voter it will be about
pollution and the greenhouse effect and
we focus on the president please I don't
want to talk about traveling I want to
talk about but we're honoring but I'm
not interested in your one Asia here
with your name
Christmas controversy a radio station
just banned a holiday yeah there's still
you're arguing H I mean they're they're
great there's not you're still arguing
they're big the argument gets bigger as
they end everybody is just laughing and
smiling at it has that sort of like
surreal quality of like you know running
man or whatever some futuristic game
show and we'll yeah here they go watch
just watch and she goes you and the
other hosts are just sort of like
completely um Meghan McCain is like my
dad would like object to what you're
saying the the problem that Meghan
McCain has is that she doesn't want
politics in any way Mar our our honoring
of the president and you know what like
this attitude and I don't care who the
president is or was this attitude that
somehow like you know like this isn't
just it this is like a religious figure
this is like the Emperor right we can't
speak we can't we can't talk about mere
mortal things you want to talk about
gobble Chuck I want to talk about the
Pope we can't talk about politics in the
context of talking about the President
and Behar was being at least to some
extent complimentary they are was paying
the guy a compliment for actually if
we're being objective something he
probably should he should get a positive
notch for it won't outrun his running
the CIA or running the Willie Horton ads
but good for him he signed that
legislation and but what's amazing I
mean not only is she wrong but I mean
what an unprofessional brat I wonder
well in and what is your attention it's
interesting that you say unprofessional
brat because apparently is according to
the Daily Mail joy Behar's publication
continued to fume as the show cut to
commercial now look we could see what
was going on there they both were still
fuming but they want to put this and she
said she would leave the show if this
quote
this is according to the Daily Mail this
 doesn't stop she said I can't take
this much more bay heart reportedly said
she she called McCain quote an entitled
ding-ding-ding now look I don't
appreciate the use of the word I
find that to be a little bit gendered I
don't think I'm talk now it's one thing
to say it you know off-camera as opposed
to Fox which apparently was just the
other day literally had it said on their
air about Joy Behar and Julie have card
which to say right right in that respect
and and I think and I don't think that
she means it in a gendered way I think
her point is is that McCain thinks that
because her dad was a senator she can
get a job on TV and she's right that's
how she got that job I've worked with
her on a TV show and I can tell you that
I have run into people who are more
talented than her actually I ran into
people who were more talented to her on
that day in in that moment people who
were not even on camera who were more
talented in terms of them being on
camera so the idea that you know Megan
McCain can show up on the show and tell
Joy Behar who's been on the show I think
for a couple decades off and on you
can't in any way divert do you like
divert your attention to the sort of the
present-day politics when you're talking
about a dead president I think it's
pretty impressive I was gonna talk about
how my dad went golfing together and
you're talking about like the green
house and whatnot like you're stupid
you're an old you I hate you oh my god
she's not Jewish I didn't know that Joy
Behar is Italian anybody furs like this
is ridiculous but you know what is what
is interesting is I wonder if it's
because McCain is embarrassed by her
Republican Party stance on
I wonder if that's what it comes down to
she has a lot of proxy tension anytime
issues like that right I think you're
right I think that's part of it but I'm
perfectly willing to host a debate
between the two of them we can do it
here and all I can say to Joy Behar I
believe back in the day we would say you
go girl ask the moms all right we're
gonna take a quick break we're gonna oh
wait a second I get some copy to do oh
this is great
The New Yorker magazine as you know it's
an iconic magazine that represents the
best writing in America today beyond
publishing the best writers in the world
the New York who holds people in power
accountable through rigorous reporting
and compelling storytelling plus they
write beautiful pieces on subjects that
readers may not have previously put much
thought into like the world's
diminishing supply of sand or heirloom
beans they incorporate features like
poetry fiction cultural criticism and
satire into every issue you can get the
best writing anywhere everywhere with
home delivery of the print edition each
week or you can read on the go with The
New Yorker today app or via Google News
the number of New Yorker stories that I
have referenced on this program I don't
think it's calcul some of the biggest
stories of the year all of the reporting
that Ronan Farrow did that Jane Mayer
did those big big stories that came out
this year all in The New Yorker and more
they have great great reported pieces
this week why we sleep and why we often
can't these are all lined up on my on my
app that I read these things countering
trumpet the border
I mean there's just so many people I
read out of the New Yorker just looking
at the Cyndi Lauper's mission to help
homeless teens interesting all this and
more you cannot you could not go wrong
when you're reading The New Yorker
either whether it comes as a you know a
satire piece or fiction or frankly as
some of the best and most reliable
reporting in the country don't wait go
to New Yorker comm slash majority
listeners of the majority report save
50% when they enter the code majority so
get this
well this special offer you're gonna
receive 12 issues for six bucks plus you
get the exclusive New Yorker tote bag
talk about a gift subscription hello I
mean it doesn't say that on the copy but
you can choose between the print digital
or a combo subscription subscribe to The
New Yorker read something that means
something that's 12 issues for 6 bucks
and a free tote bag when you go to New
Yorker comm slash majority also whether
it's cranberry sauce that drops or your
uncle's smelly socks I don't know why
you would be dealing with your uncle
smelly socks just your own smelly socks
nothing cleans holiday messes like mrs.
Meyers holiday sense it's available in
Iowa pine peppermint and orange clove
you can shop your favorite scents at
Grove dot Co then once you place your
first order of twenty bucks or more new
customers will get the holiday set which
includes free mrs. Meyers holiday hand
soap you know what I'm talking about the
Meyers miss Myers right use it I think
we have some over there after here and I
have it in my apartment you get a free
mrs. Meyers holiday dish soap free mrs.
Meyers holiday multi-surface spray a
grove colep a collaborative red cleaning
caddy and a grove collaborative walnut
scrubber sponge if you spend 39 bucks
you also receive a free grill
of stoneware trade a beautifully display
your new holiday soaps I have got and I
started to use this now regularly the
the Grove it's like I don't know how to
explain this it is they probably don't
want me to cite that site but it's like
a site where you go and you shop for
products but all the products are
natural products like cleaning products
etc and these tend to be very expensive
in the stores much less expensive
through Grove and get sent right to your
door so I am contemplating I am
contemplating only carried away with
getting with asking so I want to come in
and clean this place on a regular basis
that's very exciting and this a set
where you get the cleaning caddy the
multi service spray the hand soap all
this I'm gonna order one shop Grove
before this exclusive holiday offer runs
out the stuff will all be gone come
December for a limited time my listeners
will get mrs. Myers on holiday products
a 60-day VIP membership and a surprise
bonus gift free when you sign up and
place an order of 20 bucks or more check
out Grove and our special offer at Grove
dot Co slash TMR TMR for the majority
report that's grove dot c-- oh that's
not comm dot co /tm are check it out and
lastly folks if you're looking for the
perfect gift for someone but you're
having trouble you can show your
appreciation for anyone on your list by
treating them to a gift from mrs. Fields
mrs. Fields had made a delicious treats
for over 40 years here bring the box
over here it's over there it's sitting
on that thing from their signature
chocolate chips the handcrafted frosted
favorites and melt into your mouth
brownies mrs. Fields gourmet gift tins
and baskets make the perfect present to
surprise and delight anyone on your list
this season that mrs. Fields their
cookies
sweets are baked daily and always
arrived fresh and flavorful ordering is
easy they can ship your gift anywhere in
the u.s. plus you can add a personal
touch with a custom message company logo
or a family photo that would have been
nice on this like a majority report logo
on this is cool this is a good
opportunity for someone to use this to
photoshop that on there for us I like
peace love cookies could be like
zero-sum exactly security TMR mrs.
Fields even offers 100% customer
satisfaction guarantee this year send a
fresh-baked gift and no one can resist
let me give you a sense of what my
feeling was about the cookies and
brownies the brownies were nuts I don't
think it was nuts in them there may have
been but I don't remember what they were
nuts in terms of good this is what I
thought about the mrs. Fields completely
it was more like I got up I'm just guys
take some of these cuz I'm just gonna
have alright well guys getting take more
of these because I'm gonna okay and then
I ate all I didn't eat it all but a
great deal everybody else got got some
right Brendan you got something I got
some mattad Michael was the only one who
did not have half sorry about that but I
wish hey right now get 20% off your
order when you go to mrs. Fields calm
enter promo code majority that's 20% off
any gift at mrs. Fields comp remote code
majority mrs. Fields calm promo code
majority check it out you're gonna love
it
delicious and a sweet gift put a picture
of the kids on the box and send it to
the folks and then they get to keep the
tin I'm gonna bring that tin to saw
alright folks I'm gonna take a quick
break when we come back we're gonna be
talking to Ari Berman about what's going
on in Wisconsin it's also going on in
Michigan and in Illinois excuse me in
Ohio it has happened in North Carolina
one note we had a technical difficulty
when we recorded this the video is not
there so we're just going to basically
go to a wide shot with re on the screen
and we'll play the audio and we'll be
back in just a few right back after this
so ari this is what we're seeing right
now in Wisconsin in fact I think we're
pre-taping this just a you know a little
bit before noon but I I think around
noon or so they're gonna start voting in
on the floor it's passed the committee
well let's start with what's happening
in Wisconsin and then we will talk about
the other states but this is this has
that feel of like somebody in Alec came
up with this idea ten years ago and
they're finally having the opportunity
to use it well it's just really
incredible I mean what's happening in
Wisconsin is you do everything you can
to try to rig an election through
massive gerrymandering through voter
suppression and through unlimited dark
money and then when all of that doesn't
work when Democrats still managed to win
and Democrats won every statewide
election in Wisconsin in 2018 including
the governor's office then what you do
is you go back into session in the lame
duck when nobody's supposed to be paying
attention and you introduce all of these
bills that strip the incumbent
Democratic governor of power the strips
of incoming Democratic Attorney General
of power
that make it harder to vote that really
it's 140 one-page bills we're done a lot
of different stuff they're doing right
before Scott Walker leaves office and
Republicans will no longer have this
crazy Republican majority that has the
last decade so it really is we overuse
the word unprecedented I think a lot but
according to an actual analysis by the
Wisconsin legislative Study branch they
have said is the first time in state
history is that a special legislative
session to strip power from the other
party so I mean it really is
unprecedented in Wisconsin even though
they are barring some tactics that have
been used in other states so okay I mean
I think people are and I want to go
through the the specifics of it but and
the idea that it's a hundred and forty
some odd page bill suggests to me that
this is something they've been working
for an extended period of time getting
ready for this potential potentiality I
guess but how is well yeah they yeah
good yeah go ahead
they I mean they started discussing it
with a Scott Walker staff he didn't
before the election so evidently Walker
wasn't too confident about his
re-election prospects but Republicans
did this in North Carolina and and what
I always say is that North Carolina is
really the state where every terrible
Republican policy gets exported from I'd
say Wisconsin in North Carolina are
there two Republican states more than
any other that export the most terrible
Republican policies and in so it kind of
goes back on where the policy comes from
but in 2016 the same thing happened
which is that North Carolina had
Republican super majority in the
legislature suddenly they left the
Democratic governor in 2016 and they
held this special legislative session
where they stripped the Democratic
governor of all of these powers
including his ability to appoint a
majority in the State Board of Elections
which is huge in a state with constant
election battles we're seeing a huge
voter fraud election fraud scandal
playing out right now in North Carolina
or Republicans basically try to steal a
congressional election and so that was
the model and I think we probably should
have been more prepared for it that once
Democrats had big victories in 2018 we
should have been prepared for
Republicans to come in and lame-duck
session and do and was caused in other
states what they did in North Carolina
in 2016
all right we're getting ahead of
ourselves because I was gonna ask you
about that preparation here but what is
it that makes you what what why is it
that North Carolina and Wisconsin are
are the exporters of these things what
they almost seem to be like the petri
dish is is it a function of them being
both sort of like purplish states in a
red state you don't need to do this type
of thing because you just have electoral
control in a blue state you can't I mean
what is it exactly that they are
emblematic of being purple states in
very important regions so North Carolina
is one of the most competitive it's not
the most competitive southern state
right now when it comes to election or
Wisconsin is the quintessential swing
state in the Midwest when it comes to
election I think in in Wisconsin
a decade ago the Koch brothers and
others made a very conscious choice that
if they could turn one of the most
progressive states historically in the
country
into a laboratory for the conservative
movement that would have an impact not
just on Wisconsin but in other states as
well which is why they poured so much
money into attacking unions and doing
gerrymandering and passing voter
suppression laws and all the things
they've done and they've tried to export
that around the country in North
Carolina you really have a state where
the demographics are changing
emblematic of what's happening in other
states in the country states in the
south like Georgia and they they're
incredibly worried that if they lose
Wisconsin if they lose North Carolina
they're gonna lose their footholds in
the Midwest they're going to lose their
foothold in the south and so they are
just doing anything they can to try to
strip Democrats of power and to try to
prevent the changing demographics of the
country and the changing the relics of
the state from from having political
power because so many of the voting
changers in Wisconsin in North Carolina
have been aimed to try to disenfranchise
black voters whether it's black voters
in North Carolina or whether it's black
voters and in places like Milwaukee and
Wisconsin okay so let's go through what
they're doing specifically in Wisconsin
but before we do like it I mean how is
this legal
right like I mean how is it that you can
attack the structure of government this
way or how is it that the structure of
the state government is this vulnerable
to an attack by an outgoing lame duck
ledges you know like legislature like it
just seems to me that this is almost
like a parody right like oh I lost the
election I will passing a law that I
can't lose elections I mean it's sort of
like that yeah it is straight out of a
banana republic and in fact it might not
be legal in North Carolina a lot of the
things they've done in that lame duck
session 2016 I've been challenged and
overturned by the courts of course these
parties of put a tremendous amount of
effort into changing the courts just by
Donald Trump and the Republicans have
nationally to try to get a friendlier
audience when these laws are challenged
in court but but absolutely this kind of
thing is going to be challenged I mean
just to give you one example in
Wisconsin one of
they're doing is they're cutting early
voting some places in Wisconsin offer up
to six weeks of early voting and they
had record turnout in 2018 with early
voting now they're cutting early voting
to two weeks
Wisconsin already cut early voting and
it was challenged in court and the court
said that that was done too in the
courts words suppress the reliably
Democratic black voters in Milwaukee
it was pretty clear a why Republicans
did this the first time in essentially
they're doing the same thing that was
already struck down in court so I think
there's gonna be I think a lot of the
stuff is going to be challenged but the
the Banger question is why do we even
have these lame-duck legislative
sessions why do people that that have
already lost the election get to convene
under the old rules and I think there's
just another irony or which is that
Republicans have gerrymandered Wisconsin
so effectively that in the legislature
they got 46% of votes candidates for the
Wisconsin legislature about 46% of votes
and they got 63% of seats so I mean you
really have a minority party doing
majority rule and tripping power from
the candidate and Tony Evers a
Democratic winner for governor who
actually got the most votes yeah the
party that got the least amount of votes
trying to strip power from the guy who
just got the most votes which is I mean
any way you slice it this is just
unbelievably undemocratic and my
understanding is they were gonna attempt
to separate the presidential primary
election from the state Supreme Court
elections they could not pass that and
the idea would be that you know
apparently Republicans will come out for
a sort of like a non-presidential
election at a higher rate is that the
idea and and that was just fun but this
is this is unbelievable I mean Wisconsin
has a presidential primary in April
which presumably in 2020 will absolutely
pay attention they also have a race for
Supreme Court and and right now there's
that there's a four to three mature
conservative majority on that Wisconsin
Supreme Court which is uphold pretty
much every terrible thing Scott Walker
is done they are a very worried
Republicans are very worried they're
going to lose that majority so what they
tried to do is move the primary one-plus
ah in March for no other reason that
they were then who any special election
for the Supreme Court in April which is
just I mean it's so transparent it would
have cost the state seven million
dollars every single County Clerk in
Wisconsin regard to their political
affiliation was opposed us because then
you have to do two separate Palace just
a month apart I'd be completely
confusing for voters I mean and
basically was concert Republicans
admitted that they did this to just try
to protect their Supreme Court justice I
mean we're dealing with such a level of
contempt for democracy Sam and one of
the things that their serves me is that
I don't think the media is prepared to
cover this
they are so ingrained to do both eyes to
say well both sides are doing it and
there is no both sides of the story
there was isn't a single example of a
Democratic legislature going into a lame
duck to strip the incoming Republican
governor or Attorney General or
secretary of state power there's nowhere
even close to that but here you have a
clear case it's only Republicans mean
only Republicans are passing laws that
make it harder to vote only Republicans
are falsely accusing Democrats of
stealing election and only Republicans
are doing unprecedent in lame-duck
sessions to try to strip Democrats of
power so I think you have a clear
asymmetry asymmetry in terms of the
strategy here but I think so me the
media are so ingrained to do both sides
ISM or so afraid of saying one party's
doing this the other party isn't I don't
think they're going to adequately cover
what's going on yeah I saw a tweet today
from I can't remember the news outlet
but the headline was something to the
effect of like Wisconsin Republicans
seek to enhance power like something
just sort of so benign and oh yeah
politics as usual all right let's talk
about the other states and then I want
to talk about this idea of not just the
asymmetry and what can be done but what
hasn't been done I mean because let's go
to North Carolina because we saw this in
North Carolina two or three years ago
North Carolina there was a real feel
particularly like three or four years
ago at the height of the moral Mondays
campaign by Reverend barber which
continues I think you know throughout
those at least in North Carolina and
maybe a couple other states but it it
really had a sense of like wow this is
completely this is like a rogue
situation we're never gonna see this is
embarrassing there's something
embarrassing about North Carolina and
now it seems to be a template but let's
just revisit North Carolina but then
talk about because you cover this all
the time as well as anybody I know we
you're on top of not just the voting
stuff but this this broadly this type of
thing and I would imagine you would be
aware if you know I'm gonna this is sort
of a joke but David Axelrod was starting
a group to make sure to protect him a
grisly or something you know I know he's
done a podcast but but what what tell us
about North Carolina and then let's talk
about why we're not seeing any type of
response by Democrats institutionally
well III think so what North Carolina
did is I mean first up they just pass
all these laws to make it harder to vote
which was then struck down in court then
when a Democrat actually won the
governor's race in 2016 that first thing
the tennis lame duck session strip that
Democrat credit governor of power and
that models down the exported to
Wisconsin Michigan and other states then
they because their voter ID law was
struck down in court and then and the
court said that this law law was a bunch
of other things like cutting early
voting and eliminating somebody voter
registration is it targeted black voters
with quote almost surgical precision
then they put a constant amendment on
the ballot requiring photo ID to vote
but they didn't write anything else
other than should we require photo ID to
vote and it passed with 60% of the vote
which I don't think is that surprising
because there was there was no details
in terms of what people were supporting
people like yeah we should require photo
ID to vote but then their legislature
actually had to write the bill and what
happened in the last election was that
Republicans lost their legislative
supermajority in 2018 meaning that they
can no longer sustain vetoes from the
Democratic governor so instead of
waiting until the next year there's no
rush to write this bill instead of
waiting for the next
year to write this bill they are now
riding the voter ID law in a lame-duck
session so the Democratic governor will
be unable to veto it so first they
stripped the Democratic governor of
power in 2016 then they go in the
lame-duck session and pass a very
controversial law they'll be unable to
veto in this session because they still
have them a super super majority until
January the last thing I'll say is there
has been all this rhetoric from
Republicans about voter fraud in North
Carolina and the need to pass this voter
ID law to stop voter fraud well the
voter ID law interestingly enough only
deals with one kind of fraud in-person
voter impersonation which is incredibly
rare me going up to the polls and saying
I'm Sam cedar trying to vote under your
name which almost never happens
they are exempting absentee ballots from
counting towards the ID requirement now
we know why now we know why because
there was a huge scandal the most
blatant case of election fraud that I've
ever seen in modern American politics
where Republicans in rural North
Carolina's congressional district loses
congressional district 9 the nitrogen
gresham initiative we mentioned I think
about a week ago I said you know for
some reason they're not certifying it
they haven't quite said yet but there
seems to be one area where there's just
something really bizarre going on and
we're spoke getting details on what's
happening but it's pretty clear that a
few things happen one is that they may
have forged or fraudulently submitted a
bunch of absentee ballots on behalf of
the Republican candidates it's also
clear that people Republican operatives
went door to door basically the elderly
African Americans took their ballots and
dumped them because there is well
usually high rating an exceedingly high
rate of ascii ballots further republican
candidate only and then there's a bunch
of reports of people not getting their
absentee ballots counted but people
going to their door and collecting them
my understanding my understanding is i
saw a report last night that they they
not only had hired people to go to the
doors to pick them up but instead of
delivering them back to the
County Electoral Commission they brought
them to the campaign manager of the
Republican candidate they brought him to
his house the ballots yeah I mean and
people people shouldn't probably will go
to jail for this I mean this was a
criminal conspiracy to present the point
I just wanted to finish making was that
if you were gonna deal with election
fraud voter fraud in North Carolina the
first thing you would do is look at Ft
ballots that's the only plan where
there's some evidence of fraud but the
voter ID law exempts absentee ballots
because that is where Republicans are
more likely to vote and clearly that is
where Republicans are more likely to try
to steal an election so it's just an
unbelievable charade to me that they are
pushing ahead with a voter ID law that
they claim as a certain stop fraud while
exempting the very type of fraud that
their party is committing because that
benefits them politically I mean if the
media can't cover this and show that
this is such a charade I don't know what
they can cover because this is so
obvious what is happening here in North
Carolina and I mean just you know all of
the people in the last election Donald
Trump Marco Rubio Rick Scott Paul Ryan
Lindsey Graham who accused Democrats of
stealing elections with absolutely no
evidence complete lies are now haven't
said a word about actual election fraud
occurring in North Carolina all right so
we have this going on in North Carolina
and we have a similar dynamic in
Wisconsin similar dynamic going on in
Michigan right and I mean they're
they're trying to do the exact same
thing it seems like basically what what
happened Michigan was like Wisconsin
they they elected a Democratic governor
they elected a Democratic Secretary of
State it basically was a clean sweep for
Democrats they also passed two really
good ballot initiatives one for
nonpartisan redistricting and one that
would give election day registration
automatic registration no excuse
absentee ballots in Michigan which is
huge Michigan has some of the worst
election laws in the country and it was
decided by only 10,000 votes in 2016 and
so what they're doing is
taking power away from the new
democratic Secretary of State they're
also trying to essentially overturn the
ballot initiative one of the things that
the ballot initiative does is it says
that there should be election day
registration you should be able to
register you should be able to vote on
Election Day
increases voter turnout by up to 10%
they are now trying to limit election
day registration to only 14 days before
the election which is not election day
registration
that's just cutting off registration 14
days before the election that to me
seems to be clearly unconstitutional
because you had a ballot initiative that
was passed by the voters with 67%
support change the state's Constitution
now the legislature is basically trying
to overturn that law I am very concerned
this is gonna happen elsewhere Sam
because seven different states passed
pal initiatives in 2018 to expand voting
rights in some form or another most
prominently in Florida where they
restored voting rights to up to one
point four million ex-felons I'm
concerned in all of these states that
have Republican legislators they're
gonna come back in session either in the
lame-duck or the regular session they're
going to try to overturn this ballot
initiatives overturn through all other
voters and the whole purpose of doing
ballot initiatives was because
Republicans wouldn't do this
legislatively so I'm concerned is one
another way we're not saying this
Wisconsin we're starting to do this in
Michigan this is going to be another way
in which states are going to try to
overturn the will other people we're
already seeing it in Ohio where they
also passed an initiative to reform the
state's redistricting process they have
incredibly chaired measured maps in Ohio
for Republicans now they're trying to
change the entire process of getting
initiatives on the ballot to make it
much more difficult to do that in the
future now okay let me just clarify one
thing in Ohio so Ohio the voters voted
for an independent commission to
gerrymander or I should say to -
redistricting
can the ohio state legislatures not
retroactively leary what reversing that
is are they know they're not retroactive
Lee reversing I mean Ohio is an
incredible state I mean Ohio in Ohio
candidates for the legislature got 50%
of the vote but they have a super mature
for yeah let's listen let's put this
graphic up there because good we have
this graphic I want to show it this is I
guess from the
Maddow from the Maddow Show this is
really stunning this is the popular vote
versus seats won in Wisconsin Michigan
Pennsylvania and North Carolina
I am imagine this dynamic happens in
other states but nothing to this degree
Wisconsin State House the popular vote
was Democratic 53% Republicans 45% the
seats one was not even just flipped it
was 64% was Republicans 36% Democrats
this is bizarre it's bizarre in Michigan
we bizarre in Michigan Senate Bing 52
247 and the seats one was 53 was 47 to
53 in North Carolina popular vote 50%
Democrats 47% Republicans and is 46% of
the seats went to Democrats and 54% of
the seats went to Republicans same thing
in Pennsylvania even after is that
Pennsylvania won even after the after
the state the state Supreme Court
changed the district they only change
the districts for the congressional race
oh right so the State House and the
state senator still gerrymandering I
assume that's for I assume that's for
the 2018 election yeah but anyway in
Ohio they got republic we've got 50% of
the vote in Ohio so you'd assume it
would be a 50/50 delegation is that they
have a super majority in the legislature
I mean Ohio it's been trending
Republican but it's nowhere near a
Republican super majority statement
we're not talking about Mississippi
right this is not a long right Oklahoma
here but yet they have a supermajority
legislature so they're going to do
whatever they want and then in the next
session but what they did is right now
to get an initiative on the ballot you
need majority support to pass it they
are now it's going to try to change that
to 60% support to pass it they are also
going to say that if you want to do a
signature Drive this is a little in the
weeds this kind of stuff has a lot of
impact that if you're collecting
signatures to get initiative on the
ballot previously they didn't expire and
you had until July to do it now the
signatures are only valid for 180 days
and you have to get it on the ballot
beginning of April
meaning you have to collect all the
signatures during the winter in Ohio and
if you've ever been to Cleveland in the
winter Sam it's not a very pleasant pull
so they're thinking not only do you need
more support to do this but you better
gather all of these signatures when it's
completely freezing in the middle of the
winter when it's 10 degrees in Cleveland
the the wind's coming off the lake and
it's dark it's 3 p.m.
good luck doing that so this is like the
next frontier it's like so you try to
what we're singing all four of these
dances you try to strip Democrats of
power you try to make it harder to vote
and then when voters say we don't like
either of those two things we're just
going to do it by initiative and
bypassing legislative process altogether
then you overturn the will of the people
by changing the initiatives themselves
or basically making it impossible to do
initiatives in the future I think all
this lets us be seen as part of a larger
Republican strategy which is basically
just a fundamental contempt for
democracy and and my question Sam is
what Donald Trump isn't the problem
Donald Trump isn't Donald Trump like
uniquely anti-democratic that's the
fascinating thing to me is that if you
were paying attention to the behavior of
Republican legislators since 2010 what
was going on Wisconsin what's going on
in North Carolina what was going on in
Michigan and elsewhere Donald Trump
shouldn't have been a surprise because I
think Donald Trump is reflective of a
larger disregard for democracy in the
Republican Party the one who do people
think are giving Donald Trump these
ideas this guy doesn't know enough about
civics to have made come up with any
anything you know I mean that's the
thing is it this is this is Donald Trump
is there because it's the Republican
Party not vice-versa and it's all right
so let me ask you this the Republican
Party's been conditioned to do this kind
of something they were only a republican
party that would support these kind of
things would vote for someone like
Donald examine so I think if you really
want to understand the Republican Party
don't focus on Trump focus on what
they're doing where they had power on
the state level and of course that then
extends to things like Mitch McConnell's
feeling a Supreme Court seat yes Barack
Obama yes
all right so and and the
frankly the republican-dominated Supreme
Court
smashing Section 5 of the Voting Rights
Act etc etc etc right I mean these these
is all part of a whole now here's the
thing in well this is I guess a
multi-part question one what are the
Democrats doing about it and and two
sort of a subset of this question it's
like do Democrats even have a
consciousness of the way that we are
talking about this like this is a this
is not just a series of coincidences
like wow look at the Democratic Party's
doing in Wisconsin it seems very similar
what the Republican Party's doing in
North Carolina which is similar to what
they did in Michigan which is similar to
what they did I mean down the line right
and is it is it because the democratic
party apparatus or the media until you
know whatever the the blob is here
whether it's like sort of you know
beltway journalists or corporate
mainstream journalist or however you
want to talk about it the media does not
seem to like absorb and internalize this
phenomena that we're seeing which is you
know this was this is gonna Scott Walker
was doing this in 2011 right I mean this
is this is this we saw this happen there
you know the the failure of the media
and maybe simultaneously I don't know
how to disaggregate this the failure of
the Democratic establishment to
recognize this is inhibiting a response
well I think there are slightly
different things the Democrats in the
media in terms of what what's going on
here I think that Democrats just have a
fundamental faith in the political they
win elections that will be enough even
if they win them under unfair rules
which is what happened and was caused in
North Carolina and other states the
political system was already rigged
against
but they fought under those rules and
they were able to actually make some
pretty significant advances in terms of
winning governor seats and things like
that and I think they just thought oh
well we won the election and and we pass
these bad initiatives and things will
play out and I think once again they got
caught flat-footed that the the
indivisible of the world the swing left
of the world all of these new groups
that that that's sprang up thought oh
you know well we won these elections and
then come January 2019 you know we'll
work inside the legislature to try to
advance our agenda and it's like I don't
think people were prepared for
Republicans just immediately after these
victories to try to undercut them and
they probably should have been I think
that basically the notion that you can
you can never rest but this is go you're
gonna have to have the same 24/7
movement to try to defend democracy that
Republicans have and try to undermine
democracy and I know this exhausting I
mean Sam I'm exhausted from covering
this stuff I just covered an entire
election defined by voter suppression in
Georgia and other states now I'm having
to cover it all over again in a
lame-duck session I mean I think there
is a level of fatigue or I think people
are exhausted I think that's one of the
reasons Republican trying to pushed it
through now is to try to do it under the
cover of darkness now there's theater
Wisconsin how it's blowing up has got a
lot of attention it will be challenging
core so I think that that in some ways
not that it backfire them because if
they pass on law will have backfired on
them but but they weren't able to sneak
it on it and they didn't get away with
it the way that they yeah bang get away
with it well let me ask media I I very
little more about the media though
because as I said earlier I do think the
media is so conditioned to do both sides
ISM if they are just fundamentally
unwilling to say the Republican Party
doesn't care about democracy from Donald
Trump to Republicans in Wisconsin to
Republicans in North Carolina throwing
out opposite ballots stealing votes the
Republican Party just fundamentally does
not believe in the democratic process
and that's the reality we're living with
and that is the fundamental truth of
American politics right now that is the
one thing if someone came here from Mars
and said what I need to understand about
the America Pollock's I would say
Republicans don't believe in democracy
that is the number one thing you need to
understand
but I don't think the media either
understand be there re and there yeah
that's very good
yeah the media doesn't it well alright
let me let me ask you this then Ari why
aren't you talking about the Black
Panther Party and the way their
interferes devote I'm assuming you're
joking Jim yeah I am joking but all
right well so let me ask you this is
what where is I mean you know I I I
agree with you with this with this
problem with the media I think we can
you know press the media as much as we
can and and and hopefully there'll be
more coverage of these type of things
but where where is for instance like why
isn't there an institution within the
DNC let's say like why doesn't the DNC
have maybe the DNC is the wrong place
for it although I don't know where it
would go like why isn't there some type
of institutional support to like you
know come up with because I presume most
of this stuff right was developed in the
context of some Alec like if not Alec
itself this is the American Legislative
Exchange Council where these sort of
like state-by-state
initiatives are developed what why isn't
there any push by have you heard of any
any institutional like you know attempts
at dealing with this well I mean there
are some groups that are dealing with
this there for example on-air comers a
group that's trying to work on changing
the redistricting process by electing
more Democrats to statewide level by
pushing pal initiatives things like that
I just think the fundamental symmetry
comes into play here Sam because
Democrats are focused on winning
elections and passing ballot issues and
doing things through the normal process
of politics
whereas Republicans are just completely
dismissive of the rules of the game
they've either rigged them or they just
completely ignore them where they change
them in lame-duck sessions and I think
it's very very difficult when one party
is is completely opposed to democracy
and one party fundamentally believes in
democracy
that's just such a level of symmetry
there that you would hope in the long
term that those who believe in democracy
win but it's very very difficult for
them if they're constantly dealing with
undemocratic means and so I mean I think
they're gonna do what they always do
which is you try to try to challenge
things to the court I do that but I'm
just worried here that this is dynamics
gonna play out continue to play out for
the next two years and in fact get worse
as we deal with Donald Trump's
re-election as we do with the next
redistricting cycle I mean if
Republicans are behaving like this now
you can only imagine how they're gonna
behave when they might actually lose
power after 2020 through the next
redistricting cycle and so I think this
is all a prelude to what we're going to
see play out over the next two years
well Ari Berman I appreciate I know it's
gotta be exhausting for you I remember
when you're like I'm gonna write a book
about the 50th anniversary of the Voting
Rights Act oh my god it's all falling
apart
but I appreciate your coming on to tell
us about it and folks if you are in one
of these states Michigan North Carolina
and Wisconsin in particular but others
get on the horn to your state reps and
tell them I see what you're doing and
just make sure they know that you're at
least at the very least you're looking
and watching ari berman thanks so much
for the time today I really appreciate
it thank you so much great to talk to
you again okay and before we head into
the fun half ladies and gentlemen let's
um let's play a clip this clip coming
out of North Carolina's ninth
congressional district this story is
nuts and it is I don't you know we
bundle together because obviously it
deals with voting in proprieties what's
going on in the Statehouse and I don't
know exactly what the latest is out of
Wisconsin today and I'm also and I and I
did not ask this of re I meant to and I
don't know that he has any insight into
it but
[Music]
the back in 2011 when Scott Walker was
passing through a host of bills that
would get rid of the Wisconsin
healthcare they had a I think it was
called badger care and also to
essentially begin to dismantle unions in
Wisconsin I think it was 14 Wisconsin
state senators left the state in fact I
think that's what that sign is back
there
the Wisconsin 14 never gave up and
neither will we
they left the state and held out for as
long as they could preventing a quorum
now the thing is though is they weren't
gonna wait for four years there was no
way to do that eventually I think state
cops came and found them and brought
them back it seems like and I don't know
and I don't know if any of our our
Wisconsin experts are listening at the
moment if they are text me but it seems
like this might be an opportunity for a
redux on that leaving the state you all
you would only have to stay out of the
state and hide essentially you'd have to
hide until Evers took office so at least
there's you know thirty forty days I
imagine these state senators don't want
to miss Christmas with their family
maybe maybe Emily somewhere warm right
pay for all the families to go who knows
oh just go somewhere and play video
games well I know but that's also why
you probably get a read that's why you
would not be elected No
problem there won't be another quorum
I'd be perfect once I got that row
Tuesday ya know I'm gonna be back to
vote for health care I'm gonna go on the
lam
this is this is like the beginning this
is like a like a total early 90s movie I
think we're like Matt's just playing
video games and his roommate you know
gets elected to state state legislature
and then his roommate like he's like
dude I get a hideout because I
Republican who's got to be me why the
Republicans are gonna end democracy if
you don't be me for three weeks okay
I'll be you are boring I'm the state
senator there you go I want to write
that screenplay and go back in time I
want to go to a different era where it
would be sellable all right but so out
of a so about a week ago maybe it was
two weeks ago it mentioned that the for
some reason in this district nine in
North Carolina a race we didn't follow
too closely but a Republican only won by
900 votes the local Election Board
refused to certify it and there was some
implication because there was one area
where there were problems well
apparently and maybe this has been going
on for a while
sort of sounds like there was a practice
well there was a wide disparity in
returns on absentee ballots like in
every other district in the state the
Republican was like averaging around
like I think around 20 percent in terms
of what they would get in terms of
Addison T ballots obviously in North
Carolina where there's been a tremendous
amount of voter suppression Democrats
have been using absentee ballots as a
way of making sure that they get their
ballot in that they know that they can
vote excetera etc and so the average is
is that they they're winning in terms of
absentee ballots in this one district
it was a completely the opposite and it
was a little bit suspicious and the the
disparate the Delta the disparity
between the number of people who had
asked for absentee ballots particularly
Democrats and had returned was seemingly
way off and so the reporters from
channel 9 in unaware exactly a North
Carolina this is this is in Bladen
County and they were tracking down
people involved who apparently had been
picking up ballots on behalf of the
Republican Rock Mark Harris and this is
a reporter Joe Bruno this is the
interview he was doing with a woman that
he found who apparently was handing was
picking up the ballots so
just Baker and he was working dicen says
she never discarded ballots or saw who
people were voting for but after picking
them up she didn't mail them she gave
them to McCrae Dallas sees all the
people devoted did their votes count so
you don't know certainty whether they
were yeah I dropped them off what they
do is on them so apparently she dropped
them off to this guy McCrae Dallas and
he was the local Bladen County Soil and
Water Conservation District vice-chair
which apparently is an elected position
has a criminal record maybe he made some
mistakes back in the day and he's
reformed or maybe not apparently
apparently this is where she was
dropping off the the ballots and he he's
been paid consulting fees for different
Republicans there is now a suspicion
that this has been going on for years in
that County and they suspect that maybe
this happened during the the primary
apparently Johnson this is the the
candidate received 98 percent of
absentee by mail-in votes this is in a
primary some so they had sort of figured
it out I mean this is the campaign
finance reports confirmed that the
Bladen County Sheriff paid Dallas seven
thousand dollars was as they get out the
vote
this is I think on the sheriff's race so
the guy has been doing this in that
neighborhood for Republican candidates
for some time there's gonna be arrests
here people are gonna go to jail and
they're gonna redo that vote and if the
Democrat has any confidence whatsoever
he's gonna go around to these people and
be like incidentally your vote was
stolen this time you're gonna get to do
it for reals it'll be interesting to see
what happens but a little bit more sexy
I guess maybe for the national media
then the idea of an entire state
legislature saying oh we lost the
election so now we're going to
disempower the governor and the next
state house just like Darlene don't just
say you just handed them off like that
gotta crazy or plausible deniability all
right we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back it's the fun half
folks oh just a reminder your support
makes this show possible you can become
a member by going to the JB you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report com signing up for
membership not only is a way of
supporting this daily show but also gets
you extra content every day and sick of
commercials we cut out the commercials
for members so many benefits
it never ends ladies and gentlemen also
don't forget just coffee co-op 30% off
this month just actually for the next
two weeks 30% off no coupon code needed
just head over to there just coffee dot
co-op also we are close to what only a
third of the tickets left now less than
less than a third of the tickets left
yeah are you serious mm-hmm and after
that our first day under 10 we shot
way up yesterday really yeah folks you
got to do this now if you want to come
to the live majority report show Sunday
afternoon January 13th 15 bucks 18 and
over
bring your 18 and one day old child to
the show
bring your large adult sons to bring a
large adult sons or daughters to the
show like it's like oh like a Will
Ferrell vehicle I'm picturing now it's
combined with the other one yeah you can
get information on the show at our
website at majority dot F M we also have
links to Michael show in February as
well Michael speaking of shows today's
Tuesday
tonight 7 o'clock were live with
comedian Mike Racine we're talking about
the Mafia we're talking about ona and
the alt-right and a jug drug cartel
history of George HW Bush at 6 o'clock a
live stream with Kyle kolinsky
beforehand on the Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel
Michael patreon.com celestine abyss
before it all and 30 so if you wanted to
give me a 30 big gifts you can do become
a pager in that patreon.com slash that
are a hangover and I'm going to be
researching democracies James this
weekend I'm very excited for this
democracy because I I stand by that book
very strong
I stand by a lot of it I think there's
certain qualifications you can make but
I think it's very renewing to actually
it's way more revealing to get into the
weeds that I thought it would be
actually robbing all right hoax quick
break fun half six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty don't forget
not sure if they've posted the new anti
Fattah at patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah buddy check it out see you in the
fun half folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
alpha males
boss says I am a total
can we bring back DJ Tanner Lisa yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation easy
dance well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break
[Music]
Hawkins's and the alpha males Oh psych
almost says what
[Music]
the back
a lot of back
all lives matter have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this psych
black there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
that's birthday - made you boy I have an
onyx benefit for you the alpha males
[Music]
we are back we are back ladies and
gentlemen Sam cedar on the majority
report let's go to the phones you call
them from a to15 area code who's this
where are you calling from
hi Sam it's Mindy hello Mindy how are
you good
I'm listening to Ari Berman I'm like
getting stressed out over what was just
going on with that I think that the
reason why I mean I'm like trying to
read up about it because I'm in
Pennsylvania you know like as you know
and it's probably could happen here too
I mean anywhere I guess but the point is
that it's regional so when its regional
like nobody cares about it except the
people in the state unless it happens to
them and then the people in the state
it's such a complicated issue that
nobody like knows how to explain it and
so nobody deals with it because it's not
see and it's not it's not it's just it's
just one of those things that it's just
so complicated that people are scared of
it I mean I think you're right I think
you're right I mean we saw this look we
saw this on some level with what we saw
it happen in North Carolina we saw it
happen in Michigan to some extent over
the years I think it's right it doesn't
get the national attention particularly
in you know in an era with Donald Trump
and and even then we don't see it as
much and I don't know what the answer is
because I mean that's why I like it it
feels like something where the
institutions really need to get on this
big time because there's really no other
mechanism that is going to deal with
this in the way that it needs to be
dealt with
some level I mean that's I agree it's
very frustrating and it's why I wanted
to you know to have re on about it but I
don't know what the answer is no and
like as far as like Twitter's concerned
you know I mean I'm just gonna use me as
an example of course cuz I'm yeah but
like I have a zillion followers on
Twitter
I can tweet something and I can get ten
thousand likes on something and then
like a day that's interesting that
interesting like a Megan McCain tweet
you know you're a spoiled brat Megan
McCain ten thousand ten thousand likes
on and people are interesting you I can
tweet about what's happening in
Wisconsin literally I'll do it and I'll
put your name and you know at you you'll
say I'll get a hundred retweets I will
get now I mean I could write anybody can
write the smartest tweet about this and
nobody's interested because they don't
understand it
it's just not on it's just not you know
you have a naughty
well what's oven re doing now well you
know he said he's not being president
he's not going to run for president like
who gives a if he runs for
president he wasn't gonna win he had no
shot he had absolutely no shot of
winning yet he's trending but Scott
Walker stealing you know the democracy
and in Wisconsin's not trending like it
makes no sense at all it just it's just
people I think people just people are
just stupid
and then this thing with it could you
imagine somebody coming to your house
and saying listen I know that you're
like an early voter and I'm just gonna
take that application for you and just
give it to them I mean if people don't
know the the the process I can
understand that but you know you can
write the foreword to my book it's the
electorate is stupid blaming me blaming
sure i boy yeah of course not what I
mean I'm a bad example actually that's
you know you did give me your absentee
ballots
that's what I'm saying I guess nobody
will talk about truth just they want to
talk about it and it's just going to be
when they finally do talk about it it's
going to be too late and we're going to
be so dry Mandarin and we're going to be
so screwed I just it's just you would
think that our people our people you
would think that the gems would be on it
and they're so naughty well I mean the
problem is is I mean the problem is it's
it's it's just there's a lot of like I
don't know if it's the prisoner's
dilemma but there's a lot of people
looking around going like you're you got
this right
like I mean nobody there there's no job
there's no I mean to be fair there's no
there's no apparatus that a party has to
like oh how are we gonna find I'm not
even sure how you will fight this well I
mean you need to go out and raise money
on it rez actually said the only thing
that I was interesting about Perez knew
he was running for DNC chair was that he
was gonna prioritize all issues at least
related to voter suppression so
theoretically I mean this isn't motor
suppression per se yeah
Republicans stealin elections and when
they lose elections mounting legislative
kuz III mean it's I I don't know it's a
problem I don't know why they're a good
thing to do would be to when the Dems
get in power house that they could just
say you know there's no voting in the
lame duck session can't they do that I
mean I think it's possible to make some
structural changes but I don't know how
you're gonna get into that situation
where you're going to be able to make
those structural changes we can't figure
this out I mean aren't we the smarter
ones I mean we can't figure out
like this yeah I look Mart is not
helpful I mean they just they're
ruthless
their ruthlessness Democrats need to
worry a lot less about being smart a lot
more about birthless the best thing you
can do at this point if you're in
Wisconsin call your state reps call your
state reps or go out to the State House
if you're in Georgia vote today get five
other people to definitely I mean I yeah
I think there was I think there was more
votes available for her I think that
like you know I don't know if there were
votes that were destroyed but I think
like there were more voters who wanted
to vote for her who were prevented from
voting it sort of depends on when you're
gonna start the clock but nevertheless
yes do I think it was a fair and free
election no and do I think she would
have won a fair and free election yes
and all the more reason all the more
reason to go out and vote in Georgia
today and getting other people to vote
and you know it's this Secretary of
State is exactly where where this stuff
happened so appreciate the call man yeah
this guy that that was running in North
Carolina that supposedly won by 900
votes right that they're gonna they're
going to redo the vote like why is he
even going to be allowed to run
shouldn't he be in jail like you don't
think he had anything to do with this
don't you think he's the criminal I
think it's gonna be hard to imagine that
this is not going to go back to that guy
I mean it's conceivable he just paid a
consultant who paid another consultant
and they had no idea like he pays a
consultant you know I pay Michael and
I'm like Michael how you gonna get me to
win he goes you don't want to know don't
worry about it okay well I just think
it's if you can come up with a solution
you can give me something some way to
get it out there I'd be more than
you to get it out there but I can't
think of anything that people are
interested in that isn't like gossip
well pop culture I hear you believe
me believe me how about how about Meghan
McCain thanks to the call you insult
Meghan McCain and then you just tag and
there's a legislative Cohen was right
exactly just do a little too for tweet
now look there's a lot of talk here
about paying people to support your
candidacy a couple of things I want to
stitch together you've had those uh
screen grabs right a lot of people have
been attempting to promote my candidacy
for the Senate
22:22 I am at this time not going to
make a commitment one way or another
keeping my options open I will say that
we do have some early data that suggests
that maybe maybe there's an opportunity
for me last night my understanding is
the state of New York
released the vote tallies for writing
candidates for governor in the 2018
elections if we could pop this up on the
screen you will see that I received two
write-in votes one for me as governor
and one for me as Governor on a ticket
with Cynthia Nixon where she would be
the Lieutenant Governor a little
downgrade because of the primary
appearance I guess right but still nice
um I don't know you could double vote
like that no no it's not the same vote
it's two different votes oh okay
it was just sketched in on one line two
different people
yeah I don't think we can do I don't
well you can write in anything you want
I won't count though well it's unclear
we've decided probably not to contest
the fact that that was not counted now I
will say this somebody made the point
that Virgil Texas from chapo traphouse
got three votes which of course is one
more vote than me now I will say that
Virgil Texas outspent me probably ten to
one he was campaigning very aggressive
he was he was in this office yes
campaigning he was in this office
campaign so the idea that I did reaching
out to aquitine echad I mean it was a
very aggressive camp I had two-thirds of
the votes that he had but almost like
zero percentage of the campaigning and
expenditures that he had suggested me
that I have a real shot at also he had a
book coming in look a shot at taking out
Schumer well I mean I'm looking to 2022
now well Schumer well I'm saying is that
these are data points right and I want
to say thank you to those of you who
voted for me I will do my best to uphold
the standards and the the ideals that
inspired you to vote for me you know my
fondest wish is that some drifting
Democratic consultant that is over
selling Schumer on some elaborate
polling and messaging package that he
probably doesn't meet need but might as
well pay for with all of his Wall Street
contributions somehow that data point
ends up in some PowerPoint for an
overpaid consulting seeder has some
strength yeah I think if you could see
the right in here for a podcaster
there's some dangerous signals left and
you should really shell out let's just
say I'm not shutting any doors and leave
it there meanwhile back in Wisconsin
this is this is what was happening last
night as the
protesters were on the fourth floor the
state capitol folks may remember from
2011 similar images they were shouting
through the doors of a committee hearing
where the lawmakers were considering
these really unbelievably undemocratic
small D measures to disempower the
voters really and who they chose to run
their state and here you can see this
now
toy testers descended on the Wisconsin
State Capitol today - crying what they
are calling a last-minute lame-duck
power grab by the state's Republican
legislature there you go
so fortunately Hayes was Carrie I was
covering that last night
I think Rachel Maddow did as well I
imagine not so much on the other
stations but maybe but the disparity
between like what Ricky Rubio was saying
about voter fraud a couple weeks ago
versus what's happening in North
Carolina now and the silence can't be
stressed enough it's crazy
Ricky Rubio the point guard oh yeah
those your new nickname from Marco Rubio
Marcos Marcos worse much worse
so speaking of repeating lies that
seemed to not die and we went through
this who was it the last time that said
it was a Mike Pence yeah
past this lie we looked it up there's no
truth to it whatsoever there's no
reports to substantiate this a complete
lie Steve Scalise famous in his words
for being like David Duke with David
Duke without the baggage in promoting
what he would do for his constituents
presumably I can get rid of the black
guys without having to have all the
baggage around being KKK secret message
received
so yeah exactly not so secret that's not
even a dog whistle that's really just
sort of like a dog encouragement it's
like here boy it's pretty explicit he
was on Fox and you know one of the great
things about being like David Duke
without the baggage is you can go on Fox
and Friends as a high-ranking Republican
official
and say huge lies with sort of a racist
xenophobic undertone and nobody even
questions you this fights gonna continue
on and clearly what we're battling over
is to make sure that we can fund our
border security properly build the wall
give President Trump the money he needs
to keep America safe it's not just about
the wall that's real important it's
about safety across the border and you
see with this Caravan coming over 600
confirmed convicted criminals in the
caravan every single day in America and
why do we need to secure the border
every single day in America on average
ten known terrorists tried to cross our
border this is real it's a serious
threat president Trump's fighting to
secure our border we need to give him
the money will he be able to get the
money me yeah well oh my god you sold us
ten known terrorists are trying to cross
the border every day are we arresting
these people were just simply saying
like oh hey why did you walk up to us
and just announce that you are one of
the known terrorists that we have on our
known terrorist watchlist it's weird
come up at the border very strange yeah
but you can't do anything about it you
know we're such a team the caravan
census where everybody was super honest
about all the convictions they had I'm
an economic migrant looking to make more
money through crime in the United States
I'm an associate of Hamas well I also
have a military age and I've got to
write down on this form you're giving me
mr. Republican census taker that I also
have a criminal conviction I'm is a B
doesn't even occur to like though
reporters there to say how do you how do
you know that isn't it weird that we
never hear about all of these terrorists
the 35 the 3600 terrorists who've tried
to enter the country just this past year
no terrorists listen you've already
stopped the Trump administration or he
stopped over 7,000 known terrorists yes
we're coming into the country of inside
24 yeah how many are getting through if
ten are trying to cross the but we are
batting 1000
we've stopped 7,000 this year alone
betting the shouting 3,600 this year
alone batting 1000 batting 1000 batting
1000 god
baseball humor and he is turning over
the tables in the swamp there you go
tables turned over I said is such that
is almost this like boshy an image like
there's a swamp but there's tables in it
and the tables are part of the
corruption but he's but then it's like
the money changers I guess yes swampy
tape it's amazing swampy tables just
like we had in Jerusalem which is the
desert a lot of people don't know what
Jesus spent time in Florida when Jesus
came to the Everglades and he said to
those Jew retirees you o do it you did
it hungry dave rubin and i were
discussing this as well as civility to
the most loved this moment was pretty
funny this is sort of a mat pic right
this is apparently Donald Trump does not
like to be called Donald which makes
that's kind of a goofy name maybe if you
say it enough it's like hi John it's a
Disney name Donald Don all did you eat
did you launder money again oh come down
here and rub Mama's feet Donald did you
say another bizarre thing about your
daughter on Howard Stern Don I'll go
pick up Afghan brother so apparently
this is this is you know a fairly
well-known I I wasn't familiar with it
but of course I would never address the
guy but if I was let's say the head of a
state nation and I said I want you know
my briefing book tell me everything that
could get under this guy's skin tell me
everything that could make this guy feel
good and if I was Trudeau in Canada and
I've now decided like this isn't gonna
work out between us
Justin Trudeau realizes that like or
maybe things aren't gonna happen with
Melania or a Monica wherever whatever
whatever they love even better wasn't
there one point where he was like
supposedly there's vodka I think was
giving him my eyes there's a tariff on
my daughter but I was wrong so now he
realizes like you're not erasing I've
got to distance myself from Donald Trump
I mean every world leader now who is
still I should say every world leader
that has to deal with a democracy is
finding like oh the way to pick up five
points is just to humiliate Donald Trump
in some fashion and so here is Justin
Trudeau just during the course of a
speech referencing Donald and Donald has
a completely knee-jerk reaction it's
really just a look on his face but it is
rather precious make no mistake we will
stand up for our workers and fight for
their families and their communities and
Donald it's all the more reason why we
need to keep working to remove the
tariffs on steel and aluminum between
our countries and I like how he looks
back and Donald and then looks back
again just to see the look on his face
to get a little kick at we have the
reaction set up okay yeah yeah this is
even better you can see it better
and Donald it's all the more reason why
we need to keep working to remove the
tariffs on steel and aluminum between
our countries
what I love is that it's I just I mean
I'm not even pointing out hypocrisy here
it's just funny like a guy who goes
through life he littered he threw let's
just take it on this level forget even
Twitter he threw a starburst that Angela
Merkel at a meeting and said don't say I
never did anything for you right I did
like the guy goes Donald and he just has
a total like this is just zero class
this is a treatment I get this is just
total disrespect um it's the grievant
that's your word yeah always a growl way
these people always this is the pretty
disgusting so there is a plan to name a
Washington DC street after Jamal
khashoggi he's the the journalist writer
who was killed by the Saudis he was a
u.s. resident apparently had a lot of
friends at the Washington Post of its
where he worked I think there's a lot of
people I would like to see a street
named after I'm not sure that Khashoggi
would be the first one that I would do
but whatever if there's a constituency
to do that in in DC then fine but here
is Seb Gorka who apparently has a real
issue with this the idea I have to drive
my my Mustang down the road but here is
here's a disgusting how desperate the
Trump E's are to to avoid this crap show
around mmm Mohammed bin Salman and one
has to wonder just how much how many of
them are getting paid to maintain this
relationship um quick little blurb that
we noticed in the local papers yesterday
it's about a neighborhood here in the
District of Columbia
a group just voted to rename the street
oh yes in front of the Saudi embassy for
Jamal Khashoggi what do you make it act
why would you name a street after a man
who was best friends with Osama bin
Laden and a member of the Muslim
Brotherhood yes he was murdered and that
was unjust that was wrong but this is
not some saint and champion of democracy
his last article for post was about the
need for theocracy and supporting the
Muslim Brotherhood would we rename
streets in DC after Ayman al-zawahiri
the head of al-qaeda would we rename
streets after KSM the mastermind of the
9/11 hijacking it's a little peculiar to
say the least
mm it's a little peculiar like as if
like what like what is the nefarious
thing going on you know here is a
perfect example of how how poorly we do
our jobs because if this happened and
it's impossible that the same
circumstance would have happened under
trial under Obama was just impossible
right there's no way the relationship
would have been with the Saudis that
they felt they could get away with this
okay there would have been some
constraints but just by chance if
something like this happened and under
Obama's presidency a street was named
after khashoggi that same hit bicep
Gorka would be classic this proves
Obama's Muslim Brotherhood I thought you
were gonna go the direction that David
Axelrod be in Washington journal be like
gee I don't know I mean he was bested
well no no no I'm like hey so Bob people
just be like no no they'd say this would
be oh yeah this is Swami Obama's
yeah yeah they could just active yeah
unity yeah I mean I have to tell you I
agree I don't know if khashoggi would be
my first choice either but I do like the
idea that it's in front of the Saudi
embassy right makes me support it and
the other thing too is like I like I
mean he's clever enough to just
basically be like the
dead cats ooh force Ladd right like
that's an extraordinary claim yeah like
it's one thing to say I mean I just a
little housekeeping on it like this guy
was a Saudi royal advisor and supported
the Mujahideen in the 80s along with you
know us right entirety of the US
military and intelligence apparatus and
was moving we enabled it we out funded a
funded it and let the Pacus the we
helped coordinate it the Saudis funded
it and then we outsource the
practicalities to the Pakistani so when
he was there that was as American as
apple pie as in Ronald Reagan compared
these people he said they were the moral
equivalent of our founding fathers and
yes he was working with religious groups
and criticizing the Saudi monarchy
because that's the only political game
in town there unfortunately and he's you
know he's conservative I don't know I
don't I don't want Mike
I don't want Mike Pence's a policy
adviser to get caught up in an embassy
right like how just utter the utter
inhumanity you have to have to go there
is all sort of jaw-dropping along with
like what even by their standards is
just like like he could have said he's
Muslim Brotherhood which is not true but
whatever but he's like Osama bin lot of
some bin Laden's besties and then I
lived in Saudi and now I'm at the
Washington Post and yeah well and
speaking of troubling connections which
is worse vertes ear and/or the Muslim
Brotherhood
the Tessier and was well frankly not as
on the scene right now I wear with my
mandarin collar
Jamal Khashoggi is grieving wife can't
zoom it because her husband's dead
here in Osama bin Laden used to go to
the bath houses together massage each
other so I'm not sure they should have a
street named after him why can't I get
back on Fox c-span is so lame I actually
have to give full answers here let's go
to the phones come from a 509 area code
who's this where you come from hey Sam
yeah can you hear me yes that's me yes
this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan what
can I do for you Ronald Reagan well
direwolf on youtube 30 minute break down
of a video you did where you cited one
of my tweets and I feel really called
out right now so normally you cut me off
after about two minutes I was hoping I
could get a good 45 to respond a good 45
minutes what was
why don't you sum it up yeah a little
bit more why don't you uh I didn't I
didn't actually watch the whole thing I
was really boring but some guy did have
like a 30 minute video about a video of
you talking about my tweet and it was
pretty cool but did you were family I
mean did like it's all been worth it
yep I made it this is why I went to law
school real quick about Mindy and her
Twitter power which I don't doubt but
there is a kind of a phenomenon I've
noticed I talked to you somebody working
on a our local congressional campaign
during the salaah last election and she
noted that there was a lot of hype
people online like whenever our
congressmen would post something on
facebook there were all
these people saying you're you're going
down new house and were you know coming
for you and Christine Brown lots of
people really hyped online and then they
would put out a call for phone banking
or canvassing and get literally zero
volunteers and so I do think not to call
out Mindy I love Mindy and I don't want
her on my bad side again right or I
don't want to be on her I don't want to
be on her bad side I should say but
there is this I think feeling that a lot
of us get that like being extremely
online is is real or has some sort of
you know that it's reflective of real
life and I just feel like a lot of us
should be more focused on getting out
and doing real things in our communities
and you know I think that's a broader
problem that we're seeing but all right
well I think that's a good point
yeah I mean it is easy to and I don't
think Mindy is guilty of this but it is
easy to assume that you know just being
online is really doing something
relative to actually getting out and
hitting the pavement right I wanted to
say one other thing so Jeff Sessions was
really aggressive in this process where
he would certify these immigration cases
to himself and then issue really
horrible decisions which is an authority
that Congress was given to attorney
attorneys general and I didn't really
think that this Whittaker guy was all
that interested in immigration I guess
but yesterday he certified a couple
cases to himself I think the takeaway is
that it wasn't really sessions and it's
probably not really Whitaker that
there's that Stephen Miller is probably
behind some of this but also just more
broadly
speaking I think Republicans are really
good at having these ideas locked and
loaded and ready to go for when they
take power right and you're definitely
you're definitely seeing that with
immigration that there are these think
tanks that for literally decades lined
up their priorities you know this is
this is what we're going to do and and
they're doing it so just real briefly
one of the cases that was certified
yesterday has to do with family being a
basis for protection under Asylum laws
yeah social group and it's pretty clear
that that this is a way of whittling
down protection for Central Americans
and Mexicans seeking asylum in the
country and so yeah and then one other
quick quick thing to the extent that
there's terrorists trying to enter the
southern border I don't know of any
documented cases of that happening but
having these huge border spectacles
where you have Border Patrol at ports of
entry doing like exercises and I mean
CBP has billions of dollars but it's a
it's a limited agency in many respects
so those are officers who could be like
actually looking for terrorists they're
drug dealers and that they're doing the
this whole theatrical thing and it's
clearly making us less safe even by
their own metrics so anyways alright
have a good one appreciate the call
good point gone from an eight one three
area code who's this where you calling
from
hey Sam its Pete how you don't good hey
doing people where you come from Tampa
so Ari Ari's interview that you did
earlier you know he was talking about
Republicans not being big fans of
democracy you know not really believing
in it not believing in a democratic
process and you know I gotta agree with
him just some Republicans that I know
and I've interacted with since 2010
and you know so while that may be a good
point that he made you know having been
a Republican for three decades and
switching about ten years ago when when
I when I supported the health care plan
that that Bob Dole had basically
introduced to me when he ran for
president and they decided to switch
sides on that issue because a black
Democrat decided to run and go with it
you know and I saw the hypocrisy in that
you know that was like the first break
that I had with the party and ever since
I've become increasingly liberal a
liberal Democrat you remember those
right right and so my issue with what I
heard him say and it wasn't with really
what the point he was making but what
kind of you know spring combined was the
treatment that Bernie got in the 16
primary you know and I think well I hate
to make you know samesies arguments or
play these false equivalencies like the
like the Republicans do because they do
it a lot but I mean you could say that
yes he wasn't really treated in keeping
with you know Democratic traditions in
that primary in he'll be done a Brazil's
book you know what well I mean what do
you mean well you know like with Hillary
making decisions about making the
advertising decisions or her campaign
making you have average advertising
decisions prior to the actual primary
being held well I understand the term
made she made advertising decisions but
I'm saying structurally speaking what
what did what what do you imagine the
DNC did that now because I know I'm
hearing somebody's headset here I know
that no no I'm talking about in the
studio I know that that the it's clear
that the the people working at the DNC
or
Hilary fans not Bernie fans I am aware
that the the debates were scheduled at
least it's my opinion I don't know if
there's evidence of this but it's quite
obvious and it was why obvious at the
time in fact I was was on you know MSNBC
saying so at the time that the debates
were clearly scheduled in a way that
they thought I don't think it ultimately
worked out that way but they thought
would help Hillary Clinton because they
didn't want as many people exposed to
the debates and that is her a classic
like incumbent style technique but
outside of those two things one which
was arguably structural the debates you
know being sort of undersold the other
just being you know the personal biases
of people at the DNC what do you imagine
was set up in a structural way to
inhibit Bernie Sanders well I guess for
me I mean if every better from the
ground everybody I wasn't I'm just
saying I wasn't there on the ground to
see what was being done structurally you
know with within the organization okay
but when you look at what do you imagine
we should be done could be done
structurally by the DNC to inhibit one
one candidates victory versus the other
well I think that making I think that
making advertising decisions certainly
they didn't they didn't actually mean
execute no no I agree that's unethical
but they're making advertising decisions
to be clear they're making advertising
decisions about the general election
which he hadn't won yet but have no
implications on the primary well I think
they're making that you mean the ads
that were raised for you let me tell you
why I'm getting frustrated because -
first off to equate
what happened with Bernie in that
election - what is going on in Wisconsin
or Michigan or Ohio
he's like honestly way to say not
absolutely because if you were aware of
what I was saying to bring it up in that
context is literally like saying hey you
didn't let is to be talking about a
murder and then say also I noticed you
didn't let's all watch - two episodes of
Naja Turtles last night like even so we
get it they are completely different and
let me also add this there is absolutely
nothing that the DNC did that inhibited
Bernie Sanders victory you could get rid
of the DNC and Bernie Sanders would have
done almost identically to what he did
in that race you could argue that a
different organization would have had
seven debates or ten debates and they
would have all been on a Tuesday night
and that would have changed things which
is you know a hard argument to make but
I would even grant that because I
actually think at the time and said at
the time this is gonna hurt this is
hurting Hillary Clinton more than is
Bernie Sanders because you know it's not
again Bernie Sanders decrying though
which excuse me at the time at the time
at the time that these decisions were
being made right so no no before the
first debate before the first debate and
after the first debate I said it's
hurting Hillary Clinton because it looks
like she's hiding and it's giving Bernie
Sanders momentum now I also wanted more
debates but that was the reality that
was the reality I said it at the time I
say it now
there's no after I understand but but
you're you're saying you're what you're
saying is that none of those decisions
that she made
or that her campaign made about the
party's advertising
none of those decisions affected any
advertisements before the primary
correct yes all of those decisions about
advertising work for after the
convention now it was inappropriate to
assume that she would win and to let her
formulate those ads but there's no ads
that were going out before him the dance
he's not spending any ads any money on
ads yeah prior to the convention it was
inappropriate is unethical but it had no
implication on the primary so don't one
more say that you can't not only can you
not know what's going on it's just not
the truth okay well um you know I'm not
gonna sit here and say that I know
things I don't know I mean it's just
that the appearance of that was really
really cutting after that loss you know
well I think people innocent you know
more than I do about this and maybe
that's why you might be running for
Senator and I'm not okay I did get two
write-in votes nice attitude towards my
electorate I don't mean you're wrong
yeah I don't mean to get so frustrated
about it but you know two years later
this myth that the the the campaign was
rigged against Bernie Sanders is a lie
it's it's just a lie and it is like the
equivalent of saying that the the
problem with our government is not that
we have people who want to enrich
themselves or who favor the you know a
certain class of people like themselves
it's the it's the it's it's it does it
has the same impact of saying like there
are changelings who are actually lizard
people and nothing we can do can control
I mean it's disempowering to say this
and it's not a case it's just simply not
the case I mean if you look at the
primary play their game I don't know
that Russia I also
I I don't feel quite as confident about
this but I don't think that Russia
changed the outcome of the election I
think there's in in in to the extent
that they influenced it at all which
they may have a little bit but I don't
think they changed the outcome of the
election I would say that that there was
ten other issues that would have been
more you know more pressing but I can
assure you that Bernie Sanders there was
there is no but for that you can point
to having to do with the DNC that
contributed to Bernie Sanders loss I
mean if you just look at primaries from
a historical perspective they're getting
more democratic and not less that's the
long-term trend and like a lot of a lot
of what we're seeing is the parties
which are going to be institutionally
biased against the left dealing with
that in sometimes shady ways yeah and I
would say there's also definitively I
think problems in specific states New
York is one of them frankly that have
really crappy voting laws and make it
hard to vote but that's not because of
Bernie Sanders that's because of decades
worth of New York state politicians want
to protect their incumbency that has
nothing to do with the DNC they don't
control the voting that that takes place
in in New York State so I'm just like I
just don't like hey I'm allergic to two
narratives that are better bs and this
one in particular I think is like long
past its its shelf-life
the only people I you know like it's
just not the case and and I say this is
someone who 15 years ago on national
radio was not only just endorsing Bernie
Sanders the congressman from Vermont but
I think I was saying like I want every
single member of Congress to be like
Bernie Sanders right and so if he were
to run again in 20 you know you think
that he would have a welcome place with
the
in terms of the primary process no I
don't think I think I think I think look
there are I I don't know what a welcome
place at the table is I mean F the DNC
who cares they're a small organization
they have control over their stuff that
they can do to help Democrats broadly
speaking they don't have they should be
more at least you know it would be nice
if they were in their own bylaws
suggests that they are supposed to be
neutral in the context of of a campaign
I don't know that they were neutral but
I don't know that that their lack of
neutrality means anything other than
like I say within the scheduling of
those debates and you know I think
reasonable people could differ as to
what the outcome would have been if
those debates were out there but I mean
frankly go back watch the debates go
look at the press after the debates go
look at the the states you know the the
where he ran around the time of debates
they didn't seem to have much impact now
maybe that was because there on a
Saturday night maybe not but you know I
do i watch these debates I didn't think
he destroyed her in these debates and in
frankly Valley who came out with the
word rigged about the debates bring out
the body bugs so I just really start
pulling the big when did she start
pulling the big crowds oh I want to see
him in the in the deep south and he
pulled 10,000 people and it was like
this where the trolls I mean you know I
mean you know it was like Oh candidacy
what you are interesting social media
yeah his candidacy was much more
interesting in the depth of his support
I would say was much deeper I can tell
you that like our our listeners on this
program would do a lot more for us I
think then your average listener our
average listener on this program would
do a lot more for us than they would for
your average listener on pod save
America but pod save America as I don't
know five six times the audience that we
do ten I don't keep titling your streams
like
Republicans lose so they mount coos I
mean that's got some custom flair right
there all right you know I think you
guys are going to expand
I appreciate it Peter all right thanks
for the comment Thanks I didn't mean to
get so uptight about that Peter if you
talk about how the election was stolen
from me Sam will act like he is PMS but
don't worry we won't let him break it
again because it was rigged you hear me
you bastard
hey good news folks good news there's an
opportunity for you to influence Chuck
Schumer we've spoken many times in the
past about how this guy keeps making
deals with Republicans and trading
something for nothing
he keeps ceding the high ground
strategically and tactically because I
don't know why he does that he is inept
in politics and his politics themselves
hey not so great and here is an
opportunity for you to influence Chuck
Schumer but you're just gonna need the
ability to pay for your own apartment in
the what is it the fourth most expensive
part of the country you're gonna have to
work full time for no money
ladies and gentlemen opening up this
position of the unpaid press intern the
Democratic leader Charles Schumer's
press office to a wide range of young
people who are looking to enter politics
but again you're gonna need to be loaded
with cash Democratic leader Charles
Schumer press office seeks a full-time
unpaid intern in Washington DC starting
in late December or early January
part-time interns will also be
considered but if you have to make money
I'm sorry cuz candidates with full-time
we'll be given preference the trouble is
it would be better if you could do it
full-time
it would be preferable if the candidate
continued to work through the fall and
into May because you know it's one thing
to take a couple of months off from your
work business and spend down your
savings but we want someone who could do
this for nearly a lifetime
responsibilities include compiling press
clips answering a reporter inquiries
organising press conferences writing
press releases talking points and memos
conducting research and my guess would
be formulating a strategy in which to
fight back against Republicans because
only an unpaid intern could come up with
stuff this dumb applicants must work
well under pressure have excellent
written and oral communication schools
skills and a desire to learn and of
course a tremendous amount of money the
sleep-deprived intern told me that we
should confirm more judges what is
everybody else big called odd I'm gonna
consult with my imaginary friends and
the Bailey say it's a go so what maybe
we get some nosh and you do a social
media updates all night what's the
matter your parents can't give you more
money previous experience in politics
and press are not required but
candidates should have a general
understanding of the government process
knowledge of the Northeast and extremely
wealthy parents if interested please
send cover letter resume and your
parents bank statements via email press
internship at gmail.com several forms of
government ID all of your parents
financials as well as a credit rating
how much a new family genealogy because
I don't want your grandparents to have
been some poor Schmucks how much do you
think how much you think it plays into
the notion of if your parents are
wealthy he's thinking like donor
double-tap what you do is you get the
free labor from the kid
and then the Varens feel obligated to go
to the old guy
guys it's a win wall it's like the just
coffee
listen all we need is one intern and we
could get one intern and they would do
the job and they could be wealthy
because that way we wouldn't have to pay
them or we could get five wealthy
interns and not only have them work for
free but make some money offer them so I
thought that the proposal that some in
the office had to pay the intern a
minimum wage so that they could cobble
together sandwiches and work yeah and
potentially come from a wide range of
backgrounds is very sweet but here's the
problem if we pay them then their
parents aren't wealthy enough to donate
so how much I mean it would be very nice
for a little symbolic 25 but we want at
least a couple thousand we want the
legal maximum in it now guys I can't
keep debating this I have things to do
for joe manchin plus I've got to get
over to Facebook it's my it's my shift
on the call support my daughter is
having a Facebook party at all speaking
of which we have to go over there and do
something control from the whole George
Soros thing
Cheryl whatever you need after the news
report came out yesterday
a spokesperson for Schumer came out and
said Oh we'll be offering them a stipend
that was made an error oh nice I like a
little like oh no there'll be a voucher
for the metro system which will be
cancelled out by the parents campaign
that's right a free Facebook portal
don't you see Matt it's very exciting
no you snake total stipend total that of
course is going to go to the Bailey kid
calling from a seven to five area code
who's this Jeff in Las Vegas what's on
your mind
hey just we've had you know it's been a
great discussion of all these
anti-democratic murders by Republicans
etc but I just think that we've got to
understand like if they use the terms
different like when when they say talk
about democracy or the ideas of it
Republicans use it as a term that's a
way the settling decisions between white
conservatives anybody else who is
involved or elected outside white
conservatives that's what they mean by
fraud that's what they mean by voters on
I mean I I think you're right I mean I
don't I look there has been a long
tradition in the conservative movement
and you know and I'm saying this broadly
because I think this was a you know
different when we go all the way back to
like post reconstruction but you know if
you go back and listen to the interview
with Carol Anderson you know at that
time in the South these conservative
politicians the percentage of people who
would vote was extremely low and they
were perfectly happy with that that's
why you got things like poll taxes
that's why you got things like literary
literacy tests they wanted to exclude
black people but they were also happy to
exclude you know a certain amount of
poor whites as well and Republicans that
are on record and saying that you know
we want low turnout because it helps us
and that is fundamentally an
undemocratic perspective and once you
have that philosophy taking steps that
further your power and diminish those of
the voters is perfectly consistent with
with with what you your ideological
project is so we maybe we shouldn't be
surprised but we certainly should be
outraged and we certainly need to get
more attention on this because we're
still I think still in a an era where
first of this egregious shame might have
some implications appreciate the call
Jeff Thanks
let's go to 6 100 area code who's this
where he come from six one out six one
out Mike Mike
yeah Mike in Pennsylvania how are you
yeah that's right no all right do I
still have you yeah I broke up maybe
there yeah I'm here what's on your mind
oh I just wanted to comment on that uh
undemocratic moves are happening in
Wisconsin North Carolina and ad
Pennsylvania to the list we have a
couple interesting things that are
happening here there was a state senator
who was elected they were threatening
not to seat her for no reason why not to
accept basically they're saying that she
didn't pass the residency requirement to
get on the ballot but but are there
there aren't they are they're not in
charge of that are they aren't wouldn't
the court I think that does know yes and
there's a period of time for when you
make those kind of challenges and that
do it after someone's won the election
day again you don't do it after
someone's won the election yeah that's
kind of their that's their that's their
argument that they have reinterpreted
that no she was not legally on the
ballot so therefore we're not gonna seat
her at least they're threatening that at
this point so that's a that's another
interesting thing they're also you know
you mentioned the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court earlier they want to pass a wallet
thankfully we have governor wolf so it's
not gonna happen but they they stated
their goal was to gerrymander the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court by creating
seven judicial districts and then
forcing all the incumbent judges to go
and have partisan elections again they
still with me yeah so so wait so they
they're attempting to do this for the
future or they were hoping to do this
yes yeah that well they're they're
hoping to do it in the future
that's their stated plan because they
added this there was a gerrymandering
reform bill that had really a lot of
momentum of the last budget
slative session and they added that as a
poison pill that that they were going to
force all seven judges to face partisan
elections with districts that they had
drawn so obviously they went gerrymander
Ford's Republican districts and then
have Pittsburgh but Michael Adelphia and
all right well let me ask you this when
when are we gonna see a lawsuit similar
to the one that we saw with the
congressional candidates like I keep
forgetting about Pennsylvania I keep
thinking the maps that were redrawn to
make the congressional districts fair
we're not the the the state the state
representatives maps were not redrawn
and so you're still dealing with a
situation where you can win fifty plus
percent of the vote and lose 60% of the
or fifty-five percent of the of the
races
so like what yeah I wasn't really I
wasn't particularly close I think the
Democrats won by seven or eight points
and they're nowhere near the majority in
either house so where's the where's the
lawsuit for this you know I don't know
going but you know it is what it is like
so their idea is of course get the
judges out before that lawsuit gets
there well right and obviously you know
the next election is you know we won
governor wolf so we're gonna and we have
the Supreme Court so at the very least
there's going to be non partisan maps in
Pennsylvania for the next cycle but they
don't wouldn't go into place until 2022
which will be a midterm year for you
know hopefully if Trump loses you know
they have this they have a strategy
right of trying to maintain minority
power for as long as they can and they
and and they've done the math and they
know that they just don't
a path to victory through a democratic
process so they have power now so what
are they going to do they're going to
instead of persuade the electorate try
to shape it right through any means
necessary
and then when and so it's stuff like
this rigging in North Carolina it's
blatant this is like old school
electoral fraud absentee ballot fraud is
like the oldest trick in the book you
know and so there's actually reports
that he might have done that same
because he defeated I think it incumbent
Republican right congressman and what's
interesting about it is they're actually
fundraising on it right now the North
Carolina GOP that the Liberals are
trying to steal the election of course
so you know it's not like they're seeing
this and then going a while this is this
is a bridge too far stealing elections
you know that's we just can't
countenance that no they are actively
hit you know participating in it that's
why you know it's really you know it's
Donald Trump in the White House like and
if GOP that seemingly is just barreling
headlong into full-blown anti-democratic
tactics um you know it's scary and you
know I know in my election we lost by
one percent in you know it's sort of a
Hillary Clinton scenario where you can
blame ten factors but one of those
factors was without a doubt the
gerrymandering right you know if we had
switched out basically any precinct for
a non gerrymandered precinct we would
have won you know so it's really that
that simple is gerrymandering in
Pennsylvania is controlling the state
legislature for the Republicans and you
know and it's the same in North Carolina
Wisconsin Michigan notice that this is
every single purple state yes is is
gerrymandered heavily at the state
legislative level and you know you look
at the Congressional performance in
Wisconsin or in Ohio they didn't what
the Democrats didn't do that well even
though we had a big wave yep
Pennsylvania we got nine nine it was
super but it was kind of fair I guess
you know the geographic concentration
kind of screwed oh yeah they they needed
to maintain 50/50 even though they lost
big time and you know it's just it's it
our whole system is very is creeks and
the cracks are showing and are and the
Senate in the house the presidency the
supreme you know the Supreme Court the
constitutional order like you know
there's not long for this world unless
we really have some severe democratic
reforms that have a fast yeah I'm not
sure how those are gonna happen but
appreciate the call Mike thanks have a
good one
Thanks having some problem with our
skype it's very strange
I'll never troubled Skype never the
system-wide problem heard of that where
you're actually getting other calls
interfering so yesterday we spoke about
the riots in in France and a little
sloppy in talking about them on their
face a function of or at least in some
respects being reported as a set the
first one they're not the first tweet in
that series of tweets are you sure cuz I
see that line goes up no there was a
bunch so in France
there was obviously some riots and
whatnot and let me pull this up here
all right let's go take a phone call
I'll call him from six seven eight area
code who's this where you come from
this is me yeah Wow
first-time caller made it through who is
this Nathanson Georgia Nathan from
Georgia
what's on your mind Nathan oh I just
went to the polls today and it was kind
of surreal because I was the only person
there hey that's not a good sign
yeah unless you live in a very
Republican area unfortunately I couldn't
get 500 people to come with me but I was
able to uh to get my mother to go okay
yeah um that's basically yeah do you
live in a tell me about the area living
is it a predominantly Republican area or
is that some yeah is that somewhat yeah
I'm yeah go I'm yeah I'm in Georgia
sixth district
it's a Marietta very suburban a lot of
white soccer moms so that's good Wow
yeah
some what did your district who did your
district vote for last time last time we
had karen handel and are actually for a
president it was definitely it was who
it was Trump or Trump yeah yes okay all
right well great
hopefully nobody in your district came
out to vote except for you and your mom
yeah no kiddin all right here's what I
would say Nathan do you know anybody
else who lives in Georgia well sure but
uh what are you getting at get him to
vote came to get in the vote yeah yeah
call up I tell them it's the most
average year you can do indeed indeed
well thank you Sam Sam cedar
whoo
all right well
Thank You Nathan I hate the call man
all right thanks for the report you got
to have a good one fingers crossed
yes sir all right thanks all right yeah
so yeah okay so getting back to us we
were talking about the yeah keep that up
for a moment we were talking about the
the protests violent protests that took
place in France I think your ongoing
actually in France they really know how
to protest they burn things and they
march and they respond and so tough
stuff here is the the best I would say
four or five tweet assessment of what's
going on in in France that I've seen and
I was struck by it because I don't know
I guess I've been sleeping on this but
it was presented by Pamela Anderson
you mean comrade Pam you haven't been on
this I have not been on this she first
posts a and she must speak French she's
Canadian and I don't know if she's from
like Quebec or not but she appears to
speak French and she post a piece from
LeMond France talking about the it's a
moment of crisis for the yellow vests
that's what they they identify they a
lot of these protesters wear yellow
vests like the reflective vests and so
she she posts that and then she follows
it up with the following tweet I
despised violence but what is the
violence of all these people and burned
luxurious cars compared to the
structural violence of the French and
global elites she asks instead of being
hypnotized
instead of being hypnotized by the
burning images we have to pose the
question where did it come from
and the answer is it came from rising
tensions between the metropolitan elite
and rural poor between the politics
represented by Makran and the 99% who
are fed up with inequality not only in
France all over the world the true
question is whether the disobedience can
be constructive what comes the day after
can the progressives in France and all
over the world use this energy so
instead of violence we have images of
constructing equal egalitarian societies
so she has basically better political
analysis than the entirety of
essentially the global center-left
establishment that's attempting to
answer this yeah I would say nailed it
her her being able to put it that
concisely I would put myself in that
same group of people that she has better
analysis then I would as well she I mean
that was extremely astute and concise
excellent you know Axl Rose was doing
stuff like this a couple weeks ago very
woke tweets very politically woke tweets
are they date are they they dating I
don't know what their why do you say Axl
Rose just an now just another like old
older so what do you mean older what do
you mean what like 90s Oh so uh good for
Pamela Anderson I'm following her now
that was excellent it's pretty
impressive very 2018 that amidst all of
these things someone like Pamela
Anderson comes through the collage
commentary meanwhile on the other end of
the spectrum apparently Eric Trump is
rather upset by George Conway who is
George Conway well he is Kellyanne
Conway's husband and he has since very
early in the Trump administration been
public about the problems he has with
the Donald Trump administration it's a
little bit strange
it's a little bit strange
George Conway basically said on Twitter
the president Trump has committed
witness tampering and obstruction of
justice that was a function of Donald
Trump basically saying you know hang in
there
two-man afford I just know Roger stone
knows what time it is right and Roger
stone you're my guy
winky blink just relax and so Conway
said this is this is this witness
tampering and Eric Trump really family
man that he is came out on Twitter
instead of all the ugliness and politics
the utter disrespect George Conway shows
toward his wife her career place of work
incidentally Eric Trump is the son of
Donald Trump in case you couldn't
contextualize this and everything she
has fought so hard to achieve
might top them all Kellyanne Conway is
great is a great person and frankly his
actions are horrible
now of course George Conway did not
respond to this because Eric Trump sub
tweeted him by not putting his handle
however Reza Aslan tweeted the following
wait did I miss something
did George Conway pay money to have sex
with a porn star right after his wife
gave birth and that was retweeted by
George Conway
I always nice to be able to other
people's tweets do your foot indeed
ladies and gentleman indeed obviously
George Conway's retweet not to be taken
literally that would my didn't seriously
yeah exactly
some retweets are in fact endorsements
all right tweeted it I meant it good
time for one more call I'm sorry folks I
know we've got people who've been
hanging on the line for calling from a
four one five area code 401 five low
hello who's this where you come from
hello hello who's this where you come
from it's me yes it is who's this where
you come from
I was the star gun of a codpiece coming
from the progressive dystopian San
Francisco sargon of akkad peace calling
from San Francisco what is on your mind
mister codpiece I wanted to I wanted to
talk about immigration and just kind of
the lack of context that's given when
it's when it's addressed especially
Latin Americans coming to the states
okay you've had Gerald Horne on before
and I think he touched up on this once
he kind of alluded to this really
quickly he talked about the history of
Texas and how sexist when it was under
the control of Mexico was inviting
people in from from the states to settle
Texas to be with the conditions of that
they convert to Catholicism they stopped
practicing slavery and they learned
Spanish and people took up that offer
but they came in and and they
didn't live up to those promises to the
point that it was a majority it became
the majority english-speaking slavery
practicing white people and I find it
really ironic that people complain about
Latin Americans moving in to the u.s. at
not learning the language staying in
like these insulated little sub colonies
and I just find it very disturbing and
very infuriating to see people complain
about people coming when they're
historically illiterate about these
these kinds of trends across history
especially as somebody who's part Native
American to be asked like were you from
immediately when our people have been
here for fourteen thousand years and and
to be treated as like somebody who
doesn't look like the expected person so
I just wanted to bring that up in in
light of what's happening to immigrants
that are being treated as the invading
hordes when most of them are Native
American or part Native American and
they're being treated as subhuman when
their ancestors crossed these lands for
fourteen thousand years I mean the the
lack of historical literacy about that I
don't think is an accident right I mean
I don't know that anybody sat down and
said we're going to but this is the way
that societies create their own sort of
like fictional narrative to justify
their actions that particularly at their
you know their foundings and maybe and
sometimes you know even more recent pass
right I mean stuff gets written out all
the time and it is but it is yeah it is
stunning but but yeah but I'm not I'm
not diminishing at all what you're
saying I'm saying it is to a certain
extent this is by days by design right
everybody
likes to sort of write sanitize their
their backstory because makes them feel
better and and for some that a you know
for certain percentage of our population
a significant percentage even
contemplating what you're talking about
is offensive even even like even being
faced with the truth is an assault right
and and you know and the way that they
strike back is is basically and and what
allows them to is that sort of that
dehumanization of of other people but I
appreciate your calling in and reminding
people about it and also I appreciate
her yeah no I just
Sargeras are gone of codpiece thanks
yeah I just wanted to make just one
quick point like not as a Sam Harris
type thought experiment but I think that
people like sometimes justify these
things as in like well the victors the
the more powerful the more advanced like
took over these lands and I'd like to
offer people a thought experiment of
thinking about them having people come
to their house that that are that are
that have superior like firepower and
bullying them out of their own house and
saying well you should stop whining
about it because somebody stronger than
you took over it like that's just a
thought experiment that that completely
right we never we in the society
Apocrypha we in the society do not hold
up carjackers let's say as being you
know morally superior because of their
ability to get us to to displace us from
our car but you can see the echoes of
this with the poor shaming that the
Republicans do right I mean even like
you know Paul Ryan's
apocryphal story about you know the
brown bagging thing like there is this
there is a narrative in this country
that if you're wealthy you're war you're
morally righteous if you are not if
you're poor or living in poverty you're
morally depraved all of that is part of
a whole if we were able to conquer you
is because we are morally righteous I
mean on some level that is the that is
the libertarian ethos right I mean we
get to that with Walter block you know
how do we how do we establish property
rights well basically they are frozen
from the time that we came over and took
the property and that is because we we
were morally superior and we were able
to take it and then we basically said
and now we're going to have rules about
that so I appreciate the call yeah
thanks man
check the link I just sent thank you
speaking of which all right folks
real quick oh we got what do we got well
just look at the t-shirt that Milo is
wearing it underscores your point and
it's also very funny and events yes did
you get send that to everybody this is a
broke whole picture
oh no everybody's on this one this is a
religious this is a heartwarming story
for me this is a heartwarming story for
me to tell you folks it's being reported
now that far right-wing activist Milo
Yan innopolis was more than 2 million
dollars in debt during the 2018 a year
is according to a collection of
documents assembled by his former
Australian tour promoters seen by the
Guardian Australia creditors listed in
the document include employees of his
company a wedding venue apparently spent
like 50 grand on his wedding my
husband's black and his former sponsors
the billionaire Mercer family it always
sucks
oh you're rowing daddy that they were
Baxi see why you should hate all the
guards he owed Eddie dass for their me
yeah that's a lesson for anybody
thinking they want to be the next Milo
yeah point six million dollars to his
own company so in other ways he was
trying to get that money out without
paying taxes on it right and supposedly
I guess he's gonna pay it back in around
four hundred thousand dollars to the
Mercer's so if he owes 1.6 million
dollars to his own company what that
suggests to me is that he has tax
liability somewhere in the neighborhood
of like five six seven eight hundred
thousand dollars maybe maybe you know he
owes a four hundred thousand dollars to
the Mercer's 153,000 to his former
lawyers seventy six thousand two former
collaborator and Breitbart writer
Illume Bukhari and twenty thousand to
the luxury jeweler brand cut CA mmm-hmm
and of course he owed us a hundred
several thousand dollars to far-right
far-right writers including Pam Geller
theodore bill or vox Dei and according T
an Annapolis he owes even more than that
so sad ladies and gentlemen
so so sad he has been attempting to
organize speaking tours in 2018 in
Australia nobody's interested sorry so
sorry
gab McGuinness was there the other day
Florida not quite there we're not quite
there he made it I think to the
outskirts of the airport and then they
did he actually get to Australia I don't
know that would have been very funny if
he was refused a visa to enter so there
you go
oh yeah an innopolis apparently also
recently quit the proud voice imagine
that Milo Yan innopolis quits the proud
boys right on the same time as Gavin
McGinnis and sadly no one even knew it
and then we have this t-shirt he's
wearing stop being poor
well I would say to you young man turn
around his Fairplay he he recently
posted on Instagram the Instagram post
where he had said claim that he is
actually more in debt than the stories
say he had a t-shirt that said broke ho
and it was a picture of a ho the Garden
implements to express himself a t-shirt
very very clever well what do you think
like let's do office pool alright before
we go and wrap this up I'll read a
couple Iams office pool here let's say
within like six to 24 months okay
Michael let's start with you what is my
low yawn innopolis doing how is he
making money that is a really
interesting question I I could I won't
say this but I can envision some very
disturbing criminal activity okay so
I'll guess there's a pool where 25 bucks
each at the end of the 24 months sure
yeah 10 bucks 25 bucks Matt you got we
got a Mitt Romney over here put aside 90
$25 but it's like $5 put aside 85 cents
a month until then how do you determine
that
who won if we're all wrong where you
draw it let's just call it six weeks
what the first story that comes out
about Yann innopolis six months from now
that mentions a new gig okay so it's
five bucks each
can you handle it it might not even be
any stories that come well there may not
they may not and then nobody would
nobody has audience of pure okay you're
saying real crime sure Matt I mean I
would have said probably some sort of
drug-related activity because I imagine
he's gonna try to be sedating himself
and then he's gonna be sitting on
supplies okay
well that's that's distinct well no it's
just I mean okay I just didn't want to
spell it out but yes that's what you're
saying
do you think I'm talking about Steele
watches like he could he could okay shot
my mom we're both down for drugs if you
want me to change it to well no I'm not
gonna you got to be more specific he
takes drugs he's got to be an OD oh
there's gonna be a selling or Rosie I
thought you said money really okay so
you're seeing selling okay I would say I
got from from Matt was like an OD or
something okay all right okay okay fair
enough that's actually a good one I
think he's heading to Brazil Brazil yeah
for the new fascist hunter there that's
a good idea I think that's enough just
to be working in Brazil and you know
he's probably most marketable well well
well well
you ready I say after he comes out of
rehab that he didn't really that he may
or may not have needed he's going to be
like a self-help self-care okay I think
it's more likely what I was gonna say is
I'll change my answer to make it more
distinct from Michaels if he's still
with his black husband I think they get
into some sort of online pornography
probably be his more marketable yeah
yeah I don't think he comes a gamble
yeah all right somebody better write
this up probably can't good race though
either because both scenario hates gay
people yeah they don't they don't do the
ioniq gay thing there yeah yeah they're
they're pretty bond he could be the only
one like a court jester in a way like I
have my one ironic gay guy I imagine
meeting gay fascist and thinking we just
need to update the society just enough
to where I can be cool here yeah Colin
from Nebraska all right I'm gonna do ten
of these come from Nebraska I know you
white Devils I want to talk 2020 yet but
Michael Tracy at spectator that a great
article about Bernie being a sleeper yet
again except with an infrastructure not
there in 2016 Bernie or bust he's a
sleeper what does that mean like I don't
know I mean he's definitely he's maybe
like more or less like the front run
he's definitely a front-runner so I
don't see how that were Michael Tracy
article hmm but I'm all-in
any Ernie run he has more of an
infrastructure not there in 2016 what a
reporter that's stunning PJ from
Montreal on last week's podcast Jimmy
door called you out claiming that MSNBC
wannabe would be outraged that bernie
was joined by Mike Lee to have a debate
on Yemen the best part is he cut it out
from his YouTube video he's equating
bipartisanship to end wars to join first
serve it isn't he what a douche left his
best yeah he totally gets you know he's
got it now from his YouTube
we literally explained at the time we
were explaining how stupid this was the
actual analogy example I used was oh of
course Bernie Sanders collaborating with
Mike Lee on Yemen is great and entirely
different than retweeting fascists the
difference between of Mike Serna
bitching and Lee what a dumb-dumb
what a dumb dumb dumb also I would be
very curious how many how many uh drone
stories he's done since Trump has been
in office now look I mean Carol what's
happened with somebody could send me a
link
somebody can send me to a link of the
drone stories he's done that showed how
much more aggressive Trump was with his
drone policy there's things to cover
like Rachel Maddow using a bad facial
expression when she talks about Putin
there's real things that you don't have
the courage to cover it and we're not
gonna cut this out Matt's mom Abbey
Huntsman and Megan McCain remind me of
Jennifer Garner and Kelly Clarkson
respectively only with minor birth
defects in no-talent
friend from Philadelphia was anyone else
floored when they heard about this North
Carolina absentee ballot harvesting
crime specific because Paul Ryan clipper
eke conspiracy Bates about this very
thing happening California yeah it's
super crazy Nick from Manitoba
remember that time mr. cedar said black
African VC I do I do
it keeps me up at night honestly
skullenbones Megan McCain self-entitled
tantrum on the view so it's wrong to
bring up Trump or current politics right
after George HW Bush death anyone
remember what percentage of her eulogy
her father
an open rebuke to trump 10:25 50% also
just noticed that Ari Berman looks like
Sasha Baron Cohen Mossad character
JJ cool wouldn't it be better to start
calling more men like Tucker Carlson or
Trump entitled as a way of
reducing the sexism involved with the
world yes yes afterall McCain Tucker and
Trump have worked hard to earn the right
to be called entitled grand old
pirate
I didn't realize Balu from the jungle
book became a political author Ryan from
Ohio somebody bought a brought a gun to
my University essay and the whole campus
was on lockdown luckily nobody got hurt
indeed Sam Folger Tamm folder did any of
you watch say her name the documentary
about the short life and awful death of
Sandra bland it was gut-wrenching
no bingo mosquito it's time to start
calling the Democratic Party the
Democracy party over and over again on
TV a la Frank Luntz also how about
democratic elected officials and
Wisconsin early define disobey these
ridiculous Republican attempts forced
them to either take it a court or risk
the optics of sending in armed riot
police to arrest Democrats I think they
should go on the lam I really do Mitch
from Houston absentee ballot collectors
and good friends with the wallet
inspector the caucus footnote on the
history of Michigan Republicans ignoring
referendum votes includes the wolf
hunting law and the emergency financial
manager law that helped cause the wider
crisis indeed both were rejected in
referendum both are law currently yes
good point Mathias the a North Carolina
story is getting more insane the GOP is
trying to get a law passed so the GOP
candidates chair the boards of Elections
every election year
boink boink boink I listened to Dave
Rubin interview of Tucker Carlson Tucker
made a comment about having nearly three
million federal employees was a waste
Dave misheard the number responded with
three billion that came well we get
definitely gonna need to find mates that
can't be right that would be a bit too
big government for me and fall with a
super here insecure right he wasn't
making a joke what a sad stupid little
man
it's beautiful if somebody knows a time
code for that just tweeted at me yeah
and how also if someone knows how to
frame a video and hang it on your wall
and have it just wait a second three
billion federal employees this is absurd
folks yeah I totally I do we let this
happen yeah I'm a socialist I would
totally concede that would I think three
billion federal employee that's a good
target superyacht right the word a
little excessive the worst point the
really the most disturbing part about it
is how many of them are Chinese
nationals Sams Sams tinder profile hey
girl swipe right would you vote for me
in the Senate 2022 the come on we can do
better mo am I wrong
didn't Obama and holder start an
organization to combat gerrymandering in
the last year's it's still active after
the midterms I think it was more voter
suppression than gerrymandering train
boy I was the one who voted for you in
Cynthia Nixon and you were my writing
governor vote and Cynthia Nixon was my
vote for lieutenant governor since
governor and lieutenant are on the same
ticket that's how I figured it would
have been counted sweet thank you share
the rod thoughts on Soros affiliated
University being shut down and hungry
how prevalent are dr. G's Nazi pals
they're currently pretty prevalent John
spy glare cuck I wrote in for Sam of the
ballot I just forgot which office so I
may have written him in for governor
also I wrote the whole Mr Crew on other
positions left his best
I saw a ballot for judgeships that was
myself Jamie and Macomb talent James
from Indiana UK House of Commons holds
may government in contempt of parliament
first time ever and Bernard is it the
same ten known terrorists trying to
cross the us-mexico border each day they
said like really badly trained guys they
just keep showing up with like different
like Groucho Groucho glasses
Groucho it's not me I was I was
terrorists know I'm here too sorry to be
a Maitre D' in Miami yes Oh Hezbollah
I've never heard they show up in like
full soccer uniforms there were four a
team we're a soccer club football from
from the Italy Federation yeah al Qaeda
what play center back on the team
cuz I like to kick boom I'm a linebacker
for the Milan stars militant apathy if'n
despise Scalise that piece of has
life saved by two black law enforcement
officers who literally took bullets for
his evil ass when he couldn't feed
himself or wipe his own ass I guarantee
you people of color fed and bathed and
what a wretched soulless scumbag
Brian coward ox could you please remind
your listeners british columbia to vote
YES for pro repping the electoral reform
referendum in that province I don't know
what they should do but vote and go out
and learn more about it visa bizarre
effective how h/w passing has been my
dad realizing the Trump is a major dick
finally heard him admit that his
attitude and many of his actions are out
of line he said seeing how people
speaking about HW carry themselves far
more professionally made him realize it
ah I'll take progress wherever I can get
it left his best Congressional baseball
fan
dear mr. Scalise I'd like to take this
moment to remind you that just like
baseball terrorism is also America's
pastime play ball and the final I am of
the day
JMO Sammy I know you could easily win
the governorship on New York 2022 first
don't do sarcastic joke with army Berman
I'm ready to volunteer just think you
and Alexandria running the show
alright folks see you tomorrow in Matt's
it goes you got to get sue
but I know sir
I'm gonna get
I just got
choo-choo
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
[Applause]
choice was made for the
when you tell get paid
called rub bad business
I guess she fell off sweet ride
the teacher takes me yeah
[Music]
