[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday March 14th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrial ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program we are talking with Liz I'm
sorry
forensic on sorry Liz forensic on
propaganda guided democracy the origins
of public opinion formation and how it
undermines democracy wrote a great piece
the century of spin for the Baffler
Senate breaks with Donald Trump's
support for the saudi-led mass murder
atrocities in Yemen thanks to the
efforts of Bernie Sanders Chris Murphy
will go into detail on that Theresa May
has a new brexit plan rejected by the UK
Parliament new information in Brazil
links directly the government of junior
bolson ro or the personality the family
of JR bolts an arrow to the assassins of
former Rio City Councilwoman Mari le
Franco what happened we're coming up on
the year-long anniversary of her
assassin
and beta will Rourke is bringing I don't
know the the the ethos of a West Wing
devotional podcast to the 2020 campaign
asking us to risk the imagination of a
new possibility or whatever please dude
there's still time run for Senate you
could seriously help your country or not
we'll talk about that
Plus Boeing grounding some of their jets
and ice has been tapping into a vast
license-plate database raising new
concerns about privacy and surveillance
what a surprise that comes in the heels
of the reports on ice monitoring
journalists and Facebook data deals are
under criminal investigation it's almost
like these institutions have no respect
for our civil liberties and the Utah an
Arkansas lawmakers passed a teen week
abortion bans all that and much much
more on today's majority report I let's
I mean there's a political calculation
here about beta will Roark getting into
the race and between him and Biden this
is gonna most likely help Bernie Sanders
you know the only real competition in
the progressive Lane is between Sanders
and Warren and then to some extent
Gabbard and there is a massive you know
from the center out to the right you
know oh it's a genuinely center-left
candidate
with some very right-wing streaks in a
record like a calm low Harris and then
there's a you know Amy Clovis are
running as a less charismatic version of
Howard Schultz with a worse
organizational culture then you know you
have other can't and so you know in that
Lane bado and Biden would really fill it
out and I guess the first takeaway that
we have in this office is one in all
seriousness theta will work school in
some ways he should run for Senate
he has buy-in in his home state as a
national Democrat his voting record and
these men you know and these
measurements can be kind of silly but
the reality is is that leaving aside the
fact you know Bernie Sanders a serious
committed leader for his whole political
life Elizabeth Warren a serious
committed a leader and policy maker and
then a people like Harris who've taken
the lead on certain things in the Senate
Cory Booker who's done great things on
the drug war in the Senate bado votes
well to the right of his Democratic
colleagues now that's not a problem when
you're running statewide for the Senate
in Texas but why on earth would that be
what the democratic party would want to
go for and in 10 a time of that you know
the crisis of inequality the crisis of
ecology and the need to not only have
this broad-based Democratic coalition
but actually see it represented at the
highest levels he doesn't tick any of
those metrics the only thing he ticks is
definitely a for the best Obama
impersonation in the race and here he is
I mean look we'll see if this gets
filled in but he is very much in the
lane of and I don't know if we're gonna
play his announcement video but his
announcements video has zero nothing
specific
one could come away thinking whoa he's
talking about universal health care he's
talking about reparations he's talking
about immigration he's talking about
ending war there's nothing in it uh and
this isolated clip I mean whoa boy he
it's as Matt what did you say before
after you saw this clip about the the
soundtrack oh it's like you can hear the
the sort of swelling inspirational music
they're gonna put in the ad underneath
it when they use it for media later
right but these challenges I'm
absolutely convinced will bring out the
absolute best in every single one of us
and we have something that almost no
other country in the world has we have
the single greatest mechanism to call
forth the genius of our fellow human
beings this democracy more than 320
million people strong can bring the
ingenuity the creativity the resolve of
an entire country and each one of these
challenges can and will be met but the
foundational challenge to get all of
this done is to fix our democracy only
when it works and only when each one of
us can work within it will we be able to
meet these threats and so this setting
right now the very first event of our
campaign for president is an example not
only the way that I wish to campaign
across this country every single
American and I could care less your
party persuasion your religion anything
other than the fact that right now we
are all Americans and we are all human
beings and we do everything within our
power for one another for this great
country and for every generation so uh
he's not gonna cut in to Bernie Sanders
vote share some early polls might show
that but there's a very basic
distinction at work here if you honestly
believe in I understand I agree I but
I've been saying it for a long time
Bernie Sanders definitely has a certain
type of grandpa charisma and like all
politics today there's unhealthy
personality
cults that can form in pockets around
any candidate and we should you know try
to disrupt that wherever we find it in
fact most especially amongst candidates
we support but if you honestly think if
you're delusional enough to think that
the young people the people from every
category of the society who finally
responded to a candidate saying look the
fact that there is no universal health
care here the fact that these companies
are so predatory and so vicious the fact
that almost every category of life is
getting more difficult for more and more
people and I'm gonna do something about
it and I'm gonna name names and I'm
gonna take action if you think that
that's personality that can get
undermined by some you know nice guy in
a skateboard I don't know how to pull
the put this politely
you're hugely divorced from reality if
you think that Bernie Sanders came out
and gave that speech and it was like a
boats why it's a democracy and here's
more pablum and here's all the vague
points and he is things that actually in
some ways borderline offensively racy
huge amount of American history because
it hasn't been a real democracy in
actually ever if we go back from the
disenfranchisement of woman to American
apartheid to even today the Princeton
studies saying that this country's
actually functionally in oligarchy but
I'm gonna do generic vague west wing
reference uh monologues and try to do an
impersonation of Barack Obama and people
would have said oh my god I you know
what I don't care i don't know care what
Bernie Sanders policy record is it's
just that pure raw charisma it's it's a
delusional argument and it reveals why
you would be interested in bado because
there's no policy argument for bado
there's no political argument here's
they tried to make one she has even
tried to make one and there's also by
the way and again we usually have this
fight and I you know look I make no
bones about it at the end of the day the
policy is what's
most important but obviously we
recognize the usually important need
it's not the overriding need obviously
in my view but the need to have a woman
president to have more people of color
to have a Latino president and so on he
doesn't bring I mean I get that he's
impersonating Obama but he certainly
does not bring that to the table he is
literally a rich white guy I will add
rich to the moniker and not Jewish and
not someone who grew up in poverty and
not something that came from immigrants
and not somebody was a lifelong activist
he's a nice suburban dad whose wife is
totally loaded from real estate
investments who has a unusually
right-wing voting record for a Democrat
in Congress and by the way his district
he represents is a democratic district
so it's not because it's a Texas swing
and he's also Bernie Sanders oh my god
he's an independent he's an independent
Bernie Sanders has never stayed out of a
race specifically to protect a personal
friend of his who's a Republican and by
the way this is one of these moments
where a broken clock and literally this
broken clock might actually be a great
way of describing Brian Kilmeade is
right every once in a while this Brian
Kilmeade on fact Fox News all right so
beta Vanity Fair has a huge article and
feature on him it's almost as if they
helped launch his campaign here's a
quote from it he says I want to be in it
man I'm just born to be in it they also
point out they I'm sorry could you
imagine I mean look I was born to be
this literally and again I don't I don't
want to be hypocritical and I'm you know
I'm someone who really is like let's not
focus on every little gaffe and let's
not be super petty but like bernie is a
mission-driven politician and then so he
would not you know yeah and he's also
Jewish and he's also coming from poverty
okay so that's the clear one but could
you be calm LA Harris and say that like
literally you couldn't because of the
history and politics of this country
in fact you could say actually because
of the the structures of this country in
terms of inequity I was born to not do
this if we're being blunt about it and
I'm fighting to overcome that and if you
can bind that look again this is the
type of thing that if he said that and
he had rolled out a series of serious
policy proposals and his record matched
it then I'm not going to be petty about
that quote but if it's a conservative
voting record in Congress relative to
the rest of the Democratic Party and no
proposals and vacuous nonsense um that
the raw narcissism of that quote is
gonna stick out to me but let's go being
it man I'm just born to be in it they
also point out they has this huge
library as if it's a big plus that he
reads books we would assume that and he
talks about the presidential libraries
there and the writer writes we had
there's always the sense that he belongs
on that as if a book of a president's
gonna be in there but listen it's got a
lot of charisma he's got a lot of
presents again a brian detail about like
he has a library it does seem like the
people who on dating sites put that John
Waters quote where if you go back to
somebody's apartment and they don't have
books don't screw them but like only
might read like one book all year but
they keep it out on their table yeah
what do you say they keep it ya know I
keep meaning to finish the new Jim Crow
you notice he's got he's got the new Jim
Crow but he what he's really doing is
rereading the seven Habits of Highly
Effective People for the eighth time
like laws of power book laws of power
books too cool but I think you know I
again you know we'll see it and it's
funny like I'm I'm not strategically I
think he actually helps Bernie and I
don't have any I've liked and supported
beto obviously in his his Senate run so
I'm trying to identify what annoys me so
much about this but I just think that
there is something about just the raw
just me
aquitine entitlement of it all and then
the fact that all sorts of people both
okay I'll say both who will smear and
slime and lie about Bernie all day and
then all of a sudden we'll actually
literally embrace just they you know the
total generic white male and then also
combined with just the fact that the
much more important point which is like
guys like this is in fact a really
serious time like a really serious time
and I and my argument for making a
structural change in this campaign in
our policy has never hinged on only
Bernie can be Trump I think it's a
ludicrous argument and a lot will change
in a year and God forbid we might be in
a situation where Trump's super
formidable I don't really see it I think
what's most likely as I think basically
everybody and I mean this honestly maybe
amy klobuchar I'm not sure about her but
I think pretty much any of these
candidates could defeat Donald Trump
Sanders Warren Harris Booker Biden I
really do so my argument does not hinge
on that but my argument actually hens on
all hinges on a longer view which is
that okay we've stopped the emergency
we've got rid of this buffoon disgusting
grotesque jackass as president but
what's next guys like the global crisis
were in does not just hinge on a few
disgusting personalities it is there is
a reason why from Brazil to India to
Russia to Hungary to United States to
the Philippines to Israel - I would
actually just include the UK straight up
there is a authoritarian leaning if not
overtly fully so unbelievably xenophobic
um far-right - fascist politics and I
don't know all the answers but I know
that some of the answer is gonna have to
come from some form of like real serious
cultural and moral but also economic and
strategic answer to this so you know the
years 2022
all of the trend lines are still bad
maybe there's been some decent reforms
put in place but bate O'Rourke is not
doing anything structural for the
economy he's not doing anything
structural and climate and I'm not gonna
give you some vague I'm not gonna say
like what about the next Trump maybe
worse I don't know there might not be
anybody who's as bad as Trump but even
just the gridlock of insufficient and
counterproductive neoliberalism with a
party or Republicans will still exist as
a party it will still be a oligarch
white supremacy unity party I don't know
how much longer that like that dynamic
is hugely destructive and incapable of
dealing with the horizon of things like
climate so I just find you know this
whole like really we haven't moved
beyond this like we already had the guy
who did Barack Obama is the best
politician of not only his generation
but probably modern American history and
there was a time in some ways and I make
this arguments my leftist friends all
the time like you cannot discount the
unbelievable cultural and leadership
qualities of President Obama and what he
did just even having him there in office
and then again I won't lie and cover for
the profoundly insufficient and bad
policies with regards to wall street or
drones for that matter as well as giving
credit for where he did move the ball
forward but like we did that we're gonna
do the Coke Zero version of that
why exactly anybody if if you get into
an argument with somebody who's a better
supporter and they're not you don't want
to bring up Bernie why would you support
Beto and not Buddha cake Buddha gigs way
better than if you're talking about
young white guys policy-wise identity
wise he's just better
he's an openly gay man that's usually
significant and he's and you know what
he is a brilliant technocrat but guess
what he said everything I've heard from
him is I think he's for Medicare for all
he said John Bolton should be anywhere
near the Situation Room we need to pack
the court we need to get rid of the
filibuster he's putting points on the
board yeah and he would make his own
form of quite significant his
jury yep let's see better do any of
those things that booty gigs himself is
do and then we can start talking about
if he competes with Bernie Sanders well
it's just not as charismatic that is the
problem yeah okay there it is alright
folks we're gonna take a brief break and
we will be right back with Liz forensic
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Liz
Franz axe she's a writer and her recent
piece in the Baffler the century of spin
the formative days of public relations
elites imagined a quote unquote guided
democracy Liz thanks so much for being
here thank you Oh Liz my bad thanks so
much for being here
you're here now oh thank you so much so
Liz can you start by talking about the
tale of a tall Gawande and his recent
joining of Amazon but his role as a
public intellectual and the sort of
branding of conscience or branding of
credibility as a way to kind of open up
this conversation yeah so it's very
interesting i when I was doing some
research for this piece I came across a
you know PR story about Atul Gawande who
I had known he's published several New
York Times bestselling books he's a
staff writer at The New Yorker he's a
doctor and a plethora bird medical
school where you know he has been on
Oprah I mean he's very very you know
very popular as well as a vigorous
defender of the Affordable Care Act and
I saw that he had been recently
appointed to a new position I believe
that CEO on Amazon very secretive and I
believe still unnamed healthcare venture
and it's unclear exactly what Amazon is
interested in but the health care
marketplace is a huge marketplace as you
could imagine not just within the
insurance market but also medical
devices hospital administration I mean
the list goes on it's a massive part of
our economy and so Pisa has had recently
joined with not just JP more
chase but also Berkshire Hathaway in
their joint venture and so I found it
very interesting that they would appoint
not just a you know a Harvard professor
a CEO of which you I mean a bit of an
interesting sort of last horizontal move
right right but also someone who who had
such a you know highly respected and
intellectual and quite liberal
reputation within the sort of you know
intellectual discourse particularly
around the role of the government in
healthcare right regarding the bases
around the ACA and so you know it's a
sort of an interesting move and you know
I write in the piece that you kind of
call this usually like a public
relations coup right because it's such a
such a get such a higher but I think it
tells us a lot about the ways in which
these you know new monopolistic and you
know rising monopolistic companies like
Amazon sort of positioned themselves not
just as companies that's so good but as
companies that actually have a rightful
place within our democracy and then you
link this to a great document I really
enjoyed this Adam curtis's documentary
in the century of the self and when you
point out I like how you say everybody
every social media frenemy Kanye West
tweeted out and this is the tweet this
is actually Kanye actually this is this
is one of his tweets that's more like
his old producing and the fact that it's
it's good unlike some of his other
tweets which are more like his new
records but that's a other conversation
it's four hours long but you'll get the
gist in the first twenty minutes he
wrote basically Sigmund Freud's nephew
Edmund Edward Bernays capitalized off of
his uncle's philosophies and created
modern-day consumerism I think that
actually is a pretty good description of
at least some of the story Adam Curtis
is telling it's
century of the self first of all I mean
who was Edward Bernays and like is that
actually true is the story a lot more
complicated than that I do think it's
true yes I mean I think that yes I love
that documentary I love all of Adam
curtis's films highly recommend all this
just a great film essayist but I do
think it's funny that you know Kanye in
that tweet what you do point out I think
it is good tweet that he focuses on
modern-day consumerism and that was
something I kind of wanted to tinplate
and I do think that the popular
narrative around Edward Bernays who I'll
get to in a second is that you know what
he was sort of pioneering was a way to
sell commercial goods you know famously
certain tobacco products in coca-cola
and that it kind of you know spurned
this because Mad Men style advertising
bonanza that shakes a lot of the 20th
century and I think that's true but I
don't think that it's the whole story
and that's kind of what I wanted to do
is sort of shade it a little bit so you
know Kanye and and Curtis and also of
course Noam Chomsky and Derouen
are completely correct in their
positioning of Edward Bernays he was for
its nephew famously and wanted to put it
in his in his mind you know popularized
Freud for the Americans you know in the
American popular imagination but when I
was sort of looking into him and looking
into sort of what was percolating at the
time that Bernays was writing his you
know treatise news on public relations
what I found is that you know public
relations itself and what and what
Bernays was advocating was really
emanating out of what what would come to
be a much larger ideological project
and you know we you know neoliberalism
has become such a like catch-all phrase
for so many things and a lot of people
like to dismiss it as you know that's
either it's not a thing or it's like a
slur which i think is funny or you know
you know all these parts of on like hand
waving away but it was at the time that
Bernays was writing you know and there
were others as well that we're looking
at basically in the interwar years what
they saw as emerging threat to liberal
democracy and that was both the rising
threats of social democracy socialism
communism and on the other side of that
fascism right and in both of these
projects what they saw was you know
democratic social planning state managed
economies had to be by definition
socially engineered which meant that
they had to supplant
particularly in the Social Democratic
case free capital market and which means
personal liberty and their formulation
right right so this was sort of Adam
yeah no go ahead sorry go ahead
no no go ahead yeah I thought this was
like a numbered yeah no you go you go
you have something please finish okay
yeah sorry I'm sort of emerging sort of
serious thought that was coming about
and what Bernays talks about in in his
theorizing of public relations and why I
kind of tie it to this larger
ideological project was that the idea
was that not just that you could
manipulate masses right that the masses
left unchecked didn't know what they
wanted and that they should be
manipulated so PR as a technology as a
neoliberal technology isn't just about
you know changing people's minds and
some sort of magical Freudian
psychoanalytic perspective
but actually you teaching people what
they want because you know better than
they do and that's where it's really
because we'll get to Mount Pelion in a
few minutes but they think this is
really important that you brought in the
Lippman work right because walter
lippmann is you know Bernays I think
because people do probably primarily
know who he is
through Chomsky or Adam Curtis and even
though we're such a PR saturated Society
it's still kind like that actually is
kind of a slur like oh you're a you're a
spin doctor or that's PR or whatever but
Lippmann was a public intellectual and
Lippmann was a serious guy and he had
much more noble ends however you know as
you point out in 1922 public opinion
which is his most famous work was really
a precursor to Bernays his own writings
on public relations and they're in a you
know it's it's obviously Lippmann's
concerns and orientations are different
they're maybe they're less kind of
commercial and crass but they reflect
that kind of elite preoccupation of okay
there's gonna be a democracy I guess
like we don't want to have a fascist
totalitarian Society but we also
certainly don't want like you know labor
unions to run this country or people to
like actually be democratized they need
to be guided and maybe that is where the
kind of guide come guided terminology
comes from is that right yes yes so
Lippmann is sort of credited with that
exact term guided democracy which you
know I point out is quite and also seems
you are pointing out is quite
paradoxical right and it's sort of you
know he was for my understanding it's
like he was initially very critical of
the role of propaganda and Public
Relation
but also like you say you know had
concerns about you know the the unwashed
masses being responsible for
so and this is that sort of elite this
is where that kind of elite managerial
technocratic view of liberal democracy
comes from that again there are there as
you know Lippmann says you know
statement ship consists in giving the
people not what they want but what they
will learn to want and I think that
that's very instructive to the ways in
which this sort of elite technocrats
whilst believing that they're I you know
I don't think it's cynical I think they
really believed that they were committed
to a better and just society but that
there is a resentment and a fear that is
attached to the threat of social
democracy and then that leads us maybe
more like aggressively to the mount
Pelerin society right so like if I'm
understanding the threads we have Walter
Lippman who is the public intellectual
who's you know I think probably clearly
in in your minds and in my mind super
dangerous and wrongheaded but um sincere
and concerned and so on and then Bernays
is the like hey I can flip my uncle's
stuff about you know neurotics in Vienna
to sell some cigarettes and make a hell
of a lot of money in the new world let's
do this and then we get to melt Pelerin
which really I mean it's its first so
maybe explain Nepal around a little bit
because it's so crazy because you I feel
like if you're in political media you
actually in some way spend a lot of time
kind of being like well you know of
course there's power and of course power
runs things but like you know don't be
Alex Jones about it it isn't necessarily
a smoke-filled room now Pelerin kind of
was like one of the closer things in
history of like actually yeah yeah
with alps resort right so what what was
good what was it and what
they do and how does it fit into the
story yeah so we'll mount tolerance that
was in 1947 and that was a meeting that
came about almost a decade after the
initial meeting which was the colloque
walter lippmann that was actually the
name of it in Paris so in 1938 just to
continue the thread as you were laying
out so in 1938 you have the meeting in
Paris which inspired by Lippmann inquiry
into the principles of the good society
in which he makes a pretty strong
critique of New Deal's day to them right
and so you've got Lippmann there and
also use the classical liberal and
libertarian economist and philosophers
of the time so Michael Polanyi rough
Rousseau
von Mises but also it's very very
crucially Friedrich von Hayek and here
this is actually quite literally where
the term neoliberalism is coined not at
not tolerant but in 1938 and Paris and
it here's where they start discussing
how you know it's kind of funny when you
think about it but classical liberalism
had kind of gone out of fashion and
during the interwar years because it was
completely and wholly incapable of
dealing with you know the economic
collapse that was that it faced the
country as well as the world war one
right and so they're trying to refashion
a new sort of way of looking at it or
kind of a rebranding if you want and
then so here they claim this new term in
this new project and then about a decade
later some of those same people as well
as other bigger names that you might
recall such as Milton Friedman meet now
under the direction of Hayek in Mont
Pelerin and this is where I mean it's
quite
oh I think it's about 40 or so
intellectuals I mean it's a huge huge
meeting and here you know this is where
Hayek's art really to start formulating
a lot of his because ideas and he you
know I I think Corey Robin had a really
a piece recently I think those in the
Boston review that's quite good about
Hayek singular vision and the knee
liberals were very confident liked the
idea of there being a single architect
funny enough they liked the idea of
their their ideology being so diffused
and so you know there's no one single
person to point to that it would have
just had this sort of natural feeling to
it as it spread everywhere but Hayek
really is I mean his vision is total I
think you know in a way that you know
only a handful of philosophers can maybe
make claim to but so yeah no no go ahead
go ahead
no but just you're right that mom teller
and you know it's a really singular
event and that what it led to was
basically you know the idea that like I
said there wasn't a single architect but
that there would be a generational
commitment across the globe to
you know what would become you know the
sort of neoliberal attack primarily in
economics but also within academics
political science education particularly
in the Americans and and also in within
social democracy in Western Europe and
also how it would filter in this way
that like sure on one hand you know
people neoliberalism is overused and
it's both because some people who are
you know whatever they misuse it or they
throw it around too much and then other
people like Jonathan Chait want to kind
of you know be dunces and pretend them
doesn't exist right and then there's
like but there is the way in which part
of the reason is used so much is because
it is an all-consuming ideology like it
has been the hegemonic ideology of our
time and it does not only set
macroeconomic policy but even when you
know as an example some like a great
theorists like Mark Fisher was like self
critiquing the left or you know in terms
of subcultures or political parties even
he could document and show the way that
this ideology had seeped in and was
creating practices and ideas even in the
areas where people thought they were
resisting it so it is really this
all-consuming thing and I think that I
wanna we're gonna get to the unguided
plutocracy in a minute but I want to put
it in relation to quints livonians book
where I'm forgetting the name of it
unfortunately but uh that was global
yeah yeah so it's like and what yeah
totally thank you so he basically
documents that first that yes these
these people that you've been talking
about did have a global project and the
problem with it in the popular discourse
though is that it wasn't the effort it
wasn't like oh were the guys who were
responding the social democracy and
kansian ISM and so on or even communism
by saying you know let the market be
free let's deregulate let's not let's be
less bureaucratic that even people
who've critiqued them have seeded that
ground to them and actually that's
totally wrong their project was
tremendously bureaucratic and
tremendously and governmental it just
was in a way that um favored the
interest frankly of the wealthy and
landowners and corporate interests
versus the sort of beginning steps of
social democracy of Democratic
mechanisms favoring like workers as an
example and I feel like what your piece
is doing is not only showing that but
also showing the cultural dimension of
it which is getting this like
broad-based buy-in to an ideology
yeah I mean is that is that like is that
a right way yeah yeah yeah I think you
know Wendy Brown the political theorist
she's done some great work sort of
explicate how you know neoliberalism
isn't just you know an economic theory
like you say or isn't just its domain
it's not just limited to those domains
that actually you know it's um it it was
sort of a larger rationality right when
we say ideology or rationality but that
that also demanded and have a new
conception of the self right and this is
where it gets very dangerous and if you
see it where she talks about you know
that it economize it's neoliberalism
economizes every aspect of our life so
you have instead of thinking of the self
as human as a self as a being we start
to conceive of ourselves as human
capital things to be and choices that we
make in our life as ways in which to
either you know appreciate or depreciate
our social value right and you see this
as markets start popping up even in non
economic spheres within dating it's a
perfect example social media is a
perfect example you know and all of
these ways we start to you know this
also has the intended and cascading
effect of them breaking further breaking
down social bonds because no longer are
we people with social ties but we are
just bits of human capital in
competition with other bits of human
capital right and so that also then
further her like entrenches the idea
that all of these markets and and the
way that's the sort of world is being
calm
is completely natural and rational
because when you start to think of
yourself as that way then of course that
is how the world is right and so it's
quite dizzying you know and I think
there's a good reason why well I think
there's a lot of reasons why Jonathan
Chait says that neoliberalism is gonna
think oh I won't get into the non
generous reasons why I think he says
that by the way you can if you want you
could take the contracts we're not
allowed that here but maybe you are so
no problem I mean I think why would you
admit to being the thing that everyone
hates you know it okay I buy that that's
not even that ungenerous that's just
true yeah no but I do think that you
know there's a reason why it's very
difficult to kind of point to and figure
out just how we got here and who is
lovable you know and I don't think that
that's not intentional but I do think in
America it is unique you know I will say
that I do I do think in Europe you know
they at least have a bit more of a
vocabulary and a history within their
popular discourse on their popular
pundit re4 what what we call
neoliberalism and you know America we
really don't and I do think you know you
bring up Jonathan Chait although there's
plenty plenty more people to me when you
have a media class and a you know public
intellectual class um that not only you
know was schooled in and went through
the ranks of this very system right
because this revolution really starts to
take place in the 70s late 60s early 70s
at least within the global North you
know either they still believe this is
just the
casings are but nothing can you know
this is the end of history there is you
know we have post politics this is just
how everything is naturally or they have
a vested interest in maintaining this
right because it maintains their
position so you've got kind of both
things happening as I think you
mentioned in this also you know that's
what globalist really lays out clearly
totally and then it's interesting
because I do think of like eat like a
great essay like exiting the vampire
castle where it's sort of like first you
you know first these markets can get
replicated in in subcultures that
actually undermine solidarity and
broader efforts and of course there's
all sorts of complications there but it
is like a real factor that fish are
identified and then also these
mainstream this is like the the kind of
like pseudo woke politics where it's
like okay maybe we can absorb you know
and it is particularly people will
actually chain to his credit has not
upgraded his racial understanding of
this country at all so in a way he's
speaking like a weird weird consistency
including and like not pretending to be
woke but you know like there are you
definitely I mean David Brooks I mean he
wasn't known for like particularly
inflammatory writing but this guy
literally came up through like the
Weekly Standard ranks this is not
someone with any type of you know
documented sophistication or nuance
about race at all well now all of a
sudden he sports reparations and a-one
and it's like okay that's a great
cultural step that a conservative in New
York Times would grapple with that but
then it's also like oh you wanted there
should be psychic restitution not
material ones okay I see how this works
you can definitely still operate in your
same logic even as you upgrade the
context around it and that's how
pernicious it is yeah definitely what is
unguided plutocracy in the last couple
of minutes um good question I so what's
been interesting is that now that we've
kind of laid all of this out you know
there's you know our society does not
look like anything that the neoliberal
is actually envisaged right because they
didn't want chaos and they didn't want
they certainly didn't want Donald Trump
to be president you know the you know
the vision for sort of lean you know
lien states that secured privates pretty
whilst maintaining you know calm global
market you know that doesn't that is not
what our actually existing society looks
like right quite the opposite as we've
got not just what's happening in America
but also you know the rise of the
far-right was all throughout Western
Central and Eastern Europe as well as in
Central America with full Cynara and so
you know after the 2008 crisis and I do
think especially with the failures of
the Obama administration to address that
crisis in any meaningful way this sort
of technocratic
elites have lost all legitimacy right
and this is where we see this sort of
chaos and this populist rage percolating
and and brewing throughout the world but
what's been interesting is that sort of
on the flip side of that flip side of
the right is that we have this sort of
rise of the or the the return of is sort
of liberal not necessarily technocratic
but definitely bourgeois liberal you
know clustered around sort of democratic
urban party power and they have run not
into democracy not trying to envisage a
new society or a better society but into
the arms of the companies like Amazon
and Google and Facebook and as these
companies continue to put this is where
I sort of tie it to mr. Guan day
for dr. Gawande in that you know the
corporation playing into the hands of
this you know if if we've got Donald
Trump in the White House and you know
dismantling the American regulatory
system and finishing off in a lot of
ways a lot of what the neoliberal
project initially was in terms of
complete and total privatization then
you've got on the flip side liberals
running into new emerging governance
structures from privatized company
that's that unbelievably stupid and
horrible SNL sketch and I say this like
every other friggin you know of course I
don't like SNL I almost wish I could say
like SNL to play against type to be
honest with you but there was that
sketch that really did stand out with
Steve Carell where the whole premise is
you know here's Jeff Bezos trolling
Donald Trump and we're laughing with
Jeff Bezos at Donald Trump and it's
incredible to shrinkage like there's no
you know again I mean don't write the
sketches for the politics but the
ideology of that show just distilling
that like there isn't a movement in this
country that's saying you know Amazon is
a fundamental threat to supply chains
democracy people are trying to kill
themselves all over the country at these
warehouses and Donald Trump is a
totalitarian racist fulfilling you know
all of these so maybe comedy or
rebellious nest in general maybe should
object to both of those the whole sketch
is just like you know Amazon is cool i
watch cool shows on amazon prime donald
trump's a jerk but Jeff Bezos gonna win
cuz he's smarter I mean that really is
the distillation of the whole corruption
and failure you're talking about yeah I
mean and I think you know so much of it
comes down to Donald Trump is so
personally disgusting or you know it's
just aesthetic right they find so
disgusting because
you know you know Donald Trump's
dismantling the state and allowing
corporations to rise these are not
seeing in this agreement with each other
right like these are not two ideological
forces battling it out like it's quite
the same project actually and so it's
really dangerous I think and it really
needs to be pushed back on this idea
that there are good corporate overlords
or that these CEOs have any anything to
do with our best interest
you know if it's horrifying actually and
I think you know Amazon is a good
example but also Facebook totally um you
know it was recently um I don't know if
you thought recently they just announced
this like pivot to private terminal
probe that's opening against them around
their data practices yeah well it's
interesting this pivots our private you
know people I saw you're really
applauding it and you know Zuckerberg is
learning and he's responding not just to
consumers but citizens and their
concerns about Samak recei and whatever
whatever right hope no you think I'm
sorry I think you know you really have
to take a step back you know and look at
what what if you know what are these
structures of production actually right
and I think what you see is you know
first of all private does not mean
privacy right so what just private mean
okay well Facebook's entire structure is
around extracting data right and
hoarding data so private interaction if
you're having more private interactions
then you're possibly having more
meaningful interactions right and if
you're having more meaningful
interactions then then Facebook is able
to extract more meaningful data and so
this isn't a move or a pivot away
their initial you know business practice
it's really you know they're not it's
you know an intensifying of their data
extraction and yet it's being billed or
it's being sold to us as a civic good as
a virtue virtuous move that they're
doing but it's not and so this has the
sort of again cascading effect of you
know further disorienting on not just as
consumers but as citizens but then also
regulators and politicians right so it's
quite dangerous we have to really take a
step back and try as we can as much as
we can to escape or at least push back
on some of the ideological framework
that we existed somehow to take a to
take a you know a more critical look at
these systems of exploitation and
production we can really understand what
it is you know at stake and what is
going on here I don't want to be
presumptuous Liz but we only have a
minute left it sounds like you're pretty
stoked for Beto to run for president
oh I think he's hitting exactly the
themes that you're writing and talking
about here the piece is excellent its
century of spin the Baffler we've links
to it and actually I hope we can
definitely talk more I think this stuff
is incredibly important and you do a
great job laying it out Liz Franz ik
thank you so much for joining us thank
you so much appreciate it thanks alright
folks seriously read the piece and if
you haven't watch watch century of the
self it really is a great documentary
pretty sure it's available on YouTube or
online somewhere else as well at least
yeah that's how I watched it too so
unless anything that's changed yeah you
can watch the whole thing on YouTube
yeah
become a member of the majority report
today
that's how conversations and analysis
happens like you've just heard in the
first half of the show go to join the
majority report there's a link on the
show home page as well as a specific URL
just coffee co-op win-win-win for
everyone and join majority report today
of course also become a patron of the
Michael Brooks show today this weekend
on the illicit history we're doing an
illicit history of Medicaid and a broad
strategy for single-payer that can
overcome the problems of universal
programs in the past with Professor
Jamila missioner from Cornell University
she's brilliant and of course there was
a Tuesday show with John iadarola and
Joshua Cahn go to our YouTube page
Michael Brooks show YouTube page where
you will see a trailer that we're doing
for video versions of illicit histories
for comrade and above patrons but some
of them will certainly also be unlocked
yeah it's too late for you to be among
the first thirty thousand subscribers to
that channel but if you want to be among
the first forty thousand kidding in the
next couple of months get in there we'll
actually in reach yeah because it's the
first 31,000 now we cracked thirty one
thousand and also great clip on Joshua
Khan who's a executive director of
wildfire project and a really brilliant
guy and organizer he did a a coaching
lesson for us on how to organize using
the Simpsons and a graphic that has been
used for trainers going back to MLK and
Rosa Parks and how to actually build a
coalition and wield power so we're doing
a lot of things over there patreon.com
slash TMDs matt what is oh and of course
get your tickets to the LA Live show
April 20th bootleg theater with ana
kasparian all of the TPMS team big waze
waze neil hombre and Nando viola it's
gonna be an incredible show there's a
link on the majority report homepage and
we're about halfway sold out with still
several weeks out so get your tickets
today Matt yeah on the literary hangover
youtube channel as of a few hours ago
the Wakefield episode is up there so you
can check that out
this weekend we're talking about King
Philip's War and in case you're
wondering I'm a team King Phillip and
I'm interested as to why because I mean
he are you familiar with King Phillip I
know nothing about it's interesting
because like a lot of this I'm learning
a lot of Massachusetts and sort of New
England history through all this stuff
and King Philip's War was basically like
I think it's 40 years after the Pequot
War where basically the colonists just
Pequod genocide
yeah genocide right King Philip's like
hey if we don't do something about these
colonists we're not gonna have any land
they're basically just surrounding us
with new settlements so they decided to
look you know at that time they had guns
by this point the the embargo against
selling Native Americans guns just
didn't work and Native Americans were
better at using guns than settlers were
because they hunted and settlers farmed
and so it for a while it looked like the
colonists we're gonna get pushed off the
off the continent but eventually they
were able to the the the colonists did
win the war but we go into Mary Rollins
since captivity it's sort of the first
American bestseller she got captured by
Native Americans by King Philip's people
and actually she became like part of the
for the eleven weeks she was gone become
part of the economy by sewing and
basically they incorporate her into the
economy yeah it's interesting so we go
deep into that so look forward to that
this weekend all right folks
calls and I am czar open we'll see in
the fun half
you
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report on
the fun half I'm gonna just start with
some not fun before we get to the fact
that the boss the Gambino family was
rubbed out and Staten Island yesterday
probably spent about 40 minutes talking
about that and I'm just kidding
but um let me just do this the serious
stuff here and I think we have some
sounds to go with it so before we dunk
on Howard Schultz and talk more about
the problems of bado
let's talk about something hugely
important and I guess we don't have any
sound to go along with it I thought I
wanted something on Bernie talking about
the Yemen resolution okay so basically
yesterday and the senator actually
already did this a couple of months ago
and the Trump administration will reject
it I'm sure but I'm gonna read now from
the hill this is hugely important again
the war on Yemen goes back to 2015 the
Obama administration essentially gave
some support to the Saudis and the
Emiratis in this I mean you could use
the word borderline genocide all frankly
in terms of the rate of murder killing
cholera and disease outbreak and as
typical of the Obama administration they
put a few brakes on it but I think they
made the calculation the Saudis were
having a major tantrum about the Iran
deal
they were along with other you know
reactionary forces in DC from Israel and
other places in the Middle East actively
trying to undermine the Obama
administration
Prince Bandar wrote a column in either
the Washington Post or the New York
Times basically just with Republican
talking points and how thick less
President Obama's leadership was and so
I there was some element of we can
sacrifice the Yemeni people
for the politics here and it's a you
know goes without saying the quite
disgusting and shameful policy and
decision
decision it was accelerated and
massively enhanced under Donald Trump as
of course all global civilian casualties
we haven't even covered the fact that a
new Trump administration directive will
basically add an even greater layer of
secrecy to civilian deaths from drones
from US drones across the world and of
course there's all of the questions an
air of you know very likely corruption
between the Saudis and people like Jared
Kushner so this is the backdrop of what
has been a daily mass murder campaign
schools have been bombed but school
buses funeral homes tens of thousands of
civilians have dies there's food
shortages there's been a cholera
outbreak as I mentioned before and the
Senate has voted to stop basically
funding and supporting this war through
things like a jet refueling Bernie
Sanders along with Chris Murphy and Mike
Lee has taken the lead on this but
really again Sanders has been the main
engine Chris Murphy deserves a huge
amount of credit I believe he was
talking about this before Yemen was
really on the radar and then of course
also Rokon it in the house this is
Bernie Sanders talking about the vote
yesterday that the United States of
America will not simply follow the
despotic lead of a government in Saudi
Arabia and do what they want us to do we
are the most powerful nation on earth we
will determine our military and our
foreign policy and not be led around by
a murderous regime so that is an
important accomplishment
second of all what we are saying today
is that at the midst of the worst
humanitarian a disaster on the planet
where 85,000 children have already
stopped the death where we are fearing a
imminent famine and perhaps the death of
millions of people what we are saying
now is we got to end that war we got to
help the people of Yemen with food with
humanitarian supplies not with more
bombs so today we have said loudly and
clearly in a bipartisan way that the
United States will no longer participate
in the saudi-led war in Yemen thirdly
and very consequentially what the United
States Senate did today and I expect
that the house will once again do in a
few weeks is we are reasserting the
constitutional authority of the United
States Congress in terms of war making
for many years on the Democratic
presidents on the Republican presidents
the Congress has abdicated its
responsibility and allow presidents to
take our people into war without
congressional authority and today we say
that ends this is absolutely right the
second part of this is of course also
usually important I'm going to quote now
from the intercept the Republican led
Senate voted for the second time to end
American role in Yemen's war American
role in Yemen's war on Wednesday a sign
of continuing concerns over the impact
of the saudi-led intervention and
persistent frustration with the Trump
administration in close relationship
with Saudi Arabia of course this is
still in the hails of the Jamal
khashoggi murder that Mike Pompeo Donald
Trump have run interference and
supported MBS in the Saudi regime on the
resolution which passed by a vote of
four of fifty four to forty six directs
President Donald Trump to withdraw US
troops from quote unquote hostilities in
the saudi-led intervention which the
resolutions backers interpret to include
this is really key intelligence sharing
and midair fuelling I'm gonna skip ahead
John Cornyn who if beta or orc wanted to
help this country he would be
challenging John kordon a far-right
monster who literally tweeted out a
Mussolini quote a couple of weeks ago I
don't know how many people remember that
he of course voted against this measure
and he's part of the genocide caucus and
Yemen John Cornyn along with every
single Republican Democrat who would
vote against this measure he said this
well that while he was concerned by the
Amana terian crisis their quote a lot of
things that the United States how it
does to help our friends and allies that
are not lethal and that includes
intelligence sharing fueling and
logistical support
I think former defense secretary mattes
pointed out that that a lot of what
we're doing was actually avoiding
collateral damage something that the
Saudis left in our own devices were not
as good at as we are so that is the same
disgusting defense that joe Manchin
wheeled out when he voted against a
resolution a couple years ago in arms
sales to Saudi which is that all gonna
know by being involved and allowing them
to bombard and murder Yemenis every day
we're actually holding it back from
being in Morse which is empirically
false because first of all the
american-made weapons are like the
literal things that are doing the
killing here from companies like
Lockheed in General Dynamics and also
the Saudis have logistical limits they
don't have actually a particularly
powerful army they rely on a huge amount
of US support so their ability to carry
out the extent their operations would be
materially impacted by US and UK
withdrawal of support not to mention the
fact that if we exerted diplomatic
pressure maybe that would help the
broader diplomatic process in Yemen
instead of treating the Yemeni people as
a sacrifice so that was the serious
stuff sometimes people get a little
little complaining about what they
deemed to be not a properly funfun half
so we will try let's uh but also throw
up let's uh but this is some fun Howard
Schultz is still around I love that I
love help we're in such a mind-meld that
I said this is fun and you immediately
brought the Schultz clip you knew what I
was talking about much like you know
Brendan made the point in the office
yesterday after the show that Megan
McCain by being such a you know just
entitled idiot is doing us all a favor
because just like merely her existence I
mean look it's definitely the same of
Donald Trump but Donald Trump is not on
the view Donald Trump is the president
it states so there's a lot of other
you know cost-benefit analyses but even
Trump on some level what they are doing
by existing and by having those
platforms is just eliminating any of the
pretensions around inherited wealth
power and access in this country mega
McCain is the his D Columbia grad on the
panel who seems to I realize in that
clip that we used it for the woke pros
that came out today subscribe on the
bomb feet and I actually don't think she
understands the difference between
legacy and legacy admissions I don't
even I don't think she's actually trying
to Mugabe water team she does not
actually understand I think there's two
I think that's one hypothesis the other
is that she knows her dad wouldn't have
gotten into the Naval Academy without
legacy admissions and she's proud that
he did anyway
maybe so but she really speaks as if she
does not understand the difference it's
good at it
and similarly Howard Schultz is doing us
a favor
because he is pulling back the last
vestige any idea like look you know
obviously as with anything there's just
a huge amount of luck so Howard Schultz
as much as he would I'm sure hate this
he lucked out right place right time
right generation right timing I mean
would something's would a goofy brand
like Starbucks take off in 2019 the way
it did in the 1990s I don't think so so
a whole different sets of trends and
preferences I mean you know I'm not it's
still obviously a successful company I
also make the point that there's a lot
of popular successful coffee companies
there's a lot of popular successful
coffee companies and a lot of them are
actually not there they're a lot nicer
they aren't just places where you can
maybe calculate that it might have a
slightly cleaner bathroom in airports
than other places so yes so but even
beyond that whatever the guy's a CEO he
knows how to run a coffee company fair
enough
he has the I mean the arrogance with his
such just basic political stupidity to
run for the United president United
States is a great revelation of not only
to disconnect but
he packed the dangers of the
pathological ego of a billionaire but
it's also funny to watch here's Howard
Schultz talking about the heart of
America let's fight for what binds us
it's worth fighting for because the
center is the heart of America let's be
clear about what that part is America's
heart is principled it encompasses our
core values and it is our common ground
America's heart is aspirational in its
dreams yet realistic in its plans in
America's heart common sense and reason
prevail like people will call me a
person of means millionaires I'm not the
goddamn center of anything
no in fact Howard Schultz through his
money is a dangerous influence and
anti-democratic that amount of wealth
should not accrue in anyone's hands it's
an innate danger even amongst people who
are far more intelligent and civically
minded and less delusional than Howard
Schultz and secondly again I've done so
many segments on this I will continue to
be a broken tape the center the United
States by every single objective
ethnographic measure that is humanly
possible is some version of quote
unquote socially moderate not even
conservative and highly left on specific
questions of things like single-payer
health care does this quote and let's
just we'll drop in the middle of this
this is a OC distilled this actually
also in our conversation of Brianna joy
or don't this is from the view we're
talking about whether a OCS policies are
way out there if they're moderate
welcome I'm assuming Joy's got some good
poll numbers joy comes through here joy
it usually does alright let's check this
out
mcconnell said in october that not being
about that not being about to push
through social security and medicare
cuts was the single single biggest
disappointment of my time in Congress
this guy has sent the deficit through
the roof and now wants people like you
and me and all of us to give
money from Social Security and all of
the things that we're entitled to in
this country that is what right-wing
radical doesn't make it better today
because someone else wants something
worse I would like to know both sides
well in terms of AOC I agree with you I
think the Republicans like to pick
somebody as a boogeyman and say this is
the face of the Democratic Party let's
face it she's one freshman congresswoman
out of 435 but who the other media the
other thing is that when you you know
proclaim her to be this leftist person
when you look at her policies I think we
need to stop talking about personalities
and look at someone's policies she's
talking about the green New Deal there
was an Iowa poll Iowa that just came out
that said something like ninety one
percent polled say that they prefer a
candidate who supports the green new
deal in Iowa eighty-four percent say
they prefer a candidate who supports
shifting to a government-run health care
system of Medicare for all eighty-one
percent care about health care so let's
honor it now she tends to be her
physicians tend to be embraced by people
in the middle of the country so this
notion somehow that she is this leftist
left-wing crazy person is not oh my god
you know a V Hudspeth usually plays it
cooler but she gotta like she definitely
got Meghan McCain was sick that day
right so she had to take on the the
emotional freak out of the trust fund
baby but I think that manured it's
almost as if the two people on that
panel that didn't have their lives
handed to them are more in touch with
reality and more intelligent it's weird
I mean I you know it's funny how that
work it's funny how that works
so basically Howard Schultz represents a
fringe cult which is totally marginal in
terms of what actual people want and
democracy but because we live in a
plutocracy it still represents a
fundamental danger because it has a
totally outsized influence relative to
any public appeal simply because
of first and foremost money but also the
types of PR manipulation and
institutional prestige that liz actually
documents in her piece and the Baffler
you see how this all fits together this
is when the rubber meets the road
because it Howard Schultz's president
there is no doubt I mean he would align
with Republicans and he would probably
be able to chip off although be
increasingly hard but there's certainly
still a lot of terrible Democrats and he
would make a play to destroy Medicare
and Social Security and it may or may
not work and then he might do a couple
I'm you know maybe he would do like a
presidential proclamation saying slavery
was bad or something as it has an
example of how he's he's in the center
and then pretty much besides that
basically absolutely nothing would get
done except for actually probably the
same types of executive orders and
regulatory rollback that any Republican
president would do so here's Howard
Schultz's this idea of what he would do
about the Supreme Court is an idea that
anybody who has been reading the top
lines of the New York Times for the last
five years ago that's a dumb idea
I would not nominate a Supreme Court
justice unless he or she could be
confirmed by two-thirds
two-thirds of the United States Senate
the courts have become yet another
battlefield in the ongoing war between
Democratic and Republican leaders that's
not how our democracy should work these
battles have undermined our faith in the
rule of law and the impartiality of the
entire judicial system and all of this
has to change you are a douchebag I
don't have anything else of that I think
it's an MIT it's it's so fascinating to
me that his whole project here is that
I'm going to garner just enough of the
popular vote and electoral college to be
elected president then when I appoint
someone to the Supreme Court I'm going
to get 2/3 of the elected officials in
the Senate to support him
the math is just insane and it's so
weird like the further this goes on the
more apparent it's gonna be that this is
like a make-a-wish thing for a
billionaire totally we can just like oh
yeah he can go be president run for
president hard you got it buddy that's
an it that's an interesting idea and
like have these people just pat him on
the back the whole time because they
want his money right and then and then
and it's also like I'm the one I've said
look I think in general the left needs
to be in a better relationship to the
needs that are served by things like
self-help thinking and I do think
generically like you know what actually
positive psychology yes there's a huge
downside to it I know don't please don't
get pedantic with me but the truth of
matter is like in people's lives having
things like goals and and meditating and
exercising and you know mapping your
life like these things can be super
valuable and what's but what's so
interesting is like as you scale it like
magical thinking might be helpful when
you're trying to sell people overly
sugary coffee drinks and certainly in
politics you need to set vision but like
this is just pure magical thinking
applied to a realm where it's like I
mean you had a president like Obama and
a dete and it took a different
historical moment who's just better than
Howard Schultz in every conceivable
metric he's infinitely more intelligent
he you know was ready to be president
he's has a keen understanding of law and
history and policy you know every way
Barack Obama is better and even he one
of his fatal flaws was the delusion that
he could that this Congress and American
politics was like a Harvard Law Review
debate and not a brutal material
conflict mostly populated by profoundly
racist people or just unlimitedly
cynical people on the other side who
even though he was pursuing a centrist
to center-right agenda would do
everything they could to destroy him
favors gonna break right so the
brilliant Barack Obama
I mean this is the thing that's amazing
about this what we have right now we
have beta O'Rourke
I'm gonna copy Barack Obama completely
except I'm actually just like a rich
white kid who has no there's nothing
unique or interesting or overcoming
about my story and I don't represent any
type of historical breakthrough but I do
a good an impersonation of him and then
we have the oligarch who's like I'm
literate like we talked about though I
mean I don't know but Howard Schultz
might have actually had the staff of The
West Wing make a private movie with him
that only he and his friends watch in
his practice screening room
this guy it's like this is some like you
know this is this is almost like the
tracy Jordan character on 30 rock I mean
he is a group of enablers that are
acting out his fantasy life for him and
we all gotta listen to it man I that's
almost reason enough for me to actually
watch 30 rock
Tracy Morgan Howard Schultz I mean Tracy
Morgan's way cooler than Howard Schultz
tracy Jordan tracy Jordan the tracy
Jordan character but it reminds me
there's one where like he wants to go to
space so really all right we got a fake
a moon launch that's Howard that's
Howard Schultz and I'm sorry I'm just
not impressed by somebody who discovers
that coffee is a saleable commodity like
this has been happening since like the
1650s folks it's not like he's like oh
look at this guy he figured out a way to
like sell sand for thousands of dollars
like no it's George Washington Carver
this is new discover the peanut or
whatever the hell like you didn't didn't
break this isn't this isn't like you
know this isn't the guy who designed the
Toyota Prius this established business
models in the world in world history
right and also I'm and I am sure without
knowing much that the breakthrough in
the business models was like let's make
a bunch of disgusting mass-market drinks
that are like have more calories sugar
fat yeah that have more calories than a
burger and what we'll do is we'll
ruthlessly exploit a supply chain
overseas
then we'll hear you go there's Starbucks
what a genius what by the way let's risk
of the imagination of a new imagination
or whatever the all the time being
subsidized by the lack of public spaces
in cities right because libraries are
closed and because there aren't nice
parks you go and huddle in these like
dingy depressing hell where you where it
actually literally is a chore to just
say can I just get it you know I'll meet
you halfway
forget just even a cup of coffee can I
just have a latte and can I call it a
latte and could it be small instead of a
tall whatever the I'm never getting
into the most leery territory here I
know I know I'm sorry
I'm becoming character myself but still
like Jesus Christ get the out of
here but keep running keep doing what
you're doing keep speaking you know it's
very funny to watch to think about
Bloomberg and cuz Bloomberg again no one
hates Bloomberg more than me but like
you wouldn't you'd watch and any number
of speeches and think wow what an
authoritarian egotistical but
you never would want and and of course
delusional just because of his money and
disconnect from reality but you would
never watch a Bloomberg speech and just
go wow what a
you watch Howard Schultz you're like
dude you're an idiot you're an idiot a
not let's let's let's loop back to beta
so beta is trying to replicate and copy
hope and change and it's fascinating
that like it's one thing to learn from
history 30 or 40 years ago but what
about history from like five years ago
or ten years ago or eight years ago so
first again I'll keep saying this you
have a literally a pale imitation of
somebody who is a historical
breakthrough period case closed
by definition
at an extrordinary political talent who
meant something by definition including
also to all of of course the evil forces
that congealed by trump and we know that
both as a tragic miscalculation of the
variety we're even someone like Harry
Reid will say to David Axelrod
essentially I'm paraphrasing he couldn't
say it this bluntly but like Barack
Obama really underestimated how racist
these people are and then on the other
hand the fact that look in terms of
reality we can dissect this and that but
the bottom line is is that there was a
wall street global financial meltdown
and the upshot of that even with some
decent bailout policies and a you know
stimulus policies and with some slight
regulations the over 99% you know a vast
majority of the money from the recovery
has gone to not even the top 1% but like
the top fraction of the 1% while people
work more and work more and we've moved
into this Silicon Valley gig economy
which the Obama administration was also
a Bominable on they aided and abetted
the dominance of these companies and so
now here we are beta o rourke
nothing historical no breakthrough in
his being president with a more
conservative than average voting record
saying that there's some type of
transcendent civic spiritual space that
we all need to reconnect to and an on
Jared artis is on MSNBC explaining why
that's just not gonna cut it in terms of
the real world or reality beto only
wants to be positive he doesn't like
being negative he doesn't like naming
villains he doesn't like being against
anything it's all about what you're for
and so I think the question hovering
over Beto is can he actually deliver
against those issues if he wants to be
just relentlessly positive when you have
a problem of foxes eating ends
cumbia as a recipe for slaughter and so
I think he needs to figure out how he
can have that uplifting message that
he's committed to while actually having
a theory of the case of what's going on
in American life and who he needs to
actually dislodge if he's going to help
people on the questions he cares about
for what is that fight des moines recent
des Moines Register poll had Biden in
Bernie way ahead twenty seven twenty
five percent had beto down at five
percent
and frankly look I mean there's two
pieces of key proof here one he's not a
billionaire but part of that dislodging
might be himself and his wife's real
estate empire that they inherited that's
a problem and specifically a problem
with gentrification in El Paso and also
just even frankly the I'll just be blunt
he might flip a Senate seat and get rid
of I mean he almost got rid of one of
the worst and most dangerous people in
the Senate and maybe he get rid of
another of the most worse and dangerous
people in the Senate and we would
support the hell out of him we would we
would do a propaganda for better on a
regular base one hundred-percent knock
out Cornyn my god and not and by the way
not to just knock out Cornyn to again
I'm keeping totally honest about this
like for a red state Democrat he's great
and the fact you know look part of it is
a self-fulfilling prophecy Beto's
incredibly charismatic he's got it
popular he's got some support he's got
some emails so of course he's gonna want
you know any politician worth their salt
wants to run for president
so when Jeff Merkley does a video saying
like hey I really thought about this and
I'm better off in the Senate on one hand
I want to praise him because I think
it's a lack of narcissism and
selfishness that really recognizes like
Jeff Merkley can be a great progressive
senator and of course there's also the
reality that like there ain't any
groundswell for Jeff Merkley to run for
president okay so look let's be real but
could you imagine if beta or orc let go
of the narcissism of the presidential
siren call and it's
said you know what I could really
contribute by taking out this and a race
I might actually win because I got to
tell you I know that I know the money's
there and I know the people are in his
ear but like I don't know about this I
don't know about this
well nothing to love him when he's
running against Ted Cruz if he's running
in a lane that includes you know if
you're really committed to a younger but
different progressive voice there you go
Buddha jag in that same kind of Lane or
if you want hey I want a charismatic
white guy I'm frankly Joe Biden has a
huge institutional advantage or if
you're also in the center lane but
you're like hey what the Cory
Booker Carla Harris historical you know
breakthroughs I don't know that's a
tough sandwich they're just from a
strategic standpoint so we'll see um
okay let's do some items I dream of
Jezreel Beto is like Jim Halpert from
the office if Jim secretly hired a
documentary film crew to document his
average life I'd vote for a tall
handsome white guy I'd rather vote for
Ronald Reagan a steam Jar you're poor
call or an immigration attorney hero
Reagan's Rascals over bado bros any day
of the week I mean I think we should
actually do that we should have some
type of like if bado is gonna run
Reagan's and distinguished attorney he's
a great communicator why not why not
Reagan era he's very charismatic
I like the computer Whitehall I look at
social media and social media with you
who's by the way and just one last thing
he moves less when he talks bado
is a great speaker but there's way too
much jerkiness going on there like the
comparison with Beto and Jim Halpert cuz
Jim Halpert is also a narcissist and
constantly mugs for the camera I feel
like it really goes with Beto MIFF
Schmeck there hiya gang this week on
hamburgers my co-host yon dude I can't
read that one that's too much
we talked with Dave from and revisit my
proclamation that anyone willing to come
from the right and criticized Trump is
worth signal boosting from the farmers
gotta go we then talk about his latest
column the Atlantic I ever read anything
about it yet but I'm happy I'm so happy
that people like David are here to stand
in the way of Trump's big I kind of saw
that one coming yeah that's all right I
can't I think it's getting a little too
on-the-nose but yeah David Frum as
always important breaking news is a
victory for the left flipping the bird
has been protected has been
constitutionally protected speech I
guess look that up Noah from California
I was curious the other day about when
you guys were talking about democratic
socialism I wasn't under the impression
that it meant socialism for democratic
election kind of like what Varys focuses
talks about where would Bernie fit that
mold I'm not totally sure what you mean
but I do think that Bernie is somebody
who if you started putting really good
democratic socialist proposals on the
table like the UK Labour Party is saying
we will literally back workers if
workers vote to take over a midsize
business and run it as a collective we
will give them a government like no
interest loan to do it
that's a Democratic Socialist proposal
and I would imagine Bernie would be
quite receptive stuff like that and he
did support things like that when he's
married Burlington Oh Chuck Schumer
Budaj eggs not really for Medicare for
all he says he is but when asked details
he gets that he wants to get there by
instituting a public option first all
right well that's a big strike against
Booty bad the stuff you said about just
Senate and and SCOTUS is good again
it's great and we're just comparing him
to bait oh yeah this impaired relative
argument yeah it's a rate of Sanders is
the best kid this is class beat yeah
right but if we're going Class B I mean
I would vote for Budaj egg over bait Oh
in a second oh it's not he's at least
first of all at least he's saying
something he would be the first gay men
or open gay man as president this is
convincing
you're bado curious friends so just go
full buddha gate yeah
this is like that you know that we
talked about with Joshua Conda the sort
of supporters and opponents that sort of
shirt yep
well you don't want to move the bed Oh
guys to Bernie because that's probably
not gonna happen because there's
probably a reason that they're better
people right but you but you can't you
might be able to by your own logic
enough of them that aren't super
invested into being Buddha keg stand so
go for that I totally agree
Adam cokehead I've been listen I've been
trying to quit smoking for years I heard
the TMDs live show and I decided I
wanted to become a patron but I had to
quit smoking to afford it thanks for the
show and for the motivation wow that's
awesome congratulations congratulations
brother um us in in I don't know what
that is Peter Budaj egg is more Obama
than bado
he's the youngest candidate son of an
immigrant smaller amount of government
experience and we make history as an
openly gay man and has a funny name yeah
that's true enough I'm the identity side
we're talking and the identity said look
I don't like it any politics but I like
mayor Pete and I don't even read about
this guy's
[Laughter]
Jimmy door watched the video watching
video on the Democratic Russian troll
farm fYI I put an adult diaper on first
no I'm not doing any of that
sorry Casey everyone calls Beto white
Obama can we admit that he's actually
closer to being Hispanic Rachel total
ah I'm sorry I know it's tool out of the
mic but that yeah that's that's pretty
good maybe it's time to reintroduce
yourself Robert black Marxist I think
Democratic voters might support bado
because they have a weird obsession with
compromising unity I think bado Warren
Harris and Bernie will be the final four
candidates I hope you're right in
Harris's case I'm not sure about that
I'm not sure how long she less and I
also got to tell you I think I think the
cluster of younger affluent voters and
opinion people that beta really is
appealing to is going to be highly
competitive with Harris and I think the
broader Democratic voter that might be
again a bit more that I think you're
making a good point about you know unity
and so on I gotta tell you guys I think
that's a lot of that's going to Joe
Biden and I'm have like I'm all about
putting all sort of like Joe Biden is
the worst I'm know like for Joe Biden
but I think that Joe Biden might be the
candidate where the disconnect between
some of our zone and bubble both in
terms of both in some ways on policy
though I think that's less so but also
in some ways on you know effect and
style and where we fit in the culture
because so I you know I don't know but I
wouldn't I would definitely not discount
Biden versus Beto frankly you're calling
from a 7 1 8 area code who are you where
you're calling from
you're calling from a 7 1 8 area code
who are you worried calling from
hey what's up this is aa B from Brooklyn
hey obvi what's going on what's on your
minds
I got a defend Howard Schultz a little
bit okay you know you guys click you
guys keep ragging on him but he is he
created the best semi integrated public
restroom network in the country so you
know I think that it's just wrong you're
going at it that is Howard Johnson's
greatest accomplishment you know and by
2020 it will be fully integrated all
right
that's right my point my real point is
like ah the well when at one point was
just did you see my articles that are
talking about Mueller and Brazil can you
send that to me on the disk word please
cuz I haven't seen it so please send it
to me on the disk back in your auntie
MVS d'squared nope oh yeah okay so in
2016 my you know I'm not one of those
people I can't say I predicted Trump's
way but I did think I was like look
Hillary's got this but it's any
collective group of people can screw it
up it's this like mainstream Democrat
crew right and you know I read shattered
like whatever right definitely and and
now I feel I feel very similar it was
burning like Bernie's got this but which
means there's any people who can ruin
this it's then and I was talking to my
my wall partner who's also a podcast
host and against the law in so if you're
interested she and she was like look
they're just gonna reform they're gonna
they're gonna split the vote by running
all these people and reform by giving
each other their delegates at the
convention like that's the route to
Bernie getting screwed and Trump winning
again and I just want to get on the
record I don't know if that's that's not
gonna happen but if it happens I think
that's not happening wait so you're
saying not Bernie's campaign but the
Democratic Party actually screwing them
over like that yeah like you know they
have like they have all these
people running they got Kamala for
California they've got all these people
running like in strategic dim places
that are local right and then what you
know they just stay in the race the
whole time collect their delegates and
then give you know reform like Voltron
at the convention where they just give
them all to Biden or whoever right I
gotta tell you I think that if they so
I'll put it to you this way this is
where you get especially if you're like
more you know I've never supported you
know I'm my opinion on like dummy third
party runs is very clear but if Bernie
Sanders wins the primary in terms like
he gets the most votes and the most
delegates and they did something like
that I the first thing I would say is
all right time for the third party run
yes no I even if it's a plurality if he
is the lead candidate who has won the
most places and they did a maneuver like
that because first of all every nobody's
gonna I don't think anybody's gonna win
this primary with anything other than a
polarity there's too many people in it
so if they actually did that to him they
then it it just is what it is
it's go for broke because that's totally
unacceptable so but I don't I think what
people and I could be totally wrong
you're right I mean these there's a lot
of irrational hatred of Bernie there's a
lot of institutional interests and some
people are just nuts but I do think that
you know the other thing just is
importantly to maybe brace yourselves
for is gonna be that process like you
know again the dialectic of pushing
Bernie in the right direction on any
number of issues and and not you know
succumbing to just being in a campaign
and having critique and so on but then
also being like you know what I mean on
one hand it's actually amazing because
the more Bernie's the front like
Bernie's the front-runner now and he's
better than he was as an insurgent in
2016 and a number of issues but you know
what conversely if he gets the
nomination you're gonna start seeing a
whole bunch of stories about
well you know Bernie met with this
various odious person and you know this
person is being appeased and you know
and obviously if I had my druthers
someone like Nina Turner would be his
vice president but you know he might
pick somebody who we don't like who is
an ambassador to the rest of the party
and so I think that's also the process
but if they really if they did a game
like that I would be the first person to
say it's time to run independent because
let's just let's do this that's the
nominee no I'm with you yeah I don't
think that's necessarily going to happen
but it's you know I really look out to
that scenario okay appreciate the
comment thank you you are calling from a
four for three area code who are you
where you're calling from
hey Michael this is a P from Maryland
hey Pete what's going on so your minds
so funny enough I was actually gonna
mention something on the same amount of
thing that the last guy was talking
about and that is peculiar that the
Democrats they didn't like they didn't
completely abolish super-delegates but
they're still there just in case I don't
think I can I this is where you know
Bernie people just don't I just those a
lot super delegate they don't make that
much of a difference you know here's the
bottom line
just win and if it cuz cuz here's the
thing about 2016 right let's be really
precise all right atmospherically and I
get and there was definitely some stuff
that Donna Brazile said about the
Democratic National Committee and there
was definitely the debates and so on but
when you talk about it as if it was
literally impossible like it was rigged
so Bernie could not win that is a
empirical falsehood and that really
matters the first time yes stop doing
that
yeah let's stop doing that because not
only is it see I get less triggered by
Sam by that but it's like because I I
think I have a little bit
more of a sympathy for the sentiment
behind it but that's a specific
terminology it actually means something
and it's not true the truth of the
matter is the actual appropriate lesson
is that Bernie Sanders we're at an
incredible insurgency that came
absolutely out of nowhere and he got he
did incredibly well and he lost Hillary
Clinton got more votes and she won more
states and was the media unfair to him
and ridiculous absolutely the Democratic
establishment prefer her definitely was
there um were the debates scheduled in a
way that favorite her yes was there
coordination between the committee and
the campaign that was unseemly yes
definitely but was there actually a
process by which she stole the primary
from Bernie Sanders no full stop unless
you're gonna be so expansive in your use
of those words which you shouldn't be
that it means those things those
super-delegates just pointed to an
underlying reality that Hillary Clinton
won the party the internal party primary
which again I don't give a about
that internal thing but she wanted and
that's how the power work that's how
power works so if you go back to 2008
and granted there weren't material
stakes in play because Clinton and Obama
were pretty similar policy wise but what
happened in that primary was you
actually started seeing super-delegates
just flip like Obama's winning I changed
my endorsement if we get to a point and
you know what this is gonna be my new
answer to it if some scenario happens by
which Bernie wins and they flip
delegates to prevent him from checking
the nomination or he wins and the
super-delegates step forward and they
say we're unilaterally declaring beta or
orc the nominee then I will be the first
one to say all right it's independent
progress for America party or whatever
the you call it and we're running
Bernie but that's intervention I think
there'd be literal uni at the
conventions out
that would be such a catastrophe and as
much as I think these people are
delusional I don't think they're that
delusional so I could be wrong but again
2016 was an incredible accomplishment
and there were institutional barriers
which there still are even though he's
the front-runner by many metrics MSNBC
is always gonna be unfair to him CNN is
always gonna be unfair to him the wanker
II pundit class gonna lie about him and
distort him without a doubt but is
somebody stuffing ballots no that was
not documented right like we need to be
really clear about what this stuff
actually means
so it wasn't rigged and we just need to
be super aggressive and super clear and
not indulge in either personalization or
conspiracy theories and go win this
 thing and if he wins and they
actually pull something like that at the
convention then we go third party period
and just real quick just one of mention
on better running I think I find it very
ironic that they're discussing over him
this morning and they're basically
pointing out every single feature that
he shares with Bernie it's basically
white guy except he's not old and that's
basically like I find that very funny
considering Biden is one year lesson
basically a federal fails they're
basically gonna put all their eggs in a
Biden sea thanks for the call appreciate
it
someone on Twitter shared a a
side-by-side photo of a Time magazine
cover from 2015 around the same time and
it said the Republican Party's hope or
something to that effect it was Marco
Rubio that's I think that's the atrium
Harrison that's a very safe comparison
watched let it play out guys let it play
out that's a super safe comparison
you're calling from a 7-3 to area code
who are you where you're calling from
hey Michael what's going on what's on
your minds hey I just wanna say thanks
what you do really love this show and
also TMDs thanks man appreciate and two
things to say the first I was wondering
like
what is your leftist argument against
nuclear like I feel like you have a lot
of disdain for it and I don't understand
I just want to understand what's going
on there um well the others understand
more broadly in terms of I hate science
and scientists
no I'm just kidding uh hitting bands
like most positions look I'll just say I
think I said this in the video that
maybe you're referring to but I I'm the
first to admit that this is not an area
like it's an area where I'm willing to
learn more and I don't have I know my
information isn't conclusive and I know
that ironically people are super
emotional about this issue but here's
what I'll say well there's what I'll say
and I know that people throw all these
scenarios at me but the reality is is
that today there is waste from nuclear
power that is gonna be a problem for
literally thousands of years okay and I
also know and I'm somebody I believe in
the precautionary principle right so I
get climate change absolutely
complicates it but it's like you know
create I mean this is where a little bit
of Nassim Taleb is helpful frankly like
you know i was like it's like the
example that he uses though of like the
turkey at a farm and their life
experience can actually map out a
trajectory where it's like well for
however long it's been I've never been
hurt every day I'm taken care of and
there's no like why shouldn't I expect
that to just go out into the future
horizon so to think that's something
like nuclear powers it's like okay it's
safe it's great there's no problem until
there isn't and then that creates a
massive horrifying problem and I and I
grew up not for at least a couple years
and one of them any place I lived about
ten minutes from a nuclear power plant
I'll tell you like just even having
tests sirens every couple of days was
kind
of whatever so I'll put bio into that
and then the other thing too is up
specifically in the United States I'm
probably very easy to persuade me that
although in Japan it certainly didn't
work out this way but like okay maybe in
France there's more public control and I
actually don't know this I don't know
how the energy grid works in France but
in the United States that process is
gonna be highly privatized by definition
and do I trust those companies to have
the know and that's based and again I'm
sorry you can read any history of this
stuff and it's horrifying what these
companies track records are and I don't
think they've upgraded so I mean this is
this is the bottom line and I and I the
only last thing I'll say is every time
the answer that I always get to this
especially because I know people for
some reason are super emotional about
this is either that I'm wrong
technically so I just want to say I'm
not making any technical claims I have
no doubt that the science has improved
but what you're not answering is my
political and economic concerns
institutional and instant institutional
concerns there's no answer on that and
you know I also think to get us out of
the climate crisis it might include
nuclear but like people I think are also
using it as a bit of magical thinking to
wish away the fundamental changes in
transportation and energy and everything
else that we need to do so I think
there's some element of that as well as
a slight Segway concerning institutional
concerns as to like a more pressing
question I was wondering what you think
about the future of the Senate because I
was looking at facets talking about how
like by 2040 70% of populations in 15
states gonna pick 30 stand there is
basically like the percent of population
is gonna have a supermajority eventually
I don't like I don't know if that's not
huge concern to like what your thoughts
on it are I'm open to abolishing the
Senate yeah we need to start talking
about Senate reform I mean yeah first of
all it's not unprecedented to talk about
reforming the Senate there was a lot of
talk about this before civil rights was
eventually passed and that was
ultimately putting pressure and so we
was already reformed it used to be in it
right and so and yeah and I think I
think LBJ like that's why Carroll calls
him the master
because that was a completely sclerotic
decadent system that couldn't respond to
things and LBJ could figure out a way to
make it work for a brief period of time
but ultimately we need to start getting
that idea back and back into the
bloodstream yeah so I don't know enough
to say what that is by legislature like
House of Representatives and then an
executive seems fine yeah and you could
even have like I mean it wouldn't be a
House of Lords thank God but if you even
want to have some type of like state's
person I mean Tony Blair did that with
Lords right lame bear abolished Lords
yep or like significantly reformed it
well as funny as he was hilarious yes it
was a major producer he reduced the size
and I think you really reduced some of
their powers and then on the other hand
he also you know there was major
corruption investigations about who got
to be a lord so it was very very nouveau
riche performs but uh but no IV ously I
don't want that but I'm saying if you
wanted to have some type of analog of
like here are people with more symbolic
than actual power but they're supposed
to represent you know I mean frankly in
my views I mean well the Supreme Court
just needs to be term limited but like
if you want a branch of the government
that I that still should be elected and
not have lifetime appointments periods
just two fundamentally anti-democratic
but if you wanted to say these people
are not like the Supreme Court because
they don't actually shape law and
they're not like Congress because
they're not writing and they're not the
executive who's setting policy and
signing or vetoing but they are supposed
to like hold some type of broader civic
virtue and long term thinking I think
that's fine
but they can't actually have they can
have symbolic power and symbolic power
matters but they can't have actual power
thanks for the call men appreciate the
call um all right so speaking of the UK
yesterday Theresa May faced another
reversal her latest proposal for brexit
and I believe can you look up man I
believe brexit is supposed to kick in in
a matter of weeks her the 28th of March
let's play this brief clip from the real
news network
of parliament on the day yesterday where
mais latest brags proposal has been
rejected the eyes to the right
242 the nose to the left 391 so the nose
of it
the noes have it British lawmakers
crushingly rejected Prime Minister
Theresa May steel to quit the European
Union on Tuesday March 12th I continue
to believe that by far the best outcome
is that the United Kingdom leaves the
European Union in an orderly fashion
with a deal and that the deal we've
negotiated is the best and indeed the
only deal available thrusting Briggs it
into turmoil just 17 days before the
planned departure date following the
defeat opposition Labour leader Jeremy
Corbyn called on the government to rule
out a No Deal brexit government has been
defeated again by an enormous majority
and they must now accept their deal
their proposal the one the Prime
Minister's put is clearly dead and does
not have the support of this house and
quite clearly No Deal
must be taken off the table we've said
that before and we'll say that again
it's suggested that maybe the time was
right for a general election as the
clock has been run out on the prime
minister he said it will put forward our
proposals again which are about a
negotiated customs union access the
market and protection of rights those
the ones will put forward we believe
there may well be there may well be a
majority for them but there will also be
the potential of negotiating them the
Prime Minister's run down the clock and
the clock has been run out on her maybe
it's time instead we are a general
election and the people
that government should be of course he's
absolutely right and again I think it's
very important to keep reentering this
conversation brexit was an incredibly
stupid thing and it's dangerous and it's
just catastrophic ly stupid own-goal I
think there are great incredible left
cases for breadth that I've read but
they don't have a relationship to any
actual political configuration in
reality in the UK even now with left
leadership in the labour party but that
being said the UK has been in crisis for
years because of austerity poverty is
skyrocketing inequality is massively
expanding the domination of city and
global capital has already you know from
Thatcher through the new labor and
certainly through the Tories back again
has turned the UK into a major site of
global oligarchy plutocracy and
corruption so there needs to be an
election there needs to be a social
democratic government they need to put
forward real reforms and I think at this
point look I think objectively Corbyn
could have had a stronger position on
this but now they're saying first there
needs to be an election which is the
most important thing you can't leave the
u EU without a deal so it needs to be
delayed and then there needs to be an
actual election election where
everything is on a table not just this
ridiculous process generated by the
Tories indulging xenophobes then you can
potentially relitigate it but the thing
that I always caution is that there is
an assumption in media that if there is
another referendum it will automatically
correct the first referendum and there
is no empirical data that suggests that
so and for some reason again a total
sign of the pathology of our modern
world Tony Blair's on every TV Network
imaginal imaginable in the UK and
internationally while Lula they Silva as
a political prisoner I will make that
note but
if you're listening to NPR watching
Bloomberg whatever you've seen Tony
Blair who is still a historically
unpopular in the loathed politician
talking about a new brexit a vote you
have this new UK independence formation
which literally represents the only
policy that they seem to have is no
brexit they have nothing to say about
austerity and of course I'm sure they
will indulge in anti-immigrant
xenophobia as Blair does so but missing
and all of that is that the actual
numbers in public appetites have not
shifted that's part of the reason why
teresa may and her totally failed
leadership is in this untenable position
is that most of that shift is in the
base of her party and in an even more
fascist parties that are around the
perimeters of her party actually whose
votes share they ate up by him bracing
brexit so what happens if you first of
all delay the democratic process delay
the possibility of a new government that
actually will put people first and then
you just put throw all of your energy
into a new referendum or by the way the
same dynamics exist as the last one they
actually have not changed you might and
the best case scenario pick off a
handful of people who realized Jesus
Christ this is a disaster I was giving
the system an F you before maybe I
should vote more thoughtfully this time
but overall in place you'll still have a
bunch of people for both really bad and
absolutely correct reasons who want to
get out of the EU and then people like
Tony Blair who everybody hates lecturing
them as to why they need to make a
certain decision so a nice tab does the
UK needs to go to elections and
democracy needs to be reactivated and No
Deal I mean it this is also I just think
like you can call a bluff here like
Theresa May is a very bad politician and
totally incompetent but she's not a
crazy lunatic or a you know or a full
unbound cynic of the Boris Johnson
variety she's not gonna let I would be
shocked if Theresa made just as like in
17 days like okay let's just go
and we can blow Ireland up and we can
you know potentially not import fruit
and we can you know like she's not gonna
do that so delay the process have an
election you're calling from a 708 area
code who are you where you're calling
for from 708 are you there nope oh wait
I hung up in them sorry 708 callback
sorry sorry about your calling from a
Skype number who are you where you
calling from hey Michael hey hello hello
hello you're on what's your name where
you calling from hi my name is oh yeah
I'm calling from TV but from where in
Israel Tel Aviv Tel Aviv and please tell
me your name one more time oh yeah
ODL how are you doing what's on your
mind thanks for calling yeah I'm sure I
called I wanted to give you a shout-out
for the show you did last week about our
elections mm-hmm thanks Rachel Prasanna
yeah so the circus over here towards our
elections yeah it's really nasty over
here I wanted to ask you about actually
about Andrew yang oh okay I'm more
interested in yeah yeah yeah before you
tell me who you're gonna vote for who
you're thinking about who you thinking
you're gonna vote for in the Knesset I'm
usually America vote usually vote so
much okay um even though they're pretty
weak this time because the the leader of
it the Harvick alone she retired and now
new heads a younger woman somehow
sunberg and she's getting some slack but
it's hard I mean the erection is pretty
much the rights against the extreme
right that's like you know Gannett
dance-party the new one is hopefully
saying like we're center-right and
they're challenging for the throne which
is bebe and now his the language really
the the most extreme right-wing in the
country so yeah it's pretty depressing
okay yeah all right what's your question
about Andrew yang I noticed a lot of
young people are are like obsessed with
him sort of like on the web and I was
wondering one if you think he can take
some Bernie borders and - I heard him on
Joe Rogan he was talking about you know
universal basic income and he was saying
like he doesn't in college plan like no
tuition because it only affects the ones
who go to college not the ones who are
truck drivers in retail and they're
gonna lose their jobs and basically they
they don't get any help from college
being free yeah I think well I mean I
think the second part is actually
probably more important in terms of what
he's speaking to so I think big picture
no I don't think he's gonna take money
votes from Bernie I don't think he's
gonna end up with that many votes period
and it's not because I mean I think he's
actually running a super smart campaign
and he seems like a very likable guy but
I just don't I mean for what it's worth
like Marianne Williamson is putting some
cool ideas on the table and you know a
lot of people like her right like but at
the end of the day though I think that
you know voters are gonna come out and
turnout for these candidates I don't and
I don't think that yeah you know so but
I think that the so and some people said
something about you know his comments
about like white truck drivers are
considered like that isn't considered to
be legitimate suffering and I and by the
way like he may be sending signals to
some people that we don't like right
that's possible but I have zero problem
with that genuine like general sentiment
right like if it's not being pivoted
against or positioned against other
categories of racism or sexism or
suffering there's like that shouldn't
even be a controversial statement and
there is a section of you know not real
activists or politicians but there is
you know there's frankly some you know
handful of like bougie pundits who make
comments like that and it's you know
it's it's like when Chris Rock dozen or
Waze jokes about why he won't ever give
a buck to a homeless white person that's
funny right but like if you're actually
pivoting it to say like you know here's
a category of person that we shouldn't
think about you know that's obviously
ridiculous that said yeah that said
where there's a red flag for me is you
know a lot of those truck drivers are
Hispanic and black and Asian and any
program that dealt with any of them
would deal with all of them so I don't
underst
he's right to critique a certain
attitude that does exist but why you
would actually reinforce that attitude
is a question mark to me and I you know
it's a classic comment by me that will
dis satisfy everybody but so be it but I
think that what I don't like is well
first of all free college is not just
job training program part of this
argument of D of D commodifying society
is reclaiming like as an example every
single human being in this space needs
every form of health care . . whether
they be undocumented or whoever i don't
care they get health care that's a moral
and practical the amount of
commodification in college part of the
effort of decomp commodifying is like of
course there's a practical argument that
yes on average people who graduate from
college earn more money and so on
but the bigger point here is that every
single human being in this country
should have the ability to freely go to
an institution where they can read and
think and frankly like sounds super
idealistic but like become prepared to
be citizens and that is not just an
economic question now there's all sorts
of questions and I agree actually like
why do we I don't I don't respect you
know lawyers more than I respect
plumbers whatever like I I agree with
those critiques but the point is
actually that everybody no matter who
they are what they do are thinking
rational humans who should have the
ability to exercise that muscle and
guess what plumbers should get four
years after college to like be with
friends and like invest in their minds -
that's exactly what I'm saying yeah so
the point is that's for everybody and
it's not just economic so I don't like
the way he frames that and then the
other thing is you know I'm not sure I
need to learn more I don't know whether
if he's saying that there should be you
bi on top of things like Medicare for
all I actually agree with that I've
always supported you bi is a
supplemental then that's it doesn't want
to cut he wants to cut like food stamps
I think another element program I'm not
in selecting it instead of ten I'm not
into it
I'm not in I'm not into it
that's really that's a bad trade-off and
just numbers why is a bachelor no
trade-off at all UB I should just be
purely supplemental purely supplemental
and also the other the last thing I'll
say is I think it's interesting and cool
that he's putting things like autumn
ization on the table but it's like yeah
even if you think but but again how are
you
you know this is where you have to make
some form of at least social democratic
or kansian or more overtly socialist
argument because if private companies
that are totally unaccountable can
harness technology that will decimate
entire industries like ok there there's
a much more fundamental question at work
then how you deal with the people that
are the victims of those processes like
maybe we don't need to do those
processes maybe we regulate the hell out
of those prophecies processes because I
also think and this is a disturbing
thing in line with the college thing to
me and I'll pull up I'll be left-wing
Jordan Peterson here too I don't see a
future where we say ok we're gonna have
a totally Silicon Valley biased economy
most people will not work or they'll be
on the low end and totally exploited and
then other hand people will be sort of
nicely exploited because they'll be very
over compensated but they'll have no
know live still work all the time
they'll be completely assumed in this
process and then there's gonna be a ton
of people that we give a pittance of
money to and they can just have like no
purpose and direction in their lives I
want more people like I want ubi to be
along with other things that as a
groundwork for people being invested in
their communities doing way more I've
read gene Basler told me that a sci-fi
diss boat dystopia where he read where
it was like that there was a form of ubi
and there were a bunch of people who
lived in like Spartan quarters and had
ubi and the society was pretty much like
you're useless but we understand that we
don't want you to completely starve as
then maybe you'll rebel and I'm yeah and
in conjunction was reducing college to
just a question of jobs training and not
this broader Civic space there's a
libertarianism in there that I don't
like but that being said if 4chan wants
to be doing andrew yang memes that a
Donald Trump means and that's a great
step forward yeah
ubi not the wall it's a great step
forward and then this is from Ben
Spielberg why
is Andrew Yang's purple ubi proposal not
a good one it's motivated by a
misdiagnosis of our economic problems
that's right it's way too small and it
compounds the way too small problem by
cutting other social welfare programs
it's actually similar Charles Murray's
proposal and that's true Charles Murray
did propose he's the original like
right-wing guy to propose a form of
direct cash transfer but then just
eliminating the New Deal and Great
Society which is horrifying
so that's my answer from what I know of
energy Hank so far yeah just finish of
the thing I'm heard he's gonna be in the
debates and I'm I'm glad because he's
articulate and he's I don't see a lot of
candidates talking about automation and
like the dystopia you're talking about I
mean it's something that you we should
talk about like if the the working
inequality is when I get much much
bigger and then if some people get just
the bare minimum but if you stop you
stop and ethics you stop it by politics
I mean this is the thing that's so
interesting this is a basic diagnosis
difference and whether you're full you
know let's totally graduate from
capitalism and get to something better
that it's more in tune with our times
which I some ways definitely my view
many mostly my view but even if you're
just you know a mark life brilliant
solid Social Democrat like everybody on
that continuum understands that this
isn't just a magical process that just
happens
anything can be stopped and redesigned
so if we're in a situation we're sitting
here we're like you know what there's
already unbelievably too much wealth
concentration inequality corporations
already run our world in an almost neo
futile way and technology which already
has only benefitted to a small sector of
people mostly is gonna exacerbate that
then the real question is how do we get
in control of that technology in that
process to actually change the
directionality not just keep dealing
with the downstream of it which is you
know what oh well throw people a little
bit of money and let all these processes
keep happening no it needs to be dealt
with fundamentally I appreciate the call
and good luck
because that sounds really tough over
there all right let's do a few more
pieces of sound this is well Brian
Kilmeade was right about beta work but
he was very oh no we don't have to do
this fine this is just funny we talked
yesterday apparently a couple of like
just weirdos disturbed right-wing media
fringe personalities are in Minnesota
there wanna be James O'Keefe want to be
James O'Keefe there there there harass
Ilan Omar we're playing this for comedic
effect but this should be a really good
reminder to everybody who equivocated
I'm backing Ilan Omar this is a comic
version but these are the types of
trolls and you know sick personalities
that are harassing her but this is quite
anticlimactic so basically Laura Loomer
is trying to find you no ill on Omar and
what we discover from this exchange is
that you know even the most intense
soundtrack will not pack that much of a
punch if nothing actually happens and
also that L on Omar is clearly at least
in her Minnesota house I mean this is as
like campaign commercial middle class
woman of the people is exactly it's also
we should note that this was clipped by
a big burger but he did not add the
music this is actually this is native to
the original documentary so here we go
[Laughter]
alright guys while we're here we are
hearing I like that they didn't cut out
that we're rolling only one alright guys
well we were here we are here in
Minneapolis Minnesota
that's Congress I'm gonna go handle Mars
home about to serve her with a sworn
affidavit swearing under penalty of
perjury that she has never married any
of her biological siblings that's a
racist claptrap with absolutely no
evidence that was entirely fabricated by
right-wing media let's go
[Music]
now at this point because L on Omar is
so awesome I was actually hoping she
would open the door and be like you can
please get the out of my house
isn't a Napoli property this is private
property which is something that you
freaks and weirdos are supposed to care
about so please get the away no
answer I guess we're just gonna have to
go try off this right Wow
riveting well it's like well it's like
the Laura Poitras of the right oh my god
these people need help so a Texas team
did a funny prank he humiliated Texas's
fascist governor lieutenant Saavik
excuse me his fascist lieutenant
governor he basically made a sign which
was an abolish I sign
and of course hashtag apologize and he
got this dum-dum to stand in front of it
with a thumbs up because for some reason
if you look at this like at the very
least just the sort of collage quality
should give off that this is a hippie
kid who made it this is not the mind of
a pro-ice fascist goon teenager right
this is the mind of a kid who's been a
little sensitized to injustice and
barbarism in the world but Dan Patrick
that's not authentic
lieutenant-governor not the ESPN guy no
not the ESPN guy posed with calleb Brock
who made this great poster we'll check
it out we also have a video here yeah we
got to watch this video is awesome
and although this has a lot of tea party
it's Kat
there you go and he goes to briar kind
of high school is that your mind Denton
Texas travel to the our here any brought
me a painting that he did and so much so
it is pretty cool
[Laughter]
[Music]
if I haven't made it in your speaker so
this is all of the things like
conservative principle but in 2020 what
you guys and then we have one final
thing here Caleb's a hero can clip and
steam and clip and sleep and present
Stein and clip where the crisis lines
started following me he says yeah
Caleb's only request was that a link to
the immigrant rights charity races are a
icees texas org he's too humble to plug
himself so I will give him a follow at
Caleb a Brock underscore and check out
the cool art IDO so shout out Caleb Jana
Caleb's your heroes there's awesome he
did an interview with clemency and I
believe and how he pulled this off he
said he went to this Fort Worth Texas
Tea Party meeting he said I went in and
pretended to be a huge fan of Dan
Patrick showed it to some tea party
through Canadian
yeah like long-hair hippie kid who just
hates immigrants or honestly just like
any teenager even a right-wing one
that's like it no it's the Lieutenant
Governor like for the for the for the
guide book for Dan Patrick security say
like be extra skeptical of anybody
showing enthusiasm for Dan Patrick all
right talk to security and then some
lady who I assume had a place on his
staff and then they put him on stage
with them amazing not good that's an
inspiration for all you listeners out
there if you can get in there I don't
know I'm speaking like Trump but but if
you have a local especially GOP you know
event go try to as much an artist I mean
this is a great way any artist out there
this is free publicity
I want to order something from yeah we
need something from Caleb yeah Caleb got
in touch you're calling from a 708 area
code with the final call of the day who
are you where you calling from
hello Michael crew this is dragon's lair
19 calling from the Chicagoland area
how's everyone today good how are you
what's on your mind I'm pretty good I've
some quick things I want to go over so
first in a reference for the first two
callers this is why we need Sam to run
the libertarian party as a back-up plan
tape the Democrats screw over Sanders so
we have a cedar Sanders 20/20
libertarian ticket right that's
important I agree I'm number two and
this is why I know you try to suppress
my free speech is today is Pi Day it's a
happy pi day for everybody I hope that
everyone indulges in pie even if it is a
new york-style pie anyways my final
point and like a bigger important thing
is um I is to remember that um even like
with like like like like special
instance we have like beta writing now
is that we need a focus if we're going
to do electoral boxes politics not just
on the presidential level because even
if we have a Bernie or a Warren get into
into office we're going to need a Senate
at Congress and like the state
legislatures like behind us to do things
like for example so for example right
now Chicago is having a runoff election
and it's possible that on on April 2nd
on the voting day on that election day
after that election we might actually
have like 10 percent of our Alderman's
which is basically like the City Council
be out-and-out socialists there will be
literally a socialist caucus possibly in
Chicago moving forward and also like
that's like look at like Congress people
like for example one of my local
Congress people dan Lipinski noted
 and just like like basically
worse than a Republican in many ways um
he just recently became the only
Democrat not to co-sponsor and call they
come out for the Equality Act
which is basically like like adding
protections so there isn't
discrimination against like lgbtq+ folks
so he's literally the only Democrat
there's actually even Republicans
co-sponsoring this and he's literally
the only one so he doesn't like pay
attention to it but like sometimes like
we might get really excited for Bernie
and I want to just like pour everything
into him but every once in a while you
should just like you're like you know
what maybe I can give half of what I
want to give the Bernie to another
candidate that's more local because we
can like change things by you know
focusing on everything and that's all I
really want to call it's a great model
after that left is best thanks for the
Coleman all points well-taken
all right folks final few I am today is
this actually Sam cedar on the I am I
don't know but watch Jimmy I smacked my
head in the door video on the Democratic
Russian troll forms make sure you don't
just eat or drink something this is the
second I am we've gotten about this I
guess I don't know is Jimmy up to some
dumb
I get that wouldn't surprise me but uh
you know what that would be very ups and
Ally I'm sure so we'll save it for
tomorrow just so here's what's happening
yeah Jimmy doula
that's all Sam does when he's off on
Thursdays Sam is doing better things I
mean I'm not gonna watch it that's right
correct from Oklahoma I've been telling
people that Beto's kind of an egomaniac
because he allowed social media and the
it of plenty of political pundit class
to allow him decide to run for president
exactly the guy is great and all but the
quote you all talked about at the
beginning the show proved my point in
further a hundred percent it's a weird
thing to say
there's nobody clearly in his orbit and
again like look it's another balance
like I was talking actually like my my
girlfriend about this right is not not
politically orient I'm very political
but not in this weird world right and it
was sort of like hey I get that he
doesn't like to center himself but he is
actually asking to lead something so he
does need to censor himself and all the
candidates need to do that and all
leaders needs to it that's the way thing
are done right you know if you're gonna
run for office but like there is a
balance between okay he needs to talk
about where you're coming from
versus just a pure unmitigated
expression of well I'm running because
of I'm me
and there's me skateboarding at water
burden me getting my teeth
filled like who wants to watch that and
and and there's clearly as of yet at
least by all available appearances there
is nobody in his orbit that's like hey
dude well first of all you should run
for Senate instead a president but how
about like hey um you know just running
for president with a Vanity Fair profile
and like absolutely no real ideas just
like purely on the force of like being a
trendy Senate candidate in a campaign
you lost maybe we need to fill in the
meat here a little bit yeah it's to stop
writing like Raymond Carver style short
story essays on medium Jesus Christ Jay
cool Megan McCain plays an important
role on the view her and then her a
named her her Annette her inane and
total stupidity is so powerful that it
makes Navarro or Huntsman almost
reasonable from time to time well that's
a problem but it is interesting the way
like I predict it's the pressure was
gonna get to Huntsman to she I mean well
she she was breaking and when it comes
to like the actual like she Huntsman is
like sensible enough to know that she
can't like throw a tantrum anytime
there's a disagreements and she's just
like better because she recognizes he'll
know when she's exposed herself too much
and walk away right now she's letting
Megan McCain soak up all the right Megan
McCain is kind of like Chris Matthews
like there is like an element I'll say
my dad's trust by the load oh so we
should have like you see a mission so
we're gonna take my dad's grave up
really nice really nice joy my brothers
were in the Navy too so so we're gonna
get rid of legacy we're not gonna have
that word in the dictionary any boy yes
am saying is really scaring me
and Huntsman's just sitting there like I
also am a pure nepotism case but as
someone who has spent sick days at home
watching the view for years I'm
sincerely enjoying the increase of view
clips and commentary joy bear rules
Joey bear her rules and so does the site
of political struggles it is but who's
what's-her-name sunny sunny Hostin I
honestly had no idea who she was nude
she's killing it rushing yeah and I've
always been a huge Jo joy behar fan
Esther Behar as for Esther bado it's not
just a chance of knocking off a
Republican senator even though he's
likely to lose think of what he could
have done down ballot he did amazing
things down ballot the last time yeah I
mean he's just he's just you know it's
it's it's it's legitimately
disappointing
Veronica megan matthews is a very good
character well it's fun it's actually
cuz I mean there is just like magnetic
hey my dad like that works but there is
something funny because I was trying to
track how messy she is on camera and
even though it's super different the
only person that I could think of that
as as just like unbound like I'm just
gonna say right wheel you know like
who's just like in their own like Chris
Matthews asked questions that he then
like answers himself and then like read
like and it always goes back like he
literally be talking about anything
Megan McCain is a straight line from
that boomer mindset into the Millennial
mind that's what it is it's like an IV
drip and like and and like obviously
chris matthews again is you know he is
like a much more self-made person he's
read some books but like but just even
like the way it's like it's like yeah I
think the Kennedys are fascinating but
like dude not like interviewing like
alright we're gonna do a segment on the
Indian elections do you think that the
Congress Party's thinking about Bobby
Kennedy right now we're here with
Siobhan it's saying and I'm wondering
like doing with Jack Kennedy when he
first came out and he spoke to the naval
clique it's
and there is something about Megan
McCain that's just like everybody's
talking about tax rates but my dad was
in Vietnam it's really upsetting be
silly Howard Schultz is one of the is
the 10 year old make-a-wish kid running
through the parted defense line with the
other players twice as hight running
next to him clapping that's true except
like evil and has more money than the
players right and has more money than
the players he's acting out what he what
he's more like and this is I'm gonna go
to the loafer but he's more like a Steve
Carell in Foxcatcher if we're doing that
I do not know that reference that is a
super disturbing movie
it's basically a creepy billionaire who
he's well yeah he fancies himself a
great wrestling coach and but has all I
mean there's all sorts of stuff going on
and it ends up with Mark Ruffalo getting
murdered it's actually it's a real story
it's crazy it's it's definitely that
that's a good little indictment of
American capitalism right there and all
forms of feudalism and inheritance I was
watching Fox catcher and I just got so
upset because you know my dad served
this country all right is there a final
we want to play this clip what is this
one it's a short one but all right this
is Newt Gingrich with Sean Hannity so
we're gonna leave in a real positive
place we get out of here by the way just
for the record we don't know if aoc ever
smoked weed although a lot of liberals
now all care about late term abortion
during birth abortion even after birth
abortion and yes they want to legalize
weed a lot of liberals do what that's
the 20/20 messaging yeah but we will
definitely want a message legalize weed
I mean Newt Gingrich I'm pretty sure has
when he was like reading like fascist
like alternative fiction in college he
was probably smoking some weed I mean no
Gingrich if you read into his bio
he's like the worst of all worlds
because he actually does like he had a
hippie phase so he's basically like a
fashion
is dirty hippie what a piece of
alright um Wolverine
okay alright let's do the final item of
the day and it will be I did not see
that train boy train boy did you see on
Mars comments on the assassination of
Mariela Franko
I haven't but once again L on Omar is my
absolute favorite member of Congress she
signed the letter about the broader
assault on Brazil which also mentioned
the undemocratic banning of Lula from
the race now I'd like to see her and
every other person with conscience call
for him to be freed as a political
prisoner but Spock is speaking about
Mari Ali's assassination is an amazing
start Elano more rocks hashtag elan bros
we'll see you tomorrow
but I know some
I'm going
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
break
