we have a Matt pick this week for the
video I assume that this video number
five is that pick is that right Matt
that of course is oh yeah yeah we can do
that one yeah that's a Memphis yeah
Donald Trump is walking on two Air Force
One and here is Matt picks for the week
headed to the he's in the Minneapolis
st. Paul Airport and apparently he's got
some teepee stuck to his ship leaves at
the top of the stairs
here yeah Brendan just a little
something Brendan found that first but I
also favored it last night so a Brendan
and Matt's pick it's a good thing he's
immune to shame otherwise that might
have been embarrassing for him well wait
for all the magazines that come out and
say it
you got to support your president show
us your pictures of TP on your shoe now
somebody should like write something on
a napkin like Q and on and say I found
what was on his shoe it's a secret
message exactly he was dropping a secret
message
