[Music]
well I said how Brian Kilmeade
occasionally like he has these sort of
like woke takes where he points
something out that's like really
obviously racist but then he's also like
this he hasn't quite gotten the memo
that like they aren't in the Bush era
anymore and they're supposed to be more
like sort of like tips of the hat so the
kind of like isolationist thing so he's
still really on this like it's terrorism
like we got to be killing and bombing
everybody you know like I think I guess
he does fancy himself some type of
expert on Islam or something and clearly
wrote a book on Thomas Jefferson the
Barbary pirates so I think he's pretty
big expert sure he wrote that book and
you know so and clearly this stuff gives
them anxiety and this pull out of Syria
as I say there is the real complexity of
the rojava Kurds and some of the
humanitarian consequences that will
happen but there's also the reality that
we've been there for no strategic
purpose killing thousands of people as
active Co participants under the
destruction of a country in a
multiplayer proxy war that has just
devastated Syria and we with the Gulf
Russia and Iran and everyone are
responsible for this as well as these
Salafist groups and certainly as well as
Assad I'm guessing that Brian Kilmeade
is not going to bring any of this up in
this clip this is according to our
friends the courage everyone is upset
sad and afraid most of spoke to Fox News
afraid to using their names the courage
did the fighting we did the backing we
did this strategizing now when we try to
go back in there and reestablish
ourselves the big difference is the
Russians because President Obama sat on
his hands the Russians came in and
filled the void we established that area
sort of protecting the Kurds rias ba
pushing back on Isis and now we pull
back they come back they're not gone but
you're learning that were into Iran
without noting as well that this
president stood up to Iran and in the
plane out of the nuclear
and around cat if we're doing the same
thing we really buy that we are allowing
them to reestablish themselves in a
region the counterbalance and this
president has provided is dissipated and
the threat is reforming anyone who tells
you different will be sitting on this
couch in a year talking about the
Reformation of Isis and the brutal
decimation of that region and our allies
when he articulated those points though
about not staying there forever and
about being those troops home those were
points that were very popular with the
American people feel like these things
have no end and that's the idea and if
you're gonna happy if you're gonna have
troops stationed there they want to know
a long-term goal they want to know what
the objective is
the objective destroy the caliphate and
make sure potentially go on forever I
see a lot of people fired up about this
what do you think friends calm we'll be
talking about it all morning we get so
angry I love it here's the thing okay
first part I'm not gonna lie with
regards to those quotes from the Kurds
that is true it's a hundred percent
right I I am incredibly worried about
the Rishabha Kurds incredibly worried
now obviously United States was never
supporting them because they care about
Kurdish rights or the experiment going
on they're obviously not the record the
United States would demonstrate that for
ever but I mean okay and then we run
down the list and you know al-qaeda is
gonna reformulate itself and all this
stuff and all this nonsense that you
know there was no need there was no
there's no national security threat in
any real way that's posed by these
activities to begin with and dealing
with terrorist groups require small tera
targeted intelligence operations and
nothing like these catastrophic wars
that have caused such unending damage
and death and just I mean literally
cumin of Lee the killing of millions of
innocent people by u.s. foreign policy
but the the meta critique on this though
it's like I think part of the reason
that even though kilmeade is like you
know a delusional militaristic dunce
at least in his emotionality he's sort
of like registering that this is like an
actual thing now he's almost entirely
wrong but these other people would be
saying precisely the opposite while
Obama was president and promoting the
opposite when and I think in ed Henry's
case it did when Bush was president so
there is just something so disgusting
and a reminder that like these are all
just like blow dried idiots in Midtown
who don't know what the they're
talking about they don't care how many
people the United States has killed in
these places they don't care about the
complex interplay between the Kurds and
and all these other groups and
incidentally the people are gonna
destroy the Kurds are not Iran you
Kilmeade it's our good ally turkey that
we just sold over three billion dollars
worth of new weaponry - they're going to
go after the Kurds and you know it so
anyways it it's embarrassing it's
pathetic but Kilmeade continue they if
this goes in enough this keeps going I
could see kilmeade being like a sort of
like second-term Obama voter like hey
that's a really problematic comment and
we need to have drones in Somalia
because of the al-qaeda Hawks for Obama
Hawks robot that was a real thing then
yeah okay this is the this is now
kilmeade okay this is actually kind of
extraordinary because one of the things
okay a little bit of context first of
all Obama was not gung-ho to get into
Syria at all he allowed himself to get
pulled into Syria more and more and it
was accelerated actually through Isis
not through Assad so what you basically
had in the beginning was the
administration just sort of letting the
CIA subcontract with Gulf countries they
flooded the place with weapons and a lot
of those weapons and groups go to who
the Gulf countries usually support which
are far-right Sunni Salafist groups who
gradually undermined and took over what
was absolutely an organic legitimate and
real uprising against the blue tality of
the Assad regime and then Obama said if
he uses chemical weapons there'll be a
red line and then we got to get in and
then what ended up happening was
there was a deal that was cut with the
Russians and they didn't do it also
because there was massive protests
because of war fatigue in the United
States in the UK correct war fatigue and
everybody seems to have gotten the wrong
lesson from this people who still want
to deny that the Assad government has
those weapons and might have used them
will bend in pretzels to deny that
that's ever happened even though I'm
sure it certainly happened at least in
some instances it's totally bolide by
the fact that the Russians who are
Assad's prime patron cut a deal to
destroy stockpiles what does that tell
you about their stockpiles use a little
bit of deductive reasoning here and then
conversely all of the right-wing hawks
and idiots were freaked out because
Obama promised the redline any promise
redline now he needs to bomb Syria
because of our credibility and all these
other masturbatory concepts we lost
China yeah all of this nonsense that if
you have no real-world experience you
don't understand how the world actually
works and you think you're in a Tom
Clancy novel from your you know couch
somewhere or god forbid at a think tank
you get lost in but actually he did deal
with the red line being crossed which is
they cut a diplomatic agreement which
actually worked and held for a little
while and was a correct use of diplomacy
but here is the red lines gonna be
brought up and kilmeade again is gonna
be well this is just funny everybody's
wrong here but it's funny back on Isis
he said we're bringing the boys he wants
to bring but he wants to do could be
wrong but he power Murphy he's doing
exactly if not worse than President
Obama did party the Mike leaves the Rand
Paul and said listen you can't women at
is articulating that you can't stay
there forever
well aren't accurate to some men also
the notion that yes during the campaign
I have to tell you I have a libertarian
streak in my blood a little bit and when
he talked about not wanting to be the
policeman of the world that did appeal
to a lot well you have to remember to
Trump is looking forward to re-election
and he's saying you know what I don't
really need the
but I need some of these people what
good is for reelection if you go ahead
and give Syria to Iran lose Iraq again
[Laughter]
Wow Rand Paul Wow another thing another
sentiment I've shared with Kilmeade for
completely different reasons I've had
that moment though or someone's like
woohoo repo is to legalize pot I was
like whoa Rand Paul you know
belligerents of him oh it's great he's
like that's what's but it's so sincere
when you yes like I like the way like
his face is right he's rolling his eyes
great when you're the only one being
genuine and not trying to spin you can
be belligerent right I can still be
winning for people that's no I mean look
he's he's almost entirely wrong and he's
insanely militaristic and delusional but
like again these two these the other two
are just voids if they had another
script they would say exactly what he
was saying like if Jeb Bush was
president and that was like they would
be delivering Kilmeade script except
that wouldn't even be being delivered
because there wouldn't even be this this
drought right but Kilmeade yeah I mean
that's that's hysterical it's amazing
what he's willing to jeopardize his like
t v-- friendship with trump over though
that i will say yeah that also says a
lot about him new ones throughout
Charlottesville but not bombing Syria
forever Marxist Republic
