[Music]
go to Ecuador where I believe the state
of play is still that Lenin Moreno has
taken his government outside of the
capital Quito and just a brief summary
Lenin Moreno came from the this is
indigenous marchers Lenin Moreno came
from the Left Party of Rafael Correa
Rafael creo is another dynamic pink type
leader he lifted many out of poverty in
Ecuador he resisted the United States he
had a mixed record I would say on
indigenous rights and the environment
part of the contradictions of governance
serious contradictions but Lenin Moreno
has utterly govern as a left candidate
and has governed in the extreme right
and supported the u.s. backing of
extreme far-right regimes in Brazil and
Argentina and this broader reversal of
the Democratic tide that you witnessed
and social democratic tide into the pink
tie and you also witness that in the in
the WikiLeaks reversal so Lenin Moreno
is a very toxic leader and he's doing
the let you know the usual playbook he's
saying that this is this is a coup by
Maduro and Correa meanwhile he's trying
to go to jail Correa on what you know
many view to be non credible charges
Kray as in Belgium right now
I think this protest is amazing because
I think it can restore a left force in
Ecuador which is extremely important and
also because the centrality of
indigenous voices maybe re-centers the
indigenous sovereignty issues in Ecuador
as well so that could I think be a very
positive story let's go to number seven
