[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program a regular Friday guest
ladies and gentlemen who inspired this
little ditty dig Bay how are you I'm
fine I'm ready you're ready and I know
you've been watching you've been
watching the the Whitaker hearings and
we were watching this beforehand just
give us a brief update what what's
happening up to this point with Whitaker
the Jerry Nadler has been has been
rather I guess he has toed the line in
this instance right Whitaker was saying
that he wasn't going to show up unless
he was promised that there would be no
subpoena but the first thing and and so
Nadler said if you as long as you answer
there'll be no subpoena and when he got
here when he got to the committee
shortly after it was clear he wasn't he
was starter stonewalling Nadler said you
know what we could subpoena you because
you're not really holding up your end of
the bargain that was pretty I was pretty
happy with that but what's happened
since then well since then as far as I
know I've been I haven't watched for the
last 10 minutes or so but prior to that
it was pretty clear that Whitaker I mean
he had obviously been prepped for this
and was prepped with some sort of wooden
halting answers that were designed to
say you know I will not you know discuss
my private conversations and he didn't
explicitly evoke executive privilege or
that weird Jeff Sessions and Steve Banta
and the rest of them who had evoked and
one of the things that nadir was trying
to do was to sort of deal with the fact
that they have been in the two years
prior coming up to the hill and evoking
this weird privilege that doesn't exist
in other words just saying well I'm not
see anything because the president might
want to evoke executive privilege in the
future that's not how it works the
president has to do it that's his it's
his privilege and he has to say you know
no you're not allowed to talk about this
that's executive privilege so they've
been trying to change that and I think
that nailer a lot of this thing around
Whitaker and this particular you know
sort of controversy that's been going
back and forth I don't know if people
have followed it over the last few days
but needler had you know obviously
Whitaker had been stalling and trying
not to actually have to make this
appearance before he left before William
bar was confirmed but they they were
unable to do it so we ended up having to
come up and what nailer had done back in
January was sent up a series of
questions saying I'm giving you these
questions in advance so that you can ask
the president if he wants to invoke
executive privilege if he does then you
left let us know 48 hours in advance so
that we can properly prepare the
committee that's reasonable
well they ignored it or p4 God or
something but in any case he didn't
respond and so Naylor said you know he
they decided to hold a vote in the
committee as to whether or not they
would subpoena him if he decided not to
show up at all which was entirely
possible the way they were acting was at
Whitaker which is gonna blow off the
hearing they put in Barre and that would
you know allegedly be the end of that
and neither was having none of it so
they went through this subpoena battle
back and forth over the idea that you
know he was you know he was either going
to comply or he was going they were
going to start using the sanctions that
they have available to them as the
oversight as a congressional oversight
and that they were going to subpoena him
well they went back and forth until the
end of the day yesterday finally it was
agreed upon that that he would not
subpoena him if he came down to the hill
answered the questions and then as you
say this is what's happened this morning
so they're continuing the hearing but
from what I understood and I may be
wrong about this Naylor said look you
know we may have you we're going to have
you come back and do a deposition and
then we'll release that you know under
us and then we'll release that
deposition to the public so I don't
think this is over and I think you're
right that needler nanners not playing
and neither are the rent neither the
rest of the committees in the Congress
they're not playing they are absolutely
going to press this stuff and as I've
been watching Whittaker this morning I
mean this is just he's just saying he
didn't invoke executive because he's
just saying I'm not going to talk about
this I'm refusing to talk about this
stuff I don't talk about about ongoing
investigations which would be fair
enough normally but he did do it in a
press conference the other day and he
also said that you know he's also saying
that he won't discuss his private
conversations with the president which
to me indicates that he had them in some
respect or another so that's where we
are today on this and you know the guys
just adult he has absolutely no business
being in this position at all let me
just ask a broader question about
executive privilege so what my
understanding is what they've basically
been saying is that we've developed a
new form of executive privilege which is
the anticipatory executive privilege
right because executive privilege is
just specifically where the president
the president invokes executive
privilege there is nobody in the cabinet
can exactly can invoke an executive
privilege they don't have it they can
only communicate to the committee
the president has invoked executive
privilege on this particular manner and
so what sessions did and I'm reiterating
what you said just to make sure that I
understand it - what sessions at all did
was like I think the president would
invoke might want to invoke executive
privilege for this so I'm invoking an
anticipatory executive an anticipatory
privilege associated with me about what
I would anticipate the president would
do with him and that doesn't exist
that's a made-up thing what why what is
it about the president invoking
executive privilege I mean my
understanding is all it is is it's just
the president invoked executive
privilege and the president has a reason
not to talk about it is it just that
politically it's associated with stuff
so much from Nixon that it's toxic I
mean like I don't quite understand the
the
the salience of this because it seems
nobody cares about norms anyways
well I get I agree with you that nobody
cares about norms anyways and certainly
the administration doesn't care I mean
they they have no respect for norms or
even you know the constitutionally
required congressional oversight I mean
clearly they just don't care about any
of that but and and I am no expert on
this so forgive me all you lawyers and
experts out there if you're listening if
I get this wrong but my understanding is
that executive privilege does exist it
but it's never truly been litigated all
the way the reason we know it exists is
because the Supreme Court agreed that it
existed in the Nixon tapes case but
there were exceptions and from what I
understand from you know just what I've
seen by TV lawyers who talked about this
that it's not just something you can
just blank it you know that that you
would expect that you could just
blanketly invoke when whenever you don't
want to talk about something in other
words the president has to have a good
reason for it national security or some
kind of you know they want you know
unfettered advice from their staff and
they would be able to get that if they
had to talk about these things in other
words there's not just a blanket sort of
privilege that that the president can
can invoke whenever he wants to however
none of this stuff has been litigated
and and my personal feeling is that I
think that Naylor understands that they
are they're about to go into some
serious litigation over this stuff that
this stuff there is going to be a point
at which it's going to go to court and
we're going to start seeing the courts
involved in that particular question of
executive privilege and it's not because
Kneedler necessarily wants it to be but
because they have used these weird
excuses and have refused to do the
proper process in invoking the privilege
I mean the president for reasons that I
don't understand is refusing to do that
or at least they've decided maybe
they've decided that they're going to
you know I mean look you've got some
real extremists sort of lawyers on the
Republican side who may have decided
that the
and they believe in unfettered executive
power that maybe they've decided that
they're just gonna take this all the way
and say the president never has to talk
about anything he doesn't want to talk
about ever because he's the executive
and it's his privilege to not say
anything and they're just going on the
assumption that the American people or
at least American people they care about
are fine with that
so I mean that's my that's my guess on
that that Kneedler and the rest of the
people in the dish iary committee
understand that this is just a beginning
and they're trying they're setting up a
series of probable confrontations
because they know this is going to be
like going to be litigated down the road
I mean I could be wrong I'm just
guessing on that but that's how it looks
to me I mean this all seems very kind of
it's thought-out on their on the
Democratic side for sure that they are
actually they've been plotting this
knowing that they were going to be
coming up against as much you know
possible resistance as they could get
right and let's get this resolved as
early in the in the proceedings as
possible because it's there's only going
to be more stuff you know in some ways
they're like okay let's let's just
address the process issues early so that
we can continue on with these
investigations and there are multiple
ones obviously and we should say the
investigations range I mean if there was
no Muller investigation right there
would be still a record-breaking number
of needed investigations from just the
sheer sort of I don't know if I would
call it graft or corruption that has
existed so far in the Trump
administration each cabinet member seems
to have add their own sort of uniquely
impressive corruption scandal age which
is actually which we also saw this week
which was sort of fascinating and you
know I think so much of this stuff gets
sort of rolled into the Russia
investigations but presuming there was
no question of you know whether there
was Russian collusion or
there you know all the lying that's gone
on and all etc etc the money laundering
that probably happened under trump
administration the I mean I should say
under the Trump Trump Inc this week the
Southern District of New York a you know
the US Attorney's Office opened up a an
investigation into the Trump
inauguration because there was so much
money raised for so little delivered and
I think and I'm a I'm curious what you
can tell us about why the Southern
District of New York would have
jurisdiction over this the other
question I have is mumaith at it's gotta
have something to do with that huge
amount of money paid to a consultant who
was a friend of milania's but it could
be anything right
well I think it's all tied up with well
let me just say this I'm not sure why
it's in the Southern District of New
York you'd have to ask somebody who
understands those the way those
jurisdictions work but my assumption is
as a layperson that this has something
to do with the Trump Organization which
is in New York and that there is yeah I
read a very interesting piece this
morning on The Daily Beast by Barbara
McQuade former prosecutor US Attorney I
think she's from Michigan in any case
she's on TV a lot and people who watch
these shows probably recognize her but
she had a very interesting take on that
on this on the inauguration and some of
the other stuff because we also learned
this week that the Southern District has
been interviewing members of the Trump
Organization so we don't know if that's
connected or whether there's something
else or whether or not this is one case
or you know many cases but her theory is
is that this is actually has the
contours of a Rico investigation and
Rico is a racketeering Act which was an
invoke you know created back in 1970
mostly as a way to try and get to the
mob because what what they had done was
or
themselves in such a ways to insulate
the the big bosses from from any kind of
kind of criminal exposure so they had to
find a way to do it and they created
this law which you know as a civil
libertarian you know I've often thought
boy this is really reaching but in this
case it may be the only way that they
can they can do this or at least using
the premise of the you know sort of RICO
concept of how you put together a
conspiracy that conspiracy case that
that you know this may be the way that
they're going about this and this is
where it has to do with the inauguration
which has to do with the Trump
Organization and the fact which you know
getting to your back erosional point if
there were no Muller investigation the
mere fact that the president of United
States refused to divest himself of his
business and put it into a blind trust
or do something other than just say well
my boys are in charge and you know I'm
leaving it up to them would be cause for
you know a tremendous amount of
investigation and theoretically a
criminal investigation as well because
this is it's not just a constitutional
problem with the emolument there's
obviously been pay to play which is what
we're looking at with this inauguration
situation we've got massive amounts of
money that were raised it really appears
just judging from this person that you
mentioned he was from milania's friend
who ran it it may actually be that she
winds up being a big whistleblower on
this thing because it was just revealed
that she there are tapes between her and
Michael Cohen that were picked up during
Mike the raid on Michael Collins offices
in which she's talking about her own
misgivings about the way this money was
spent and how she had tried to bring it
up and was told to keep it quiet and
this and then you know you've got rick
gates who is the man affords you know
majordomo who has been cooperating with
Muller and you know maybe cooperating
with the Southern District of New York
as well because that's he was on the
inauguration committee and so all of
this money was turning around he raised
like twice as much as Obama's in 2008
and we know the results it wasn't like
you know they had lavish right
ceremonially thing so that money went
someplace and and there were there's all
these you know foreign in you know a
parent you know kind of a slush fund
foresters in there I mean it's quite an
ugly thing and then all those tentacles
come into the Trump Organization and you
know they come back out into the Muller
investigation and all of this is
intertwined so you know this is a very
this is the kind of situation conspiracy
sort of situation where you could see
the RICO statute kind of being put to
use to try and put the whole thing
together I am convinced and this is
based on nothing I should say or very
little but I'm just the whole thing
sounds to me like and again like this is
a complete speculation that this was a
way of funneling money to Melania like
I'm sure there was other things that
they were doing this but when her best
friend or her friend is getting gets
literally like twenty was twenty five
million dollars for a consulting fee
that sounds like to me a backdoor way of
paying off Melania like I'm sorry that I
won the president's like a you know all
the reporting was she was extremely mad
and something's got you know like the
idea that her best friend is brought in
and then it's just sort of like shuttled
away that's just sounds to me like you
know these are all professional money
launderers
and and so the idea of like you know
this is the way we this is the way we
deal with things we money comes in one
end we give it out another end we make
sure that it's not traceable in some
fashion I mean and this this seems to be
fairly straightforward the Southern
District of New York is going to be able
to follow that money it seems to me
fairly easily right like it goes into
your bank account then let's we'll find
out where it goes after that maybe
someplace in the Cayman Islands it would
be my guess
but it's going to be pretty pretty nuts
I think once we start to dig into that
and again this is an investigation that
if it was just that this right if it was
just this it seems like that would be a
huge huge scandal what did you think
about this you know Trump said yesterday
he woke up on the wrong side of the bed
yesterday morning and accidentally
watched MSNBC and heard that Adam Schiff
was you know hiring some people you know
from that had once worked in a White
House National Security Council and he
heard this story and he was completely
freaked out and he you know did his
usual tweak tantrum and in the court in
that tweak tantrum he said this has
never happened before no president has
ever been investigated like this this is
outrageous this is you know all
disgusting etcetera and we know how he
feels you know he's a whiner maybe the
most you know the tsipras whiner in
world history and so he was he was
really upset and the idea that he you
know he's there fin investigations
his entire adult life starring Richard
Nixon and his abuse of power and
corruption all the way through to
Benghazi every single decade there's
been there have been a Ron contract and
and of course there was Clinton which
the Whitewater case was about some you
know crappyland deal from the 1980s from
you know decades before that was worth
you know thirty thousand dollars they
spent years and years investigating that
and he's acting like nobody's ever done
this before well you know they need to
look in the mirror because of course
it's been done before and by the way the
people who you know have really been
crooks in all this where you know where
the Republicans Clinton turned out to be
just you know some it was all kind of
penny-ante gothic Arkansas nonsense
and you know Benghazi my god they spent
you know years on that for absolutely no
good reason so you know he needs to stop
complaining and recognize that you know
apparently didn't take this into
consideration before he ran for
president that you know if your criminal
and you're running a criminal enterprise
maybe not a good idea well put yourself
under this kind of scrutiny because it
was always going to happen he may have
also I mean to be fair he also may have
thought I'm never gonna win right and so
no one's gonna levy this type of
scrutiny I think there's two things
going on I think it's one he didn't
think he was gonna win and so I didn't
think he'd be subject to the scrutiny
and two I think this is sort of the
Cavanagh principle it's like hey wait a
second I am now part of a class of
people who don't have to are my
forebears did not get held accountable
this is not fair that's what that like
this is a loss of privilege for me and I
should not be held to this level of
account I feel like is part of it all
right but
