we mentioned Stacey Abrams and she was
on Chris Hayes last night this is not
going to be the last time you hear of
Stacey Abrams I would imagine that she
is planning her run for the Senate in
2021 of I can't remember who it is one
of the Georgia senators are up for
re-election in 2020 I believe and here
is her perspective on the election I
mean look I don't think you need to be
of the left or a Democrat to recognize
there is something fundamentally
problematic with having your opponent
also determining who the electorate is
because they're in a position of
authority and are exercising that
position Authority I mean at the very
least recuse yourself for God's sakes
but no Brian camp wanted and I will
remind you I believe it's December 4th
we got to double-check the WiiU
double-check the because I don't want to
give her the wrong information but if
you live in Georgia and you voted in
2016 and 2018 and you don't vote in this
runoff for Secretary of State that's
taking place in about two weeks I think
it is I think it's two weeks to today
you're nuts because that Secretary of
State position clearly has major
implications for any future elections
going forward here is Stacey Abrams
talking about the failure of democracy
in Georgia um was the election in
Georgia statewide a free and fair
election it was not a free and fair
election we had thousands of Georgians
who were perd
from the roles wrongly including a 92
year old woman who had voted in the same
area since 1968 a civil rights leader it
was not fair to the the thousands who
were forced to wait in long lines
because they were in polling places that
were under-resourced or worse they had
no polling places to go to because more
than 300 had been closed it was not fair
to the thousands that were put on hold
with their registrations and it was not
fair to those who filled up absentee
ballots and depending on the county you
sent it to it either was counted or not
counted assuming you received it in time
Brian Kemp oversaw for 8 years the
systematic and systemic dismantling of
our democracy and that means there could
not be free and fair elections in
Georgia this year I want to get your
response to this as I think Rick Hasson
who's an election law expert writer
legal academic wrote this piece for
slate he said the Democrats should not
call the Georgia Rik governor's race
stolen and and basically be you know
making the argument that that rhetoric
further erode sort of democratic
legitimacy I thought wonder what you
thought about that
I appreciate the professor's thinking
but coming from the vantage point of
talking to thousands of voters who feel
like their votes were not counted their
voices were not heard they've already
had their confidence eroded they've
already begun to doubt the integrity of
the system we have a Republican who is
getting a do-over election on December
4th because they forgot to put people in
his district districts that were drawn
in 2011 and updated in 2015 he had to
take out plat maps and single handedly
find all of the missing voters and then
take the state to court and to get a new
election that means that this isn't
about partisanship but it's also not
about rhetoric it's about the reality of
people being denied their basic rights
of vote in the United States especially
in the state of Georgia yeah very hard
to deal with
arguments about like you day probably
best not to mention it the norms yeah
you don't want to I think this is
different from the norms argument I
think it's like you don't want to shake
the foundations of the institution
because you don't want people to think
there's something wrong with it and I
think her point is there's something
wrong with it it's like don't cry wolf
when there's a wolf there because a
bigger wolf might come exactly what if
like a tiger comes and the other point
is and I don't think I want to make this
absolutely clear that what Barnard Fraga
was just saying in the interview that we
just did I don't think he was saying
that the implications of that voter
suppression wouldn't change the outcome
of an election I think the idea is that
in Georgia african-american turnout is
higher than it is relative to other
place relative to white turnout than
other places and that's why you see the
voter suppression the Republicans
wouldn't do this unless they need it too
right it's not like a hobby I mean maybe
some of them might do it because you
know you get on the bandwagon because
there's a certain now amount of sort of
you know cultural identification with
voter suppression that gets you some
some some validity in other circles but
from an electoral standpoint the reason
why they do it in Georgia because they
have to and there's every reason to
believe that stacey abrams would have
outperformed even what she did if there
were more people available to vote in
the absence of Brian Kemp's suppression
so good for her and call attention to
the problem put them on the defensive
because eventually eventually these
people will lose out in Georgia I just
hope it's a lemon is gonna break yes
but sooner rather than later let's hope
but one way that you make sure that that
happens is to go out and vote in Georgia
and if you are in Georgia you just heard
our guest the way to get people to go
out and vote is to go out and get them
to vote
it's also the Democrat running for state
secretary just picked up a big
endorsement from the libertarian who
yapping fur that's why it's well that's
why it's gone to a runoff neither
candidate or nine other the two biggest
candidates the Republican in the
Democrat got fifty percent because the
libertarian got like I don't like three
percent or something like that and what
is Aleppo and in this instance good for
this libertarian yeah thanks Grohe Smyth
should Duval there you go
helping someone besides themselves
