[Music]
here is a Donald Trump last night he was
in New Hampshire for a mugger ally and I
honestly think this is that this is part
of his appeal to people you know like I
keep going back to the interview we did
about Mesmer and this was when did we do
this interview was this last year right
yeah for doing with the Emily Austin
nothing that long
Emily Ogden yeah we did her during a
dark week I believe yeah and and and you
should look this up Emily Ogden it was
the history of mesmerize mesmerize ation
I guess in in this country and Mesmer
was actually a guy who is a snake oil
salesman who went around and there is a
long tradition in this country for
people to become supportive of people
they know are liars and whatnot but they
feel that they're lying on their behalf
and they like that because they know
there's a lot of Liars out there who are
lying
not on their behalf and Donald Trump has
captured that because he is a Salesman
right I mean this is the same guy who's
Hawking bad steaks and crummy ties and
whatnot and so he knows what he's doing
with this and this is this is a good
example of that
that guy's got a serious weight problem
go home start exercising positive and
should just say we just say that like
get there was a protester right was it a
protester yeah okay and gut has got a
serious weight problem go home start
exercising get them out of here please
got a bigger problem than I do
got a bigger problem than all of us now
he goes home and his mom says what the
hell have you just done
we are continuing our incredible
movement but but here's the thing is
that he concedes that he's also a
disgusting you know that he is a
disgusting physical side right I mean he
is I've also disgusting I'm I'm also
unattractive food assistance suicide the
fattest president we've ever had and you
know and then you know he's been looking
around at his at his audience say we all
have a problem on some level like he was
trying to say I think like take the
pressure off of him but that his
acknowledgment his acknowledgement at
least as narrow as it was I think is
like he understands how far he can go
with his audience he can't he was aware
that people out there probably saying
like well you're a little fat too
president Trump and he acknowledges that
and I think that yeah it's like we
always make the joke towards like sort
of controlling a room for a stand-up
comedian but they're doing that it's
just the same thing it's just
controlling a large crowd of people but
I mean yes it's a great but he I think I
said on Hayes like in in the campaign
he's like a road comic he is a road
comic oh I guess the I guess the gut
someone's just telling me that that guy
was actually a Trump fan I'm not sure
exactly the context
