about evil empires I am NOT going to mix
sports with our program here of course
the Red Sox are meeting the Yankees
today in just a number of hours to
hopefully defeat them but this is
disgusting
the Yankees apparently we're staying at
some type of Marriott hotel and UNITE
HERE Local 26 which represents hundreds
of striking workers who are striking
against Marriott run hotels because
they're seeking more stable schedules
living wage and various on the job
protect protections I've been on strike
since earlier this week on Wednesday and
here's some footage of some of those
despicable Yankees crossing the picket
line
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
good for the unions for in Boston no
better way to get solidarity for a
Boston Union than the New York Yankees
crossing the picket line the New York
actually really played their part
they're really perfectly just in terms
of being complete and utter
sean is gonna be so disappointed when he
sees this video some solidarity they're
all yeah exactly that's why I don't know
why the baseball uh union is not
actually it's sort of surprising in a
way yeah
