this is really unfortunate you really
hate the idea that people can't go out
and buy a $25 sandwich in downtown
Manhattan somewhere but this clip
apparently two women where we're denied
service I didn't I gave it to Brendan
hold on one second
denied service at a restaurant because
of their attire now this type of
discrimination has been going on for too
long in this country far too long it is
horrific to see this kind of blatant
discrimination this is like what I would
imagine like me APA in the 1920 in the
50s yes these two women were apparently
denied service here we go Carmen's in
New York City wearing my make America
great again shirt and hat we originally
walked inside and asked for a table for
two and he said that the wait was two
hours because of our hats then when we
walked in as you see from the video he
completely avoided us but he had a table
prior to for just a random in comer so
we got turned down as two Jewish women
to Jewish women just down of a
restaurant in New York so we draw that
you're welcome yep out I'm not sure
what they're without god of the dreidels
for you here oh they look so Jewish -
there we go got any dreidels we don't
got any but myths for performances DJ
call it for you out what they're
they're trying to leverage the shooting
in Pittsburgh - getting served at
Carmine's wearing make America great
again same thing basically look this
happens all the time at restaurants
people who are you know unsightly are
giving bad tables so that the rest of
the restaurateur doesn't you know put
them in the window so that it doesn't
drive people you couldn't walk in there
just like shirtless no like I mean
there's just certain basic decorum you
have to follow it of course eat it at
most restaurants of course and it's
surprising it's also it's rude to wear
your hat inside yes very rude I mean
it's also I will take up a collection
for whatever server denied them because
I feel like we need to encourage these
small acts of goodness in the world
I go to Carmine's and a Bernie Sanders
head right I get in like right away oh
you should come out and do a video I got
served in five minutes I got served
not a word off Carmine's were one of us
is Jewish and I'm just gonna go in like
full black bloc attire see what happens
that that maitre d for president 2020
yeah so like that's great so think of
those two and go vote
