[Music]
before we get to Steven greenhouse this
is a really important story we'll get to
Mike Pence and his evasive nasai in the
program but this is really important as
you know the Supreme Court rejected even
the idea that the Supreme Court could
address partisan gerrymandering and they
did this back in in June in the I think
it's rush Oh a rue Cho versus common
cause essentially john roberts said
federal courts can't decide
gerrymandering cases because they're
beyond the competence of federal courts
now this is pretty stunning they said
that state courts are competent to do
this but somehow federal courts are not
that's why i'm snickering in the
backroads here even the more potentially
biased court they can do it right I mean
this implicated by statewide partisan
elections exactly exactly exactly
however a Superior Court is a state
court in Wake County North Carolina
heard a case common cause versus Louis
and they had you remember the huh feller
files right this is the guy who was
considered the grandfather of
gerrymandering he died his estranged
daughter went to go collect his stuff
found all these hard drives which was
huge in the context of the citizenship
question that came up in the census
because it became clear that he was the
one who promoted the asking that
question who wrote the alibi for the
Department of Justice and for the
Commerce Department Department to use in
getting that question on the in the
census and the Supreme Court struck that
down well what was also in there in this
treasure trove of hard drives was all of
the correspondents and evidence that the
North Carolina Republican Party had
Pacifica Lee set out to essentially make
it impossible impossible for Democrats
to control the Statehouse to develop a
gerrymander so that Democrats could win
the majority of votes in the state and
still the Republicans would win a super
majority of the seats
that's how dramatic this was the court
issued a something like a 370 page
decision because there was so much data
so these these seats were drawn in 2017
because the Supreme Court had struck
down the earlier version as a racial
gerrymander which they apparently are
competent in in viewing so Republican
legislators gave hot feller all the the
the the election data said we want our
super majority figured out so he created
all these we you know we've heard how
this is done right you pack all the
Democrats into one district even if you
have to draw it on a house by house
basis and then you create more like 55
45 Republicans districts apparently at
the trial experts looked at the maps and
said that ha fellers maps were more
favorable to Republicans than 99.99% of
maps that were generated by an algorithm
using nonpartisan redistricting factors
it was good at his job yeah he was very
good so apparently the Wake County
Superior Court found which consisted of
two Democrats in one republican found
that the extreme gerrymander violates
three provisions of the North Carolina
Constitution this is where you can get
some remedy if there is a state
constitution that deals with voting and
you have more Democrats
than Republicans sitting on the state
Supreme Court's and and in state courts
one it strikes at the heart of the free
elections clause this is a broad reading
but it said that the clause found that
elections must be conducted freely and
honestly to ascertain fairly truthfully
the will of the people if a majority of
people vote for Democrats and
Republicans still win a super majority
of seats you could argue that this is
not a free election second the court
held that the gerrymandering violates
North Carolina's Equal Protection Clause
that seems quite obvious my vote as a
Democrat is worth not even like
two-thirds of the vote of a Republican
because of the way the gerrymander works
and they also violate the guarantees of
freedom of speech and assembly voting
for the candidates of one choice in
associating with the political parties
at one choice our core means of
political expression to diminish
people's votes based upon what party
they belong to is an attack on that free
expression it burdens their speech by
making their votes less effective the
court gave the General Assembly two
weeks to draw a new legislative maps
they're not going to the Supreme Court
and I will give you six reasons why
because six Democrats one Republican on
that state Supreme Court so there you
have it this is going to have a dramatic
impact on North Carolina maybe not well
certainly in this election but in the
years to follow it's going to create a
North Carolina is going to be a reliably
blue state in tenures reliably I mean
it's it's you know it's purplish now
it's gonna be reliable I mean it's just
the way that it's going and they're not
gonna be able to stop it so good for
that court courts are important folks
state courts federal courts which means
that the people who appoint people the
courts the people who set up the voting
and have control of the voting operates
apparatus in states where they vote for
people on
kourt's this is all very important not
sexy not policy but it's about power and
this dovetails nicely into the question
of unions in particular not so much
labor but the power of unions largely is
statutory and we will talk to Steven
greenhouse about his book beaten-down
worked up the past present and future of
American labor after we take this break
