[Music]
very deaf and we'll put in the in the
podcast the description as well all
right let's just touch on this on this
Ukraine phone call because Thursday like
I said the acting head of the Acting
Director of National Intelligence will
be in front of the house Intel committee
for a public hearing they will ask him
who's the whistleblower he will say I
can't tell you they will say are you
prepared to hand over the the complaint
maybe we're still looking at that
question is that's what I would guess
right they're not gonna say no they're
gonna say we need more time to think
about it and they're gonna reference the
Justice Department as well and there
Ruth and they're ruling on this oh did
the OLC come out with something not that
I'll see but direction given by the
Justice Department is that this is
aboveboard for McGwire to release the
whistleblower identity it's it's
aboveboard
what do you mean it's not the he that
he's not obligated to yes okay and and
then supposedly this is when we're going
to see that you know the Democrats and
here's what sort of suspicious to me
about the whole thing why I just I'm
sorry
I don't trust Nancy Pelosi on this we
have been told time and time again
they're already starting it
don't you understand Nancy Pelosi is
this like 14 dimension chess we've been
told right impeachment proceedings are
starting although then she went into a
meeting as reported by Politico the
other day and said you guys are going
too fast on this then she writes a Dear
Colleague letter to all members on the
whistleblower complaint we're going to
expect Joseph Maguire to turn over the
whistleblowers full complaint to the
committee we also expect he will
establish a path for the whistleblower
to speak directly to the House and
Senate intelligence committees as
required by law
she notes that the ICS and inspector
general who is appointed by Trump has
determined the complaint is both of
quote urgent concern and credible and
its disclosure relates to quit as a
quote to one of the most significant
important of the Director of National
Intelligence responsibilities to the
American people she cites a federal
statute which unequivocally states the
DNA shall DNI shall provide Congress
information we must be sure the
president and his administration are
always conducting our national security
and foreign policy in the best interest
of the American people not the
president's personal or political
interest feels like that ship may have
already sailed which closes if the
administration persists in blocking this
whistleblower from disclosing to
Congress a serious probably shove
constitutional duties by the president
they will be entering a grave new
chapter of lawlessness which will take
us into quote a whole new stage of
investigation what what is the whole new
stage I thought we were already there
why and if we're not there why have we
not been there I mean this is where
she's basically conceding I've been
standing I've been stepping on the
brakes and again it's conditional look
it's enough that they haven't handed
this over it's enough that they've said
to Congress multiple times over and over
again we're not going to provide you the
information that you need for oversight
not just Muller investigation everything
the EPA the Bureau of Land Management
the USDA when all of it stuff that you
we don't even talk about because it's
all been sat on by the Democrats it's
it's infuriating and every day we just
watch them attempt to spend this stuff
and conflate it with other things let's
start with clip number two we're gonna
play clip number one again but we're
gonna play clip number two first this is
Donald Trump is saying on Sunday Trump I
don't know he was trying to audition as
an extra in the Chernobyl series I guess
here but he admits that he asked
Ukrainian president zelanski to look
into Joe Biden very odd I think to ask
in the context of a nice conversation
they realized that we abide we've been
spending a lot of time on the Biden case
we had a great conversation
the conversation I had was largely
congratulatory was largely corrupt in
all of the corruption taking play
was largely the fact that we don't want
our people like Vice President Biden has
done
corruption already in the Ukraine
your brains got a lot of problems the
new president is saying that he's going
to be able do
country of corruption and I said that
would be a great thing we had a great
conversation we had a conversation on
many things in fact I believe Ukraine
put out a statement yesterday saying
that we covered many different topics it
was a warm and friendly conversation we
back fight back Ukraine from the
beginning okay so he admits that he
talked about Biden raised Biden up
because of all the massive corruption
that the Biden family has been involved
in in Ukraine according to him right
that's been that's been the when people
talk about Ukrainian corruption as
opposed to talking about Biden's
corruption let's say people always bring
up by I'm being facetious hunter Biden I
don't know why he was sitting on that
board but I can tell you if that was the
most corrupt thing about Ukraine in
terms of the way they'd be doing all
right
and Rudy Giuliani also slowly losing his
mind is adamant adamant that the
President did not threaten to cut off
aid to Ukraine and by adamant I'm a
member not totally adamant did the
president threatened to cut off aid no
to the Ukraine no that was a false story
100% well I can't tell you if
ministration did delay US aid to Ukraine
Wall Street also fails in its false
article today it fails to point out on
the headlines on Saturday in the Ukraine
the Ukrainian version of this story
Ukraine says no pressure right no
pressure no collusion none of that
remember no pressure so there you go
almost a 100 percent did not threaten to
cut off aid to Ukraine I bring you back
to the clip that we started with at the
beginning of the show
this is Trump today correct now to be
fair it's a full 24 hours later
sometimes I wonder if Trump just wants
to make Drude to Giuliani look like an
ass because here he is admitting that
indeed he did threaten to cut off he
gave an ultimatum listen carefully
[Music]
what we are doing is we want honesty and
if we deal with a country we want
honesty and I think with the new
president you're going to see much more
honesty in the Ukraine and that's what
we're looking for we're supporting a
country we want to make sure that
country is honest it's very important to
talk about corruption if you don't talk
about corruption why would you give
money to a country that you think is
corrupt one of the reasons that's it
right there folks he couldn't help
himself and the reason is is he's afraid
that the the transcript is gonna come
out so he's trying to reinterpret the
way it's gonna sound to us when he says
if you do not go after Biden who is
corrupt we're not gonna give you money
gonna think you're corrupt and then I'll
think you're corrupt and not nice and so
he may have said something like so
you're gonna go after Biden right if you
want the money and he probably said that
about eight times if it took eight times
they assumed that even the Prime
Minister is like yeah you mean you know
we have protocols that we're going to
follow it something non-committal like
that or it could be one of those
situations where Trump keeps saying it
in the in the the prime minister just
says something different like you're
gonna go after Biden right if you want
the money and the prime minister says
how's Melania she's wonderful but you're
gonna go after Biden right if you want
the money tell me something about your
your club in Miami can anybody join but
you're gonna go after Biden right cuz
he's corrupt if you want the money what
was Trump accorded a saying to Comey
like I hope we can see this see this
through or see past this right there's
always like this type of stuff but I
think they seem to be a little bit
nervous about this but who knows
certainly Rudy Giuliani is doing the old
I guarantee it 100%
well not 100% but the point remains and
here's Mehdi Hassan talking about this
the point remains everything that that
the doll jump is doing it goes from
being on Donald Trump and I've said this
for
