[Music]
books and that's relevant here because
we have a clip of dennis prager hello
whining about youtube censorship and i
want to go use this as a launching point
to talk about actual youtube censorship
well this is not new they have been for
a while we're actually in a lawsuit with
regard to Google which owns YouTube for
example we produce five-minute videos
for prime ministers have made videos for
us and three Pulitzer Prize winners
liberal professors like the servers and
processors were this definitely sounds
like his food in his mouth or I'm also a
Holocaust deniers like Owen Benjamin and
people like that people like that not as
mainstream conservative as exists and
these are educational videos we have 1
billion views a year most of the viewers
are under 35 so we're a big force in in
the world of what we believe and a
Google which owns YouTube and Facebook
and Twitter and Spotify and well
basically all of the media of of
Internet communications are run by
people who do not want us that by us I
don't mean only Prager you us who are
not on the left to have a big voice so
for example they have placed about 80 of
our 400 videos they're all five-minute
videos they come out every week they
have placed about eight of them on the
restricted list so if you filter
pornography you cannot get Professor
Alan Dershowitz speaking about Israel's
founding you cannot exactly that's right
oh I'll explain it it's very simple if
it's pro America if it's pro-israel if
if it's pro religion it's likely to be
censored by Google YouTube it's a
phenomenon I did it I did a video on the
Ten Commandments it's on there it's on
the pornography restricted list well I
have to say from reading some of cragars
editorials I'm less surprised than he is
but here's the thing he may or may not
have a few on the restricted list and
I'm sure that if
Dershowitz has one of the restricted
list it's because Alan Dershowitz
advocates an extreme extreme hard-right
ethnocentric view of Israel in the
Middle East but there's one video that
was actually taken down unlisted
completely beyond this demonetised and
that was a video by zero books where Ben
Burgess who we know does these debunks
on my show he does logic videos 4-0
books and he wrote this book called give
them an argument logic for the left and
he took a video apart where ben shapiro
essentially assaulted american jews for
being critical of israel essentially
said that there was one hard right view
of israel you could have or are you
essentially yourself hating or
anti-semitic that video was totally was
unlisted was put on in a thing to that
even when you clicked on and had a
warning around it it went to apparently
a review process because it was appealed
because there's the it nothing i mean
it's a basic politics video and it was
still put in a restricted status so the
lesson here is that first of all we know
that in the big picture that there's you
know the stefan molyneux dave rubin
brain's video never got subject to any
of this kind of treatment
i don't even know it might even still be
monetized right so we know that in the
grand scheme of things that actually
far-right content was facilitated and
fed by the YouTube algorithm and not
targeted until potentially very recently
and then the other lesson is is that yes
these companies are completely in
equipped to make decisions like this it
is a threat to press an open discussion
of every kind and it is perfectly
demonstrated by the fact that they're
just filtering for the title Israel or
American Jews they're making no
analytical assessment whatsoever of a
rationale well articulate
video that dealt with the merits of the
issue at hand because they don't care
about it and because they don't choose
to invest in the capacity to monitor it
which is why they need to either be
heavily regulated or made public
utilities because it is in fact a very
big threat to openness and content
creation press and media so but of
course dennis prager wants to turn it
into some fantasy about Google being run
by Hezbollah or something if only Oh
whose do we have a sense of who Prager
you is funded by like who that what what
kind of corporate interests are funding
Prager you I think it's some fracking
guys pretty sure it's some fracking guys
yeah and I think that's covered in the
second plug I'll give his YouTube
channel of the day Sean he has two
videos that are really good how Prager
you lies to you that's got a million
views oh great and how Prager you lies
to you the British Empire that was only
three months ago that's about half a
million views so check those out
very good cool my Sean is always
watching videos from that Sean well it's
