[Music]
so Steve Pinker doesn't know history at
least political history that's my main
beef with all these intellectual dark
web people and usually their total lack
of historical awareness leads them to if
they're Sam Harris to support
essentialist ridiculous views of Islam
which again I always have to reiterate
does not mean that you cannot criticize
Islam or object to Islamic forms of
government it means that literally to
talk about it as one monolithic
uninterrupted thing is historically
sociologically politically economically
illiterate now Steve Pinker somebody
handed him a copy of the niskin in paper
that came out this week and the niskin
and paper is like a some type of
think-tank or nonprofit that put a
Rotarian libertarian and it's a new
effort to get beyond the false choices
of right and left and yet another an
unending version of the essentially be
be socially liberal and fiscally
conservative right have a give people
some tax credits but also deregulate the
internet so cool this type of thing in
and it echoes the dominant politics the
1990s which was the Third Way and
Clinton and Blair and Schroder ruled the
day and you know it's basically like if
somebody somehow got billions of dollars
in hedge money to relaunch AOL dial-up
service and then they were like this is
the newest and most exciting form of
Internet access in the world today
AOL dial-up and it isn't just that it's
old I mean obviously some things that
are old can be applied to today but it's
that that particular model did not work
it led to the collapse of social safety
nets broadening income inequality it
deregulated banks including Wall Street
and city in London which helped lead to
the global economic
down a compromise center-left parties
across the globe leading to their
underperformance in the wake of the
financial crisis created by Wall Street
and where it's being primarily practiced
today 20 years after its heyday is in
France where Emmanuel macron is sitting
at about a 20 percent approval rating
with massive street demonstrations going
on because of his moves to implement
austerity and redistribute money to
wealthy people and this is of course
exactly the time and Steve Pinker's
history free embrace of whatever will
confirm his instincts for hierarchical
market liberalism found and that is
meritocracy the Third Way and all of
these great goodies that of course are
totally new ideas if you don't have a
grounding in political history and Steve
Pinker quote tweets this piece from I
believe is it a is this a draw still
thought Ross Douthat Ross gal fresh off
his we need to bring the wasps back and
I'm saying that as a Catholic who
actually descends from wasp but
converted to Catholicism yeah fresh off
his the wasps governed America better
peace has a new column in New York Times
which is entitled how meritocracy and
populism reinforce each other's faults
and I didn't read the piece I don't care
to the only pieces I'm interested about
reading Rossdale thought or like his
basically if somebody's making fun of
his old sort of sex literature but Steve
Pinker is to the rescue with the the
fallacy that meritocracy is a
consciously chosen system reality it's
what you get when you move away from
cronyism nepotism racism sexism old boy
networks and other biases now Steven
Pinker's teaches at Harvard University
which still to this day I think it's
upwards of 30% of the admitted class the
most prestigious university on the
planet arguably
running a close second to Bates College
that those people have weighted
emissions based off of their parents
also attending Harvard or other family
members like literally an old boy or old
girl network at his institution you
could broaden it out and say that
generations of wealth and being trained
to take tests with outside tutors and
resources that time to study the context
to study the social capital the
emotional investment to think that you
should be in the most elite institutions
are all massive inbuilt advantages that
shape your outcome in life and how you
perform in this quote unquote
meritocracy do we have that jeet here
quit tweet so Amit I mean this I mean
this is basically this is it I mean this
this is the problem with this Steve
Pinker perspective in a nutshell
essentially its technological Pangloss
e'en ism and it doesn't describe but it
both has no description of the reality
of the world we live in where the
likelihood of how well you do in life is
far more determined by the wealth of
your parents than anything else and as G
here says Pinker teaches at a university
where 30% of students are legacy
admissions where Jared Kushner got
admitted because his family made a do a
huge donation of course he thinks he
lives in a meritocracy indeed Jared
Kushner in a book expose in the Ivy
League admissions process was a case
study where they actually got someone I
think from his high school saying like
yeah I have no idea how I mean it had to
have been the donation cuz there's no
other way that this guy could have
gotten into Harvard so but what's great
is that ok this has no description in
connection to the world we live in today
where wealth is preeminent where your
outcomes in life
have more to do with the income of the
family you were born into than anything
else and secondly if we were to live in
a world that was governed on different
metrics of meritocracy and there should
be a lot of different metrics of
meritocracy by the way because I'm not
only just interested in rewarding people
that might be clever in school I'm also
interested in people's ethics I'm also
interested in but people actually want
to do and contribute in order to live
though in a world closely approximating
this fantasy you would have to do one of
the greatest radical wealth
redistribution projects in the history
of human civilization in order to have
meritocracy you would need to have
radical democratic socialism or it is
literally a fan exactly like look at
Pinker's original quote the fallacy that
meritocracy is consciously closed
reality when it I can't sorry the fair
the fallacy that meritocracy is
consciously chosen system reality that's
what you get when you move away from
cronyism nepotism racism sexism old boy
networks and other biases and that's
like what about inheritance
what about inheritance and what about by
the way all those other things that we
haven't moved from like we would have to
do a whole political project that you
spend all of your waking hours opposing
to get to that world where it could be a
reality and that's the problem when
you're only politics is just looking at
current events and then reaching for
naturalized quote-unquote science
explanations for them and you skip how
all of this stuff actually gets made in
the realm of politics economics finance
and how its historically formed that is
literally where all the action is so
Steve Pinker's he's goofy watched his
interview of Mehdi Hasan
