elizabeth warren she makes an
announcement let's watch part of the
video this is it's four minutes long
right we're not gonna watch the whole
thing but let's watch a little bit of it
Elizabeth Warren has essentially I mean
I don't know if this is official but she
said she's going to launch a splurt or
exploratory committee we be a little
pedantic for a second I've never
understood this and I've been doing this
for a little while now what when you
explore how many people launch an
exploratory committee that doesn't turn
into a run that's exceedingly rare I
would say zero I mean so what is it with
this sort of what is the specific isn't
legal is it something you have to do to
set up certain it's the way that you
could start taking my okay and the the
idea is I mean there's a lot of theories
as to why she announced now one slow
news days right now gets more attention
you launch the exploratory committee you
get a news hit you announced that you're
going to run you get another news hit
that's the theory I think the other idea
is if she can raise a lot of money it
will scare some people out of the race
that is the other theory and so here is
her video which I guess introduces the
idea that she's planning to run in our
country if you work hard and play by the
rules you ought to be able to take care
of yourself and the people you love
that's a fundamental promise of a
positive one seconds now I should tell
you that construct was a Bill Clinton
construct I was just gonna say it and I
we can debate the the value of that I
mean better that you're you're using
some type of like folksy phrase from
Bill Clinton than Ronald Reagan let me
put it that way and so you know 10-15
years ago that's what Democrats would do
they would put you know they would start
their videos with we can be a shining
beacon you know for the world over is
something and so we're making some
progress but good
there should be truth for every
growing up in Oklahoma that promise came
through for me and my family after my
older brothers joined the military and I
was still just a kid my daddy had a
heart attack and couldn't work my mom
found a minimum-wage job at Sears and
that job saved our house and our family
my daddy ended up as a janitor but he
raised a daughter who got to be a public
school teacher
a law professor and a senator we got a
real opportunity to build something
working families today face a lot
tougher paths and my family did and
families of color face a path that is
steeper and rockier a path made even
harder by the impact of generations of
discrimination I've spent my career
getting to the bottom of why America's
Promise works for some families but
others who work just as hard slip
through the cracks into disaster and
what I found is terrifying
these aren't cracks that families are
falling into their traps America's
middle class is under attack how do we
get here billionaires and big
corporations decided they wanted more of
the pie and they enlisted politicians to
cut him a fatter slice the crippled
unions so no one could stop we're going
to turn the boat loose dismantle the
financial rules meant to keep us safe
after the Great Depression and cut their
own taxes so they paid less than their
secretaries and janitors it's time to
write the rules for the middle class
after Wall Street crashed our economy in
2008 I left the classroom to go to
Washington and confront the broken
system head-on Elizabeth Warren
apparently not afraid of tangle with
Wall Street heading into the Lions Den
mrs. Warren goes to Washington to do we
created America's first consumer
watchdog to hold the big banks account
of a woman who has warned of another
meltdown if Washington doesn't
straighten up I never thought I'd run
for office not in a meal
years but when Republican senators tried
to sabotage the reforms had run me out
of town I went back to Massachusetts and
ran against one of them and I beat it
[Music]
[Applause]
today corruption is poisoning our
democracy politicians look the other way
while big insurance companies deny
patients life-saving coverage while big
banks ripoff consumers and while big oil
companies destroy this planet our
government's supposed to work for all of
us but instead it has become a tool for
the wealthy and well-connected the whole
scam is propped up by an echo chamber of
fear and designed to distract and divide
every people who will do or say anything
to hang on to power point the finger at
anyone who looks thanks praise or loves
differently than they do this dark path
it doesn't have to be our future we can
make our democracy work for all of us we
can make our economy work for all of us
we can rebuild America's middle class
but this time we gotta build it for
every alright well I mean I think you
know the the interesting thing about
that video as you watch it is early on
she addresses you know the the economic
plight of of not just you know the
middle class but also of specifically of
of minorities in this country and then
everything else is I think sort of very
maybe slightly different rhetoric but
certainly populist in tone and attacking
the the big banks attacking the
insurance companies and then also you
know throws in some resistance stuff but
you know she flashes a picture of AOC
and you know among other sort of
incoming you know left left this I guess
at least in the context of the
Democratic Party House members and so I
don't know it's it's interesting because
this is where you see at least she plans
to go early on
and that is I think to attempt to secure
those supporters of Bernie Sanders I
think I let me say I mean I agree with I
think first of all what I like about it
is just reminding everybody of why we
all liked her in the first place and
getting away from the sort of recent
mishap with the DNA thing and reminding
us that she's has a really powerful
record on banks and consumer issues and
that's how she the only reason she's
here is because of great work in that
regard I and and I don't want to get too
nitpicky about rhetoric but I do think
to me like the old Clinton line points
to basically just a bigger difference of
opinion and I think she does with in a
much more genuine populist way have much
more belief in the American meritocracy
than I do and I think Sanders does and
that's an actual difference between a
somewhat more democratic socialist
position and a progressive liberal one
and I think it's actually could be great
if the debate is on the merits of those
things but we shouldn't pretend they're
they're the same or that there is
systemic and I also think ironically
that and I've been banging on about this
but it's true that when Bernie ran in
2016 I loved what he said about
Kissinger and I loved how he moved a bit
on israel-palestine but he had no
foreign policy in fact he said some
ridiculous things about teaming up with
Jordan and Saudi Arabia now he is the
leader with regards to Yemen as an
example so that's created a whole other
justification and if as applied to her
I'd really like to see her remind us of
why she was so good to begin with banks
and regulation and she's got to move
forward on a vision of the world
yep-yep miles beyond any other
mainstream politician on Israel too just
without a doubt and I I'm not a hundred
percent convinced that in this
environment that it's totally good
enough to you know just have it like you
know butter at home guns abroad foreign
policy because I think that people who
did who do talk intelligently about
Obama's legacy on the Iran deal that's a
great way
intersecting a left perspective and some
of the resistance rhetoric and guarding
Obama's legacy and the racialized
attacks on it also Israel also what's
happening across the world I mean you
know bolson armor was sworn in yesterday
I know we'll get to it but the social
media accounts of government workers are
already being comb through in that
country it's a trump wet dream
so there's Elizabeth Warren and
[Music]
