[Music]
call from a 2:06 area code who's this
where you come from this is emmalin hi
Emily what's on your mind hey um I have
kind of a meta question and since you've
got a full house today I'll open this
question to everyone I was wondering
what is the earliest thing you remember
might be it something you read or
watched or something in the news etc
that began to move your social and
political views to the left like what
age did that happen to you and what
started that process
oh geez my the answer I give is I
remember watching the run-up to the war
in Iraq and especially this shock and
awe thing is right when I got a TV in my
room
and I remember watching it being like oh
this is kind of weird and then I think I
was also listening to a lot of like
radio out of Minneapolis k fa a-- and
the sports talk channel put out it also
had a bunch of liberals on there and it
was basically that sort of era yeah I'm
a little bit older than Matt but the
Iraq war definitely weighed heavily on
my political development as well I
remember I was still in high school when
I protested the Iraq war along with
millions of other people across the
country and it didn't do anything and I
was like wow maybe our government isn't
actually working the way it's supposed
to
that combined with having to survive on
my own in the world after college during
the Great Recession
made me feel pretty disillusioned with
not just the Republican Party but Obama
and the Democrats as well and it
combined with Occupy Wall Street made me
think we need some more radical
solutions if we're actually going to fix
the problems in the world Michael is not
here what we what was the first we just
repeated the question may yeah oh yeah
just what was the earliest thing that
you remember like whether
was something you had like read or
watched or something that was happening
in news that began to move your social
and political views to the west I the
the two things that come to mind is that
just because of we had a decent sized
backyard in Worcester our neighbors down
the street were committee chairmen for
McGovern McGovern came to our house to
campaign the backyard when I was like
six I don't think I knew the ideology
but I knew I was against Nixon at that
point and then I think just stories
maybe my dad was on the human rights of
the Civil Rights Commission in in
Worcester and just hearing those stories
I don't know I don't know if there was
what I don't remember exactly beyond
that I don't know that was it though but
Michael's not here good question
appreciate the call yeah thanks guys how
about for him
bye-bye I had never really thought about
that before I feel like also maybe I was
associated with American Indians when I
was a little kid I don't know why not
like I didn't I didn't I mean I actually
had a counselor I think a a camp who was
had some Native American I don't can't
remember exactly but I was young and I
got into that I was just identified with
with Indians more than the Cowboys sure
