I know no Mickey you wanted to talk
about Tulsi so let's do a Tulsi clip I
don't really care about this one as much
but I think the Indian nationalism the
Hindu nationalism stuff is actually way
more relevant frankly for why there
needs to be systemic critique of her I'm
look my position what's whole scene it's
like it's the same with Warren like I'm
in nan F around mode if Tulsi takes 2%
from Bernie Sanders and hurts this
campaign right you are a monumental
idiot for supporting her and I don't
know I think the media play here is
pretty obvious I get whatever there's
all these critiques of impeachment
there's a critique of the Democrats
relationship with the intelligence
apparatus I think it's all valid I agree
with most of it going on Sean Hannity to
run interference for Republican talking
points I not only do i disagree with
it's just totally strategically bizarre
unless your plan is to like maybe work
on Fox News or something it doesn't like
what's the Democratic constituency this
speaks to this is Tulsi Gabbard on Sean
Hannity president which is why I
supported the inquiry I think that
inquiry needs to be done in a very
narrowly focused way and it must be done
transparently I don't know what's going
on in those closed doors we as members
of Congress don't have access to the
information that is being shared and I
think that the American people deserve
to know exactly what the facts are what
the evidence is that's being presented
as this inquiry goes on Nomi key
Republican talking points any time a
Democratic congresswoman who claims to
be on the Left should not be you know
using Republican cocking points on Sean
Hannity's you know show of all shows to
go on Sean Hannity is I mean I don't do
Sean Hannity I go on fox news all the
time I'm not a congressman when running
for the Democrat that is not the show
you go on if you're running in a primary
or at all frankly that's like a pipeline
to trump I think she's lost her mind I
mean there was a time
the soldier maybe she is a Russian
operative I you know what she's proving
the point if that's the case I mean I
agree but I mean she's playing into the
hands of Hillary saying that she's not
right over she's not running for
congressional for a reelection now she's
just trying to hurt Bernie yeah that's
right exactly she's doing tulsi before
she did her crank fishing expedition by
endorsing Bernie in 2015 she was like
the person who was saying Obama should
say radical Islam yep
like she's how she became nationally
known was complaining that Obama didn't
use the phrase Islamic terror it was too
easy on around people because of the
Iran deal that's right she's not a war
candidate exactly she's she's running a
Ron Paul foreign policy - yeah she's the
 anti-war candidate all right
with us though I have no I think media
career right yeah media career I
actually don't agree I don't think she's
gonna do media career he's using this to
raise money right now
she's she well she wasn't raising money
for a congressional race at all I think
she had like $30,000 out but I'm saying
it's it's clearly going into her
presidential fund I don't know what she
does when she shuts down that fund what
she decides to run for maybe she's
running for governor or maybe she's but
she's raising money she's continuously
raising money and I don't think staying
in the race unless she just wants to go
to another debate you know get into the
next debate is yeah Sammy a career might
happen but she said she's gonna stay in
Mary I don't I don't know I don't get it
she should go to Mary Ann you know
become some kind of like TV self-help
guru she'd be great at that
but if Trump wins re-election she's in
the cabinet we'll see that's possible
final call today
