[Music]
this statement was released today by
Jeff Weaver regarding Bernie Sanders
Sanderson in Vegas senior advisor Jeff
Weaver on Wednesday issued the following
statement during the campaign event
yesterday evening Sanders senator
Sanders experienced some chest
discomfort following medical evaluation
and testing he was found to have
blockage in one artery and two stents
were successfully inserted sinus Sanders
is conversing in a good spirits they'll
be resting up over the next few days
we're canceling his events and
appearances until further notice and we
will continue to provide appropriate
updates look I don't know anything about
medical stuff I did take ap biology but
when it came time to do the the blood
tests I had to have my lab partner do it
because I cannot stand the idea of blood
oh no blood exactly but on Twitter Matt
bender referenced his dad who is a
listener of this program former producer
Matt bender said his dad had the exact
same procedure was up and back and
worked within a couple of days my
understanding is that generally the
recovery time for this pretty quick and
but we'll see best wishes to Bernie
Sanders get him back on the campaign
trial as soon as possible because it's
important nobody has been crisscrossing
the country more than Bernie Sanders
really I mean since 2015 in many
respects I mean he was running in 2015
and 16 he obviously went all across the
country campaigning for Hillary Clinton
and then starting in January he was up
at it again you'll recall that it was
Bernie Sanders going around to rallies
around the country that was instrumental
in protecting the Affordable Care Act
people forget that little chapter
of history but there were rallies I mean
this sounds this feels like it was
decades ago but you'll recall there were
town halls where progressives Democrats
went to these town halls and read the
riot act to their representatives who
were talking about voting to destroy the
Affordable Care Act and Bernie Sanders
was going around had organized I think
it was our revolution that was doing a
lot of this and and campaigned there so
he's been basically Criss crossing the
country now for five six five four four
or five years and leading like the most
aggressive legislative agenda in
Congress ending the genocide in Yemen
pushing for health care getting Amazon
to raise wages I'm praying for him
unapologetically well maybe you should
have been a little bit afraid lest
atheistic and maybe those prayers work
I'm not a theistic God believer on Osho
I'm not really slay me no of course not
god is great I'm not one of you thinking
you're believing
yeah retching oh there you go agnostic I
am I am largely agnostic when it comes
to to God yeah yeah I mean at the end of
the day that's probably like the only
defensible position but I will take the
God is a great position I mean I I'm I'm
sort of uh I guess it was a Boober was a
Boober who was just like what's the
difference he might as well believe in
it Martin Buber yep because he's just
like I can't prove it either way so what
are you gonna do is we want Pleasant to
believe and that way you can pray for
Bernie said it would be nice it would be
nice if there was a guy that was how it
was called it would be nice it'll be
network of Jewish theology by Martin
Valera we're gonna get into this stuff
with with the State Department
