go to a great thinker on this in terms
of the walls of course I'm talking about
Dave Rubin who showed up on some to
boots radio what is it
who I what two-way radio show Julie
two-way radio show and Dave Rubin has
dug deep into this and this issue and
has picked up the talking points that
where did we see this oh it was Trump
Trump yeah
Trump in the kracken about the imaginary
walls around the Obama house I guess
maybe there are walls around Obama's
house he's former president there's some
reason to believe that he might be
afraid but the premise well let's listen
to Dave Rubin so do you think they're
making an argument about morality and
the simple fact is every one of these
people making an argument about morality
has a wall or fence around the house and
most of them are walking from the
security and have cameras and all sorts
of things so you can't only a wall
doesn't work because you've got one or
is it immoral act because you've got one
around your house so we're on you're
gonna take down your wall and take away
your guns and your security and then
talk about morality I guess you could do
that but that just shows you how silly
this argument yeah I posit for one
second now look in Dave's mind
imaginarily the the people who are
talking about the immorality of a wall
all have guns and video cameras and
walls against around their fence I don't
know how he would know that my apartment
has wells though that you do have walls
it also sometimes the walls hold up the
ceiling but the absurdity of of Dave's
point of course is that to argue we need
walls on the border you would also be
arguing that we need walls on the
northern border like why do we not what
how is it that we have this Mike and
I'll remind you the northern border of
this country is
more than I think it's two and a half
times the length of the southern border
I don't really knew enough about that
I'm gonna clean but uh Reed boy maybe we
should just buzz around other states T
there should be a wall around the state
but I don't need to look into that plane
now he also doesn't understand the
difference between an argument about
morality and an argument about efficacy
well he sort of shifted back and forth a
little bit but three winners and he
doesn't also seem to recognize that just
like a wall is just the fact that it's a
wall does not mean that it serves the
same purpose in different contexts
people on the left just hate was just as
he stripped you it's unbelievable
in you know and kudos to Dave because I
know Dave he will not he will not see
this or hear this because but the funny
part is he will block on Twitter just
about anybody who critiques him except
for me it feels like he hasn't blocked
me either so far now I'm quite sure he
must have me muted because I don't hear
it is what I'm right but he won't block
me because he doesn't want to be seen as
shutting down I mean this is the the
thing that sort of really really in some
ways I find this the most despicable
about him he won't block me because he
knows I have a loud enough platform to
talk about how he blocked me and that it
would hurt his brand to block me because
he's open to dialogue you never give
your enemy's content right girl said but
he will do it he will block everybody
else because because they can't make
enough of a story of it but he's afraid
of blocking me because he knows that
will show up in the next profile that
he's done by somebody and that's why he
doesn't do it they figured out in sue
man has been a thief night long a
strategy says she done this and came up
with the mute strategy here you go so
this is classic this is a classic
like this is a classic conservative
argue this is definitely something takes
IQ serious Eric's wall well writes my
favorite part of the conservative
outrage responses to this tweet is but
the Berlin Wall was to keep people in
argument missing entirely that a wall is
a wall no matter what side of it you're
on its medieval it's a symbol of us not
us and not us and that is not the US
right so the idea is that a wall is sort
of like the antithetical to say the
Statute of Liberty that the Statue of
Liberty says we welcome immigrants and a
wall is really a memorial to saying we
don't welcome immigrants that we are
hostile that we feel we're under siege
and of course by all possible measures
we are not under siege I mean the you
remember the recall the the rhetoric of
the invaders and whatnot but so this guy
baseball crank who is this guy Dan
mcLaughlin
I think he's like a lawyer okay the
vietnam memorial wall is also a wall
so as the Wailing Wall so is the Green
Monster if you're against all walls
regardless of purpose or function you're
against houses churches and hospitals I
have a friend who got blocked by a
baseball crank who cuz he tweeted in him
your law firms clients should demand a
billing rate discount based off of your
tweets well I will also say this
incidentally the what the Vietnam
Memorial Wall is there as a way of you
know as a memorial not to keep people in
or out no needs to keep the Vietnam you
actually walk around the wall but don't
walk around Wow so if it's there they
don't walk it on the Wailing Wall was in
fact a wall to keep people out it was
part of the the the original temple and
it was a way to keep people out but now
it's a wall for please let my son get
into Harvard and the Green Monster of
course is for baseball purposes I mean
then that destroy Fenway for us though
is left
in Massachusetts because we're so upset
by walls that we just could chew off
anyway a leftist own leftist oh yeah
yeah yeah yeah because I was like no
because there is writing my exact wrong
wrong scenario it but as we're making
fun really messes with your head we're
making fun of a baseball crank back to
the tab oh yeah
