so Brian you basically in the last
segment walked us through Donald Trump's
ability to or what he has done in terms
of reshaping the federal judiciary and
your organization demand justice
attempting to basically make the body
democratic politics I guess understand
and appreciate the importance of the
federal judiciary and one of the things
of course this week we had folks
protesting Susan Collins office and Mark
were in his office in Chris Coons office
and demanding at the very least that
like they insist if they're gonna vote
for a nominee they've got to answer
basic questions like where are you stand
on brown v board of education or but
they're one of the other things that
your organization is doing which I find
fascinating is you are trying to set a I
guess a litmus test I don't know if
that's what you call it but for
potential judicial nominees in the
future and this is fascinating to me
because you are trying to create a
structural change in the behavior of
young left-leaning lawyers and law
students and judges so that they can
pursue a career that is more oriented
towards the public interest and still
have a future as a potential future as a
judge expand on that yes so it is
obviously very important and crucial
that we defeat Donald Trump and try to
run back to Senate in 2020 but even if
we were successful in those two projects
then comes the question of well how do
we use that power and influence an
opportunity to try to mitigate the
damage of the last four years under
Trump and for starters I anticipate that
it's going to be an uphill climb just to
refocus the Democrats attention on the
courts because think of how crowded
their agenda will once again be they'll
have legislative initiatives up the
wazoo that will command time and
deservedly so I mean we all want to see
action on gun safety and climate change
but literally clearing time on the floor
schedule for the consideration of
judicial nominee can get Democratic
appointed judges confirmed will to be a
huge lift and politically a group like
mine will be even more necessary I think
in a scenario where we actually have
power but let's assume that we succeed
in that and we can we get the similar
level of attention and priority given to
this issue that McConnell has devoted to
at these last couple years well then I
my attention turns to what types of
judges are we actually promoting and
putting on the bench and in the past
there's been a sort of default approach
and their Democratic presidents going
back a ways that they have sort of
nominated people from a certain set of
backgrounds that are intended to signal
to Republicans that these people are not
going to be overly progressive they're
not going to rock the boat that much
because who are they in terms of their
professional background well for the
most part they've been partners at
corporate law firms that have
represented big pharmaceutical companies
or big banks or big tech companies and
then the other sort of profession that
you see most represented in nominees
typically is as a federal prosecutor
and so you have people that have
represented corporate interests or put
people away in jail for most of their
careers and these are intended to sort
of signal consensus style people to
Republicans in order to not kick up too
much dust we would like to change that
approach and we would like to see a
premium being placed on lawyers that go
into nonprofit work that work as Public
Interest fillers that look as public
defenders representing indigent
defendants we would like to see people
that are labor lawyers that will
represent the antithesis of the pro
corporate approach of the judges that
have been nominated by Donald Trump and
I think that this would bring a sort of
new vantage point on the law to the
federal bench because so few of those
types of lawyers currently are sitting
judges but also as you mentioned it
would reshape the incentives for young
progressive lawyers that are in law
school now and are choosing between on
the one hand lucrative careers that also
present politically safe sort of
trajectories for themselves in terms of
going into corporate law or do
something that might be a little bit
truer to their values and ideals but
which up till now has been viewed as
something's politically dicey and that
might actually disqualify them from a
future political appointment which is to
work in a group or an organization like
say the ACLU and so RBG who's sort of
the iconic figure on the Supreme Court
and everyone likes to buy her bobblehead
dolls and make jokes on Twitter about
how they'll donate that liver to her she
has said in interviews that someone like
her with her background as an ACLU
lawyer probably couldn't get nominated
today because Democrats have more of a
GoSafe approach we want to change that
and upend that calculus so that we can
get more Ruth Bader Ginsberg Thurgood
Marshall types back on the bench I mean
that's a that's pretty stunning because
it's not I mean as you know we perceive
Ruth Bader Ginsburg in the context of
this court to be to the left but
relatively speaking from a historical
standpoint if you look back in the
decades in the 20th century or at least
the the second part of this 20th century
she is a moderate in many respects in
terms of where she would be sitting in
in in the context of you know the left
as represented on the court I mean this
is this seems to be highly problematic
because you know if you are a right-wing
lawyer you join the Federalist Society
and you know that this is a I need to
have my passport stamped by the
Federalist Society and this is going to
get me through there if I go and I
joined the American Constitution Society
which is supposedly the left version of
that that becomes almost a liability at
this point and and so we just have about
a minute and a half left and maybe
there's not enough time to go terribly
deep into this but how do you make sure
that you're you are if not in the room
when the next president hopefully a
Democrat is making these decisions
because you've been there before maybe
that's how or that people who are within
your share your ideas about this are in
that room so I think what we have to do
is that to get organized and build
something of a movement and I think
since we first published our opinion
piece in the Atlantic we've had
organically so many people
that are in public interest law that
work as Public Defender's reach out to
us organically raise their hands and say
are you starting a pipeline project
because I know so many qualified people
that just don't have any political
constituency they don't have the muscle
to get their names on a short list for a
senator to recommend them to the White
House for a judicial vacancy but if you
guys are going to make this you know
part of your mission I can send you the
names I can I'm happy to get involved
and so we're reaching out to those
people we're trying to collate those
names and I think if we shine a light
and bring transparency and peel the
curtain back to this we can have success
because 72 percent of Democratic primary
voters say that they agree with us that
we shouldn't add it and more corporate
lawyers to the bench
if you press send a Democrats on this
about why they continue to nominate the
same type of corporate lawyers I think
it's an uncomfortable conversation to
have what they benefit from right now is
the lack of scrutiny on this so we
intend to shine a light on these
processes we're going to hold a
convention next year with public
interest lawyers with public defenders
to bring transparency and and sort of
demystify the process of how do you get
your name on a short list to be
considered for a judicial vacancy and so
I think if we bring some transparency to
this and we get organized and we show we
have some political heft in muscle we
can get some senators to devote some of
the recommendations that they have to
the look types of lawyers we're talking
about Brian thanks so much for your time
today good luck with your organization I
think it's crucial it's a crucial work
you're doing
