so bill in the last segment you explain
to us the I guess the the the the
development in the mid 80s early 80s of
a practice that was born out of an
ideology of shareholder value in
corporations as a way of measuring the
success of a corporation as opposed to
sort of a broader more a civic-minded
not not to the exclusion of profits in
any way but in the that accompany works
not just for its owners it does at that
time but also its success is measured as
to what it does for the community what
it does for its workers what it does for
the long-term prospects of the company
itself all had a bigger part in the
assessment of a successful company in
the 80s that ideology changed it became
about shareholder value and one of the
ways that that manifested itself was the
Reagan administration essentially
relaxing the rules via the SEC on when a
company could buy back its own stocks
you explained to us that in what that
does and more so than the idea of
increasing dividends to shareholders
broadly speaking because it has the
potential of benefiting the leadership
of the core of the company and they have
such an ability to manipulate what the
company does at any given point it
creates a uniquely perverse incentive
that then makes the corporation that
much less I guess functioning to the
benefit of those other stakeholders is
that is that basically it that's right
and even in terms of shareholders its
benefits share sellers not shareholders
and and as I'm holding shares in a
company long term I don't want them to
pay all the money out in dividends I
want them to reinvest and have a
competitive products in the teacher and
then my phone when I sell the shares
I'll probably be at a higher a higher
price and I'll make a game earn buybacks
are are really just moved
the company on and they're being done
that on top of dividend so it's not
instead of dividends and to the point
where back in the early 1980s before the
implementation of this rule ten be
eighteen maybe fifty percent of the
profits of large companies were being
distributed in the form of dividends a
very very tiny percentage in buybacks to
the point now where it's ninety four
ninety five in the pharmaceutical
industry among large companies it's
almost 100 percent of their profits we
pay high drug prices of a they say they
need high profits to reinvest more in
our deal and they spend virtually 100
percent many companies like Merck and
Pfizer 150 percent year after year their
profits go to buybacks and dividends and
so I don't need to buy backs oh yeah
good well okay but we have only have
about four minutes left here so Chuck
Schumer Bernie Sanders a bit of an odd
couple perhaps they've gotten together
they have come up with a a proposal on
how to limit stock buybacks and that is
to have a series of rather micro managed
conditions that would allow for a a
stock buybacks what what are the problem
what's the problem with that proposal as
opposed to just simply returning to the
to the regime essentially that we had in
the early 80s yeah so so I should say
that senator Tammy Baldwin introduced
legislation last March for the reward
work Act which would rescind rule 10 B
18 this rule from 1982 this allows mark
his mastery purchases and if that were
done then the SEC as a regulator of the
stock market would have to start and
Congress probably as well would have to
discuss what's going on here or you know
what it's happening these companies that
argument if you lysing the market if you
do these massive repurchases okay so
that's the route that I think you should
go on that on all the issues that they
raised about you know $15 wage sick
leave better
who got full coverage or you know
retirement pay etc I agree with all that
said that's what company should do but
let's just do it we don't we don't need
to say well okay if you do that's
buybacks or if you do too much my legs
if you don't do those things and then
won't let you do buyback let's just say
you you have to have minimal standards
of living that a profitable corporation
pays to to its employees and that's a
starting point I think you know you
should just fight for that in its own
right now it's hampered their
willingness to do it is hampered by all
these buybacks so but I think there's
there's a another argument that
community buybacks basically they're
hugely damaging and I would say even
immoral and I think they should be
illegal and there's a lot of reason why
you would say they should be illegal
because we set up a cc in 1934-35 with
the notion that you eliminate fraud and
and the manipulation on stock markets
and there's nothing that is more violent
in the middle if then stock buybacks
that's being done on a massive scale in
plain view and so let's just have a
discussion about that and go for where
the problem is and just get rid of them
they don't they're unnecessary and
they're benefiting people are few a
relatively small number of people not
just the top executives but hedge fund
activists and wall street bankers are
like soy banks a blind fine tweeted
something about all the money goes
somewhere in the economy no the money
goes to him and Goldman Sachs and we
know what they do with the money that's
partly because so much money comes out
of these companies people go to work
every day and the money that that is
they help generate is going into the
financial sector and use for for
whatever they do and so there's that
just needs to be stopped and I think it
should be an easy sell to to Democrats
and I think some of them are starting
again and many of them are that let's
just put a stop to that and the other
side of that would be
let's have decent minimal legislation at
least for
the pay the workers get the benefits
they get sick leave etc well Billa zonic
it's a it's a fascinating topic and I
guess we will have a sense in the next
couple of years how many Democrats buy
into this and where we go from there
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it
