like one more piece of sound and take a
one more call and a few more items and
we'll get out of here alright this is
Mitch McConnell who was completely out
of sight the whole time he was allowing
Donald Trump to shut down the federal
government in a desperate act of theater
and racism Cory Robin had a great tweet
recently he said look people should
really take in the fact that Trump tried
to make the midterms referendum on white
nationalism and he lost and he tried to
make the government shut down on white
nationalism and he lost that's really
important to internalize in terms of
aggressiveness and what you view about
the American public indeed this is Mitch
McConnell who was put his head back out
there yup it's a turtle joke and he is
gonna mock keep in mind I mean federal
workers had to take out loans they had
to take out same-day loans they had to
the pawn shop business surged people
were missing payments on things serious
human suffering that Mitch McConnell has
zero connection to and has spent his
whole life his whole career in public
office increasing here he is mocking
those people who work more in a day or
contribute I should say Mitch McConnell
does a lot of work contribute to the
good more in a day than he has in his
whole career of harming people their
election day a new paid holiday for
government workers and created an
additional brand-new paid leave benefit
for up to six days for any federal
bureaucrat who decided they'd like to
hang out at the polls during any
election just what America needs another
paid holiday and a bunch of government
workers being paid to go out and work I
assume our folks on our colleagues on
the other side on their campaigns this
is the Democrat plan to restore
democracy a brand-new week of paid
vacation
for every federal employee would like to
hover around while you cast your ballot
Oh Matt he's really on that right-wing
90s talk show so the context I
give was mocking the suffering of
government workers but of course what
he's doing there is propagandizing
against an excellent piece of
legislation that Democrats have
introduced in the house to try to
address voter suppression and entrench
democracy in the United States which is
one of the most urgent issues we face
and look all of these abstractions and
dumb conversations that people get into
and we saw this the other day the actor
from Empire was assaulted in Chicago and
they tried to put a noose on his neck
and people said there was literal report
saying racially charged and possibly
homophobic attached tinged the inability
in this country to call things what they
are is horrifying and disgusting and
ridiculous and delusional but there is
another way in which it's like you don't
have to get into any arguments about
anything other than to say one major
political party has gutted the Voting
Rights Act and opposes legislation to
make it easier for everybody to vote
therefore whatever the justification
whatever the conspiracy theory whatever
the nonsense they are a white supremists
party because of that action period and
for most of them its strategic I would
actually totally stipulate with you that
a fair number of these people don't have
any personal animus in the way that
people like to narrowly define racism I
think certainly people in the Trump
administration do but I'm sure if you
talk to staffers who work for maybe even
someone like Mitch McConnell I don't
think they have that in the in that
narrow definition but they are apart
itust because their policy set is voter
suppression and it doesn't matter what
the motivation or the conspiracy theory
is and that's it that ends the
conversation yeah there's nothing else
to add to that yeah we really need to
expand the definition of racism or white
supremacy from like this individual
conscious animus to something that is
straw
that you can uphold without even
realizing it and that can expand to but
this is having short of that this is
short of that this is like yeah this is
an action because I because I agree with
you too to an extent for sure but that
can get complicated in some ways that's
like a an important it's like you get
into the realm I like I was saying where
it's like a hundred percent of white
people are racist because we're in
cultured in a certain way and probably
if we made the distinction of like group
identities and whatever like everybody
has identity affiliations and all of
that is important and all of that needs
to be hacked through and dealt with but
on a really basic level the middle
ground of pushing the debate between
like hey I don't personally use slurs
and want to discriminate against people
versus like yes but you are supporting
legislation to build a wall to
put children in cages and to block
people from voting I mean that's there
for you you have to look at the outcome
policy right outcome of a policy upholds
white supremacy that policy is a white
supremacist policy right and for what
it's worth conversely you know if you
have whatever personal beliefs you have
I'm not impressed I'm not happy about it
but if you're voting and legislating and
doing the right thing I don't
particularly care frankly yeah that's
like where that's where it is I don't
care
can I just say briefly that for anyone
working for a living whether they work
for Uncle Sam
or not uh this demonization of paid time
off for them it's really funny to me you
know I actually tend to know that the
United States population is one the most
overworked and miserable with their jobs
in the world it's not just because we
all have crappy jobs work too often at
them and we don't make enough but that's
another story I mean any really
literally almost any excuse for just
giving anybody a holiday and what could
be more important than Election Day
democracy here right or or do we miss
any sense wu-tang clan
