I'm Joe I am joined now by West Bowden
West year an attorney at 11 Pavan Tony
all right yes that's right and you're
working on on a case that came out of
the C 8 case is that right yeah it's
kind of the genesis of it was C 8 as
some of your viewers may know was a
contaminant that was found throughout
the Mid Ohio Valley and it was a
chemical that was used in making Teflon
it was kind of it was just screwed it
into the water through the smokestacks
and they had really poisoned about
70,000 people we started looking at
litigation we realized that and we
should say that this was this was DuPont
right yeah any pockets and the the
chemical c8 was made by 3m for a while
and then three I realized like this is
just so toxic we don't know when he be
in this business
yeah because you got to burn this stuff
off and it has no half-life well I mean
I may but it's an extremely long
half-life and so DuPont said well we'll
just manufacture our own and instead of
burning it they just dumped it into
river because you know easier I guess
and who's going to notice until I guess
about 25 years ago a farmer whose cows
were dying and that started the whole
thing bully rolling that's right so over
the course of that litigation which at
least you know I guess ended in a
massive and they did they end up
settling after the first couple of cases
so we tried three of them during the
fourth case they settled and they ended
up paying that community that poison so
about 3500 cases settled for a very
large song right okay and and so out of
that case you you came across this new
chemical what what right so in the
course of discovery and looking at the
information in that case we realize
there is a kind of a sister chemical if
you will call P fos very structurally
similar still an 8 carbon chain and
what's unique about these chemicals is
they
Florine bonds instead of hydrogen and
that's important chemistry wise because
those bonds are really hard to break and
as you were saying they sever breakdown
naturally in the environment so when we
saw that we realized that these
chemicals were showing up everywhere in
the country and they're showing up at
specific sites predominantly around
Department offense you know Navy Air
Force bases where they're using
firefighting films so now how did you
find we should say that all of us in
this room probably have some c8 in our
in our system that we do right I mean
which is nuts it is and that's because
it travels
it just keeps traveling because it never
breaks down right never sort of absorbed
in a way it just it just it just lingers
everywhere so we all have it in our
systems at this point it's just a
question of like you know what levels it
becomes toxic so how do you find out
when you so you see this other chemical
that exists that has a similar structure
so you know that at the very least it's
one that lingers around and that's not
good for human beings how do you know
that it was located in these different
areas that's a great question so it's
fascinating the story of this only a
couple years ago did our government
started looking into this and so what
happened was in 2016 the EPA came out
with a guideline not a standard but just
a guideline saying that this chemical
and amounts in excess of 70 parts per
trillion which is about a drop an
Olympic sized swimming pool that's that
small amount of chemical can cause
health effects adverse health effects so
the EPA said we're going to come up with
a guideline right now and they're
working on coming up with a standard
which hopefully would be much lower but
if you exceed this guideline it's time
to start taking actions so when the
Department of Defense realized this they
said oh my gosh we've got we've been
using this chemical at every Air Force
Base at every Navy base every
firefighting training facility and they
started doing tests and so what they did
was they made a list literally made a
list saying where do we think we're
going to find this started going through
the list and they found it everywhere
not at 70 parts per trillion but at 9000
parts per trillion food 10,000 parts per
trillion so sort of testing people's
water
these military sites and what they've
done to their credit although it's been
delayed and it's been slow and getting
there they've sort of given these
communities their own bottled water as
we're talking today there are
communities throughout our country where
the US Navy is delivering on a weekly
basis bottled water because they don't
believe their water is safe to drink and
those are only the places that they
tested so we've tested I say we as a
country we've only tested three percent
of the water supply
just three percent and out of that three
percent we estimate that more than six
million people are exposed to this
chemical and so it's it's a big problem
it's just the tip of the iceberg so who
who made this chemical historically
three inmates they developed it back in
the 1950s and they started promoting it
in products in the 1960 1970s in a round
1999-2000 3m started getting pressure
largely because of the tenant lawsuit
they realized that this was going to be
you know the veil was being pulled back
and they were going to be exposed
largely because of the c8 case yes they
started getting wind at like oh boy
right so they pull down and du Pont's
said we don't care full steam ahead for
us
so then dupont started making some of
these chemicals and there's a large
group of chemicals that have these
properties what's wrong with the people
at DuPont like they just see like oh
this stuff is too dangerous for you to
make you know I think that's our
business plan I think that's that hits
the nail on head right there that's not
being facetious it's it's someone in
that company set down and looked at what
is it gonna cost us to resolve our
litigation versus what is it gonna cost
us to change our behavior this has
already come out try using one of my
trucks they realized in the mid-1980s
that they could incinerate this chemical
and so it was dump it into the river and
so it was a dump into the smokestack you
know what the number was they mean they
did an accounting fifteen cents per
pound a million dollars a year on a
company that was grossing just in this
one department alone a hundred million
dollars in net profit it was over a
billion dollar gross revenue so for 15
cents they're willing to poison people
and they just assumed like either will
get away with it right or if we have to
pay damages it'll be less than fifteen
cents per pound essentially yeah or I'm
CEO right now and I probably won't be
here in 15 years that's a large part of
it too so when we look at these
litigations that occur over and over
again we think ourselves happen these
companies continue on this course of
conduct ask yourself how many of these
executives are going to jail you just
never see those headlines wrong Street
doesn't care the stock might dip briefly
but it always rebounds these executives
they say oh well that was in the past
we've changed our conduct because
there's a delay they're just very good
at the cover-up it took us 40 years to
figure out what was wrong in this
community and now you know they've paid
a settlement the settlement was 670
million dollars during that time period
they made billions and profit billions
for their shareholders so you know I
told there's a way that we can actually
hold people and executive positions
accountable and you know actually change
legislatively and hold them criminally
accountable even the company I don't
know that we're gonna be able to really
change the course of conduct of these
companies okay I didn't mean to
sidetrack the story but yeah I mean
that's you know yeah I mean this this
you know the the I mean I feel like the
work that the attorneys do here change
specific conduct and in some instances
has a more lasting impact but it's
almost like a little bit of a
whack-a-mole type of situation
absolutely all right so this this
chemical DuPont sees that oh three M's
too afraid of this that's where we make
our money because our business model is
that we do you know the stuff that non
sociopaths won't do because there's a
market in it and so so so what so that
they start making the chemical and then
they must know at that point right
because I mean 3m is obviously it's
profitable for 3m at least to some
extent right right right
and so they must know that there's a
problem like almost inherently is that
almost a time--as facie evidence that
they we had a document written in 1982
from their in-house counsel saying we
had been liable for the past 32 years of
operation this is their attorney saying
what you're doing is wrong internally
their head of medical at the head
medical director said this is a known a
known animal carcinogen and we believe
that is a probable human carcinogen so
this isn't science waiting to develop
today
this is a company saying we know this
but we're not gonna tell regulators and
we'll deal with it when someone file
suit there's literally a document that
we use in one of our trials where
they're headed II me ologists a person
who's in charge of looking at health
effects and large populations said we
have a cancer problem a human cancer
problem at our work site do we want to
do the study and the note at the bottom
of the memo is I quote this way to do
the study until we're suit that's the
mentality this company takes when it
comes to people so now my understanding
is DuPont was is out of business or as a
show game right okay so yeah tell me
that shell game so what happened was in
the I guess the 2010's DuPont spun off
its floor Palmer's apartment into
chemours and they they loaded up
chemours with debt they make amorous pay
them a bunch of money as a dividend and
they were basically just trying to set
this company up in my opinion to fail
and they had an agreement in place to
make it work remorse it's gonna pay all
of these claims a way to further limits
their liability so they they create an
arm's length entity right that is
basically just kicking money back to
them but owns all the liability for the
product and so it's like well it's not
us it's this chemours
guys over here and and so they don't
have money assets oh you're in trouble
is there just a p.o box right so they
loaded them up with probably 400 million
dollars in assets and an equal amount of
debt and what's really interesting right
now
once they spin it off kumar's is now its
own legal entity under the law well what
does kamoorstan they turn around and
sued DuPont saying this was a fraudulent
transfer that case is now pending in
Delaware and it's it's it's not a so the
executives at Kimora's oh like what do
we do with this
and they what dupont they're saying what
dupont did was wrong and it shouldn't be
our responsibility to fix their mistake
and so that's playing out in the course
right now interesting and so do you have
cases or these cases waiting for the
resolution of the relationship between
these two companies no we have cases
that are ongoing we have personal injury
cases from the community that was
affected directly by DuPont Teflon
manufacturing plant and we also have now
cases that are being brought on behalf
of states governments and cities that
have their own natural resource damages
claim saying this chemical shouldn't be
here and we're talking about the PF a
triple F litigation so there's a PFA s
generally there's a lot of different
terms easy to use but all the same class
of chemicals same two companies that
play the same two major manufacturers
being DuPont and 3m so they're facing a
lot of liability it needs and and it
sounds like we don't know even the half
of it in terms of where this chemical is
and what other communities are impacted
by it that's right I mean we not even
half I mean we know 3% I mean that's all
the testing that's been done there are
additional government funds being set
aside to do testing the EPA actually
encourages it's got an unwritten Taman
it still unregulated despite all we know
now it's still in regular because EPA
hasn't set a standard but now many water
supplies are starting to look for this
chemical and there's coming out a weekly
basis California just two weeks ago
lower their level that's allowed and
their water and found an additional 300
communities to use and there these are
the states that are taking action now
Michigan has a little bit ahead of the
curve because they started doing testing
in California as well but you're gonna
find it
all throughout the country so far
they've identified about 600 sites and
they're looking for more and is this
chemical just used exclusively in the in
the
in terms of like firefighting fire or no
it's not it's you know in fact you and I
have it in our blood right now through
just regular consumer items you know
stain resistant carpets if you've ever
eaten a fast food chain at the hamburger
wrappers its soda cups are lined with
these chemicals to help keep water from
clinging to them and so the odd thing
the really scary thing is that you and I
as we sit here on this conversation we
have about 2,000 parts per trillion in
our blood so if our blood was water it
would not be safe for us to drink it
that's how bad this chemical is it's
just it's an every living organism in
our country and there's no way to expel
it is there no you have to just wait the
half-life of these chemicals is just
2,000 today I'm talking like there's no
way of expelling it in a mortal human
that's what I'm saying no you have to
just wait it out so our bodies will get
rid of it and about five years half of
it will be out of our body so five years
from now if we're having the same
conversation we'll have a thousand in us
but that's presuming I'm not going out
in a hammer or wherever I mean is there
a is there a website where I can go and
see like the the the different products
that have this like I mean I I don't
have a stain resistant carpet and part
of it is because I was like I'm not sure
I know how they do that and I don't know
right like so there are so the the EPA
website for PETA's chemicals P FAS they
list a lot of the consumer products that
historically hadn't PFA s right so
that's the kind of the global family of
chemicals but as of 2016 our country has
phased them out from from manufacturing
processes but that's very recent so you
think about the persistence of these
chemicals and how we're exposed to them
we're still going to be exposed to them
for the foreseeable future okay so and
maybe we'll put a link to that EPA site
back in in Brooklyn they'll put that on
the it's PA FAS and all right well I
guess you know next time I'm here you'll
probably have an update on the progress
of these cases Wes thanks so much for
your time today I really
have me take care
