let's just play one more clip from that
because it is the case that Kristen
Nielsen is a horrible human being but
Louie Gohmert wants to get in on this
and also remind everybody that Kristen
not only are you a human being but I'm
also one of the dumbest people in
Congress so let me just have the
opportunity to say that so let me just
state for those who are not aware since
I've worked in most areas of our
criminal justice system well parents are
separated from children every single day
of every year year after year when a
parent when there's probable cause to
believe a parent has committed a crime
I've signed countless warrants judges
all over the country do it every day and
parents who have probable cause they
committed a crime are separated from
their children and those are usually US
citizens it's what happens when a parent
is believed to have committed a crime
Fozzy molar they none of these parents
who have been separated from their
children that what he just stated was
was the case and and during the obama
administration if a parent came in and
they found that they were basically he
had a suitcase full of drugs or if there
was a weapon or if there was something
like that and there was some reason
there was probable cause and or that the
parent had committed a crime the
children would be separated from the
parent but that's not what happened at
the border there was no probable there
was no probable cause not whatsoever
they changed the law to simply say we're
going to just establish if you show up
that is in and of itself probable cause
they just have changed the law they
changed the regulation but here he is
gonna bring this one home and it's what
happens when a parent is believed to
have committed a crime Muller did it and
I know it he's a hero to some folks
around here he did it to mana for
separated him from his two beautiful
children it happens now you there you go
louie gohmert watch the road just in
case it's not disgusting enough your
policies and what you've done to
children and the 14 thousand plus
children that you're housing and the
parents that were separated from the
little tiny children for no reason let
me just remind you that the president
United States his campaign manager you
know had to give up forty nine million
dollars worth of his funds and is in
jail cuz he's a liar and a criminal
people first I just want to forget how
these people think it would be great to
John Gotti died of lung cancer in prison
without being here it's not just that
you're a horrible person but we're all
protecting someone who's you know
probably involved in a heavy criminal
enterprises want remind you here that
during this hearing these people become
prison abolitionists all of a sudden
when it's one of theirs in trouble like
course you think he would say the same
thing about all the black people in jail
based on racist drug laws oh yeah if my
bet would be now Louie Gohmert is a
longtime critic of the racist nature of
criminal sentencing in this country
let's go to the phone
