back to the majority report Michael
Brooks here joining us now is Libby
Watson she's a writer for splinter Libby
how you doing thanks for doing this good
thank you it's a pleasure so I want to
talk them and are let's let's use the
your accent so a maximum advantage and
talk about brexit first it was a pretty
intense last couple of days
Theresa Mayes brexit proposal went down
by a significant margin I think was like
what was it like 404 to 200 or something
like that I know it's not the exact
number but it was a big loss and then a
jeremy corbyn's motion of no-confidence
which would have dissolved the May
government and gotten us into elections
was rejected as well though this the Lib
Dems which I guess are how would you
describe Liberal Democrats to an
American audience what does that party
like like where would they be if they
were in the United States other than
also irrelevant yeah that's a good
question um so basically that I mean
they are I think in American terms they
would still be pretty pretty left I mean
they're they're kind of similar to
similar the Democrats but they're kind
of what see the sort of centrist to
conservative side of the Democrats would
be if they were a different party there
they are also just like completely
irrelevant these days I mean they
haven't been in government I mean the
Liberal Party was in government in the
1920s and that's the last last time they
were they you know they actually had a
prime minister then they formed a
coalition with the the Conservative
Party in 2010 and basically just like
completely threw out everything that
they supposedly stood for including you
know they they campaigned on abolishing
tuition fees and then signed off on the
Conservatives tripling tuition fees so
that kind of tells you everything you
need to know that's us that definitely
tells you everything you need
about them and they basically they
refused to back Labor's no confidence
vote their leader Vince Cable said since
he appears stuck in my Corbin appears
determined to play party political games
rather than acting on the wishes of his
own members and MPs and that is very
ironic given what you Jacek aliy as you
said I think was a Nick Clegg became the
Deputy Prime Minister David Cameron
after running a campaign against
university tuition fees and to protect
social spending after the recession yeah
I mean he signed and then they're
bragging was like oh well it was gonna
be like double worse and the private
meetings so like we should get credit
right yeah right exactly
yeah I mean they ran around to try and
get any votes at all and then went into
wanting to government with a terrible
conservative you know austerity social
welfare slashing government so so and
now they're better they're opposing this
Corbin no confidence vote so I guess
like I mean what's your sense of where
this goes from here I guess it's like
okay so Corbin wants to go to elections
because this government has no you know
it's done
but the Tories won't a Tories are still
gonna keep her there or maybe replace
her with somebody else but obviously
they don't want to lose power the Lib
Dems to the extent they have a few votes
are just concerned about remaining in
the EU and then like Tony Blair's back
on the scene like being like I think we
need to have another referendum blah
blah blah so like oh yeah yeah like
we're like how do all these forces
interact together and what do you what
do you think like how do you think is
gonna play out over the next couple of
weeks I mean I think the only truthful
answer I can give is that I have no idea
and no one has any idea but I mean I
think the thing was Corbin is that I
think if it were and this isn't to say
that I would want it to be another
Labour leader because I love Corbin but
I think if it were a different labor
leaders and there may be the dynamics
may be slightly different because I
think the Lib Dems
and the Tories are so terrified of
a Labour victory which I think would
happen if there were an election I think
they're so terrified of a Labour victory
that they won't do what you know the
only reasonable thing to do is which is
to you know to call it you know to
support a no-confidence motion I'll call
for a general election or whatever so
that being the case there's no force to
push trees are made out which is
incredible I mean her ability to hang on
against all odds is really this is quite
astounding so I mean I really I really
don't know because the problem is that
you know there is the EU I don't see the
EU budging or like giving a different
deal at the time
the deal was formed they said like this
is the deal if you don't like it then
goodbye so I mean my my fear is that we
end up with a no deal breaker because
they just can't get it together and it's
only what six weeks or two months or
something until until that happens so I
don't know I mean I think I'm gonna tell
my mum to suck you know stocking up on
bananas and tomatoes because I think we
might end up with an ideal scenario and
so I mean do you think that there's
people I know that like the the business
community obviously mostly opposed it
because of how disruptive it is but on
the other hand it's like do you think
that I could I don't know I could see a
lot of for right-wing forces in the UK
being like alright well so like here's
the time to just become like we're just
gonna try to be like the you know Dubai
or Singapore off of Europe we're gonna
get rid of NHS and we're just gonna be
even like a more pure financial hub with
like you know closed borders yeah I mean
I don't know I mean I honestly this
whole ever since the vote I really I
don't know what the kind of no deal
crowd has been thinking I mean I think
I'm a lot of them especially you know
they're not so much the sort of you know
actual British people's that you know
would be okay with a No Deal but the
politicians that have gone in on that I
feel like they're you know they they did
this the politically expedient reasons
you know Boris Johnson for example you
know it's a big like hard percocet guy
and you know he's not stupid like he
knows that a No Deal would be terrible
whatever but he found it politically
advantageous to you to position himself
as a sort of partial ocean of Nigel
Farage and not the nicer I wasn't posh
but you know Boris Johnson is like the
Pasha's guy in the world but now these
people up if you haven't heard of them
they are really like there every British
stereotype imaginable if you don't know
who you probably know Boris Johnson is
but some people might not know who Nigel
Faraj is but how would you describe
Nigel Faraj to people oh man yeah I mean
you would you might have seen it when
she was a lot of Fox News guessing now
your listeners do right he was the
leader of the the UK Independence Party
a famous only pushing for exit and for
being horribly anti-immigration and anti
anti Islam he's a sort of horrible
frog-faced
posh guy who like wanders around in
lolis and drinks a pint and pretend to
be all old British but of course has a
has a German wife that son of a
he's serious oh yeah yeah he is a German
wife it's like the only way you should
be anti-immigrant is not having a German
spout bastard
no and elsewhere let me come on let's be
serious I'm just playing
we actually actually do have a lot of
German viewers I apologize please don't
be triggered it was an opportunity to
make fun of Nigel Florence who is I mean
honestly I mean really is like it is a
good time I think in general obviously
because you know Trump Faraj Boris
Johnson people actually treated bolson
ro
like a joke in Brazil there's a lot of
people there's no contradiction between
being you know a complete jackass and a
figure of correct like mockery and
ridicule and also really evil and like
yeah given power to seriously harm
people's lives like there's no
contradiction there well the funny thing
about Shiraz is the
you kid never had more than like what
three or four MPs he lost his he ran for
Parliament last time and he didn't win
and you know you kept even after the
registered vote has been kind of pretty
sideline don't think that that's partly
because of the Conservative Party and
you know Teresa may kind of really going
for the hard brexit you know that that
heart breaks it line but you know this
guy like no one you know he has no power
and he keeps going invited on telly to
talk about brexit you know people keep
asking him or he thinks about breaks it
it's like this man is it's just that
he's just a posh guy in a in a pair of
wellies now like you really don't have
to ask him what he thinks I'm sorry what
her wellies no boots no that's alright
Matlock our senior UK translator got me
alright they're boots yeah yeah he looks
like a penguin in them I have seen the
boots I didn't I just didn't know what
they were called
two more UK related questions and one is
also gonna just be another personality
that people should probably know and not
like but then a bigger question so I saw
and and people probably have a sense
that a guy named you know David Cameron
who was another one of these like you
know hysterically posh and like you know
sort of Gentry inherit power inheritance
figures in the UK he became a UK prime
minister I believe in 2010 and he also
his whole first branding campaign was
actually like no I'm like the
pro-environment like I'm super hip I'm
like a different kinda Tory and in
addition to just pounding and decimating
the country with austerity which is his
prime legacy he then has a stop to the
far right and to try to suck the oxygen
out of you Kip and P and BNP he
basically was like yeah let's just have
a brexit referendum which of course he
lost and then I don't think we have it
on us but we had a lot of fun when he
resigned and the hot might caught him
walking off and just after resigning he
just hummed
himself do you remember that yeah dude
yeah I remember that yeah so I saw the
other day that um he was in Costa Rica
running a surfboard great great I was
talking to my friend about this is Anaya
he's really played it very smart because
like I think he will be even though this
is all completely his fault I think
history will kind of forget him you know
like you say that this is all because of
him I think there was a Financial Times
asked all the time that revealed that he
decided to do this at a pizza restaurant
in Chicago O'Hare Airport you know just
kind of on it on a whim and like you say
to shore up you know his because he
thought that you know that would be the
end of it all and it's super wasn't but
now he like you say he's surfing in
Costa Rica I mean while Surrey's amazed
having you know an absolute nightmare
and you know believe me I loathe cereza
May I don't actually care that she's
personally experiencing a nightmare but
like you know I think she will be
remembered for handling this very poorly
whereas I think David Cameron kind of
gotten away with it by resigning and
just disappear doop doop do all right I
we got to get that back man that is one
of them yeah mazing like I just totally
messed everything up my actual favorite
camera and hot mic was when they caught
him on a hot night making fun of
Yorkshire which was in the north of
England and he's from the south of
England very posh a lot of North South
detention in the UK and it sound even
Pacha when he's like in private than he
does in public like UK it you know at
least for you know let's say in the 70s
people would pretend to be partially
than they were like Margaret Thatcher
apparently learned how to speak with a
more posh accent the kids you know she
wanted to like fit in with all the
Tories but I think they have a camera
and actually toned down the past when
he's talking to the public because he's
so so posh so early that he just sounds
ridiculous
alright so David Cameron and Boris
Johnson these two and obviously as an
American I'll just throw around its pure
speculation as I'm mindful of UK libel
laws but
I would speculate potentially inbred
children of unbelievable privileged yeah
they just did brexit and and now another
you know incredibly bizarre and horrific
and anybody who whoever feels bad for
theresa may just look up wind rush on
google and any sympathy you have for her
will completely evaporate but my last
question about this is okay i think your
total my sense and obviously you know
better than me but my sense is that yes
almost any other labor leader there
would probably be elections happening
right now because this is catastrophic
and there's no credibility left in this
government and you can have a snap
election right and okay and now the and
I obviously I support Jeremy Corbyn too
I'm not sure he's handling every part of
brexit correctly but I also know that
Britain isn't the only thing and I know
his plans the reverse austerity and
workers cooperatives I mean he's
providing actually some incredible ideas
and speaking to the big issues of our
time and he would definitely would be
you know no doubt in my mind a better
Prime Minister and a very good Prime
Minister compared to certainly obviously
Teresa may but just even in the normal
like rules of politics when you have a
total failure you make a change and in
this process of like total fear that all
of the UK establishment I guess just use
that word has about Jeremy Corbyn
they're prolonging and intensifying like
an actual crisis so it's like it's so I
guess it's like doesn't that
juxtaposition actually prove all of like
Corbin's points about this ruling class
it's like oh if if jeremy corbyn's Prime
Minister it's gonna be like Venezuela so
what we're doing is make it like what we
say Venezuela is like right now to not
have this guy to not have an election or
democratic accountability we will
accelerate an actual crisis not a
hypothetical one to not live out our
fears which you've made up in our own
heads right right exactly no I totally
agree and you know I agree that I don't
think openness is handled breaks it
quite as well as he could have
and I mean it is difficult because there
are a lot of issues with you know a lot
of the kind of more Blair wing of the
party once wanting to call for another
referendum and that is I mean the thing
is like I think you know they kind of
want all this theory over and for us to
go back to how it was before which like
I understand because there's no way that
Brixton is going to sort of benefit the
UK like any scenario is going to be
we're going to be worse off having said
that the EU is not a good institution
and I think Corbin is kind of that old
80's left mold you know like really
really left and hating the EU for that
reason for the right reasons for the
correct reasons exactly but that doesn't
necessarily mean that the brexit would
be good or that you know that would be
the best way for Britain to you know
change change the EU so it is it is
tricky and I don't know you know because
he's also in a difficult place because
if we call another referendum and we get
the same result and like what what have
we done then you know then it's like
that will be even even worse and I don't
know that there would be a different
result so it is it is tricky but you
know I like I said like big big Corbett
supporter right you know I think I
percent confident he would handle this
better but like you say they're all
completely terrified of him I mean if
you go back and look at the way that the
media reacted when Corbin was elected
Party leader in 2015 it's actually
remarkably similar to the way that the
media reacts to Alexandria cause Leah
Cortes now you know just any little
story any little you know theoretical
inconsistency in his last ism you know
there was one of the big stories was
that like he went to some veterans event
and like ate the sandwiches and he
wasn't supposed to or something like
that which was amazing and there was the
whole thing about like yeah and those
the whole cigarette like not kneeling
before the Queen you know something and
like
not singing the national anthem and
stuff and you know this is all like
mainstream papers that were reporting
this this wasn't like you know our
version of the Daily Caller it was like
our version of I don't know
the New York Post or even the Washington
Post you know it's like well completely
completely balmy like stuff and you know
like sort of just trying to make any
kind of argument that he you know either
was you know inappropriately yun british
or trying to catch him out you know
being aware there was a lot of reporting
on him being just like a weird guy you
know like he was jumpers a lot and you
know has a collection of manhole jumpers
jumper sorry all right thank you this
I'm learning yeah well though and there
and then there was that time when he
promised in anything was in 2016 where
he said he was gonna run train on the
socialist agenda
what about dictionary mister Club and
that would have been I mean it would be
very hard for me to support him even
more you know that's particularly funny
because there's act there is a parallel
universe where I could hear Bernie
Sanders saying that there's none where
Jeremy Corbyn saying that no okay so all
right yeah I mean we'll just keep
pushing for and I mean he should be
Prime Minister and we'll see what
happens
and and and you know I hate that it
happens this way because it caused a lot
of harm but I mean at every piece of any
credibility that the business the press
class the political class had is gone so
you know think about that while they
hyperventilate about this guy
