[Music]
let's do this one this Praeger one Oh
God
yeah we should have more leather chairs
in our setup and a fine fireplace
honestly the fireplace in the studio I
would be down this is the setup like the
fireplace the bookshelf the leather
chair Benjamin I used to make videos 25
years ago that would mock this it's like
a parody of itself it was basically how
you back in the day you would establish
that you were an expert on something
right was to pretend like I'm doing this
from my library good well I read many
things for all intents and purposes the
United States is going through a golden
age right now we're barely at war I mean
I mean obviously we have troops in
Afghanistan we're risking and sometimes
it's dying risking their lives and
sometimes dying but basically we're at
peace posit we're literally bombing like
what half a dozen countries seven yeah
over us and we have almost 800 bases
around the globe but yes we're not
involved in a world war and we're not
involved in a full-scale invasion or
occupation of a country so I guess
that's what he's talking about to adapt
to phrase little wars our peace right
and so is this is it is he gonna thank
Obama for this but I got the economy is
is remarkably robust uniquely so
essentially in the world the University
of Pennsylvania just published a study
that there's less racial tension today
than there was under Barack Obama
because if you can real life is
virtually no racial tension in the life
of the average American is there tension
when people of different ethnicities
meet her white meat
hispanic hispanic beats of black a black
meets an asian nobody cares that's the
amazing thing the vast majority of
American the Americans don't care
if it weren't for the left screaming and
hysterical and angry and and cursing the
the country would have very little
tension well there you go
he's giddy oh that little touch what do
you that he just looks like he just had
one of those date nights with his wife
I'm trying to look that up right now
course there's less racial tension it's
it's like the it's the same thing as the
side's argument that we always reference
right yeah this is like Express
prejudice I don't know how much it's
stock you can put into this study I
would say like hate crime incidents
would be the first metric I would look
for before this study but it could it
could be that there is broadly less
racial tension and more racial attacks
so that the increasingly isolated
members of the Republican Party are
becoming more violent in some respects
that's hilarious well we'll look into
that but he seems very excited about it
but the economy the lack of wars these
were all trajectories that were set by
Obama and Trump has yet to derail them
although you know there's an uptick
obviously in what we did in Yemen and in
terms of you know our engagements in
terms of drone work we've and we have
pretty high tensions with Iran way
higher and just to add just China I mean
not anytime soon but historically
speaking during like these transitions
to want from one power arrangement to a
next it's not like these economic
conflicts don't sometimes lead to real
conflicts yeah and I'm looking at the
study now it says they question whether
the President may have normalized views
essentially author authorizing white
Americans to more openly express
prejudice they found the opposite but I
mean it could be the case that though
certain Americans are less willing to
express prejudice to like the way they
studied this because they see Trump's
example yet people are getting more
racist and having it or there's more
racist attacks for instance that's not
like expressing an opinion that's
carrying out an act I don't know
hey crimes have also increased for the
third consecutive year so I don't know
