this is this is pretty impressive
Steve minuchin has decided that he will
not in any way cancel his trip to Saudi
Arabia for meetings and because look
what is one killing and chopping up of a
columnist between friends that's
basically can I ask you about a slightly
different issue and it's it's one that
is vexing a lot of executives at the
moment and they've got to make a
decision about whether they travel to
Saudi Arabia for the FII event currently
as I understand that you are scheduled
to go but even as we speak you hear
leaders elsewhere pulling out of the
event are you still determined that you
will attend at this point given that
there is still I think no clarity as to
what has happened uh I think there's
some clarity I think we're pretty much
in the clarity realm of what happened I
mean so you know maybe this guy's giving
him a slight out here there's a you know
we don't know what happened
we suspect that he was murdered and
chopped up there's apparently audio and
video of it but maybe he's spontaneously
combusts it feels like he's consciously
keeping the CNBC viewers in the dark a
little bit a little bit but let's see
well let's give Steve minuchin an
assessment so what has happened to mr.
Kashani The Washington Post journalist
well first let me just say we are
concerned about
there's the status of mr. khashoggi and
although I haven't had direct
conversations with the Saudis I know
other people within the executive branch
have and those discussions are underway
I am planning on going at this point if
more information comes out and changes
we could look at that but I am planning
on going and what would your advice be
to two executives in the United States
and elsewhere who are asking themselves
the same question about whether they
should be attending well my comment is
we all want information so let's let's
wait and see what information comes out
in the next week are you concerned at
all that there may be any wider damage
to the relationship with that country as
far as the u.s. is concerned or any
economic implications well sandy has
been a very good partner of ours in a
lot of areas matter of fact one of the
reasons why I'm going over there is last
year we started the terrorist financing
targeting center with all the Gulf
countries and it's based in Saudi we
co-chair it with a bad it's basement
it's out over at least once a year and
work with them on this so that that's
another major focus of my trip and
they've been a terrific partner in
combating terrorist financing with us
really really have they based upon
whether it's in swen did that happen
you've come to the right place
yes my friends but we're going to we're
going to combat terrorist financing
we're going to shut down our banks three
days a week
bank holidays bank holidays that my
friend for you where I will behead your
wife we will cut the financing by a 10%
for you but these terrorists who chopped
these people up I mean honest it is
barbarism those who bubble ISM do you
think I mean I do bad minuchin couldn't
have the the frankness of trumpet just
say like there's too much money and Bob
we get too many friends we make like ARB
sales okay
but I also but you know it reminds me of
though there was something in a
disgusting way refreshing about Trump
being like well you think we're angels
and a little bit of sort of honesty
about the a morality of u.s. foreign
policy conversely though this is the
type of thing which really underscores
in international relations manners
actually mattering
because it's like this is the type of
thing that yes if they murdered and
dismembered a journalist under Obama
they'd cancel some meetings like and
they also wouldn't feel on top of
everything else we could murder and
dismember a journalist than an I
absolutely facilitated I mean even even
if you want to try I mean the guy calls
the press the enemy the people all day
yeah
let's take it literally that's all NBS
is doing I am taking good ideas
seriously all right let's talk about
