[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Thursday May 23rd 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program Myles Kampf Lassen the web
editor at in these times is going to
explain to us the endless endless series
of reasons why absolutely nobody should
listen to what the disgraceful former
mayor of Chicago Rahm Emanuel has to say
about literally anything why this man's
absolutely abominable career embodies
the absolute worst not only the
Democratic Party but of all American
elites he's trying to rebrand himself or
set up a new gig in successful he's at
the Atlantic and ABC News we're gonna
talk about a Manuel's record Donald
Trump tells Democrats its oversight or
legislating as Wells Fargo and TD Bank
have already given
Trump finance related documents to
Congress HUD is going to strip
protections for transgender teens or
transgender people
excuse me transgender production at
homeless shelters the global far-right
strengthens its gains after an
unexpected win in Australia far-right
Narenda Modi pulls off a convincing
re-election in India and bad news for
minorities and actually in fact despite
his rhetoric the poor in that country US
officials plan to send 10,000 troops to
the middle
West as mattes who remember his record
in Fallujah has made his first public
remarks since leaving the Trump
administration to warn against a
military strike in Iran
workers at McDonald's are striking
across the country today for a high $15
minimum wage and against sexual
harassment Bernie Sanders is standing
with them in Dallas today as we speak
even as his campaign has used their
email lists to support that protest and
giving money to grassroots abortion
organizations while teaching at Harvard
Elizabeth senator Elizabeth Warren did
outside legal work some of that was very
bad including ooh
including Dow Chemical defending itself
against breast implants that blew up in
woman's chest and on behalf of LTV steel
and their battle against the United
Mineworkers and rating their pensions
not good the DeVos family ends its
longtime support of Justin Amash after
he comes out for the impeachment of
Donald Trump Paraguay prosecutes comput
she knows who protested soy and
agrochemicals wheat sprout boys chat
show members plotting violence at
rallies and Lula da Silva the world's
most prominent political prisoner gives
the hour-long interview to Glenn
Greenwald and the intercept where he
talks not only about his unjust
imprisonment but gives a sense of how
the history of globalization how to
defeat the global far-right and in news
that might make Matt uncomfortable the
Pentagon finally admits that it's
investigating UFOs a big legal win for
me Mills every five years of right big
legal wind from Macmillan Philadelphia
and the European Union votes in eurozone
elections today will it be a victory for
the fascist forces will there be an
unexpected breakthrough for the populist
left and where does jeremy corbyn's
Labour Party stand in this all that and
more on today's majority report
we the four of us are here Sam obviously
is not and the Millennials are here the
Millennials are back
the Millennials than that hands are back
some of any reports than any other point
Sam is the quintessential gen Xer he
sure is
that's amazing but yet still claims to
not know who asa bases Howard Stern has
a new book out kind of a book I think
that sort of I guess reflects his new
basically on satellite radio the guy
sort of reinventing himself he's gone
from sort of like a it's kind of like a
80s and 90s shock jock to like a almost
like a earthy Terry Gross incredibly
he's really is the guy is amazing
interviewer that's so weird I mean I
think he's I've I'm a big Howard Stern
fan from everything I think he's funny
and I like all the old stuff I sometimes
will go on a binge we're all listened to
like 90s Howard yeah you like listening
to him beg to see women's tits for half
an hour that's fun for you
yeah sure it's in the stuff that helps
to bit no that actually isn't most of
what that content is I like like him
like bothering Jackie the joke man about
his various career schemes as an example
so and I also my favorite thing and I am
someone who should not be laughing at
this but his station manager Tom Chee
asano sent a company-wide memo and it
had a lot of grammar errors in it so
Howard had a second grade school teacher
from Long Island named mrs. D'Agostino I
think her name was come into studio and
grade the paper on air while he
terrorized the station GM and that is
one of the funniest things I've ever
heard in my life and that like holds up
from the night that's like something Sam
would do
that is exactly what well where do you
think Sam gets ideas like this from it's
not like Sam was listening to those you
know to do to Howard as well but anyways
there was actually something relevant
that happened to Sir
I guess politically back in like 2003
2004 where the FCC was definitely fining
him in a way that was specifically
targeted to him and it did have free
speech implications and it also was in a
context of total vertical integration of
the media landscape and in that point it
was radio under the dominance of Clear
Channel which incidentally was also like
incredibly xenophobic pro-war pro-bush
they weren't playing the Dixie Chicks
because the Dixie Chicks had some mild
criticism of george w bush I mean as Sam
says it truly was it it said it now is
so crazy of course but there is an
alternative there is an ecosystem that's
accessible where you can share a
community where is like people really do
I mean back then going and reading like
the blogosphere to get the alternative
perspective was really people who were
just like yeah I'm a Democrat I don't
want to cut Social Security I don't
think we should just sort of like
torture and murder people in the middle
east so but stern was fine steadily and
those fines did increase as in that
point you know not radically but he
became an outspoken supporter basically
of Democratic candidates and of John
Kerry and against george w bush and
bernie sanders plays into this so we got
a couple a little bit of a clip and then
we're gonna go within a trip down memory
lane but here is howard stern on stephen
colbert explaining his giving a sense of
his history with bernie and then we have
a throwback clip I think from 2004-2005
of Sanders
on Howard's show here is Stephen Colbert
with Howard Stern from last night would
you be excited to have on oh gee sure
why not because joe biden's had
fascinating life sure and i think it
would be interesting Bernie Bernie
Sanders for sure you know Bernie Sanders
is probably my biggest hero for one
reason and this is very self-serving
when the FCC was attacking me and they
were attempting to take me off the air
and
big way it was almost like racketeering
they kept finding our stations they kept
keeping us from buying on the radio
stations Bernie Sanders got up in the
Senate and said I think what you're
doing a Howard Stern is wrong I believe
in freedom of speech and I want to go on
record and say I really want and I
thought it might be the end of my career
in a year we toggle on oh geez I don't
even remember when he did it I have a
1963 oh wow so he really doesn't
remember so this is actually 2005 and
this is a clip and this is great because
I do LA and again I am a Howard Stern
fan but I do love the collision in this
clip of you know and fair enough I
totally yeah like no one wants their
career under siege absolutely but I do
love like Howard's fairly specific focus
and Bernie's broader focus check this
out everyone doesn't need to do a thing
you can do it yourself
congressman Bernie Sanders from Vermont
I don't mean to sound paranoid but ever
since I announced my satellite deal I am
now seeing the focus going to satellite
radio as opposed to terrestrial radio am
I the target of every politician no I
don't think you're the target I think
there's an effort on the part of the
extreme right-wingers and people who
think that because they don't like
something nobody in America should be
able to hear it and see it's not just
you only you're the only congressman
that I know of I'm going to tell you
about this guy right here on the phone
Bernie Sanders he proposed a bill to
prevent the government from censoring
the content of cable TV shows and
internet websites yesterday yep his bill
was in response to the recently approved
house legislation increasing the FCC
indecency fines which exactly what you
talked about it seems to me a it's
unconstitutional
the government does not have a right to
get into cable and number two if people
are paying for what they want to see
their right to see it I mean all of this
is about how it is moving on to a less
free society in many respects cutting
out different points of view that people
don't like
program anybody else's bro come you know
what they could do they could turn it
off I just read about a religious
broadcaster that was fired this week
because he went on and said someone
asked him do you think the Pope will go
to heaven there's a theoretical
discussion and the guy said something
about how only born-again Christians can
go to heaven you know whatever he was
fired for that now view and then the guy
even said that gee I never did anything
like Howard Stern why are they firing me
because it doesn't stop with me they're
gonna censor Tony Soprano their gigs
actly what they could let me tell you
what they already do I don't know if you
know this you've seen the film Saving
Private Ryan right right fantastic film
right ABC showed it nationally on
Veterans Day 60 ABC affiliates refused
to put it on the air because they were
afraid they were gonna be fine 6-0 6-0
because obviously in the middle of a war
in the film soldiers use profanity the
PPF could not recently put it a film
distributed because in the middle of the
war Iraq bombs are going off soldiers
use profanity they had to send for that
here's the key question how many of your
fellow congressmen who I'm actually
losing respect for how many of your
fellow congressmen are going to support
your bill now so far we've got about 10
on the bill with HR 1440 and I think
when the American people learn what's
going on and the fact that The Sopranos
and every other show that they like on
cable it could be done since then more
and more people will be supporting the
global we need to help to be American
people this was a big this was a really
big deal at the time and they were
absolutely right I totally agree with
him but I I love I mean but even just
the consistency in terms of like from
the big argument today about reclaiming
America from the holgar key back to like
look if you want to listen to Howard
make a total prick of himself that
should be your right and I think if
people wake up they demand a lot of
consistency fast-forward to the part
where Bernie rides the sibian
I remember I was driving to Burlington
Jenny McCarthy had promised to ride the
sibian for the last three appearance
this year I had thought it all of a
sudden I thought it was a
I finally happened then it goes silent
because they decide what I can't care
not here so in conclusion mr. speaker
bababooey bababooey howard starred as
the king of all media we love you Robin
I was watching a black Monday which is I
don't know what I think of that show I
have you seen it at all the Conchita
yeah I wanted to I wanted to be I
watched every episode of it and it kind
of loses track of what it's trying it's
a problem is I don't think it knows what
it wants to do but there is that there's
one character who's having like a big
like effet moment and after like a bunch
of like increasingly disastrous calls to
like various friends and family
basically telling them to you know kiss
off he it concludes who's Luke who's
like Robin took her shirt off which I
just thought it was like a really good
like yeah that that probably was exactly
the time so sometimes you get home after
work or school or whatever it may be and
you're too exhausted to do anything
you're knocked out and you just maybe
you're even still at the office maybe
you're working late maybe it's like a
Tuesday we do TMDs on Tuesday and it's
basically an uninterrupted day that
basically goes from like I don't know
would you say like 10:00 to 10:30 or
something like that that's basically a
Tuesday you might want to treat yourself
to a meal you deserve with an on demand
from your favorite restaurant with door
- door - connects you with all of your
favorite restaurants in your city just
use the door - app to choose what you
want to eat and your - sure we'll bring
it right to you wherever you are with
over three hundred and ten thousand
amazing restaurants and over three
thousand and three hundred cities across
the u.s. and Canada tour - lets you
order from your favorite local go twos
as well as favorite chains like Chipotle
and cheese factory cheesecake at
Cheesecake Factory let dinner come to
you with door - right now our listeners
can get five dollars off of their first
order of 15 or more when you download
doordash app and answer promo code
majority report that's $5 of your first
order when you download the door - app
from the App Store and enter promo code
majority report again that's majority
report for $5 off of your first order
from door - and whether it's a trail of
muddy footprints or a pile of dishes
after your first barbecue nothing cleans
the spring sense nothing cleans like the
spring sense from Grove Grove delivers
natural brands to you that you love like
mrs. Meyers seventh generation Burt's
Brees and grove straight to your
doorstep I use mrs. minors in my
apartment that was really small bit
everything is healthier for you and the
planet plus it really works I use all
mrs. Meyer products hand soap dish
detergent and not only does it smell
really good like has an actual good
smell not just like a chemical smell
that like lingers over your kitchen
after you clean dishes I have super
sensitive skin and I have to like wear
gloves and everything but the mrs.
meyer's helps when you have to because I
don't I don't have a dishwasher in my
apartment so get a crank the room and it
helps to have a clean product like that
right now our listeners can take
advantage of this exclusive spring offer
when you place your first order of $20
get a free three-piece cleaning set your
favorite limited-edition scent lie lock
or men or peony that includes a mrs.
meyer's hand soap a mrs. Meyers spring
soap a mrs. Meyers spring multi-surface
spray a grove collaborative cleaning
caddy and a grove collaborative walnut
scrubber sponges plus get a 60 day VIP
membership as well as a surprise bonus
gift just go to grove dotco slash
majority to sign up and place an order
for 20 or for more 20 or more that's
grove dot co not calm CEO not calm grove
dot co / majority that's
grove dotco / majority we're gonna take
a brief break and we're gonna come back
and talk about the awfulness that is
Rahm Emmanuel's politics
you
back to the majority report Michael
Brooks here joining us now is miles
Kampf Lawson he's an editor and writer
for in these times and he's author of
the recent piece which everybody should
read no one should ever listen to
anything Rahm Emanuel has to say about
politics Myles thanks so much for doing
this my pleasure thanks for having me
so I'm guessing as certainly in this
audience there's probably a fair amount
of people that you know even if they
would know Rahm Emmanuel's name they
probably also know that his politics and
record are you know atrocious from the
perspective of you know human beings and
you know advancing important causes like
healthcare education police reform and
so on but your piece I mean you know
it's a user's guide to a really really
bad politician and also investment
banker in fact but it's also someone
that you can kind of use I mean this is
one of the few people and certainly one
of the few people that isn't like a
former president you know that you can
use to chart the modern ideological
trajectory of all of the wrongs of the
Democratic Party I mean this is this is
a guy you know there's I can in some
ways especially if you take it back to
the 90s I can only really think of Bill
Clinton or Joe Biden that you could use
in this way so who hide Rahm Emanuel get
his start where is he coming from and
how does he get into politics sure well
I think you're exactly right in that
analysis if there was ever a
personification of kind of a neoliberal
centrist vision that has dominated the
Democratic Party in recent decades is
Rahm Emanuel this is someone who got
their start working actually so let's go
on a little tour of our manuals pretty
disastrous political career he got his
start actually doing fundraising and
that might not seem pernicious but he
helped to really engineer this new
approach that the Democrats took
starting in the 90s focusing almost
exclusively on fundraising and trying to
get the support of wealthy interests and
he did that working on Bill Clinton's
campaign before the 92 election he
famously helped to stuff out some of the
accusations from Gennifer Flowers by
doing this massive ad buy for Bill
Clinton and the throws of the campaign
and then after Clinton won he went on to
serve as an advisor and there he carried
out some of the really most disastrous
policies that we are dealing with the
consequences of today the main one being
NAFTA he helped to write the North
American Free Trade Agreement and that's
a bill but as we know not only helped to
fuel the offshoring of American jobs but
it actually led to really the collapse
of the American manufacturing center
that helped to gut the industrial
Midwest the Rust Belt and it led to a
massive wage stagnation and this is the
you know the type of results were seeing
now that has led some to so much stress
and depression in these states so that's
number one he also worked on the crime
bill which helps it incite the mass
incarceration crisis he really pushed
Clinton to move to the right of the
Republicans on the issue of immigration
he actually won quote he had giving
advice to Clinton was the claim and
achieved record deportations of criminal
aliens so that was in 96 so so Manuel's
really at the center of a lot of these
issues that by the democratic party to
tack right word he left the Clinton
administration in 98 then went on to we
went to Wall Street as where as you
mentioned he served as an investment
banker he made sixty million dollars
within the course of just a few years as
I note and piece that's more than a
hundred there's more than ten times what
an average American will make over their
entire lives he made in just a few years
so he's firmly in the 1% which helped
lead to his moniker of mayor 1% once he
came to Chicago but from Wall Street he
went and joined the d-triple-c d-trip
and served as its chair and in 2006 he's
credited with helping to orchestrate
the election of Democrats to take over
Congress and that year's elections but
what he actually did was he recruited
all these conservative Blue Dog
Democrats and these were Democrats that
didn't even believe in the issues
Democrats supposedly were fighting for
from Wall Street regulation to health
care and the list goes on and on and a
lot of these Blue Dogs aren't even there
anymore because they got sweep out of
office and the Tea Party rise in 2010 so
at the moment it seemed like oh I'm a
manual this master of politics but
ultimately really served to hurt the
party because the party then got known
for engaging in all the type of elitist
behavior that Rahm Emanuel now is
railing against so then after that of
course he joined Obama's chief of staff
there he told Obama not to pursue Obama
care and not to pursue health care
reforms it was too tough he fought
against union workers during the auto
bailout he famously said at the UAW and
he really served at the conservatism
force within the Obama administration
and from meri parachuted back into
Chicago where he won the election for
mayor in 2011 and since then he has
pushed this neoliberal approach to
governance whether it's through
privatizing public services cutting down
cutting and shutting down public
education and mental health giving
massive tax giveaways to tax credit
giveaways to corporations to defending a
really abusive in Police Department he
has just carried out the same type of
approach of governance in Chicago so
from you know the very early beginning
to today I think we can see that Rahm
Emmanuel's approach to politics has been
a real failure for especially for
working people but it's also being
discredited I mean that's what's so
incredible right now is we're seeing
right in Emmanuel's hometown of Chicago
we just saw the election six open
democratic socialists who ran not on
trickle-down economics Emmanuel's
approach but on taxing the rich and
investing in social programs and
changing the role of public elected
officials to actually focus on democracy
rather than just helping all the
interests so that's a little
absolution of the career arc of mr.
Emanuel so that's the positive news and
that's also the reason that we still
need to keep track of this guy because
you know again I mean he was
exceptionally destructive because he was
a destructive force as in the Clinton
administration a destructive force in
the National Democratic Party a
destructive force in the Obama
administration and then somebody who
really I mean and I and I do want to
talk specifically about laQuan McDonald
I want to talk specifically about the
war on teachers and public education
because I also think in fact that the
Chicago's Teachers Union on the
countervailing side of that dynamic is
in some ways some of the they're also
some of the progenitors of you know this
much more you know this this very
positive Democratic Socialist and
authentically progressive politics that
has been emerging in the last several
years but did I mean before we get
there's a couple there's two things I
want to get to before we get there and
one is I think it's actually really
important to also go back and look at
figures like a manual in the 90s because
right now the sort of tool of people say
and the you know on the in the for lack
of a better word whatever want to say
the corporate ring of the Democratic
Party or the Clinton campaign in in 2016
I think in some odd atmospheric ways
with Biden is trying to do and and
certainly what other kind of
conservative Democratic candidates are
trying to do is somehow claim and this
also you know this obviously really
began with all just sort of propaganda
efforts against Sanders and 16 that
there is a conflict between advancing
so-called social justice issues versus
you know the so-called economic issues
right and of course obviously these in
these policies are very intertwined and
interconnected they're distinct but
they're connected and there was this you
know notion that you know that was the
you know exemplified in the most extreme
ludicrous way of you know Hillary
Clinton doing something about Wall
Street won't do something about racism
right and of course it's like well first
of all that's just insane because nobody
is saying that nobody's making that
argument
but it still is something that should be
done in oh and incidentally as a
second-order thing actually a lot of
predatory Wall Street policies are in
fact highly racialized and the complete
elimination of housing wealth had a
massive structural racial attack and
Hispanic communities Rahm Emmanuel's
career really demonstrates that the
origins and the politics that you know
gave birth to the Clintons and and Biden
but even people who were you know
certainly not as bad but playing in the
same playing field whether or not it be
Obama or a you know I would certainly
say a Budaj edge or a Rorick or a
Gillibrand that the origins of it and in
fact Gillibrand is a good example when
she was in the house she voted against
immigration reform she voted for guns
she voted for tough crime bills not to
mention all the wall street votes that
in the 90s it was not just moving to the
corporate direction on economics it was
playing to a huge amount of reactionary
sentiments on immigration and welfare
and that's another area where Rahm was a
huge promoter of that oh yeah I mean
there's there's no doubt he when I
didn't mention before one of the other
major bills he pushed through under Bill
Clinton was welfare reform and that is
as we know now and has how progressive
economists knew then as well it's spiked
extreme poverty it cut off a lifeline as
I say in the feast of millions of
Americans who that was their basic
safety net you know and as a result of
ending welfare as we know it the result
was that struggling families were left
out in the cold and that was
orchestrated again by Emanuel and he
bring up an important point I can't
avoid the fact that we have to call
these policies what they are and that's
racist and it's because they were not
people say you know there's
disproportionate effects of certain
policies these policies were meant in
order to they were they were meant to
punish poor people of color there's no
other that's why your reform
pure racism pure racism and you could
say the same thing about the school
closures here in Chicago that that took
place I mean 50 public schools at the
time the largest single school closing
in American history happened under
Emanuel and these were mostly in poor
black and brown neighborhoods and so the
students that were affected were the
same students that are being left out
type of economy that Rahm Emanuel was
trying to build in Chicago which is
meant to replicate Silicon Valley in San
Francisco and is not meant to invest in
the very neighborhoods that need it the
most so when we you know and the similar
thing is true in terms of the policing
programs that Emanuel has you know he
wrote a New York Times out that we
should say the occasion for many of this
this dunking on Rahm is that he has now
moved over to a career in the pundit
well that's it I want to get to that I
actually do want to get to that in a
minute and treated in its own terms but
maybe before we get there did get
specifically into the Chicago record and
maybe you could talk specifically about
the the torture program that was
revealed in the Chicago PD and Warren's
role in the circumstances are
surrounding the police murder of laQuan
McDonald sure so the torture element is
years ago there was a porter scandal
here in Chicago that was uncovered and
essentially the CPD was torturing black
men and doing it in a very orchestrated
fashion this was not some one off thing
those borders were coming out from on
high
actually this was an area where there
was reckoning with the past and now as a
result of a bill that was pushed through
there is the the facts of this portress
scandal are being taught in Chicago
Public Schools which is a pretty
incredible thing but the fact that we
hadn't moved so far from those days a
you know truly vile racist policing
because as we saw an old Claude McDonald
case there was really no doubt that
there was
some type of a cover-up how involved
emmanuel was in that cover-up is still
being debated but laQuan McDonald was a
black teenager who was murdered by the
Chicago Police he was shot 16 times
while just wielding a knife he was shot
by an officer named Jason van Dyke Van
Dyke got charged with murder the murder
charge came out just before the tape the
videotape of the killing was released to
the public which you know you can
extrapolate what the ramifications of
that are and upon the release of the
video
Chicago erupted in protest specifically
the black community did they shut down
Michigan Avenue and protests reigned
over the streets for weeks on end
because if this was not a one-off thing
I mean Gary McCarthy the superintendent
of police that have been appointed by
Emanuel who ended up running against him
actually in this past mayoral election
before from dropped out Gary McCarthy
had overseen this stop and frisk program
in Chicago and we were you know victims
of the same type of policies that we saw
happening in New York under Michael
Bloomberg where people of color were
stopped and often arrested for no real
reason and police brutality is still a
true issue I mean when the Justice
Department came in and did a survey of
the police department here they found
rampant abuse and issued that in a
report and yet Rahm has not been willing
he had not been willing to do work
through a consent decree and people were
understandably not just angry and there
was real people demanding his head
basically saying you know Brahmas gotta
go there was so many chance of resign
wrong and I think that that was a major
reason why he decided not to run for
election for a third term because the
political terrain was just so unfriendly
too towards him because of the cover-up
and scandal that is not the only reason
now I mean it's also but the politics of
the city have changed and we can see
that in the results the election where
all this whole host of progressive
candidates from City Council to the
mayor got swept into office I mean it's
a clear repudiation of the type of
approach Emanuel has
take this whole political career off
absolutely and and and so now that gets
us to what he's trying to do now and
we'll we'll get to this piece in the
Atlantic with one of the most just
incredible article titles imaginable
from Rahm Emanuel but you know first of
all okay so he's he's out he's in that
kind of classic position I think of
particularly a modern Democrat where
democratically politician where he's
actually incredibly unpopular with
constituencies his record and I just
also want to add the other thing in 2006
when he was you know at a you know
running Democratic strategy for the
d-triple-c he he was you know he had
been somebody who had supported the
invasion of Iraq as well so it's another
area that I just think it's worth noting
another you know horrific catastrophe
that he was the wrong side of but you
know going beyond that someone like Ed
Rendell you know hack you know 1% style
Democrat natural gas Democrat governor
of Pennsylvania teammate you know he was
a pundit for many years it's a very
expected track and obviously people like
this find a home at whether it's MSNBC
or NBC or wherever you know this is a
perspective that you know people want to
hear at Aspen or Davos it really doesn't
matter whether or not the policy was
successful or popular or you know maybe
it was successful in the sense that what
it really is about is you know
increasing inequality and things like
that but so it's not just that Rahm is
doing this and becoming another kind of
garden-variety pundit and he's already
proven himself to be particularly you
know odious he's one of his first things
kind of out of the gate was attacking
ill on Omar you know when the Republican
jihad against her was at its most
vicious and yes I did use that word
consciously but it's also that he's come
out and wrote this column for The
Atlantic called it's time to hold
American elites accountable for their
abuses what is he trying to do
as one of the most Bolton elite himself
and a totally elite serving politician
what is he writing an apology and
documenting all of the failures of his
career and announcing that he's gonna go
to a monastery or or what else is he
doing if not that well no I definitely
don't think there is that sign of
apology I mean the only what you know
what I was just talking about in terms
of the anger towards Rahm Emanuel among
the citizenry of Chicago that has not
gone anywhere people here you know
coming from Chicago people here remember
and it was really the activism
specifically of black youth who
organized incessantly and stopped right
it'll go to everyone with manual public
event shout him down to make him
confront his crimes against the working
class poor communities of color in the
city what my men will doesn't talk about
that in his Atlantic article in fact the
only reference to Rahm Emmanuel's role
in any of this he gives himself in that
Atlantic piece you reference is talking
about working under Obama and saying
that he pushed Obama to go after the
bankers more and it was ultimately right
yes see that's his rewriting of history
he's not taking any accountability for
his role in creating this system where
wherein people are rightfully furious at
elite rule in American society nor is he
recognizing the fact that he himself is
the ultimate manifestation of that elite
nature and which people you know decide
other people's lives for them because
they are rich and wealthy and powerful
and well-connected that is the ultimate
definition of what the governance style
of Rahm Emanuel has been instead he's
using this kind of correct analysis I
think that you know the 2016 election
was largely about anger towards elites
and Donald Trump was able to benefit
from that
whereas Hillary Clinton was seen as a
represented representation of that elite
supremacy in our society Donald Trump
was able to say he was fighting against
Ted
therefore now Democrats need to learn
from that and rightfully call out the
elites as the opponents that they are I
think that's all right and true but when
it comes to the solutions he proposes
they're there they're just nonsensical I
mean he says we need to try to achieve
justice and we need to reclaim
middle-class values and interests it's
all this muggle Demark language that
doesn't actually have any kind of policy
avenues within it and that's because he
knows that what people are seizing upon
is what the left is offering and those
are policies like Medicare for all like
a green new deal like a jobs guarantee
that kind of things that would transform
the role of government bring more
democracy and result in Rahm Emmanuel's
wealthy friends like Bruce rauner and
having to pay up having to pay their
fair share in order to create a more
socially just system in the United
States so that's what's going on here I
think is that Rahm was trying to take
the anger and redirect it so that people
aren't bought into the message of
somebody like Bernie Sanders Bernie
Sanders who famously said he was proud
not to get from Emmanuel's endorsement
back in 2016 that's clearly the kind of
bed noir - this whole dance we're seeing
where Rahm has now a pundit and yet he's
trying to be independent and take his
you know views of the mayor but he's
also standing for Jill Biden out here
and saying that Joe Biden is exhibiting
great discipline on the campaign trail
well question about that though
specifically because yeah and he says a
new quote he goes the answer certainly
isn't socialism which just amounts to a
more you know quote unquote powerful
bureaucracy or more eita so basically I
mean that so what he's doing okay right
so he's totally erasing this political
history and he's just he's you know
maybe in a couple of meetings with
people like you know a totally
delusional technocrat you know a
complete creature of international
financial bureaucracy like Tim Geithner
Rahm Emanuel who is able like Rita pol
was the one in the room saying you know
what we might at least need to sort of
symbolically hold some Wall Street
criminality
accountable so erase the fact that he
helped set the stage for all the Wall
Street criminality that he you know he's
been on the wrong side of everything
he's profiting from it
he's profited from being in Wall Street
and Finance personally he's part of the
same system okay then there's we need to
be against the elites but then he
doesn't follow through with supports for
any actual ways of being against the
elites like sporting medicare-for-all
that leads me though to question and I
think you know probably most of it will
just be these sort of generic you know
sort of vague bromides and sort of
trying to clean up his own image and I'm
sure of course supporting you know
another you know far-right corporatist
Democrat who's is also profoundly
disconnected like Joe Biden but what it
really starts to make me worried though
when somebody will of man Rahm
Emmanuel's profile and his racial
politics and his policing policies and
then you go back to the 90s and again it
goes back to the first part of this
conversation which was that
triangulation has come to be known I
think more in the modern you know
variant as look we're of the corporate
class in Silicon Valley and Wall Street
when it comes to economic policy and
that's why we really you know that's why
we oppose Medicare for all and so on but
you can trust us to at the very least
symbolically discourse that we are poor
racism and xenophobia not necessarily
substantively mind you but if you start
getting back into a rhetoric of let's
talk about middle class anger and let's
rail against the elites however we're
not gonna embrace any left populist
economic agenda well where does that
anger go was that this the next wave of
that mean that people like Rahm Emanuel
along with demonizing alone Omar start
saying you know I had some ideas about
immigrants in the 90s and in fact Bill
Clinton signed some incredible bills
about immigrants in the 1990s and in
fact you know look I think Barack Obama
pursued some very anti-immigrant
policies and deportations as a means
again of triangulating but in the hopes
of getting a deal so it is a little bit
different although still setting up the
apparatus and the viciousness of what we
have today but
manual could easily pivot this anger if
it's not gonna turn into a jobs
guarantee and all these other great
policies into the Democratic neoliberal
version of more immigrant bashing I mean
that's that if the trajectory I would
see yeah well I don't think yeah
personally I don't during the twenty
twenty election we're gonna see
Democrats move more right on immigration
that doesn't mean that you know their
policies won't I mean if there's a Joe
Biden administration that their policies
will punish immigrants I mean you've
seen Nancy Pelosi offer you know
billions of dollars for Donald Trump's
wall where she says that so you know
single-payer health care is impossible I
think that that still exists within the
Democratic Party thinking that a general
election that you could definitely see
if you took this the this dissent the
spirit of this message definitely not in
the primary but if you nominate a Joe
Biden and all of a sudden there's this
intellectual consensus that there is
this anger out there of the middle class
quote-unquote and we know how racialized
that term is for people like Rahm
Emanuel that that anger turns into some
type of again not the same thing but a
new version of third way yes we're gonna
have the right position on dreamers but
let me tell you something we can be
pretty tough on immigrants too because
you God knows Joe Biden is not gonna
talk about NAFTA he's not gonna talk
about PNTR or GATT you know I don't know
maybe I'm getting ahead of myself here
but that's just that the alarm bells I
saw when I read that because I was like
what anger are we talking about wrong
yeah exactly well I think the the real
utility of this article for wrong manual
is where you weapons earlier it's an
opportunity for him to try to engage
with the socialist term and the
Democratic Party and try to push back
against it and in a way that it's very
lazy I mean intellectually I mean he
just says that socialism means more
bureaucracy that's just that doesn't
make any sense when you know the type of
socialist policies that are gaining
support are about redistributing wealth
not about you know creating some new
government bureaucracies or anything
like that but I you know Rahm sees that
so he just experienced this election as
I said where
Olu of socialists most in modern
American history in a single city just
took office that's a threat to
everything he spent his political career
building this whole centrist turn and I
think he feels the need right now to
take that head-on and if anything that
is a sign that the left is being
incredibly effective in reshaping the
political terrain in which the
Democratic Party has to fight right now
that somebody like rahm emanuel with as
you said his stature has to come out and
himself make an argument against
socialism at the same time don't Trump
is trying to read babe as well and we
saw that here in elections as well there
were candidate that were running that
faced red-baiting we're told you know oh
these have some crazy vision for America
that I'm essentially on American this
stuff is all out there and I think mom
needs to take that head-on so I think
we're gonna see more of that I think
there's going to be more around
editorials and ABC news appearances and
everything warning against too far of a
turn to the left and saying you know the
lessons of the past few decades show
that Democrats win when they can win the
suburban Pennsylvania voters kind of
that ndele approach and everything like
that the fear of there being a hard
right turn in a general election with a
Joe Biden
I think should worry everybody in the
Democratic Party who cares about the
issues that have motivated millions of
voters to come out and support Democrats
in 2018 and in other years I mean if
that would basically be giving up the
energetic base of a party if we had a
candidate the nominee like reneged on
all these issues that the Democratic
Party has claim to have the most
progressive platform ever on is a real
possibility though I mean it's not a
possibility if we nominate somebody like
Bernie Sanders but if if it goes in a
Joe Biden direction and sure I mean
that's possible and I guarantee you that
Rahm Emanuel will be out there
campaigning as hard as you can for Joe
Biden or at least his vision of where he
wants the Democratic Party to go and I
think that we're all smart enough after
seeing wrong manuals career for the past
few decades to know we should not listen
to anything he has to say final
minute here is there any part of the
media dimension of this you want to
comment on I mean it's not at all
surprising that he would get a perch at
ABC News and then he'd get a column at
the Atlantic you know particularly under
the editorship of some really jeffrey
goldberg but yeah you know is there
something i mean there i mean there is
this enormous political energy on the
left that is still not it all
represented in fact it's usually you
know belittled and resisted very you
know for sephorus lee in you know
particularly like MSNBC we know that you
know again there is not a liberal media
there's sort of a you know centrist
whatever kind of media and then there
far extreme right media and for what
it's worth I think you could also put on
the table to I am not obviously I'm not
drawing an equivalency but even even
just the ratio of like Republican voices
that are not in tune with trumpism are
frankly just disconnected from the
electorate you know I think a lot of the
elect I think there is some centrist
electorate and they're more in the
Democratic Party like it or not and then
there is people on the left and then
there's people very much in this you
know nationalist right
and so you still have these like huge
clusters of people that are all over
these Sunday shows that still it's like
we're just in a different time zone with
them even regardless of you know all the
obvious ideological disagreement we have
it's just like you're not even
approximating what is sort of
politically out there both in very bad
ways and in very good ways and Rahm
Emanuel just seems to just so perfectly
exemplify like of course a hugely
unpopular mayor Chicago of course
somebody whose whole career has been a
failure by not only human metrics that
they wouldn't care about but even just
like enduring power metrics
well the worse he'll be there because
you know he has money and he has he just
has ticks in a resume or something it's
just kind of depressing people in
positions of extreme wealth and
political power in our society tend to
always fail upward I mean we've
time and time again there's really no
other way to see what's happened with
Rahm he should be you know hiding out in
some bunker planning is you know return
or something instead he's being elevated
on all these mainstream media outlets
which I think goes to show how they view
politics and you know McKee was hired to
do this you know these are this is the
kind of retrograde backwards looking
takes he's spelling out and the Atlantic
and I'm sure you also would be doing
overall the cable news shows that's
exactly the kind of voice they want to
elevate that's what these media outlets
think that America needs right now I
want to be honest and the Atlantic
there's plenty of liberal readers who
might be open to a more left-wing
approach to politics that subscribe to
the Atlantic and that's kind of the
audience for this past piece I think and
to say no no no don't go too far I you
know represent this era where Democrats
were doing great and we need to make
sure that we're you know providing for
the great middle and we need to you know
argue against ourselves to the point
that we give up any hope for a you know
future that doesn't look like the past
and that's what's being offered this
election by the realm manuals of the
world and the Joe Biden of the world I
think is a return to normalcy to
something before when was the last time
a Democrat ever won running on returning
to the PACs you know that ever was a
change election with this psychotic
president in office you think it would
be 2020 and that way Democrats would
want to embrace choosing a new future
rather than returning to an era of you
know America is already great when the
Midwest is being destroyed by the same
type of free-market fundamentalist
policies that Rahm Emanuel and his ilk
have have gone for in the past so I
think that that's really what this all
comes down to is it's not an apology
tour for Rahm Emanuel it's his attempt
to retain relevancy and to try to shift
the party back in his centrist direction
the same direction we've seen be as I
said fully discredited
the pieces no one should no one should
ever listen to anything rahm emanuel has
to say about politics by miles comm
floss and you can read it in all of
miles work at in these times miles
thanks so much for doing this thank you
appreciate it take care of em all right
folks rahm emanuel not good he really is
like extraordinarily not good just just
an utterly loathsome figure in politics
and someone that you're gonna have to
see on your TV a lot if you choose to
rot your brain by watching politics on
television which good time to read
amusing ourselves to death by Neil
postman I would say medium is the
message right Matt medias cos media
studies scholar Matt luck well that's
McLuhan I know it's McLuhan all right
well postman is amusing ourselves to
death yep i'ma Clunes the message right
the deep cut for postman is technically
which is about if memory serves
basically the technocracy and that sort
of stuff which is he was good I read him
a lot in college yeah I knew that Rahm
Emanuel was bad before you did that
interview but now I have some very
detailed talking points so thank you who
are you meeting that still is like well
you know Rahm Emmanuel's that blah blah
blah I don't really meet them IRL I meet
them online dev donuts in their
usernames yeah God where did that
doughnut think I actually know what I
don't care
I do good answer don't think
disrespecting what I got here
why would you disrespect you know what
that well better somebody is the more of
those people get triggered by them why
would you pick a food stuff to represent
centrism that has an empty center
indeed look the center is not good focus
nothing therefore Hightower Jim
Hightower the good stuffs around the
center there's nothing in the middle of
the road but yeah the stripes and dead
armadillos it's true it's an old book
all right folks
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become a
member that's how this show happens
that's how you get the real talk about a
scumbag like Rahm Emanuel and you get it
for less than a cup of coffee a day
check out just coffee dot co-op
Fairtrade tea coffee or a chocolate
check out all of the mid rolls all of
the excuse me check out all of our
sponsors today Grove and door - on the
Michael Brooks show this weekend we're
doing a think tank on capitalist realism
the constriction of our imaginations and
Jeff Bezos in space the following week
we have an in-depth illicit history of
Hezbollah and Lebanese politics with dr.
drew Mikkel from Queens University in
Ireland no new show next week forty MBS
we are off but there's a huge catalog to
catch up on and now a highly clipped
YouTube channel with a huge amount of
content including illicit histories of
Iran updates on Argentina on Algeria
Biggie Smalls artistry and the roar and
the myth of the roaring 90s Michael
Brooks show on YouTube patreon.com slash
T MBS Jamie this week on the anti Fattah
Andy is back from his travels with
several interviews this is out now so he
interviewed Isabel Diaz Taurus from the
anarchist biblioteca abre in Cuba and
this guy is a Cuban anarchist who was
actually arrested after he did the
interview with Andy first roasted though
a protest I believe he's been released
yet but he staged a protest against
homophobia and the Cuban state doesn't
really let you staged your own protests
so that's interesting and I think
gonna add some updates in the
description we also have Simona
Rodriguez from partido socialista Modi
Libertad of Venezuela who is part of the
left opposition to Maduro we also have
an interview with a producer of this
interesting podcast called resonance
audio zine where they read they read to
you out of anarchist scenes it's kind of
like ASMR crossed with politics and
lastly Philip walls letter of read way
who wraps everything up with his story
of backpacking to Chile in 1973 during
the coup and I was trying to listen to
it on my way here but my dongle
kept going out and I hate it so much
ooh those dongles know there's a dongle
the thing that you have to connect to
your phone that doesn't have normal
audio jacks so you can plug your
headphones into it it's so it's so
annoying they brought about a month and
a half and then you have to buy a new
one and guess what those are very
profitable for your phone companies they
make lots of money off of selling you
new ones yes because it's not good oh
and you know what I also want to plug we
did an episode with swamp side chats our
comrades the gayest highest Communist
podcast probably in the world and we
talked about communist a shin theory and
that's some galaxy brain and that's
going to be out on their feed first so
they can pick up some listeners from
that and eventually on our feed sorry
for the profanity people majority
reported listeners don't like Bravo
oh my bad Oh Dan's not here cool yeah
it's true Matt literary hangover soon
I'm gonna release the Margaret Fuller
episode
she's I've been keep Khan heard like
early socialist she had these kind of
the first podcaster she had these things
called the conversations that a lot of
women they're women only basically first
actual safe space reasons but so women
could have intellectual conversation she
was doing that in Boston and that's
actually what sort of led to her a lot
of her writings on women in the 19th
century and her editing the dialogue
which was a transcendentalist of paper
oh yeah but she had these she had these
conversations where they would actually
talk about like
in Greek mythology or women from Roman
times or basically women throughout
history that are that would were
remembered for traits that at her time
in the 1840s and 40s were ascribed to
only men so as she was kind of like
decoupling these sort of masculine
feminine binaries saying well the
throughout history if you look at things
these women can have these traits as
well there's nothing that's there's
nobody that's purely masculine or purely
feminine sounds pretty cool he's very
Margot fuller it's it's a travesty we
don't know more about her because she
was amazing I definitely um guys just to
let you know I know people are very
excited about the IMS but hopefully I'll
have it figured out in the break I also
want to mention that tickets are
available and they're moving extremely
fast and we announced it extremely early
so I would do this soon to the TMDs live
show August 24th at Lincoln Hall in
Chicago get your tickets today we'll see
you in the fun half Jamie and I may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now win-win now listen
to me five times eight four seven nine
oh six five oh one four five seven eight
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not bad use me
 you you alright take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarian sout their dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lassic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy guys ready
to death to America
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
welcome to the fun half hi everybody
how is everyone pretty all right
lettuce yeah had a dream that I slept
through the whole show this morning
actually that relaxing it was it was
kind of no it was very stressful yeah I
can imagine
I've had dreams where I we don't start
the show until 12:30 or something like
that and everyone is just like screaming
in the office I had that sounds horrible
I had no you know what by the end of the
dream I had texted you Michael and you
were like oh it's cool and then I was
like coming to accept that I had missed
the show I'm like at least I got some
sleep and then my alarm went off and I
woke up that sounds like actually a
really good trajectory Ivan s is like
like the best of all worlds like when
you have like an upsetting dream that
ends in a relaxed way and then you wake
up and realize that didn't happen that's
when I woke up and I was a bit late for
work
for real were you a little bit never
mind I thought you were I don't know I
thought you were on target ten minutes
late I don't count that no I'm not I
don't expect by the way it's my opinion
on time is not only applied to myself I
just don't everybody gets 10 15 minutes
no I know I wasn't afraid you were gonna
yell at me well I wouldn't I mean
obviously I wouldn't to begin but I
don't square you guys have anxiety
dreams about this job I don't I had way
more I I had anxiety dreams about
McDonald's all the time when I learned
you were living in anxiety dream yeah
they're also they're also less heard
about you being late
right really it'll be funny if you
walked in and your manager at McDonald's
was just like can you believe
what Dana Rohrabacher said yeah still I
did I tweeted back to Burger King it
could look like you fries so I'm gonna
quote tweet that and actually that would
be really though probably making too
much that maybe that's what working in
the comms department is that makes
competition yeah you're calling from a
509 area code who are you where you're
calling from
greetings from sunny Orlando Florida at
Disney resorts this is animatronic
Andrew Jackson calling from the Hall of
Presidents animatronic in Jersey I
actually totally agree with Stephen
minuchin we cannot just change the $20
bill it would cause a great deal of
security concerns I can't do it with a
straight track wait see my portrait
hangs in the Oval Office be your worst
self wear it with pride
so you're saying mr. president word from
our sponsors ladies has your
menstruation got you feeling hysterical
help easier a rational mind with dr.
Clark Stanley's 100% cotton sanitation
rags each rag can be rinsed out and
reused for up to three months and for a
limited time only get a free 8 ounce
bottle of dr. Clark Stanley's female
remedy when you use coupon code Jackson
at checkout that's jack3d is an organic
blend of unique oils and ointments
designed to cure every uniquely female
malady including hysteria nervousness
fluid retention heaviness in the abdomen
sexual desire and more dr. Stanley's
female remedy now with 15% more opium
don't forget use coupon code Jackson
when you check out the number one
recommended solution for female hysteria
quantities are limited so act now wait
so President Jackson though just just
man I've got to tell you
we don't just advertise any old thing on
this program because we've got a lot of
people coming to us we've got to turn a
lot of them away that's pride and true I
stand by dr. Clark's family 100% I'm
telling you I used to have to take
Rachel to the sanatorium once a month
during her special time where she was
locked in a room and sprayed with the
hose it was a real hassle so don't
forget the coupon code I check out this
stuff is the real deal and you're saying
that Stephen minuchin she's got a break
we're gonna head into the genocide Oh
maniac half we'll be right back all
right Thank You mr. president
try that I think your ask I don't think
he's taking any questions water both
from Kashmir sad day Modi wins in India
in the electorate is behaving more and
more like the Israeli electorate with a
far-right swing and with a dash of
dehumanization for those their
nation-state occupies so fascists are
reelected or in control of Kashmir where
does legal law for the military to do
anything including rape murder and
torture there are multiple articles
outlining torture and rape in Kashmir
and major Western Prowse outlets this
week after the elections in India over I
mean look the election results in India
are absolutely horrible Modi you know
Modi was an early product of this global
far-right authoritarian trend and you
know we're gonna get to these Lula clips
in a second and I there's a please watch
this entire interview because this is
actually somebody who both has a
communicative ability and capacity to
actually win as a center-left candidate
and he also has a very good diagnosis of
these things internationally and there's
one part and maybe this won't be in what
we clip but like I didn't want to play
it because it I mean it's incredibly
funny but it gets into it like if an
interview with the most prominent
political prisoner in the world becomes
like another point to have like a petty
argument about 2016 that's not helpful
but Greenwald is pushing him a lot to
diagnose the global rise of the
far-right like why is this movement
succeeding
it is it's the poll numbers are growing
in Germany it's relevant and growing in
the UK it's governing in many respects
in the UK it's governing the United
States governing in Brazil its governing
in India it's governing and hungry its
governing the Philippines kagra in
Israel its governing in Russia it's ism
you know we know all this stuff but it's
governing in Argentina and and Lula you
know when he when he pushes him on the
unite when green wall pushes Lula in the
United States
Lula basically says he's like Glenn
Glenn and he says in Portuguese but the
verbatim quote is like I know Hillary
Clinton pretty well the Democrats could
have definitely found somebody it was
more appealing it's like the direct
quote and he's just like look he's like
maybe if Obama was running for a third
term it would be different maybe if I
was allowed to run it would be different
and I think this is a really important
point because as much as these fights
are ideological there's also just like
people need to start treating being a
politician as like something that you
develop professional capacity in and you
actually do effectively from a
communications and campaigning
standpoint because that's just an
inescapable part of how you're gonna win
or not and in India
Gandhi was literally inherited dynastic
power with very little charisma and the
opposite biography act Ark of Narenda
Modi Narendra Modi's father was a tea
seller came up literally from a
profoundly disadvantaged position which
has been amplified and propagandized
nila indian electorate so anyways let's
place these Lula clips he had an hour
with Greenwald these interviews were
requested before the 2018 election they
were refused by the Brazilian Supreme
Court he was silenced during an election
that again he led by double digits in
the polls and was sentenced without any
material evidence always bears repeating
and it's in Portuguese so if you're
watching you'll see the English
subtitles but we'll slow it down slow it
down a touch so I can repeat it for
people that are listening the first
question has to
with his treatment in prison where he is
being held in solitary confinement and
Lula is gonna speak on that but also
make a point about the poverty of Brazil
so let's start with clip number two with
Glenn Greenwald and Lula de Silva
many people have been asking me how
you've been treated in prison and you
said many times that the Thor
authorities here are you main and
professional still the case I don't know
what you manatorian the treatment means
in prison means I'm locked up and I'm in
solitary confinement and it really is
solitary because most of the time I'm
completely alone I'm even my lawyers and
that's it and with my family once a week
I don't know whether to consider this
visa but it allows me to endure this
without loathing and with a brighter
outlook is knowing that there are
millions and millions of Brazilians
living in freedom who are in worse
conditions than I am least I have an
opportunity to have lunch and dinner
well Brazil it is a country that you
governed for eight years in a country
with many people in prison how would you
compare your treatment on this prison
with the treatment they get and all the
other prisons take the Brazilians who
live in a houses stilt houses above
swamps they're living a second-class
citizens citizen has to live in a single
nine square foot room has to have lunch
dinner and has to cook make love go to
the bathroom and do everything in those
nine square metres that's not living any
better than I am here
that's why I'm less concerned about my
situation okay so that's again that's
just reorienting and I think this is
very important because that sort of
earthy language and direct description
of how millions of people are living is
why this guy was able to rise without
any formal education coming from extreme
poverty and get into leadership but this
is where um this is I think important
and there was a lot of conversation on
both the Workers Party record but also
the rise of the far right and how to
answer it and Lula's perception of it so
here he is he's talking about the rights
rise across the globe this issue
wait is this slowed down oh I don't the
this is just there's neoliberalism and
the PT well there's three and four on
the list so I have the difference class
politics and Brazil difference between
him and bowls and arrow and then there
is explaining the ultra right-wing rise
in the globe and left reaction is that
it that's number three okay yep what's
the relation between population
suffering and their sudden embrace of
far-right leaders like Paulson arrow and
others throughout the Democratic world
Leo liberalism as it arose and during
the era of globalization is losing
ground everywhere it is not just losing
ground to the left but also to the right
has it lost to Hitler and Mussolini at
the same time we've had two recent
examples in Spain and Portugal of the
left coming back during elections and
even in Germany where Angela Merkel is a
very strong politician
before tea she hadn't formed a coalition
with the Social Democrats she wouldn't
be in power but even there the far-right
is growing I know that's growing the
world over and I think it's a warning
hall for the left
yes but the right-wing whoa won't you
can be sure the fact that bolsa narrow
and McCree cristina kirchner will win in
the next elections in brazil the
left-wing will win the next election can
be certain that if Evo Morales runs for
president he'll win in Bolivia at the
same time I hope that Americans will
have the good sense to prevent another
term of Trump as president because he's
not just a problem for the u.s. he's a
problem for the whole world so playing
in the electorate winner Silva well
actually in the not exactly um not
exactly at all but there was another
clip where he explains and it's
interesting in light I wish we had
pulled it maybe I'll pull it another
time 40 mb/s where he talks about the
origins and bolsa and Thatcher and
Reagan of this globalization model and
the first thing he says about it is he
literally in the Lula he's like he's
like free movement of capital not people
as he sets the stage for how to
understand how that works
um but then I think this is really
important because what he's identifying
though in the any sort of left
that's regaining power and could still
win as he's talking about people like
Morales who really do have populist
politics and then he's also talking
about people who are effective
communicators a neighbor to actually
counteract this trend and then in this
clip he's gonna talk about specifically
to Brazil because what Glenn is doing is
Glenn is talking about how PT fits into
this sort of like broader pattern in
Brazil but Lula says like look we are
here because of my successes which is a
really important point and also how the
Brazilian elite
and I think this is where we can start
looking at socially reactionary politics
as being of the elite in many different
cases as a sort of even cultural
reaction to other people just even
coming up even if their position isn't
threatened so let's play this final clip
where he talks about class politics in
Brazil and bolson are on the horizon
other I can't read that because of the
plur the rise of bowls in our and other
extremists and neoliberal ideologues and
a kobold of country in a country and how
you run the country how Dilma round the
country yeah yes and those ideologies
what difference do you see you started
this interview I said clearly that he
T's biggest problems that's the Workers
Party come now from its errors but from
its successes every time that president
tries to enact socially minded policies
in Latin America there eventually ousted
the elite in Brazil and in other
countries don't accept economic
development policies that contain social
conclusion PT managed to enact this is
according to UN not me the greatest
changes in social inclusion in the
history of this country it's important
to remember that during our mandate it
was the only time in history that the
poor had a higher rate of economic
upturn than the rich know the rich made
gains too but the poor had even greater
percentage well yeah the only time in
history this bothers people should have
heard it in the Rio de Janeiro Airport
with San Paulo Airport when people said
the airport's starting to look like the
bus station with all these poor people
around
people who have never taken a plane in
their life and I actually think that
when you look at the base of the Trump
electorate which is actually like people
making a pretty good income um in pretty
ethnically homogenous white suburbs that
that other sense of it's not just and
this is where I think some of the
distinction between economic fear and
social reactionary politics in some ways
collapses because you can both fear that
you might lose actual material resources
as well as status which you can't just
separate all the time they're
interdependent and interacting and also
that you resent even if you're still
feeling well and this is I think where
it is the pure status thing even just
the visual of people coming up from the
bottom and emerging and Lula spoke
exactly about that dynamic in Brazil
because that is what happened
you had tens of millions of people taken
out of poverty living radically better
lives and there is a cultural contingent
that bolson ro tapped into which is why
there's annex
higher murder rates of police among of
innocent people he's saying farmers
should have the right to kill people
without cause if they go on their lands
that's all part of that same psychology
I'd recommend people watch the whole
interview there's a lot more in so
obviously we can't play all of it I'll
play more of it on T MBS later and as
always you need to talk to your
Democratic candidates and
representatives about this and there's
been letters one in 2018 one in the
spring that have involved Brazil but
only one in 2018 that specifically dealt
with the Lula case and how barring his
candidacy was undermining Brazilian
democracy there needs to be a lot more I
don't take anybody's progressive bona
fides remotely seriously if they're not
talking about Lula's imprisonment it's
it's astonishing and disgusting and it's
also amazing because it's a very good
strategic mind like this is somebody who
has a lot of lessons for how this works
and how these trends can be counteracted
which he gets into a lot more detail
in the full interview you're calling
from a 757 area code who are you where
he calling from this is Sebastian from
Florida can you hear me
hi Sebastian how are you what's on your
mind I'm excellent I wanted to ask you
about a trend that I'm sure you're
familiar with online um you know very
reactionary you know politics that's um
I think kind of sprung out as a
gamergate you know nonsense and you know
the oldest weird stuff happening around
you know video game controversies and
uh-huh you know people like Sargon see
matters that I want to ask you like how
do we fight against that how do we fight
well we're doing it watch the show I
think we do we know I think I thank you
guys good well paintin uh what do you
mean besides us how do you as a person
fight it well I wish there were more I
mean like you guys are doing a great job
I just wish there were more people like
you watch H bomber guy bomber guys
specifically somebody does a lot of good
content on this also contra points often
addresses the all right
yo civically and she's actually won some
people over back from being alright
peppe's and I'm gonna deal with some of
this in my book my favorite is I don't
call my favorite favorite is Tim bond
toast but I think you know I understand
people asking questions like this and
and like this about other topics and the
thing about it is like you can just
start a YouTube channel yeah like it's
this problem I mean not everybody can
write there's like obviously some like
capital requirements that you need to
have equipment and things like that and
it does take time but the the barrier to
entry is so low that you just kind of
need to do it absolutely do you guys
think this is something I've been
thinking about with the crosnes topic
cuz we get these calls a lot and I think
it's kind of like a canary in the
coalmine situation because II this leg
and that story about that girl so if
like there's going to be a generation
that is just like purely brought up
online and it's going to cross over into
the mainstream and like mainstream
media's not gonna be able to like say oh
it's just online or whatever like at
some point like
the culture at large is going to have to
reckon with this and I mean I guess us
planting seeds like now is really
important but I wondered how you know
mainstream media will react to it when
it gets to that boiling point I don't
think it's made for the mainstream like
right like I think as soon as it rears
its head people react against it because
I think that's it this is actually a
human nature thing I think people don't
actually like this no I don't think they
do I also think it's a really tricky
balancing act between like the President
of the United States represents these
things and it's totally of you know of
American history it's of the Republican
Party and so on and then at the same
time I also don't want to feed I don't
I'm not gonna Inc so it's like some
people talk about this stuff in a way
where I think they're both undermining
the severity of the crisis in some ways
because it's literally white supremacy
as an example is represented at the
literally the center of American power
and governance and then at the same time
I agree with Matt I think like the full
like cosplay Nazi world I think it's
really toxic I think it's really
dangerous I think it's because we're in
this ecosystem we need to address it I
think it has a limited broad appeal I do
I do and I don't want to feel like I
just don't buy I think there is like
Brandon on unti MBS the other day it was
just like yeah Nazis who cares like eff
them and I think that's in some ways an
extremely healthy attitude if you
balance that with the fact that
literally this is a we are in a decadent
Roman racist Empire yeah and I think
we're talking about a few different
things here but if you want to look
specifically at the sort of online all
right the degree to which they believe
that the left is only these unfun social
justice warriors who are also quite
neoliberal in their politics this is
like this is why it is important
to have something like a fun podcast
where you talk about the left in a way
that people can understand in a way
that's accessible and like you know on
the part of people who you might like to
be friends with because it's a pair of
social relationship that happens a lot
of the time in on the alt-right as well
as on the quote-unquote out left or
whatever you want to call it so if they
only know about the left from like ben
shapiro they're gonna have a different
view of us than if they actually listen
to some of these alternative outlets
100% i want to touch on this story I'm
not gonna make you know I'm not look I'm
I think that this is like a story that
needs to be talked about and is relevant
for understanding a candidate I don't
think it's a you know I think there's
plenty of stories like this that are
worth noting I don't know if they're
like I don't think this is not a reason
I mean I've explained obviously why I
think Bernie Sanders is the choice over
Elizabeth Warren and I think this story
is relevant for people to know but I
don't think it's like well and this is
it
I mean here's your reason why you can't
vote for her I know view it like that at
all I actually view some of the foreign
policy stuff is much more to me if
you're having that global perspective to
be extremely problematic but I do think
that this is relevant I think if you
know and this is about some Senator
Warren's work as an attorney if Bernie
Sanders um who sure he's frankly had you
know he he's basically been a politician
and you know sort of a bohemian which I
happen to like about the guy but he had
a business where he produced educational
strips for schools and basically was in
some kind of small form of documentary
filmmaking / PR whatever you want to
call it if it happened that before the
guy was mayor of Burlington he happened
to take a crisis PR job for Raytheon I
think that that would be a valid thing
to put into the docket and I apologize I
know this will offend a lot of lawyer
I do think being an attorney is
obviously innately more valuable than
being a crisis PR person but I don't buy
some vast moral gulf between who you
choose to represent for money as an
attorney versus who you choose to do
coms for to carry the analogy and it so
happens that when Senator Warren was
teaching at Harvard University she took
on over 50 legal matters and she charged
well for them which I just want to say
is not the point
great I'm glad she made a lot of money
and I've noticed that some people in
defending her have zeroed in on how much
money she made which is it's not even
like not the point it's just not it's
just not even it's like it's like
talking about what train she took to get
to these jobs it's totally doesn't
matter and saalu I hope that elizabeth
warren is a multi-millionaire I think
that's great I don't care sorry the
Khaleesi has a dragon yeah I mean it
does get to that kind of nonsense
but I do think it is relevant that
including in in you know recent
iterations you know she advised as an
example in ninth in 2003 she served or
excuse me in the in the past day out in
the Dow Chemical in the mid-1990s she
advised them and I'm quoting now from
the Washington Post in the mid 1990s of
State she one of her most controversial
clients was Dow Chemical which she
advised in the mid-1990s a subsidiary
that manufactured silicon gel breast
implants faced hundreds of thousands of
claims from woman who said their
implants caused health problems Dow
Chemical denied it was playing a role in
designing or making the implants and
sought to avoid liability as its
subsidiary dow corning declared
bankruptcy in this case elizabeth served
as a consultant to ensure adequate
compensation for a woman who claimed
injury from silicone breast implants who
otherwise might not have received
anything when dow corning file for
bankruptcy is is I think the response
from the campaign so that's one that's
certainly not on the side of consumers
to be representing a company that had
silicon blowing up in women's chests
essentially she also and I think this is
very troubling to me
she helped travelers gain immunity from
asbestos litigation and in a in a very
significant case help them settle a
payment thing for consumers and then
when she left
they got didn't have to face liability
charges and didn't have to set up that
payment right but after right exam but
after yeah
and then there's the case of LTV steel
which put and I'm quoting again from
post which put Warren at odds with
Richard Trumka who was then president of
the United Mine Workers now president of
the afl-cio and that instance Warren
argued in a document to the Supreme
Court to help LTV battle a new law that
required it to put aside millions of
dollars to fund health care for retired
coal miners according to the globe
Warren maintained that she was
supporting an important legal principle
that would help workers receive needed
aid sooner in testimony before Congress
Trump argued that there shouldn't be an
exception to the rule when it unravels
you will have roughly two hundred
thousand miners and beneficiaries out
there who will lose their health care he
told Congress Trump could didn't appear
to hold a grudge and subsequently
campaign for Warren in her 2012 Senate
bit so look it's just important to put
on the docket it's important to put on
the docket that Bernie Sanders supported
drone policies in 2016 it's important to
put on the docket that you know Kamala
Harris had poor mothers arrested as part
of a horrifying truancy policy and it's
important to put I mean just the
endlessly exhausting list of Joe Biden
you know credit card Iraq and everything
else you know on the docket but you know
Elizabeth Warren has a brand that is
built entirely on the central axis of
these types of issues
she doesn't have a foreign policy she
doesn't have a military policy that you
know would be deemed progressive in a
sort of authentic assessment and but
she's rightly built an incredible career
and generated an unbelievable amount of
great policy ideas on the axis of these
specific types of issues it is relevant
and legitimate to know and be aware of
the fact that she has been on the other
side of these types of very
bread-and-butter middle-class issues
using her legal sales to help
corporations get away with harming
people or not paying their obligations
sorry I know I don't plan on covering it
more but that is a legitimate story this
is not inconsistent with the trajectory
that we know Elizabeth Warren has taken
right like she used to be a Republican
she used to have terrible politics now
she's got better politics and you know
if her campaign were smart they would
use this as part of the story you know
she could say look I used to be on the
wrong side of these things in my career
as an individual and then I came around
I saw the light I founded the Financial
Protection Bureau and I wanted to change
things on the love a level of policy but
I don't see them going that way yeah it
was my job just doesn't fly you have to
have a story about how you felt awful
doing some of those things right or like
Jamie saying you put it in a different
context now I and I think that's another
that those types of spin in in favor of
it are yeah they're just not going to
cut it in our context um and frankly
with the you know you look Sanders and
Warren have you know people are looking
at them in a different way because they
represent different things in politics I
don't you know Peabody judge there's a
story we don't have time to get to today
a new story about Pete Buddha judge that
you know I believe it was a woman's son
you know it was something that I forget
the specifics of it I don't have it with
me but something very serious and
disturbing in South Bend Indiana and
a teenager Buddha Jed said call I'll
follow up woman says he never followed
up right like you know beta O'Rourke
speaks and word salads takes money from
oil companies like there's nothing about
these other candidates that the you know
Cory Booker's whole career was
facilitated specifically by people like
and including Betsy DeVos I've got some
candidates with some huge problems here
obviously starting with Joe Biden so we
also have to remember you know whoever
it is as soon as they get into office
there are going to be powerful forces
pulling them to the right without a
doubt and given the choices like if we
have a choice between somebody who's
always had great politics and someone
who's past is checkered I'm at least
gonna go with the person who's been most
consistent through the years even
knowing that that person will be subject
to the same forces precisely you're
calling from a 907 area code who are you
where you're calling from
I just barely calling from Vancouver hey
Billy what's going on what's on your
mind hey Michael um I'm just calling um
see why uh cliff schecter has not been
appearing on the show we going are you
serious yeah I don't know if I don't
handle the bookings man yeah because I
feel like you guys have a kind of a
glass half empty syndrome when it comes
to Mayor Pete like he's for Medicare for
all so isn't that something to be
celebrated rather than being announced
as a candidate they so I don't know if
you're messing with me but um here's
what I would say no I'm serious okay so
here's what I say okay all right here's
the cereal you want I'll give you a
serious answer when it comes to Medicare
for all Bernie Sanders is absolutely in
a league of his own because he's
advocated for it for decades including
when nobody else took it seriously
Elizabeth Warren that's been another
major question mark for me while she's
co-sponsored it she hasn't been cleared
cuivre call that she'll push for it and
frankly other candidates like Gillibrand
or Harris or Booker who a year ago I was
quite happy to give them credit in the
context of the campaign season yeah I'm
not no I don't buy it I don't think that
they have the commitment demonstrably
that someone like Bernie Sanders has now
secondly Pete Buddha judge in addition
to all of the truly I mean look if you
care about policing issues if you care
about gentrification if you care about
inequality this guy's already gonna have
a huge amount of glaring problems beyond
the point that like and I've just been
criticizing Elizabeth Warren but the
point that still stands of like why are
we even talking about this guy when you
could be talking about Elizabeth why I
mean the whole thing is ridiculous this
is his position I'm gonna read you now
from the hill we have this up on screen
because this is this is misleading Pete
Budaj edge he okay this is his what he
said and these are all the candidates
positions on Medicare for all Budda
judge has said that he believes the
country should quote move in the quote
unquote direction of Medicare for all
but that private health insurance
companies shouldn't be eliminated in a
town-hall meeting earlier this month
Buddha jej endorsed what he called quote
unquote Medicare for all who want it in
which Medicare type public option be
available if he and you can invite
people to buy into it so that again
that's literally a public option or a
medicare buy-in which are definitely
better than what we have now but it's
absolutely not single-payer in fact I'll
give you this the only argument inside
people who authentically support
Medicare for all is people who want to
eliminate all private insurance
companies period because they're
fundamentally did a structural danger to
people's health and a parasitic
dangerous industry or some people who
say every single piece of essential
necessary human health care needs to be
public single-payer medicare-for-all
but you know if somebody wants to have
like a plastic surgery clinic sure
whatever they can have that as a side
thing okay that's the only argument so
what Buddha judge is putting forward
not medicare-for-all so even in the Hat
and the it's better than what we have
now but it's well short of what we need
so he's not a great candidate I'll also
say this I don't know it's telling you
even if Buddha judge takes off he's
gonna have the exact same problem Bernie
had last time which is that he has
absolutely zero support from people of
color and you don't win a Democratic
primary like that so he's kind of a
waste of time in my opinion yeah I agree
and I and I guess I'm also not gonna
like do like fake like look I think
sometimes you say provocative things or
you sharpen a disagreement to put a
perspective forward or you know create
some diamond dynamism on air there is
like an entertainment component to this
but when it comes to like look this is a
serious thing and I take things like
medicare-for-all or Iran or whatever or
the environment or policing or
gentrification I care about this stuff
like this isn't you know if I just
wanted to be sort of you know mucking
about kind of like the entertainment
component then we should be talking
about the music industry or sports
because those people are much more fun
personalities generally people who to
judge its progressive show he's not a
progressive candidate sorry you know I
don't know what to tell you
does that answer the question yeah do
you think yeah you just think that good
case has a lot more down sides than
Komal Harris I think that Buddha Jed I
think Kamala Harris has they probably
have comparable downsides she might have
equal downsides but he doesn't have her
up size right like she first of all
she's a senator so I'm not huge on
people's credentials and career but a
United States Senator from California
that represents a radical demographic
breakthrough is automatically a more see
it like on paper and look like look I I
accept Buddha judges an openly gay men
absolutely there's some significance
that we've acknowledged it but on a job
level like de Blasio is an infinitely
more serious candidate than Buddha jej
with a more progressive record mind you
he just actually announced the new thing
today about public funding for local and
ethnic owned small media in New York
which is
the translation of is gonna hire more
local journalists we're gonna get jobs
now I don't like Bill DeBlasio but he
also did universal pre-k Pete Buddha
judge has nothing nothing to talk about
that he's done in South Bend so Kamala
Harris
I will never support her because of you
know criminal justice because of her
campaign contributions all of these
things but she's a United States Senator
who could be the first an African
American you know an Indian woman
Caribbean woman elected president States
and she's a senator from the biggest
state this is a mediocre mayor from the
third largest city in Indiana why are we
talking about him I don't get it
it makes no sense I think also if you
really think people judge is gonna be as
I mean it's cool I mean interesting to
say that he has you know seen a bump in
the polls has gotten past bado
he obviously has some charisma and like
media people see a mirrored image of
themselves and so that I wouldn't just
nailed it
that's all it is if you don't I mean
like this is just gonna be like the
first stepping stone and what's going to
be like a probably long career in you
know centrist like mainstream Democratic
policy and politics with a beauty I
don't like Midwest McCrone ISM it's not
my politics I don't like I don't it's
not my politics well they see them they
saw themselves in Hillary and I see
Hillary in him right you guys seen the
meme going around what if Hillary were a
gay millennial oh god I don't want to do
that that says it all no yeah that does
say at all and none more need none more
need be said Billy anything else
anything else you you you want to say
god no I don't completely by that thing
that became a it some more downsize then
call my Harris I mean okay more
incrementally said they both have lots
of downside but why do you want us to
spend like I just look if this was and I
know sometimes people really complain
about coverage of other countries which
i think is just demented to be honest
with you but we
just capped like I could have done more
15 minutes on Lu another 15 minutes on
Lula right that guy is a that is a
history defining global there's there's
geostrategic implications with what's
happens in Brazil with the BRIC
countries and with what's happening in
South Africa what's happening in China
like you want us to spend an incredibly
limited amount of time delineating the
relative lack of Merit of two candidates
that none of us are gonna support
anyways because they represent
conservative wings of the party like I
mean I'm not trying to be impatient man
but like maybe you should start your own
podcast I think this might be the answer
for for all these you know if you're
interested in people judging why and why
he has zero percent support among South
Carolina black German president has a
podcast no I'm not all kidding us
there's not a joke yeah a podcast I'm
sure he probably is go miles robot did
your guys podcast no well I don't I
can't comment on that but I'm sure he's
covering people like boo did this is
from this is from May 13th poll Buddha
judge has zero percent support among
South Carolina black voters like it's
because black people don't like alpha D
do mean he's not a real magazine Living
Color all right Billy Billy thank you
thanks for the call hey good luck thanks
he's just not a is not a thing I'm not
talking about this guy anymore
I sorry you're calling from a five one
six area code who are you where he
calling from five one I'm Joan I'm
calling back what's the New York Health
Act please please tell us I'm the New
York like Medicare for all New York okay
and are you calling from New York okay
cool got it thank you go ahead um so
there's a public hearing on May 28th um
and basically we're turning
Sharan state senators to get like on
board with the your Celtic great where's
the hearing being held what can people
do in Albany on there's like a sign up
or get on both okay what do you know the
name of the website or any way people
could find that um it's on like the
campaign for New York Health and the
National Nurses United the National
Nurses United and there's a public
hearing okay that's great you know is
there anything else you'd like to get to
maybe why you think that we should give
beta more time than Julian Castro or
vice versa I'm just kidding like less
coverage of both of them and more covers
Aloha yay exactly hell yeah thank you
for an excellent call do you have
anything else you'd like to add I mean
literally anything else cuz this is the
I'm sorry I'm gonna go out on a limb
here I'm gonna say a practical way that
you can help single-payer happen in New
York City and then a shout out to Lula
is basically the best call on there's a
phone number to call your on you oh yeah
actually please let us do all of this
okay what's you what's the number around
two zero two eight five eight one not
seven one seven so you to let me get her
gate it yeah please repeat he is
somebody getting this down okay okay
please repeat it sorry
no go ahead okay to zero two eight five
eight one seven one seven okay and
people can find the other on the
National Nurses United on Nurses United
on this public airing on the link we've
also been yeah National Nurses United
and that's the phone number to call your
New York State Senator awesome that's
great we've also been doing work on it
in the NYC DSA so you can get involved
through that too if you like
okay well that's the wrong number okay
we're good somebody we're gonna find
that somebody will find that number no
worries please that's that's we should
be doing stuff like that we will find
the right number and put it on the blog
post and maybe read it out later but
it's a New York health act thanks so
much for the call appreciate it Joan
good luck I mean that's how you do it
how you do it
that was those quite a Pete Buddha judge
oh you know knowledge my own I just I
just don't get that one folks like I can
I can get I can put myself in a point
where I get Harris I can obviously get
Warren I can get Gabbard in some ways I
can get this is all the words I just
yeah where I get anti electoral like why
would I talk about these people unless
they're like unless in the top like yeah
like it just doesn't matter it's not
gonna win time absolutely and frankly
I'm sorry and look if we're gonna talk
about people that aren't gonna do
anything I want to talk about like Mike
Ravel like that is there I'll flip my
position because he is actually coming
out there and contributing to the public
discourse
Pete Budaj edge is in the meetings with
all of the other people that are the
problem trying to stop Bernie Sanders
he's he's the problem he's presenting
well enough to try to steal away some
young naive Bernie bros that aren't very
plugged in right that's that's where the
Medicare for everybody who wants yeah
like okay well are you gonna make it so
everybody wants it or not yeah it's just
if you are a real progressive why would
you not choose the most progressive
option hundred the only reason that I
can think of is electability and I think
we've taken those arguments apart very
thoroughly on this show quite now
speaking of which there's another thing
we don't talk about enough the European
Union is having elections today and this
is a major test for the future of the
European Union which is obviously under
tremendous stress facilitated by the
catastrophe of austerity after the
eurozone crisis and
there's real rise I mean you know the
extreme right is pulling very well we
have Yanis Farrah Fox's project The New
York Times of course calling them all
populist parties without making any
meaningful distinction as David Adler
pointed out man you said it many sides
but this is Jeremy Corbyn who still
leading the British UK Labour Party
still person who may very well become
prime minister soon and addressed the
multiple crises not just the brexit
crisis but the inequality crisis the UK
and he's telling people to get out to
vote and what these elections are gonna
be about from the Labour perspective
well read the propaganda be put out by
the far-right in this European election
where they're blaming Muslims for all
the ills of our society change that
language to the language that was used
in Germany in the 1920s and 30s where
they tried to blame Jewish people for
all the ills of society then you begin
to see where this leads to in these
European elections if they stay home and
the far-right go out to vote you're
actually giving support to the far right
because your streets take their position
in order to gain somebody being elected
it's that important
this country has become economically the
most divided country in Europe when
children go to school and have to bake
the teacher for something to eat when a
head teacher in Leeds describes a child
following another to pick up the apple
core out of the bin to eat the remains
of the Apple the first child haven't
quite finished that's in modern Britain
the fifth richest country in the world
something is very badly wrong are we to
be the generation that cascaded poverty
from one generation to the other or are
we to be the generation that challenge
the injustice the inequality I know what
it's going to be
[Applause]
Vittoria
[Applause]
we absolutely need him to become the UK
Prime Minister and we absolutely need a
good election result in the European
elections just briefly from David Adler
guy and right he's great from data Adler
writing in The New Republic well the
radical right break the EU he wrote in
the cry if the crisis of the early 1970s
created the conditions for European
integration for eight for Europe's
economic integration the crisis of 2008
did so for its political integration the
until 2008 the impressive march of
European legislation had been an elite
affair conducted almost exclusively by
high-ranking officials far from public
view politics even as Europe's economies
grew ever closer remain national a
context between domestic coalition's
left and right rich and poor north and
south the financial crisis suddenly
revealed to citizens across the
continent that the extent to which their
countries have been bound together
stripping away the language of peace and
prosperity to expose an economic
architecture that serves some against
others instigating mass political
movements to reconstruct it but of
course and that's true but the main
story out of 2008 has been Germany
demanding ruthless austerity on the
southern zone which is destroyed and
gutted Greece the pressure on even the
core on their social models and then the
growth of the far-right harnessing that
to his advantage and one other thing I
just want to keep in mind unfortunately
I didn't get it in the packet which is
my mistake but there was a tweet from
another European another British Labour
MP who just basically said he's like
look definitionally the far-right can
never be working-class because the
working-class is multi identity so they
don't represent it period we represent
all of it every single background and
that is that synthesis of a socialist
cosmopolitan position which you need to
pursue and I would add along with the
types of clarity that I do think people
like Sanders and Corbin have in their
speech it's not charisma and the sort of
like airbrushed sense but it's no
it's direct it's clear and it speaks to
people's experience so please go out and
vote for labor and other actual left
parties in these European elections it's
very important that's such a good point
I'm gonna use that next time I'm arguing
with somebody on the battle place of
ideas the right is the one doing
identity politics because they're the
ones keeping people out based on their
identity contrary to popular belief the
left does not hate white men because
white says men are part of the working
class this is another absolutely there's
another great clip of really centering
and anchoring what's been happening in
the United Kingdom and I just think this
is so important because of course brexit
is a crisis and of course brexit has
caused myriad problems and of course
brexit as a vote reflects all of these
trends it reflects the rise of the fart
right it reflects the role of even like
bright of bright bard and cambridge
analytical and all of these dangerous
extremist oligarchs like the Mercer's
and even this sort of half serious half
ridiculous role of the of Steve Bannon
and also of course just general
dissatisfaction and rage at the system
and misplaced populist anger there is al
exit position but the UK is in crisis
totally independently a brexit it's in
crisis in terms of poverty which it
started accelerating under the Cameron
Clegg Conservative Lib Dem coalition
which people should be thinking about
there because Lib Dems are starting to
tick up in the polls and you should
remember that the last time you handed
them any sort of key they helped
accelerate poverty and austerity across
the United Kingdom these crises are
multifaceted they're they're direct to
the economic policies of the Tories and
global neoliberal governments and it's
and while brexit is real it is in the
interest of a certain part of the media
class and political
to bang on that exclusively and in this
clip Laura pitcock who's a Labour MP
just does an excellent job on this BBC
morning programme of talking about how
over the past several years pre brexit
that the Tory conservative austerity
policies is gutting and destroying the
UK and that is a fundamental crisis and
you know I'm really surprised about only
Marcia de Cordova talked about this this
is a damning report from from the United
Nations and Philip Austen it talks about
14 million people living in poverty one
and a half million people destitute and
while we apply let's think Internet's to
schools because you're moving on to
something slightly different but it's
all part of the fabric of what kind of
society that has been created by this
government we have obsessed on this
program about the disintegration of the
Tory Party fine but that does nothing to
help the one and a half million people
who are destitute this talks about
homelessness increase in 7-4 this talks
about it being you know the DWP creating
work house like conditions this is in
any other circumstances Jo this would
have made a government for what kind of
terrible must be your fault as the
opposition because you've not done
enough to bring these issues to the fore
that is absolutely not true we have done
no and time was put that's your
responsibility as a as a media that is
so bad you're literally undermining her
ability to do it right now she just
complained about their party not for
grounding these issues by interrupting
her for grounding these issues but go
ahead and time again put parliamentary
questions written questions opposition
database the government do not turn not
lose Daniel majority sorry to interrupt
I'm going to have to stop we
talk about absolutely absolutely let
this BBC yeah the leftist BBC can't even
deal with a member of parliament
articulating that now the united nations
along with the united states by the way
the united nations also documented the
obscene poverty of the united states
that first world developed countries
under this model of governance have
obscene levels of poverty and that is a
crisis that predates brexit and if you
don't think that those experiences and
attitudes influence things like brexit
you're delusional
you know i think that there was some
absolutely correct and necessary
pushback and a lot of the numbers are in
that of course things like trump and
briggs and and so on are motivated by
xenophobia and racism and and and gender
politics and sexism hundred-percent but
i actually thinking especially in this
certain type of the mainstream centrist
and senator left discourse we've gotten
to the overcorrection point where people
are legitimately forgetting that there
is also there is not only just rage or
misdirected populist anger i mean some
of that is even too cerebral there are a
lot of people that are absolutely
checked out of this stuff because it's
disgusting and because it's corrupt and
because it's totally failed them and
maybe they vote maybe they don't maybe
they do you know they are totally
alienated and they're alienated because
of things like a United Nations report
sorry that's in the United Kingdom that
level of wealth generated in that
country even just historically as a
let's be honest as a global plunderer of
wealth for God's sake fourteen million
people and that's tens of millions of
people in the United States been
conservatively fifty million people
thirty million people probably at the
destitute level and over fifty percent
of the population including people who
might might you could pretend our
quote-unquote middle class who can't get
a couple hundred dollars together in
case of any sort of emergency that is
and and by the way of course those
things cut disproportionately on
Lyons absolutely but they hit everybody
if you don't think the context of that
rage is behind why people aren't just
ready to be like oh well you know I
should have vote against brexit I should
fo for Hillary Clinton yeah you're right
they've been totally decimated and
punished and you think that Joe Biden
people who judge are gonna do anything
about that
get real yeah it's not we're not ever
talking about only the folks who voted
for Trump or the folks who voted for
brexit right we're talking about all the
people who didn't come out to vote
against those things because the
alternative didn't have anything to
offer them so it's the job of leftist
politicians like Jeremy Corbyn now to
convince people that you know even
though labour hasn't done for them
for decades his program is different and
it's also and you could see another part
of that Lula and veneer you I will
reference he said when he came into
office one of the first things he did is
he took members and he said he's like
look I didn't run a socialist government
I wasn't in a position to do that
sorry right like it's just honest and
knows how understands power but he took
the most elite members of his of his
part of his cabinet he took a banker and
he took a doctor and he was like the
first thing we're doing is we're flying
to some of the most remote impoverished
parts of Brazil and he's like and he
said and I showed them he's like these
people live in a room and they take a
 where they eat and they make like
this is how they're living and if you're
gonna be part of this we're gonna
negotiate blah blah blah but the center
of this mandate is dealing with their
problems period and that's something at
the gut at the core that people respond
to and they understand and they see and
you need that and I think frankly Jeremy
Corbyn is of that you know in a very
different way with very different
background obviously but I think he just
gets it it shouldn't be that complicated
it's the kid follow I'm gonna look at
the eat the apple core that's disgusting
that's wrong it's profoundly preventable
so prevent it let's have some fun
what is this Matt well you know people
are really concerned about deep fakes
what are the details
sort of computer-generated photo shops
of real life where they can put your
face on a pornstar whatever
or like Steve Buscemi for instance as
like I forget who they photoshopped him
on top of a female jami actor actress at
an awards show and it just look like
Steve Buscemi's face on it so I see okay
well so but we're taking this fear and
we're putting it in a fun direction well
it might be fun I don't know or
terrifying we have some footage of Ben
Shapiro
basically so I think this is snapchat
right does anybody use this up I think
I'm too old to understand it yeah it's
so intuitive that I can't figure it out
but they have they have this filter
where you can make people appear as a
baby sort of live and well some yeah at
yeah still on Twitter put it over the
Ben Shapiro clip okay and I asked you a
question you failed to answer this whole
thing a waste of time if you want to
read the boating critique the book why
don't you reading critiques the book if
you want to read yeah Wow okay not
having his own cedar oh I just don't
know what Twitter stuff no it's very
annoying the whole point of the I do
think if you tried to run that your
Neil's face it would probably break your
phone right looks the same well no he
looks a little more adorable oh my god
dave rubin looks horrible so now we have
a Dave Rubin and Joe Rogan all is done
by I think a listener of the show at
Showtime 8 8 D 7 ok check it out
[Music]
[Laughter]
do something like slightly like off
about that argument between Rogan and
Reuben but now that it's two babies
talking about it it makes a lot yeah now
I get it it's so much easier to deal
with them as babies it's like that is
like the way that they think they're
just babies
IDW babies it's like Muppet Babies but
it's like I really I think the Sam Sam
Harris is like scowling mean baby
there's something we need to take really
seriously do do definitely do Sam Harris
yeah anybody tweet at me at Matlock on
Twitter if you do any of these yourself
I'd love to see them indeed no I want to
see the work I do to have you babies I
didn't have any babies you're calling
from a to 100 area code who are you
where you calling from to 100 are you
there Cody hey hey Cody what's on your
mind calling from San Antonio yes sir
what's on your mind
hi um I was on the job you kind of got a
second um let me see I was gonna say
real quick you know I appreciate it when
you said the other day in the Mexico
interview you talked about Oh salvadore
real quick mhm
I love the you know everything they did
there they kind of decriminalize gangs
made them to where you know they could
get set up as legal protections like 501
C 3s you know what kind of have here in
America I kind of I just kind of I love
that we're doing or that they're doing
uh efforts like that in other countries
compared to here where I kind of rolled
into I hope you're going to talk about
the Meek Mill thing but it kind of
really into Nipsey Hussle where you know
he got shot out there outside the store
and I believe there was a gentleman
talking to him who had just got out of
jail after like six years in he was
taking it was a gentleman that he was
actually friends with that he was
driving around for the day to like get a
new wardrobe and helping him get reset
up in life yeah that's what Nipsey
Hussle yeah absolutely
and you know when he got he got shot he
got put in the wheelchair and all that
and then afterwards they caught him on a
probation violation because you know
Nipsey Hussle despite being you know
exalted members of the community and
about to meet with the police chief the
next day was still you know on basically
a government list as a gang member you
know a known gang members so the other
guy who's on probation you know is cod
with on a technicality with a known gang
member they throw him in jail they tried
to sweep it under the rug and release
them I think kind of quickly yeah but I
was just going to say you know it's it's
a big you know that's anytime we want to
talk about you know oh there's not
systemic racism or whatever then you
have to be racism you know this is just
aesthetic you know somebody's name is on
the list and somebody else gets punished
of it any thoughts
hey this is really important and I'm
play anyway I'm planning on TMDs to do
an illicit history of the al salvador
program it's really important and it was
undermined by the u.s. but so and it
relates also to what happened in the 80s
there so I'm in preparation for that for
tea MBS patrons thanks so much for the
clause this is politics definitely more
important politics than P Budaj more
important everything so that the people
to judge exhaustion sounds yeah harumph
you're calling from a 5-1 to area code
who are you where you coming from
yep that's you what's up Austin hey josh
is going on with side of minds I wonder
a few points for one there's a this
clown world video if you've heard about
that from Bosh no I mean I don't even
know how anything you just said
okay it talks about the whole clown roll
thing and Nazi dog whistling and stuff
it's a mirror right now because the
original one got taken out okay and is
there a way maybe is there something
that's
a little more general that you could
talk about because it sounds interesting
but I just have no idea what any of that
is I mean how could I break this down um
basically you've got to watch the video
itself this is their sighting non-video
really did you want to talk about or if
you want to bug this video you could
plug it show the whole like they
basically taking Pepe and put like a
clown wig on it and you know they're
they're doing like dog whistles like you
know Hong Kong is a Heil Hitler for
example like that's the kind of things
that the video talks about okay who now
and why don't you say what the name of
the video is and people could find it if
they're interested what is it
yeah it's called Bosch clown world VA
ush it's about an hour long that's a
really good breakdown of all these
things are going online okay so it's a
critique and kind of like a user's
manual to like the new sort of Nazi
propaganda stuff all three yeah yeah I'm
sitting really like prevalent we're like
they're trying to put it out there like
it's getting real big I like YouTube and
like social media and stuff
mmm there's another one I want to bring
up just in general it's a comedy video
called how to be a YouTube skeptic anti
sjw and that one's just for fun and kind
of breaks down in like five minutes
like satirically what the video itself
is talking about right who did the vote
well you know who did the video just now
different spot it's called whatever is
the youtuber scrub and it's just a real
quick one I think you'd get a check out
of it honestly that's all I want to
bring up was thank you for today
appreciated those boats I call thanks
man
scrub old boy and Bosch I think Vash
Vash oh I misunderstood all right um
let's do some fun sound so you know
we're talking about how to reorient a
global leftward project from strikes and
social movements to
electoral strategy pulling voices from
activists from political prisoners to
opposition leaders and
you know at the very least one of Donald
Trump's very stupid sons is very scared
because what he sees in the Democratic
Party is not an epic struggle between a
venerable aging socialist who still is
100% all their first say you know as an
example of unbelievably mediocre
gentrifying mayor South Bend or a old
guy that doesn't seem like he's aging as
well with absolutely horrifying policy
record that's not what Don jr. sees with
Don jr. sees something in the Democratic
Party that is way more insidious than
that check this out on Fox and Friends
she goes on to say I pray for the
president the president tweeted he says
fact talking about Pelosi she goes on to
say I pray for the president and the
president tweeted he says thanks I know
you truly mean it
well listen I don't think the party
infanticide is exactly praying for
anyone that's not what they do we get
that they it's just a consummate attack
on American values on on democracy
honestly this election 2020 it's about
communism versus freedom you can choose
that's the great thing about our system
that's what it is they want to attack
anything that has to do with free
markets anything that has to do with
freedom they need government control
because that's all they are
I mean ISM or socialism honestly at this
point it feels like it's going beyond
right it's just the stepping stone we've
seen this system fail time and time
again no different than Joe Biden saying
government's failed you mean while he's
been doing it for 50 years
it's like socialism is gonna work this
time it's failed a thousand times it's
killed hundreds of billions of people
but this time it's gonna work
it's nonsense Wow it's amazing how the
they have none of their dad's like weird
charisma they just suck it's amazing
they have nothing and he does is it me
or is he like he's about like tear up or
something he this entire interview was
comprised when Kamala Harris published
her tract on
communist Asian theory and
anarchism you just plagiarize her dad
she went beyond it's it's beyond
communism Matt call the lavender book I
love the idea that like he's been doing
government for 50 years and he still
wants to do it therefore Joe Biden is a
communist yeah that's exactly it
it's when the government does things we
all know this and I wish that I had the
Jim by an impression ready for that
that's why I'm a communist folks I guess
we you know the way you solve that
communism commerce yeah
Oh bless me photo I'm a Maoist that you
know if you could if Joe bide is just
like what it was all a sudden him
becoming a communist that would be
awesome that would make him a very
tempting vote goes beyond communism and
socialism and yet this is just a
stepping stone to that beyond it also
know yeah it's in listening to maybe
he's checking out the the dolphin
it goes beyond listening to the anti
Fattah the beautiful thing about our
system is you can choose liberty or
communism that's what this election
comes down to the other side wants
freedom we want to take care of the
modern-day version of Cola like do you
see like a communism or socialism like
what's going to through Ducey's mind
already asked side questions like your
 is he thinking I think Dulce zalto
see he's just like it got the morning
talking points and you know there was a
minute several years ago I was anxious
when Roger finally had to leave that I
wasn't gonna know what to say
but apparently things are still just
rocking and rolling that's all good
yeah like they think that they're going
to damage Bernie Sanders by associating
him with socialism but I think they're
really doing the opposite like the more
that these kinds of popular programs
Bernie's point for like universal health
care tuition free college etc etc are
associated with socialism the more
people are gonna like socialism agree
and also I will say this I don't think
that this is necessarily gonna Paul well
I get that Fox Business is targeting
like a sort of upper middle
laughs falsely identifying with
oligarchs audience and you know like
grouchy cigar chompers and a handful of
like weird students but I think for most
people including people who might rate
themselves as being pretty conservative
I don't think that they're gonna share
Stewart Varney's opinion Stuart Varney
I don't exactly think that they're gonna
view ultra wealthy people and major
multinational corporations cheating on
their taxes in the same way he does
Jaka DeAngelis joins us with a history
lesson okay Jackie you're gonna talk to
us about when capitalism goes wrong give
me an example of capitalism examples
that people will point out and that is
what I'm doing here today right so let's
talk about big tech Facebook Amazon
Google right Facebook a lot of people
saying too much power their disruptor
but they need to be regulated there are
privacy issues what about Google being
sued for anti-competitive practices or
Amazon a lot of people will turn around
and say they don't pay their fair share
of taxes on billions of dollars in
revenue federal taxes I'm talking about
I interrupt do you mind if I do that it
shall be very very rude I know that I
don't think that's an example of
capitalism going wrong I think it's a
fine example of capitalism being
innovative dynamic and a remarkable
employer and creator of wealth you know
what I think you're saying capitalism
has gone wrong maybe a little bit too
strong but there are certainly places I
think where the system could be improved
right even the president elissa Wow
I just will say like first of all I mean
okay I mean just this the slate just
total caca SHhhh devotion to these
companies like well they hand out some
jobs so they should be able to
completely plunder all of our resources
destroy the earth and work people to
death I mean I guess it works if you're
you know this like hilarious paid
propagandist like Stuart Varney but the
other element I will say and I don't
want to overestimate the importance of
things like this but the fact that there
is a capitalism gone wrong segment on
Fox business that isn't purely
adversarial that is definitely a signal
in the
you know that's a signal from the
intellectual infrastructure of the
debate that's that's Richard Wolffe
going on there and drop in some science
they had on Richard Wolffe and Bianca
Cunningham the co-chair of NY CDSA on
Fox News MSNBC would never have those
people on that's true this is a American
Enterprise Institute chaired I believe
but it points out that actually startups
were in a historically speaking there's
not a whole lot of new startups being
formed word it's and it's mainly because
actually the data is from the Kauffman
Foundation which is good but yeah like
we do not have a dynamic time for like
startup as an innovation because
everything is owned by the same few
companies if you're a tech if you're a
tech person basically your business
model is to as Kory pine puts right in
live work work die you're basically
aiming to get your product or patent
bought by one of the big four company
you need to have the social capital
that's why he said the number one thing
towards succeeding in Silicon Valley is
going to Stanford and you could even
drop out you just need that social
network is access to venture capital
which already is a huge barrier that
eliminates most people and then the sole
goal of your startup is to sell it to
one of the big four monopoly companies
so yeah of course it's well I did just
read about a very innovative sounding
startup that basically invented payday
loans for downwardly mobile Millennials
but that sounds like a brilliant idea
that sounds like the markets solving
problems and I'm so tired of you know
Millennials complaining what could
possibly go wrong what could possibly go
right is that Millennials might be able
to get a start on their lives instead of
sitting around complaining all the time
and eating avocado toast
let's do this Steve Thrasher so that's
number 10 oh I know that guy so Steven
Thrasher oh you know he writes for The
Guardian yeah and back in the day we
both used to write for the New York Post
I did not know your person New York
Press all right Leslie I was fascinated
to find your hidden I got this history
that would be something I think I
actually interviewed him oh and the
Village Voice Stephen Thrasher was
giving a graduate commencement speech at
New York University BBS is the tool that
civil society has to resist the Israeli
occupation to resist the siege on Gaza
this requires nothing you know there's
nothing complicated about this you can
loathe Tomas was actually in fact I do
many respects you can condemn any action
that targets civilians from any
political faction as I think we should
you can you know question Abu Mazen and
in fact how complacent the West Bank
political leadership has been in
acquiescing to us and Israeli demands
but what you cannot do no matter what
your background or where you're coming
from is is deny that this is an
occupation and deny that it's an
apartheid and deny that there is a
system in place where as an example the
West Bank there's roads for Jewish
people and roads for Palestinians does
that remind you of a certain part of
American history it should be no
surprise to anybody then in the 1980s
the Israeli government and the apartheid
government of South Africa developed
such close relations that Israel was
actually helping the then South African
government develop a secret nuclear
weapons program which was shut down when
the ANC took power so this is Stephen
Thrasher still in the context of today's
world taking a brave stance on behalf of
all humanity in this case the
Palestinians by speaking in support of
boycott divestment sanctions at NYU and
I am so proud
so proud of NYU's chapters of students
for justice and Palestine and Jewish
voices for peace and of jisang and of
the NYU student government and of my
colleagues in the department of social
and cultural analysis for supporting the
boycott divestment and sanctions
movement against the apartheid state
government in Israel because this is
what we are called to do this is our NYU
legacy that we are connected and radical
love and we have a duty and a privilege
in this position to protect not the most
popular amongst us but the most
vulnerable amongst us on every campus
where we serve in every community where
we live in every place that we work this
is our duty good for him
well done Ben Shapiro's doctor's wife
Glenn Greenwald has an awesome interview
at Lula and the intercept podcast oh
yeah of course everybody must watch that
we covered that before hey Michael did
you see professor wolf go on Fox
Business capitalism versus socialism
Town Hall I didn't I've heard it was
very good it was pretty good yeah there
was no real like gotcha moment but I
think it definitely hopefully got some
people to think about things in a
slightly new way and I would just
subscribe to economic update subscribe
to Richard Wolf's YouTube channel he's
awesome he's a gem shine video say join
the DSA human brain Bluetooth headsets
are too cheap now got a set for twenty
dollars and no need to worry about
dongles or losing sound in one ear bud
as the wires fritz out over time
Attorney General want to remind
everybody that these centrists are not
on Hillary's level of spewing
counterintuitive nonsense persuasively
she would have nailed Biden's what
happened to making employers pay for
insurance line she would have crushed
Booker's Bernie can work I don't even
want to repeat that one yeah I don't
know but I also don't really I mean I'm
I'm sorry i'm not gonna retro actively
pretend that there's a plan well and
they're all well as a performer again i
think we need to be real about our
opposition and we should and Biden will
see but as a political performer Joe
Biden is better than Hillary Clinton
Camilla Harris is better than Hillary
Clinton
so let's you know be real about what
we're up against here
Kentucky Fried comrad recorded a joint
episode with ghetto news network
yesterday
morning about how socialism is a lot
simpler than we make it most of our work
really good boiled down and talking to
people care about their jobs I agree
with that brother from Brooklyn heard
Shapiro talking about homelessness
crisis and dem cities on his show
what are progressive policies that you
think would curtail homelessness
universal public housing and rent
control will be my top two leftist
European the EU election has officially
started today in most countries vote on
Sunday but the UK votes today I voted
absentee for the confederal group of
European United Left Nordic and Green
left the EU election okay I don't know
did you vote I would assume that that
includes the Labour candidate but I'm
not sure Colin from CT please clip the
first call what was the first call PD
poindexter several months ago I heard
Seymour Hersh to interview to his
wide-ranging but one thing he said that
he believed actually he stated this as a
fact is that Moeller had Trump's taxes
in there there's nothing there it seems
crazy given how hard the Republicans are
fighting the exposure of his taxes what
are your thoughts could all little a tax
be well-organized gaslighting effort
knowing what knowing that the taxes will
come out I mean I don't I think they
would fight it regardless I know I mean
I think that those taxes will show what
we already know there was a New York
Times report I mean I don't I but maybe
in the sense of do his taxes conceal
some like hidden like is there gonna be
a wire transfer in his taxes from a bank
and you know the Kremlin no I mean I but
I don't I didn't watch the the the
interview I think in some ways the
Republicans just fight transparency on
principle and that was a and I think all
executives do that let's time what's I
Hersh yes Cyrus talks a lot say also in
addition he talks great that's also true
Brock from VA already in the armed mor
member love your news aggregation comedy
can you guys go around the go around the
room and name one or two of your
favorite outlets that would be a good
buyer subscription to help support good
journalism well dude you didn't include
literary hangovers or patron that comes
with literary patreon.com slash t MBS
patreon.com slash the anti fodder I mean
just
you know the New York Times don't to the
nearest oco-2 Washington Post local is
good subscribe to some Quarterly's or
something just small independent
magazines those are pretty good and you
know jackman become a member ID
subscribe the jacket I'm gonna throw out
a plug for means TV what they're
building is very ambitious and they're
planning to do some actual journalism in
addition to entertainment and it's all
all leftists by leftists for leftists
leftist for that this all right and the
left curious of course you're calling
from an eight one eight area code who
are you where you calling from
a Mike a long time no fee oh yeah they
know from Jamaica I'm so used to talking
with you in a PTA MBS postgame how are
you what's on your end oh I'm glad
that's hard to get it nowadays that
means you're reaching more people so
more people try to contact good thing
good talk to you but what are you
thinking on my mind with the YouTube
stuff you were talking about earlier I
don't know if it's just eight but I'm
think I'm seeing a slight decline when
it comes right wing youtubers in the
sense that they're pouring they keep
talking about the same yep well you
list all the left youtubers they're
gaining more traction so right I think I
might be on that horizon so that's a
little bit of good news you know um I
want to ask all of you that are there
when we're talking about feeling to the
top
we're with the there's tons of load some
political figures out there so we should
get where you think like people like
Trump would be if they were poor and
have basically the same personality
Trump if Donald Trump was poor he would
be in jail or not Donald Trump yeah I
mean that's a Donald Trump was upper
middle class each sexual assault that he
committed he would definitely have gone
to jail for we're just even like yes
passing a bad check
I mean this guy could you literally I
mean yes
I don't know we're in Iran maybe Narenda
Modi might be like passing out cold
literature or something I don't know
and bolson ro would be hopefully being
volson ro would be probably well
hopefully under investigation for
something he did in the military thanks
for the quality appreciate it
final call of the day you're calling
from a 401 nine area code who are you
where he calling from and for a while
I've been thinking about starting a
public-access radio show and that really
solidified when sam went on chapo and
drop octave a lot about his experience
with air has obviously whatever I do is
going to be a lot smaller and more
limited in scale than that but I just
sort of you've got a sort of industry in
rockin with TM BSN the majority airport
now wondering what like tips or advice
to you wouldn't have for something like
that well you're doing community radio
so actually I have like no notes very
let me I've gone on to rest or a but I
don't have any talk radio background
yeah Colin when Sam's on but also just
come up with a clear concept of what you
want to talk about I think the generic
advice that that Matt always says which
I agree with is that particularly
something like that is you know if you
focus on your locality in a way I think
there's a lot of people that like to
understand what's happening a place like
Ohio from a left on the ground
perspective I think that would be really
effective thanks for calling the fact in
Ohio they have street fight radio yeah
and it's really really good to chill
anarchist dad's talking about the things
that are wrong with the world and they
have people call in and talk about their
jobs and it's really fascinating to
listen to and I think helps build some
sort of class consciousness and
solidarity so that's like one really
cool thing about this show too is we get
to hear from people street fights yeah I
would check out yeah reach I would
out to the street fight radio guys
that's a good idea cuz they're right
there in Columbus yeah exploit existing
networks folks yeah
Siddartha pseudo swayed artha do you
guys think it's fair to say that
neoliberal ideology and filtrated our
entire government during the 80s and 90s
yes sab Gorkhas business card this
weekend this weekend I overheard a
co-worker talking about how he was okay
doing work off the clock have asked you
what's the best way to explain to him
that's a horrible mindset to have I
honestly would not even begin to
understand how to approach dealing with
something like what kind of work is it
that's wild um tell him to stop being
such a wage cook I don't think that that
is gonna resonate with somebody that
would have a position like that to begin
with knew he's working for sub Gorka
yeah it was a no that was his name
[Music]
did any comma lares actually have
anybody arrested for the truancy thing
yes there was a report in The Huffington
Post read about it it was a woman with a
medical condition in fact pajama boy hey
gang so I did a listen to T MBS from two
nights ago Michael did a nice run down
on the problematic issues with Warren I
appreciated it because I didn't know a
lot of these things but I take issue
with some of the policy wonk argument I
don't see enough policy plans from
Bernie I'd like to know more about his
plans and to implement what he wants and
am I just not seeing it well I would
just say first of all yes you're not
seeing it because he is putting I mean
as an example the education plan he just
put out with a complete ban on private
charter schools he adopted and built on
a minimum salary of sixty-five thousand
dollars a year for from t4 teachers was
actually a policy plan formulated by
teachers and with huge influence by the
n-double-a-cp that's exceptional in
terms of grassroots connection but the
argument that I was making on the show
and I will continue to make is that
there's fetishization with Wong Korean
policy is another symbolic signifier
that is important to a certain part of
the media class so putting out great
policy is great it's also without power
and without strategy also makes no
difference a lot of really smart
well-intentioned people can sit in rooms
and write a lot of really nice ideas and
those things will not be achieved
because they go up against incumbent
interests in this country and a way that
Bernie Sanders has always clearly stood
out to me and I I think I hopefully I do
a good job of articulating this but I
would really recommend people read all
of Meghan day's pieces in the Jacobin is
that Bernie Sanders absolutely
understands that the only way of even
having a prayer of passing even a more
modest agenda to get out of the
predicament we're in is to have a
absolutely activated and very serious
polity and that's why unlike any other
candidate as an example he uses his
email list to tell people to go to
protests uses email lists to tell people
about strikes he uses his email list to
get money to grassroots abortion
organizations and also at all of his
rallies there's always in addition to
politicians and well-known surrogates
and so on
there's always local activists if you
went to the Chicago rally I watched it
on YouTube there's local young anti
gentrification activists he's
highlighting and centering that in a way
that not only is distinct as a candidate
but just blows past frankly politic
policy stuff is great and policy stuff
is important but policy flows from power
you can't reverse engineer it so I I
want to hear what somebody's plan and
strategy is for how they actually hope
to contextually achieve these things and
when Warren says the things he says
about how about Medicare for all that
concerns me because that is indicative
actually of a mindset of inside
negotiation which of course is part of
the process but it's gonna be secondary
to having a totally activated politics
which is the only prayer of even a
Warren agenda getting passed so that's
my my position on that what is this well
worth regards to that I I agree
generally I'm not super interested in
policy I love that Warren's doing yeah
no it's great but
like fetishized well I like the anti
being raised look more than I like the
actual poly-r about the actual policies
being that's impulsive policies but
Rebecca Libra has this thing and Mother
Jones that points out that forget how
many trillions of dollars a presidential
candidates have in their climate plans
which will be in the hands of Congress
anyway let's hear about their plans for
the powerful executive branch and I like
that like Julianne brave noise cat
points out that you can ban drilling on
public lands there's a whole lot you can
do like let's hear about those plans you
can get more specific about how we're
actually gonna use the executive branch
to do it I think if you want it if you
want to if you want to be one of those
people who are waiting for more
specifics and policy then that's the
area more than you know bills that are
not we don't even know what the makeup
of Congress like sorry you're not I just
it's so it's such a it's such a it's the
same way and it's better it's better but
at the part of the fixation on Budaj
edges people who identify with oh my god
he went to Harvard he speaks in the
region and there is this similar like
plans I'm sorry
none of us are gonna be involved in
those plans we are gonna be involved in
politics how you harness politics is a
much more messy on-the-ground experience
and reality and every single rally
Bernie basically says I'm gonna try to
take back all the that's been
stolen from you and redistribute it and
if you want that to happen you better
damn well help me make that happen and
again if you don't think that Bernie
isn't gonna have a serious policy shop
and isn't really committed to the
specifics of getting the best policy for
these things right first of all I don't
buy it period just based off a record
and secondly Warren's been putting out
great great ideas Bernie has also been
in Congress literally passing the first
use of Congress trying to override the
President on foreign policy since the
seventies Yemen I mean the guy is
legislating so I just don't I just don't
buy it well it speaks to a historical
myopia about how change actually happens
I think I mean you want to look at how
we got the New Deal
we had never mind like a grassroots
electoral organization like Justice
Democrats like there were communists and
artists on the ground everywhere going
on strike radical trade unionists just
agitating for radical change and then we
got some form of social democracy so
it's gonna take a lot to get that a
similar kind of program pass but um like
Bernie is the one who understands that
out of all of them 100% without a doubt
all right the final I am of the day goes
to Amblin ara I don't know why the BBC
seems to be favoring Nigel Farage type
take over with the UK basically pursuing
a trumpet collapse but they do I can't
imagine how they think this would work
out well for them
well you look to Brazil and the United
States for that matter about how
delusional people in those positions can
be we're back here tomorrow with many
Hasan thanks everybody
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
the choice is made
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
