CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Tuesday
April 16th 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning amar
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
John Patrick Leary on key words the new
language of capitalism also on the
program today Notre Dame Cathedral
suffers a colossal damage in a fire and
[Applause]
Trump administration Interior Secretary
David Bernhardt sets a new land speed
record for the start of an ethics
investigation launch records all over
the place just four days after his
confirmation meanwhile the u.s. Deportes
a spouse of a US soldier killed in
Afghanistan and then reels it back in
sixty of America's biggest companies
paid no federal income tax and new
documents show Facebook
surprise-surprise lied about protecting
user data privacy meanwhile Bernie drank
Fox's milkshake last night and dropped
his taxes it's pretty good actually
pretty good House Democrats subpoenaed
Deutsche Bank for a Trump records and a
California city does a ubi experiment
lastly bill weld makes it official he
will face Trump who has over eighty-five
percent Republican approval good for
bill weld though yes props the bill weld
all this and more on today's program yes
ladies and gentlemen thank you for
joining us we have a lot to get to today
crazy day as you know the Muller report
is coming out in a couple of days and we
don't know exactly when that's gonna
happen my guess would be just the moment
we go on vacation would be when I would
predict that would happen and in which
case I imagine there will be major
revelations and a YouTube live maybe
what's that you're gonna street yeah
yeah I would definitely do that if I can
get the kids to be quiet
five seconds meanwhile a couple of I
email we got one is from listener Steven
this was four days ago so just just a
reminder for tomorrow it would be cool
if you guys could do a brief segment on
the Alberta election in Canada after 42
years of a consecutive Conservative
government a modest center-left party
was elected new democratic party and has
been attempting to bring our
oil-producing province with politics
akin to Texas into line
surpassing other Canadian provinces and
social and economic policies the leader
of the UCP the United Conservative Party
Jason Kenney is extremely dangerous in
numerous candidates in his party have
had to drop out due to racist misogynist
and homophobic views so that election is
tomorrow and that probably would the
extent of our coverage of that Alberta
election but I just wanted to mention we
will be doing something on the big
Winnipeg strike right on the day that
that happens in May or the anniversary I
guess we're gonna we're gonna be we're
gonna be doing it within the hour we're
really taught where we are so here with
the Winnipeg general strike that we're
gonna be almost recreating the whole
thing
that's oh canada but there you go also
this from listener Esme hey majority
report team just found out your your
shows a couple of weeks ago and so
grateful for all your work that it's the
first time our household donated cash to
political news well thank you looking
forward to topping our contribution when
we can because what you're doing is so
valuable I'm an Australian living in
Rhode Island hmm moved from Melbourne
two years ago and it's been tough Sam is
from Worcester Mass right what advice to
Sam or anyone else on team have for
enduring challenging New York New
England centrism and still also and also
still have friends and family well the
problem is is Rhode Island really that
is really the problem I would tell you
head on 146 go north to Worcester
Worcester has one of the most
progressive congressman in the country
Jim McGovern and yeah I don't know it's
Rhode Island is the problem is there I
can't think of any progressive leaders
in Rhode Island right now no no I mean I
guess the senators are decent Sheldon
Whitehouse decent Reid liberal but no no
they're not great maybe try heading up
Providence or Narragansett there's a
good little artsy community there I
don't know about the actual government
in power but there's some cool people
but it was people there's good school
people in in Providence but in certain
graduate I'm big fan of Melbourne
I saw Footscray play there Aussie Rules
Football I guess
now 27 years ago all those guys were
probably playing on that team have all
probably retired and passed away so that
was fun but thank you for the email I
love I love Melbourne love to hear from
Australian people and on with the show
last night Bernice and
had a town hall on Fox and we're gonna
talk more about this later in the
program but I think that Sanders managed
to do two things he managed to both and
to do this almost simultaneously and
we're gonna play some other clips that
will I think really really exemplify
this and I think both these things were
were equally important not necessarily
for his campaign but for just the the
the the politics of our country one was
he was able to pitch very effectively to
an audience that seemed to be sort of
surprisingly excited not just open but
excited about these policies and to
simultaneously undercut the credibility
of Fox and this was you know and this is
no small feat he was not kissing their
their their patoot s--
as it were but he also was was just
making his pitch I mean I think that's
probably Bernie strength is that that he
seems to do that no matter where he is
frankly but and you know some people
think that's you know he's sort of to
mono maniacal in that respect but quite
effective in this context here is
basically Bret Baier I don't know what
to do like this was this did not go the
way that I think Fox News plant
here's bret baier doing the old show of
hands let's try and intimidate Bernie
and then all of a sudden like if Bret
Baier was a turtle let's put it this way
you wouldn't see much of his face after
this a lot of Democrats it has
Republicans independents Democratic
socialists conservatives I want to ask
the audience a question if you can raise
your hand here a show of hands of how
many people get their insurance from
work private
pterence right now how many get it from
private insurance now almost okay who
knows how many are willing to transition
to what the senator says a
government-run system Wow there's 180
million people on private let's see what
that they would be lhasa for one second
transition now I like there he's just
like I'm not going to acknowledge what
the results of that were I'm just going
to I mean that is pretty that honestly
like that moment where he just like
immediately pivot still like that didn't
work well let's go to the other damning
statistic we have that's very
intimidating I was just trying to
illustrate what a non-scientific sample
looks like right exactly this of course
despite my setup like that this was a
balanced crew of everybody it seemed to
be one for one everybody wanted to get
rid of their their insurance all right
so pick it up from here and and they
were smart they did not cut on on Brett
to his the look on his that must have
been on his face when he was like age
cuz you know if it was like now you've
got a tough sell senator Sanders you see
the whole room better convince these
people looking a little rough yeah just
another statistic I can throw in there
but go ahead there's a 180 million
people on private it let's see what that
they wouldn't be lost right or to your
system just gonna face blood good thing
I know it's what the right wing throws
out so let me answer it alright millions
of people every single year lose their
health insurance you know why they get
fired or they quit and they go to
another employer I was the mayor for
eight years and what I did what probably
every mayor in America does is you look
around for the best insurance program
most cost-effective ensure you change
insurance every year millions of workers
wake up in the morning and their
employer has changed the insurance that
they have maybe they like the doctor is
that people are nodding their heads okay
so this is not new every year
now what we're talking about actually is
stability that when you have a Medicare
for it is there now
I'm not even gonna just mentioned that
you got face Bret right if you could at
least give me the courtesy of debunking
your tired exhausted stupid talking
point I mean it's sort of really sort of
stunning that like you could not have
you really get the sense that Bret Baier
and we're gonna play more of these clips
later in the road cuz they get I think
like Brett and Martha and I can't
remember her last name column get
increasingly more frustrated I think as
the evening is going on because it is
not going well for them and there's no
way when they head back to the
commissary today and they're in line at
lunch and everybody gathers around the
commissary at Fox they're gonna the
people are gonna be giving them sideways
look what's funny what I found about job
Martha what a filthy funny though that
particular dynamic is that it was more
frustrating I think for Brett because he
still needs to maintain the semblance of
being a straight reporter and Martha was
more willing to just be like oh this
isn't going bad so let me like turn the
guns on write it because she's a little
bit more on the overt opinion side I
mean they both failed but I think
Brett's tension of like is absolutely
not going the way it's supposed to but
I'm supposed to also pretend right I
don't he with it I don't care right that
little laugh he did after brains like I
know that's what the right wing's throw
noise like you know he wants a Bic oh
you sly I put the chances and it's now
12:15 p.m. Eastern I would put the
chances of of Hannity going up to Bret
Baier right now in line at the
commissary and like just going looking
at him and just taking is like you know
whatever he's got the rice pudding he
probably pulled from the commissary
thing and he's just taken it he's just
going good job so mad and here's Donald
Trump in like this is one of those
things where you just like oh the tweet
itself is not that crazy and then you
realize like it's insane that the
President of the United States is
writing this and he writes so weird to
watch crazy Bernie on Fox News not
surprisingly Bret Baier and the audience
in quotes was so smiley and nice very
strange and now we have Donna Brazile
question mark
so it makes sense like I can't handle it
I've get likes my show and I'm used to
not watching and Fox and C and I mean it
does he's he's I can't tell if he is
tweeting this as an audience member or
if when he says and now we have Donna
Brazile if he's talking about like as a
member of the administration of Fox I
feel like it's viewer I see himself as
like a I think he sees himself as a
viewer who gets to have input I'm a man
of the people just the regular Fox News
viewer man pulling rank I didn't watch
it but Donna Brazile did not make an
appearance on the program last night no
no this is a completely this is this is
him trying to this this I mean if you
really start to think about it this is
and I don't know if he does this
consciously or not but this really I
what he is surprising what he's
surprised about and he's saying not
surprisingly but what he's surprised
about is how well Bernie did here
because the implication is that the Fox
Fox is getting soft right that they were
too smiley and nice Bret Baier was and
the audience was too nice the referee
let him get away with everything the
fact that it the fact that they had now
have Donna Brazile on their shows how
soft Fox is getting and that they're
actually what he's basically saying is
Fox is rigged and is is totally rigged
they could have called him a crazy Jew
 Bernie I'm gonna watch MSNBC now
his beard
I'm gonna watch MSNBC now they're the
only ones that treat Bernie fair hey
folks when I go on on television you
know the one thing that you can count on
and that is that I have shaved with my
Harry's razor why is that well for me I
think people know why I love Harry's
from a utilitarian perspective the
narrowness of the blade has been a big
upshot for me someone friends with the
most most recently just recognize that I
have asymmetry in my nostrils which
I try and keep on the down-low but I do
know someone who was looking up my nose
and and and so they now appreciate the
value that I place on the narrowness of
the of the harry's razor head the other
thing that I like too is the is the
handle it's just it's very sort of like
classic lines and not you know I don't
feel like I'm out Buffy like Rambo with
the the ones that you get you know I'm
talking about like the 14 different
tread yeah yeah yeah the really really
elaborate ones and Harry's founders were
we're tired of paying up for razors that
were overpriced and over designed they
knew a great shave didn't come from
gimmicks like vibrating heads or flex
balls or handles that look like
spaceships that's my point so they
bought world-class Blade Factory in
Germany started making razors that
combine simple clean design with quality
durable razors at a fair price a Harry's
replacement cartridge cost two bucks and
all Harry's blades come with a hundred
percent guarantee they've gotten over
twenty thousand five star reviews on
Trustpilot and Google now you can get a
thirteen dollar value trial set that
comes with everything you need for a
close comfortable shave the weighted
ergonomic handle I spoke of earlier the
five blade razor with a lubricating
strip and trimmer blade which we call
the Sam blade around here we don't
really rich lathering shave gel a travel
blade cover listeners my show can redeem
their trial set at harrys.com slash
majority report make sure you go to
harrys.com slash majority report to
redeem your offer and let them know I
sent you to help support the show
speaking of supporting the show one of
today's sponsors is Skillshare anyone
who goes to sk l dot s H slash majority
or report to is going to get two whole
months free in use of scale shares
entire library of super quality online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online community that offers
courses on everything from design to vid
hagh Rafi business technology cooking
meditation everything in between there
are skills scarce skill Skillshare
courses for everyone you'll have no
problem finding courses they'll be
useful for you both in your personal
life and in your professional life
whether you want to sharpen your skills
with something you already love doing or
whether you want to learn how to do
something totally new Skillshare has you
covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it you
can check out going freelance building
and branding your own success or how to
do presentations how to use um you know
Photoshop or or others I mean just goes
on and on and on let me let's see where
we get for writing here
storytelling character conflict context
and craft writing characters creative
personal writing there's tons of this
stuff you can get two entire months free
you'll have access to every single
course offered by skill share by going
to SK l dot s H slash majority report to
just think of everything you're gonna
have at your fingertips for two whole
months free again that's sk l dot s H
slash majority report - I put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on YouTube and of course we put all the
links in our podcast audio description
as well I'm gonna take a quick break
when we come back I'm gonna be talking
to John Patrick Leary on key words the
new language of capitalism
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report just a reminder you can support
the show by going to join the majority
report dot-com you get the free show and
then we give you extra content every day
on the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
to the program English professor at
Wayne State University and author of
keywords the new language of capitalism
John Patrick Leary John welcome to the
program thanks so this is I really
enjoyed this book and these type of
approaches to sort of making us more
conscious of the way that we we speak
and what the implications are but before
we sort of dig into some of the the
words here and that you that you examine
in the book let's just start with the
way that you define because you these
are words that have been I guess I'm not
sure how to phrase this brought to us by
late stage capitalism but what does what
does late stage capitalism mean to you
and you're starting with the tough ones
right off the bat well you know
basically it means the latest form of
capitalism I think that's the best and
most concise definition that I know
which is to say on the one hand it is
characterized by a lot of by a
particular vocabulary of rebellion of
artistry of individualism of individual
possibilities through the market and so
that is what gives rise to something as
peculiar in historical context is like
the creative creative capitalism or the
creative class but on the other hand it
also implies that this is merely a new
twist on something very old and so
that's one of the points that I like to
really emphasize about this book is that
you know there are current
economic vocabulary is really big on
constantly celebrating novelty you know
constantly setting innovation and so
forth and the point is that a lot of our
a lot of what passes for novelty in our
in our world is is just slightly
different forms of old forms of
exploitation and so it's the latest form
of something old it's a new twist on an
old story you know it's interesting you
say that because I think you know Corey
Rob and Robin's definition of
reactionary ISM is it's very similar to
that the idea that you're so repackaging
the and maybe not so much in terms of
capitalism per se but you're repackaging
the sort of pre-existing in the longtime
existing power dynamics and making them
cool and seem rebellious in some fashion
yeah and a lot of the story I'm kind of
telling in some of these words and
innovation is is a pretty good example
they come about sometimes in deliberate
ways sometimes sort of organically but
as as ways of responding to old
critiques of capitalism so in the you
know in the depression in nineteen
thirties and forties the the and then in
the post-war period the idea of big
business was something really toxic and
American culture big business was seen
as great suspicion and the life of a
businessman was seen as a kind of life
of conformity you know the this is like
the organisation man idea and so
innovation becomes a way of sort of
celebrating the idea of personal
liberation and personal fulfillment
through trudging off to the office every
day and that's a kind of phenomenon that
I think is that was very much with us
now but its origins are you know about
half a century ago is there I mean is
that and you know I want to get into
some of the specifics of the words again
but but but staying sort of like just a
little bit
10,000 feet is there is there a can you
organize the development of these words
or I guess like the not so much the
development but the adoption and the the
frequency of use of these words are
there different ways are there you know
main categories of the ways in which
these happen are they for instance are
they to serve in the same function that
you were just talking about like I mean
for instance you know I just got back
from a trial lawyer conference and they
don't necessarily call themselves trial
lawyers anymore because trial lawyers
got maligned so they refer to themselves
sometimes as plaintiff attorneys and and
so we see this you know development
happen when like you say there's a
perspective that you know being been
part of the big businesses is seen as
being ossified so we come up with a word
innovation is that is that the way that
these words enter into the lexicon or is
it are there other roots as well well
I'd say that's most of the function in
kind of that way they don't always have
a particular author or you know there's
not necessarily one guy who thought of
saying innovation all the time you know
but they do function in a way - as
substitutes or as evasions for what
we're really talking about so that one
of the best examples is human capital
which I talked about in the book which
is really just a way of saying labor
without talking about without using that
dirty word if you're an economist and so
it's a way of talking about something
that might be characterized by you know
exploitation or mistreatment as being a
resource and not just as a resource but
it was a resource for your own self you
know your your work is your own human
capital you're not beholding to a boss
in that kind of imagination so it's a
way of talking about work without
talking about inequality or exploitation
at work
all right so let's talk about some of
the sort of the categories here of that
that you you break it down to one is
late capitalist body talk which I should
just tell people that the the contents
like the I guess the chapters of your
book I guess are it's really just a list
of you know you have a list of I guess
about thirty some-odd words that you
develop the the thesis around so let's
let's just talk about late capitalist
body talk what's a good example of a of
body talk in that respect well
nimble is a good one so nimble is a word
that is used in mainstream journalism
and in financial business journalism to
describe corporations that have shed
labor costs basically or other operating
loss so a nimble corporation is one that
can move very quickly and can leap and
is spry and mobile and it calls to mind
you know the weird I think most people's
Association least English speakers
Association who are nimble is you know
the nursery rhyme check jumping you know
jacked up jumping over the candlestick
and it's a word that Jack be nimble Jack
be quick right okay exactly yeah and so
it's a word that used to if you search
it in you know newspaper archives it
used to only up here in the sports
section because it would describe like a
nimble shortstop or something and then
it became a word used to describe
corporations which is now like mostly
where you find it in in journalism and
so so again like human capital is a way
of talking about work without talking
about workers basically and then
flexible is another is another one and
unlike nimble flexible is used to
describe workers but again it's used to
describe
increasingly onerous work schedules in
which you have to be ready to appear at
your job at the mall or at Starbucks or
something at a different time every day
you know you
a flexible schedule but instead of
describing that is extremely difficult
and painful and disruptive to your daily
life into your family life and so forth
it frames it as if it's like a positive
like a positive yes positive attribute
so I mean if you could say like oh yeah
no I've got an inconsistent schedule as
opposed to I'm on a flexible schedule
that has very different connotations as
to who is bearing the burden of that
that schedule right I mean it's just
sort of the idea is that ya know I have
my schedules flexible but in fact it's
not the schedule that is at that is
actually flexible it is the human who is
being asked to be flexible yeah people
being bent and contorted in all kinds of
different or painful directions but you
know we usually don't get that for when
we're talking about a flexible worker or
a flexible work schedule and and and and
to be clear like this is language that
just sort of sticks right like people
find I mean I people find that as they
you know someone just threw this out in
what in one conversation it seems like
or maybe somebody wrote a an HR you know
newsletter saying we're gonna ask for
more you know for a flexible schedule
and then everybody just found that a
comfortable way to refer to what they
were asking of their workers right I
mean is that basically the way this
stuff develops yeah I think so I mean
it's hard to trace the way some of these
terms develop and I mean I think that's
what's sort of interesting about them
and that's what makes them key words is
that they are they kind of diagnose a
collective or conventional wisdom or
conventional stupidity as the case often
is but it's a it's not something that
like a and evil genius developed or
invented at some particular moment it's
it's something that expresses you know
the way that we talk about our lives
under
you know wait stage capitalism and so
it's it's a good way I think of
diagnosing some of the the ways of
thinking that it become conventional um
let's talk about the the moral
vocabulary of late capitalism what is
give us it a couple examples of those
well innovation is one I mean innovation
as a as a kind of strange in long
history as a religious word for the
longest time it was a term that was
synonymous with a with false prophecies
so to innovate was to was to improvise
upon the word the Word of God in a way
that a human wasn't allowed to do so if
you're an innovator you were a false
prophet or you were a conspirator or a
heretic or something and then it became
kind of secularized in the 20th century
and became you know applied in the way
we kind of recognize it now towards some
particular task you know a new like a
new way of manufacturing a thing or
distributing a thing but it still
retains that era of prophecy I think
when we hear it used to describe you
know great innovators or innovations in
some particular firm because it's all
its we rarely used to describe any
actual recognizable object or thing it's
just a sort of a spirit that a
successful person has within them so
it's kind of a moral quality and passion
is another one that connotes some kind
of innate moral capacity that's supposed
to serve you well at work but often is
you know kind of like flexible is a way
of making you're poorly compensated
devotion seemed like a seemed like your
life's work rather than something you
should be paid for so we always hear
teachers describe as passionate or you
know people who take care of the elderly
at home or passionate about their work
and we call we passion is sort of a
substitute for a living wage right
it's passionate when we say they're
passionate we're saying they're
underpaid and they don't seem to mind
yeah they would like a vacation but
instead we gave them the opportunity to
do something that they seemed to like so
that's basically right I mean that seems
what it like that's that seems to be
what that that word means an innovators
to me seems to me to be also someone
who's like a rebel right which also
implies that on some level that like
they have a certain level of freedom
that exists there right that they're not
bound by by by sort of I guess they're
not encumbered by by what they're doing
as opposed to I guess I mean I'm trying
to think of like the the they're rebels
as opposed to people who have just found
a way to sort of like pay people less in
some way I don't know I think of like
like all the the gig economy stuff is
sort of like it's a it's it's new
innovation we found how to get human
beings to function with just a lot less
calories there's something like that yes
you know people figured out how to do
that cause the economy to crash in
2007-2008 those that was some innovative
work to but because we also describe
innovation only ever only in positive
terms you know it's only it's it's an
honest with improvement we that's
another factor in its peculiar moral
sense but the point of rebellion is is
is a good one and it's part of
innovations earlier history because it
you know as originally to be an
innovator was to be a rebel and you know
in a in a bad sense but now it's the
opposite and creativity is another word
that has that same that same kind of
history so you know where once we might
have thought of creative types as being
unorthodox or you know they sleep late
they don't like to go to work now those
kinds of attributes of idiosyncrasy or
peculiarities or rebellious nests are
kind of harvested by by by corporations
and business schools as being like the
stuff of real successful people right
and there's another aspect of the type
of words like sort of where the where
the where there's there's a co-opting of
of sort of I don't want to say
counterculture but non-business cultures
right like with it like we give us an
example of that dynamic
so besides creativity the the artisan is
a good example
you know the artisan is somebody who
pursues some kind of craft passionately
to use another word and is interested in
doing so because of some devotion you
know not to the profit motive
necessarily but to you know like an
intimate attachment to to carpentry or
to food or to something or to some other
kinds of particular kind of object or
business and so the originally you know
the artisan was somebody who was sort of
displaced by capitalist production you
know the artisan who made a pretty
they're kind of chair was put out of
work and had to go work in the assembly
line making making cheaper chairs but
the way that the word has gotten kind of
absorbed into you know like high-end
consumer culture now is the way of
imbuing you know manufactured goods and
manufactured food products with some of
this era authenticity that is thought
you know has long been thought to be
lost in in mass production so that's
another example of the the artistry is
that like like craft beer and just sort
of I guess I mean and to some extent I
would say a lot of I mean I noticed in
the context of our advertisers on these
programs that we we do
here that there's that quality of like
we're gonna let people know you know the
we're gonna put the founders sort of
forward and and make it just seem like
it's you know it's two guys and maybe it
starts with just two guys her to two
girls but it there's that whole quality
of like we're just regular people yeah
and it usually is I think two guys in
those cases I mean maker is a kind of a
similar word to artisan but all these
kind of words that describe some kind of
tinkering and and careful devotion to
the craft are all very gendered words so
you know a maker is somebody who like
knows how to do stuff with 3d printers
and high-tech high-technology kind of
stuff and that's usually you know that's
like usually pictured as a male figure
and it's valued know and so those
artisan but crafting you know is kind of
similar to those words but it's never
had this sort of prestige of of making
or artisanship because crafting is
something women do you know and it's
something that you do at home it's not
something that is celebrated as in the
in the broader economy you also have a
category of words that pushes the notion
of new technologies what words would
those be so data smart solution
solutions innovation again I mean
innovation is kind of in all of the
categories it's kind of the word of the
of the book but smart is is a word that
got its start you know in the military
the smart bomb I think is the way I
first encountered the word used in a as
a as a way of describing technology and
the smart the smart bomb was originally
called a hobo in the Vietnam War
which was
sort of a portmanteau of homing bomb and
then they kind of they rebrand it they
rebranded it as a smart bomb which is
probably a smart move on their part and
now it describes you know any kind of
technology that is thought to have on
the one hand thought to have an
intelligence of its own but really what
that means is that start to be kind of
linked to our own intelligence or our
own desires so you know the smart
refrigerator which knows when we need to
buy more milk or the smart bed that
knows just how tough fluffy you like
your mattress to be I want to talk about
a couple other words here too that I
sort of I've probably interviewed over
the years two or three people who have
grit in the title of their book what is
that but but I in some I think are in
the context in which you're talking
about but there's there is a quality to
it that always well that always I think
stuck in my craw a little bit what give
us the word grit what are the
implications of that word well grit is
another example of a word that is both
very much of our time and very old as
well because it's it's a it's a it's a
kind of version of a story that goes
back to Horatio Alger and the
celebration of the what he often called
pluck but he also called it grit of
working-class youth who have to pull
themselves up through their own
ingenuity and their own cleverness and
these were sort of supposed to be
lessons to two wealthy soft kids and the
way grit is used now is to celebrate
what its principle theorist calls a
combination of passion and intelligence
so passion and devotion to a particular
job so if you have grit you are
[Music]
passionate about the work you're doing
you have the strength to overcome
challenges and if you don't have great
you'll succumb to those challenges so
what's to me what's pernicious about the
word and especially in the way that it's
used it's preached to poor children or
working class children in the United
States because it's an educational value
I think above all is that it says well
if you it says to you that you can
overcome any obstacle that nothing is
impossible for you if you have grit but
if you fail to accomplish your your
career goals or if you fail to
accomplish whatever your goals are then
that must suggest that you didn't have
grit and so it's a way of explaining
away the inequality of the systems we
have rather than a way of attempting to
transform them that's the major problem
with it and is there and can you develop
grit is that the big thing you can you
can develop grit but that's it's an
optimistic idea yes it's it's not
something that you're born with I mean
that's the way right because you can't
be boy if you were born with it it would
ruin it would undercut the real value of
grit which is that it's available to
anybody if but but it's like it's sort
of like there multiple layers right of
moral righteousness that are involved
here you you can acquire grit so society
is equal but you just it's not so much
that you're in a position to acquire
grit it's just a question if you are
morally righteous enough to go after
grit and then once you get grit you can
use the grit to achieve stuff yeah but I
think you know I think is so unfair to
people who are in a position where they
need to be grittier than the next kid to
to say that if you you know if if
something goes wrong it must have been
your fault because you weren't gritty
enough or you didn't develop grit in the
proper way so you know like again it
doesn't it
and actually proposed to transform the
systems we have it just it offers people
this
I think fantasy that they can make their
own way within it but if everybody was
equally greedy then you know then we
would have the exact same situation we
have when if nobody had any grit right
which is just that like it's great to
have grit but it's much easier if your
dad owns a newspaper let's say or a
major broadcasting company or something
like that right yeah so if everybody was
equally greedy then we just need to be
even grittier the arms race would just
go on forever and it also feels like
it's something that you it's even and
and we should talk about maybe
meritocracy as well but grit is it seems
to me to be even more of a nebulous term
than meritocracy then the merit right
like merit almost feels like you could
measure but grit seems impossible to
measure like if you just had 25 percent
more grit you would have overcome the
fact that you know you you were not a
legacy admissions 2tl or something like
that 25 percent more grit plus the fact
that you went to a state school would
have gotten to you where that guy who
got into Yale was you can't make that
measurement at all yeah I mean most
associated with the word I does claim to
have a metric for it but it doesn't make
sense to me and I you know I agree it's
like it's such a moral characteristic
that the idea of measuring it not only
seems impossible but also just cruel
[Music]
if you if you even if you could talk
about meritocracy meritocracy is a word
that began its life as a mockery of the
idea of meritocracy so basically it was
coined by a British writer too by Rio
sociologist too
to make fun of the idea that in Britain
that old class inequalities and all old
class allegiances were being phased out
in in and and that people's success was
now contingent on their education so the
idea the joke of the word was that it
was a combination of merit the thing you
supposedly get at school and aristocracy
the thing that you're born with and what
he was what he was saying is that
Britain was simply replacing an
inherited system of privilege with a
system of privilege that you got access
to through your access to elite
educational institutions so it was a way
of kind of reframing inherited privilege
and granting it the veneer of democracy
basically it's basically a surrogate for
inherited privilege but yes earn with it
you're born with the idea you're born
able to go to Oxford and and that's how
you that's how you ascend to wealth and
privilege should say I also my
understanding is that the the saying
pull yourself up by the bootstraps and I
guess bootstrapping is one of those
terms now that too was introduced as a
satire that my understanding is that the
the introduction of pull yourself up by
the bootstraps was mocking people who
were saying that you could do that
because it's physically impossible to
pull yourself up by your bootstraps yeah
you actually did you would just sort of
flip over and land on your head yeah so
it makes sense as a joke better more
than it makes sense as an actual and
then somehow it got adopted like how
does that happen
yeah I mean it's it's strange and it it
speaks I think in part to just the kind
of craziness of a lot of our discourse
of business and and
and the way we talk about class and we
talk about business and the way we talk
about inequality is that there you know
there's just real kind of sometimes
shameless desire to reframe any kind of
inequality or unfairness as somehow this
is actually just a way of of
transcending your limitations you know
so like meritocracy got adopted by the
Blair government really enthusiastically
in Britain in the 90s to celebrate the
very thing that it was intended to
criticize in the first place to
celebrate the the idea that the
government the country would be run by
people by the smartest people the people
who got the best grades who went to the
best schools at no point I apparently
did anybody reflect on the fact that the
ability to get the best grades and goes
to the best schools was a reflection of
all kinds of inherited privileges and
and inequalities do you think there is a
you know when I look at some of these
words I mean I I wonder if there isn't a
a desire to accept these I guess the
implications of these words by people
who are not using them in a cynical
fashion right like the the like it's
really attractive to believe that
there's a meritocracy and its really
attractive that you could be able to
pull your your your yourself up by your
own boots because that would imply like
you know there's a there's a there's a
there's a force that is accessible to me
that actually can defeat gravity or
physics like I mean that you know like
there there's a hopeful quality to these
things and that seems to be you know
whether it's like you know life hacks or
you know well all the smart stuff and
you know pivoting and and all these
these things imply even a marketplace
right because we I can go into a market
and I can get stuff I mean the there
there's all
it all seems to be on some level you
know providing hope where there really
where we're in some respects these words
are telling us that like things are
already predetermined but you can still
contemplate the idea that you could
change it yeah I think that's precisely
what most of them do and that's what
most of them are intended to do I mean
grit is a really good example again
because it's explicitly designed I mean
it's how Duckworth talks about in her
book to counter the idea of genius so
she begins the book by talking about how
she got a genius grant but you know one
of those MacArthur Genius grant but how
she didn't like being called a genius
because geniuses suggest that you're you
know you're born with it or something
and so great is about you know again
it's about like transcending these ideas
about people who are just destined to be
good and people were just destined to be
failures by saying that we can all do it
if we get rid and you know like to use
another one of our popular metaphors
when you said define gravity made me
think of it you know climbing the ladder
of opportunity you know there's a ladder
has rungs at the bottom and has rungs at
the top so if you're if we're all
climbing the ladder of opportunity
someone's at the bottom you know if
we're not all we can't all be at the top
of the ladder or the ladder would fall
over and so these kinds of ideas of
mobility that we get in concepts like
grit and then we getting concepts like
flexibility empowerment choice all of
which I you know I talk about in the
book are all about reframing kind of
increasing the owners obligations
increasingly exhausting and poorly
compensated work increasingly bleak
options we have in say a public school
system as opportunities as things we
should be grateful for and so what is
the the the the totality of it what is
what is
problematic in a broad sense of this
like you know how does how does this
language in its totality inhibit
progress well I mean I think first of
all just it celebrates competition above
as just like the ultimate value above
all else and you know in grit is it you
know to come back a great you know
children are all supposed to be
competing with each other to get ahead
to like elbow out the the kid is not
gritty enough and that's a kind of
distressing depressing idea what you
know a grade school education is
supposed to be about entrepreneurship is
again all about the zeal to elbow out
your competition to win to accumulate
more and it celebrates that as just a
kind of deep intrinsic value you know
where where we might think about things
like I don't know cooperation or
solidarity or old-fashioned things like
that as being as being more valuable you
know but the ways that these these words
all kind of a normalized competition
they camouflage exploitation and so they
inhibit I think ultimately they kind of
hit it are inhibit our political and and
cultural imagination that's a good place
as any to stop John Patrick Leary the
book is keywords the new language of
capitalism a really fascinating book I
really appreciate your time today
well thanks a lot for having me alright
folks we're gonna take a quick break
head into the fun half wherein we will
talk a little bit more about Bernie
Sanders at Fox and Eric
sois well sois Wells bold new idea on
how to salvage the country here is a
clue it involves no red states and no
blue
dates and just coming together with a
cabinet of what does he call it a
cabinet team of rivals yes where tonight
where have I heard that before
gosh it's not even that good of a book
no but it would that was what Obama yeah
I know Lincoln white boy Doris Kearns
Goodwin yeah we will also hear from a
whole we've got Glenn Beck I don't know
if people caught this but when I was
talking about when I was in Las Vegas
at the at the lawyer's conference I look
up and I see a dude I know who used to
have a show on the blaze Network he's a
comedian he's a comedian he's a very
funny guy actually but a little bit
libertarian-leaning he's not he's not
like Glenn Beck ish but I think the the
getting involved in legal cases and
hearing about the hot coffee getting
into that I think is starting to like
wear him down a little bit it's a little
bit rough for him too but then we had
dinner one night and then you know
things got went a little sideways
whenever I started eating and drinking
you went on an ice-cream vendor we know
I know the cheese gelato silkily
too many security mmm I mean I was
almost exactly that except for it was
not social security we were having a big
argument you see how the ecosystem works
it was it was it was actually very
similar to that and but I got you know
one point you hit it hit it hit a point
where like oh I forgot I forgot this is
what this is what is politics or god
you're up now it's I don't know where I
was going with that but oh who you were
gonna be talking Glenn Beck maybe in the
fun half just a reminder you can support
this program by going
join the majority report calm when you
do you're not only supporting the free
show we're giving you extra content
every day we give it a do it over the
vacation and we picked out any stuff we
should maybe pick out some stuff some
deep vault stuff do you want to take a
look in the deep fault again Brendan you
guys thought you're gonna get away with
that oh my god it's true he really looks
like he wants to they're ill oh maybe
two or three two or three shows five two
or three two or three of these disguises
love what episode is that he'll
it's not it's it's absolutely not that's
not the issue is the original um the one
you did on the best show is that audio
do we have that only audio available we
do have that audio of it might be a good
one to put on there I haven't actually
heard that have you not I gotta find
that because he pulled it down cuz I
think a lot of people were where we're
pulling it down at one point and so that
was one of the few things that he might
know the years ago that he didn't have
that he pulled down for whatever reason
I'm seeing a request in the discord for
my show which was very funny I don't
know what's that this year where we did
the bit that the Bush family are all
shape-shifting reptiles doesn't accept
Jeb can't shape-shift because we're
pleased scrapple today George W just say
how do you think this Hawks fly come on
come on in guys I'm sorry Jeff oops our
gym you guess I guess you're gonna stay
home
I guess Jeb's gonna stay on that rock
all the rest of us swim around with our
friends what how would we even find that
yeah oh sorry Jeb put anything into the
anyway success Sarge Bob Bob the point
being that
for just pennies a day you can have
access to all that great content like
God you may have missed the the Bush
family shapeshifter make fun a jab
segment that we did that was that was
making fun of Jeb Bush in the same way
that making footage of Bush propelled
Donald Trump right exactly that's right
and then of course it all yes didn't
work out so well so and it wasn't quite
so funny and you know where to make fun
of Barbara molesting Jeb or not being
able to shape remember what George W
said I remember this is another classic
line what if one of your lines when you
said this is being bad Barbara's budgets
or something like that and he just likes
erm I've got my old girlfriend now real
mother boy hours yes
so it's joined the majority report calm
also folks you have two weeks left in
the month of April in which to go to
just coffee co-op fear trade coffee tea
or chocolate and you don't even need to
use the coupon code majority you will
get 30% off your coffee great
opportunity for you to try all the
different types of coffees they have at
just coffee and check it out then you
can just order on a regular basis so the
the key is in this time just go and you
get a bunch of like the one-pound bags
try a bunch of different coffees see
which ones you like if you don't like
one yuri gift it to somebody and then
you buy that one over and over again
today is Tuesday oh my gosh look at you
Michael what's uh what's happening
tonight what's happening tonight is oh
is that why you're not wearing a
tracksuit because you don't know algae
in a full suit tonight I'll be yeah I'll
be attired in a suit suit is that what
you do is you see this is the
intermediary stage oh I say okay proper
shirt on Thursday then usually on
Tuesday during the day track suit
tracksuit on Thursday last week I think
oh wait one of them yeah you're right I
did
yes I did thank you track see it's
starting to bleed into your whole like
all that I'm not mad at it
I like the track see well let me just
give you a piece of advice I know you're
gonna look back you're gonna look back
on this and it's gonna be rightful for
you absolutely not gonna take fashion
advice all right you don't have to
that's I'm communicating the other it's
not just me I wouldn't know to me I'm
like yeah tracksuit all the time you're
so really as many people are saying huh
yeah there's a lot of people saying I
mean it's a lots of people I'm I'm just
aware of regret I'm not where
specifically in terms of fashion I just
know how regret works I'll regret when I
wear the Eddie Murphy delirious you may
have already I feel like you're sort of
our little bit but go ahead not quite
there yet but I'm working up towards it
tonight professor Richard wolf returns
we're gonna be talking about you bi
Gramsci hegemony and then of course you
know Bernie at Fox News and a bunch of
other things we're live at 7:00 p.m.
tonight Michael Brooke show YouTube
channel we are tickets from being sold
out to the Saturday live show so if you
want it come to LA April this Saturday
at the bootleg theater with the team and
ana kasparian big waz and Nando Vela
patreon.com slash t MBS for the whole
thing and obviously we are the reason we
doubled up this week is we will not have
a live regular scheduled show next week
because we're on vacation but we'll have
a bunch of new clips and all of the
usual patreon shows as well Jamie this
week on the anti Fattah we got out of
the studio and went to the socialism in
our time conference which was a joint
venture between historical materialism
and Jacobin and we did some interviews
on the fly so Sean's still editing it
together right now I'm not sure 100%
what's gonna make the final cut but
we've got stuff on Marxist analysis of
gaming unionizing the marginal in the UK
the ways that the family unit has
changed under capitalism and openings to
build something better and also a little
interview on the situation in Venezuela
with the gray George Chikara Lamar so
check it up let's do thank you we're
gonna want to hear that
literary hangover check out the Oscar
Wilde episode if you haven't and you
want ammunition to respond to the
trolling about Bernie's charitable
spending Oscar Wilde was already on the
train that philanthropy is a joke and
what you really need to do is abolish
private property so I check that episode
out folks Oh
the risk is gonna be on right before you
guys what on Saturday April 20th right
before your show bisque yeah which ones
he's a risk is a podcast
Oh Kevin Allison yeah that's so funny I
didn't you know cuz Kevin Allison
actually was at the tea MBS bail house
show yeah no he's a fan of both our
Kevin is awesome I didn't realize the
timing on that that's cool that show is
about people like tell like a story
they've never told publicly right it's
actually really interesting Kevin's a
really cool guy former member of the
state that was an MTV show right yeah oh
my god do I feel old
alright folks wasn't even trying to make
C I know yeah I know that's why I made
that's what we're really hurt see you in
the phone half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur
[Laughter]
[Music]
listen to me five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 don't you see everybody's
dance dance
Rand Paul I had my I'm hoping to add
more moves to my repertoire all I have
is the dip in the swirl fine we can
double dip yes this is a perfect moment
no wait what you make under a million
dollars all right take quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some of
the libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber silastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey you guys ready to go
[Music]
[Music]
a little bit it's a free speech issue if
you don't like me thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
all right we're back the fun half of the
majority report ladies and gentlemen
firing up the I am machine let's first
go to the Fox News Burnie townhall play
a couple of clips from there this is its
clip number three where we had mentioned
earlier that bret baier had to sort of
maintain some semblance of being the
straight news guy and so I am NOT going
to feel quite as humiliated when I take
a survey of the audience and find that
everything I've been promoting on Fox
News for over a decade is not popular
with the people who are here for some
reason now this was done this town hall
was in Bethlehem Pennsylvania I don't I
mean if you had told me that this was
done at the auditorium at the University
of Vermont and that I would have been
like oh that makes sense
but this audience I don't know if Fox
News doesn't have a lot of attention but
this audience seemed to be incredibly
amenable to Bernie Sanders and his
policies which theoretically have been
maligned on Fox News for ages and here
Martha McCallum and I think this is
getting towards the end of the of the
thing where there's I think these two
hosts are got to feel like we have in
some way failed because we're not
getting that moment or the series of
moments where we have exposed Bernie
Sanders for either having policies that
don't make sense or having policies that
are not popular with this broad section
of people and and so I think there's a
lot of frustration involved in this and
you can see Martha McCallum and you just
play this exchange program and in 2014
the Democratic governor abandon it
because he had to raise income taxes had
to raise payroll taxes and the people of
Vermont didn't want their taxes to go up
Court should not and it may abandon
internal Vermont politics of which I
know a little bit well I'm saying I
don't want to be here the governor did a
rather poor job but I think if you look
at polling especially among Democrats as
I'm sure you have you tell me strong
majority of Democrats and more than a
few Republicans want to see a
medicare-for-all program what the
opponents and let's be clear about this
mother when you are dealing with health
care which is what's at 18% of our GDP I
mean we're talking about three and a
half trillion dollars and you have
insurance companies that make billions
and billions of dollars in profit let me
give you an example if I might of the
dysfunctionality of the current health
care system recently Aetna merged with
CBS you may recall that big merger which
my view will drive health care costs up
the gentleman who was head of Aetna's
named mr. Bertolini you know what he got
from putting together that merger he got
a 500 million dollar bonus do you think
that's how we should spend help I mean I
think everybody is an agreement that
healthcare needs to be fixed in this
country the question is how and my
question to you was it will drive up
taxes to pay for health care and not
just the wealthy will pay for that the
middle class will also pay for ego so
how do you justify it and Martha what
are you not including in your discussion
your time I will tell you you're not got
a any health insurance premiums
[Applause]
whether it's in your contacts or your
payroll tax right look health care is
not free
you never suggests that we're gonna
March you just said it was gonna be free
for everyone it's gonna be free at the
point of when you use it okay in you go
- why are you so shocked by this this is
what I thought God is good okay okay one
good one sir
we'll get through this together firstly
let you see your eyes you are
self-employed and you have got a husband
and two kids okay family or for your how
much that family is paying today for
health care how many twenty eight
thousand dollars okay
alright we're spending $11,000 per
person we are saying to that family of
four you ain't gonna pay that
twenty-eight thousand you're not paying
any more premiums you're not paying any
more co-payments you're not paying any
more deductibles how's that twenty eight
thousand you're not paying what does
that mean you're not gonna pay something
of course it does you're gonna pay more
in taxes and do members of Congress you
now have gold plated how's it for one
second now now this is really true
fascinating right because like that is
that you can almost see Martha like
looking like a little bit flush there
right like she's like she doesn't have
anything else to say
he's just conceded what she thinks is
this sort of like the the the you know
the the stake through the heart of this
program where he says yeah no of course
you're gonna pay more in taxes you're
gonna pay less for premiums that is the
easy calculation here and there has been
and the thing is is that there is no
there has been no one who has been able
to produce a report there's been no
research there's been no estimates even
the the Mercado study from the
right-wing think-tank there has been
nothing released by anyone who can
rookin refute that central dynamic
and the thing that Bernie is doing that
is different from one they talked about
where in Vermont it failed was the
governor Schulman I think it was his
name the the thing that Bernie is doing
and we used to get calls from John from
San Antonio we call it all the time
about this very point is that you must
lead with the idea that taxes are going
to be raised because taxes are going to
be raised and Bernie makes the point it
is free at the point of service and it
is free when you pay for it but your but
it's not free you're gonna have to pay
for it's gonna be in taxes and
middle-class people as well as wealthy
people are going to pay more in taxes
but the net expenditures are gonna be
less because you're not going to be
paying for premiums and for basically
the prophets and the inefficiencies in
the private insurance market and then
you know it doesn't even bring up the
fact that like and then the other good
thing is is you don't have to deal with
a tremendous hassle like like I have
like spreadsheets I have Google drive's
with that I take pictures of like you
know Saul's eye therapy and I take the
pictures and I upload them and then I
see if there you know my insurance are
gonna pay for him and I got decent
insurance all right good what the
mean you're not gonna pay something of
course it does you're gonna pay more in
taxes and do members of Congress you now
have gold-plated health insurance well
they have a special plan that's outside
Obamacare a different plan it would
remember members of concert one second
you know who has a plan that's outside
of Obamacare almost everybody the only
people is ten million people in this
country who have a plan inside of
Obamacare and you have something like
270 280 million people covered by
insurance and this by the way unless you
want to define to Obamacare as Patient
Protection Act in which case everybody's
covered by it and everybody loves well
cancers has different health care saying
just like Bret Baier has I understand
but I'm just saying if he's using
and of course we know that in terms of
actual plans but the patient protection
component of it is national and protects
a lot of people like he's talking about
the exchanges here yeah I think
Obamacare has more than that just the
exchanges right what's medicaid to but I
think uestion is like why is bret baier
bringing this up now because like Bernie
has now destroyed McCowan's one critique
and so he's pivoting to we can't really
trust Congress people because you guys
good you're you're you're out of this
whole set you're gonna try and be out of
this whole system that's where he's
going with this go back a little bit and
you'll see this is this is the they have
now gone from the Alamo to like the next
redoubt right like where it's like okay
we're going to go to the farthest
reaches of the Alamo because we're we
need we need to figure out some way of
undercutting this and it's the classic
well we can't trust government and
because politicians all like it does
you're gonna pay more in taxes and do
members of Congress you now have
gold-plated health insurance well they
have a special plan that's outside
Obamacare a different plan you know do
member members of Congress are they
going to do that transition as mm right
of course this is where Bret Baier if
he's really on his game or McCallum I
she was really on a game she's gonna go
well because this is the last the last
refuges how many pages is it because
that was it that was the way that it
went with the with Obamacare right there
was a problem with the program and then
it was like well but Congress men aren't
going to put themselves in it and then
it was and it was over a hundred pages
like literally this was a talking point
at the time I and that Glenn Beck rally
I went to one of the common complaints
about Obamacare was nobody knows what's
in it and they passed it's over a
hundred pages there shouldn't be
anything everybody's the same for pages
that should be the top bus will probably
be a shorter bill come at me bro
but I want to make the point I'm gonna
get back to the point that the mark of
race look healthcare costs money every
other country or virtually every country
does it in the same way we do education
for our kids okay when a kid walks into
school kid doesn't have to take out a
credit card right it's paid for out of
public funds that's what most countries
do so if you're asking me if your
question is a fair question
are people gonna pay more in taxes yes
but at the end of the day the
overwhelming majority of people are
going to end up paying less for health
care because they're not paying premiums
co-payments and deductibles we're going
to get it yeah there we go we're gonna
take away that I think I handled that
pretty well yep there you go
smooth oh man you know that's the great
and what I love about Bernie is like
some people contrasted spin with
complexity right like oh well if you're
speaking in spin and sound bites then
you're not acknowledging how complicated
these issues are he's great because it's
like actually a super simple and he has
great message discipline but it's also
clear and honest and direct but the the
key is what John from San Antonio would
call in years ago to complain about I
suppose they are an honest leading with
the taxes and that was there was an
attempt by I think Democrats for a long
time and part of it was you know back in
the day like Walter Mondale and whatnot
was if you say you're gonna raise taxes
the American public is necessarily gonna
have a problem with it as if there is no
argument as if the American public
cannot understand the concept that right
now you're paying $10 for something and
if you we're gonna eliminate that $10
expense but it will cost you $6 and
didn't also Mondale if I didn't he's
like sort of basically say like we're
gonna just implement a cos as austerity
to pay off the deficit or something if I
know that if I've heard that correctly
it was not presented as it was something
like we need to pay for things yeah well
yeah like presented as part of a
ambitious know it was your winnings
there was no agenda as far as I can tell
for what it's worth you think of Obama
they they soft-pedal Obamacare costing
something and I'm be much more pissed
about having a having my premiums jacked
up than having my taxes jack oh yeah or
you know getting a kind of not that good
silver plan and finding out it still
costs $100 if I need to go to the doctor
for a sick visit which is the thing that
happened to me yes and so this was by
leading with that taxes it makes it also
makes his job frankly easier because
other people have to try and hide the
ball and he's not trying to hide the
ball he's trying to say like look at the
ball it's a good ball it's um oh and
most people will not save so here is the
end of Bernie Sanders Town Hall on Fox
News ladies and gentlemen and if I don't
think in a million years that anyone
would have predicted that the Town Hall
is going to end in this fashion like it
turns into some type of like religious
revival a you know show where like I I
mean honestly like I I don't know who
could have done better on Fox News like
who are their regulars I don't think
like Sean Hannity gets this treatment
from an audience and you know that
somebody is gotten in trouble because of
this in some fashion and they're not
clear why or how this happened they're
all just sort of shrugging their
shoulders and the next time you go to a
Fox News townhall there's gonna be full
vetting of every of every audience
member and they're gonna make sure that
they are you know a member of the
freedom caucus fan club or whatever it
is because one of the kids that asked a
question maybe the first question was a
turning point kid yeah that's the
amazing thing about it though is that
like II this is how it ended closing
statement here all right well thank you
very much and I hope I wasn't too hard
on it's all right we can take it all
right all right look cause this is what
we were saying earlier that
was so that was done so well by Bernie
in this he got his proposals out there
they turned out to be extremely popular
on this show but he also undercut both
the hosts and Fox as an institution and
that's a very helpful to fir frankly for
society at large regardless of how
Bernie Sanders does in this campaign or
off of the show being able to do both
those things is a is a service to the
country as far as I'm concerned thank
you all very much for being here and
thank everybody for watching just a
couple of points I think sometimes the
divisions in this country get a little
bit too hot okay at the end of the day
we are all Americans who love this
country
and I also think and the media plays not
a good role in this and again not just
Fox is we have a lot more in common than
most people think we do all right pull
up the ball should we raise the minimum
wage to a living wage yes go back here
because that point of departure where he
says we have a lot of things in common
every other politician you will hear who
is a Democrat when they launch into that
the things that will follow is like we
all love our kids we all like a hot meal
opportunity we we we we all want to see
you know we all love our friend and said
the key words right they literally say
the key words that's exactly right this
is got passion cram bonus right we all
care about our community just pablum yes
oh we're all human beings no but yeah
we're mean like literally it's all just
that type of pablum
but he goes into basically a litany of
progressive policy points and doesn't
even start with one that he would expect
everybody to be on board with they're
people that which is and it there are
plenty of people don't want a $15
minimum wage we've had them on this
program but apparently
and this is what is was was awesome
about this moment and I don't think that
Bernie expected it to go in the place
that it end up going should we raise the
minimum wage to a living wage yes
should we rebuild our crumbling
infrastructure should we make sure that
our veterans get the health care that
they have earned all right should we
make sure that we do not cut Social
Security or Medicare or Medicaid should
we give huge tax breaks to billionaires
you know that's how most people feel so
I hope I hope look I'm looking forward
to a good campaign and the last point
that I want to make and I thank
up you know for the opportunity of being
here and and that is I want to see our
country have the highest voter turnout
in the industrialized world not one of
the lowest so no matter what you abuse
aw get involved in the political process
stand up and fight to make this a better
country thank you all very much
wow we could have gone even further you
could've been like we're all for free
public college right as you can see yeah
yeah we're all basically socialists you
should propriate the bank's right oh
yeah they're Jamie Dimon should be hung
in a public square and like they're
gonna say that this audience was stacked
or whatever but like a lot of the people
watching are probably on Social Security
and care about these things too of
course but I mean how can they say that
this audience was stacked it was a Fox
event yeah i'm-a organized it
they didn't there's no controller and
put from the campaign I mean if there's
no there's nobody sitting around Fox
going like oh we should not have done
all of our flyering for this thing at
the DSA convention they're not they're
not saying that and but it know most
normal people like this stuff I mean I I
also just think like you know I I was
obviously very bullish and you
Oh diss me I just you know didn't buy
the argument that Bernie shouldn't do
Fox and I think frankly and I want to be
really clear I would not criticize any
candidate before doing it you know
anybody gets offered a Town Hall on a
major network who's running for
president should do that is my opinion
but I also think that you know there's
there should be more bullishness and
confidence in our views and perspectives
because exactly what Sam said not only
did he put across great policies he also
steadily undermined this toxic
propaganda cancer on our country which
is Fox News this is uh this is the one
that was going around it's from March
17th to 20th but a Fox News poll how
would you vote if the candidates in 2020
what Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump 40
to 47 other 4% wouldn't vote 3% unsure
5% I mean it's better than Bernie being
down but you know at this point
Bernie's winning and winning by a little
bit you want to see over 50 percent
before you start like getting bragging
rights for something like this but it's
that's pretty good but and what's the
methodology of a Fox News poll they had
a they said they have a margin of error
there of 3%
I guess the sample size is a thousand
two you need to go in to look at the
crosstab so how many Democrats how many
Republicans have they have they looked
at but in popular vote may not be the
the issue right I mean it wasn't last
time let's go to the phone call from a
two one zero
area code who's this where he come from
good afternoon Sam this is John from San
Antonio Ron from San Antonio were your
ears ringing right now yeah I mean I
just was talking we're gonna to actually
address some of that later and in the
call so first you know Bernie was
incredible last night and in Spock's
Town Hall remind me of what a great
communicator he is and how deeply
underrated he is as a political force
that is drive
it's just beginning you know yesterday
is a national Emerson national poll had
Bernie up by five points over Biden that
was the first national poll where he's
leading Biden since mid-december on the
latest morning console Polk and
configuring Biden's second choice
tallies if Biden doesn't run Bernie's up
by 23 points over Harris which is an
improvement from his national polls from
early March when Bernie was weeding by
19 and 17 points without Biden in the
race I've talked about how performing
well on Super Tuesday is crucial for
Bernie victory in state polls with Biden
out of the race Bernie's up by 10 points
in Alabama and by one point in
California and eight points in South
Carolina with Biden out of the race so
Bernie is always great at explaining
Maya Medicare out for all is the best
way forward common criticism and for
Medicare for all
how is it going to be funded and you
played the clip with Martha McCallum
which I was going to refer to but you
did a very good job with that and so so
let me let me touch on this the reason
the funding didn't work in Vermont for
their plan is because they didn't put a
tax on employers like Bernie's white
paper does he puts a 7.5 percent tax on
employers now if you look at the Poland
plan which I spoke about by the
University of Massachusetts Amherst
professor did he talked about at the
Senate standards Institute in December
he has an eight point two percent an
employer tax or one point seven percent
gross receipts tax now the rate of
around seven point five percent is also
paid by employers in the Swiss system
the German system and in the Dutch
system so we're already paying one point
four five for Medicare funding and
employers are already paying this so the
increase will be about six point zero
five percent so employers with their
first two million in payroll would be
exempt from this premium and in the the
Poland plan small
businesses are also exempt though a
definition of what a small business plan
is not listed so even one of the best
health care reporters a Sarah Kliff he
recently interviewed keeps going back to
you know if you can't fund a Vermont
single-payer how can you fund a national
plan in our articles on the jeyapaul
plan which didn't have a funding
mechanism listed or Bernie's new plan do
you think Bernie should have gone into
the details or is that too wonky for the
average vote it's - about it yeah I mean
I think I think like look once you admit
to the American public that we're gonna
need new taxes and you can explain to
them here's the here's the basic dynamic
because this is also true on some level
for businesses
- right because they've got to provide
health insurance the you know when we
talk about employers this size there
imply providing health insurance for
their employees and so there's a cost
associated for them that's being taken
away that is replaced with the tax and
of course there's probably you know
productivity benefits to them in terms
of having the workers healthy you know
Jamie's not going in to see the doctor
because it's gonna cost her a hundred
bucks and then she gets science
infection she's out for two days I mean
that's the the dynamic that you know if
I've got if I had a two million dollar
payroll that has real implications for
me I mean and when you talk about things
like you know they used to say and we
don't hear it much anymore but you know
every General Motors car like you know
fifteen hundred bucks worth of it is
health care that rolls off and so if we
have a more efficient system that we
would get with a single-payer because we
would start to have more rational
pricing involved and we would really
give us an opportunity to move to a more
of like a you know sort of a you know a
system where you actually you know don't
just address problems but you address
ongoing health right where you actually
manage your health as opposed
to try and manage your problems so that
you can avoid getting sicker I mean
these are these are all the benefits
that are going to come with a better
system that's why why other countries
have better health outcomes so I think
you don't need to go into those
specifics because I don't believe there
is more than a handful of people who are
out there who are actually like you know
talking about the you know a percentage
or two or the funding mechanism in terms
of employers the basic the basic premise
is you're gonna pay more in taxes and
net less in premiums and other
associated costs and once you sell that
to the American public once you tell
them I mean you know who wouldn't take
that I think I think there is value in
the the policy stuff but not at the
level of pitching it to the American
public I think that's what happens once
you know Burt a Bernie gets elected or
anybody gets elected who wants to push a
program like this then you start to have
those debates as part of the legislative
process but in terms of electoral
process I think that's just too much I
think it just gets to in the weeds right
but I mean that there should be some
pushback against people who are saying
that just like you know journalists out
there I mean because this is the
constant refrain this is the number one
issue on why why people don't want it
you know I mean there's there's no
question about it you know that the
funding is what people are concerned
about well I think yeah I think my point
is is it's enough to say taxes are gonna
go up but you're gonna save money but
but but you but individuals are gonna
save money on their health care at the
end of the at the end of the day when
you tally up what you've paid in taxes
and what you've paid in premiums and
co-pays and whatnot you're gonna save
money okay you know as as far as the
Pelosi holding her caucus together you
know I've been very disappointed
you know if you look at there was a vote
on the 28th of February where they had
to recommit a bill about about you know
gun having more gun background checks
that the Republicans could uh you know
recommitted it to where they drew in
this ice anybody wanted to buy a gun had
to be reported to ice and you know also
they didn't hold their caucus together
on the fifteen dollar minimum wages lose
when the first thing that they prompted
Pelosi promised she doesn't have the
votes to do this she only has two
hundred and five votes when she needs
two hundred and seventeen and and also
there's a balanced budget amendment that
it's being talked about by you know
Republicans have wanted to push forever
that the the Blue Dog Conference is is
behind and so I think that one of the
issues that isn't being talked about
enough is that Pelosi can't control the
conservative in our in their caucus you
know and so I mean and how is how is she
if they do you know Democrats do in the
White House and do in the Senate and the
Conservatives are so afraid of going
about you know having Republican
challengers you know two years in the
future or a year and a half in the
future that they can't pass anything
then what you know I mean that there is
value in stopping the Republican agenda
but you've got to pass your own
prerogatives and she's not doing that
well not holding your call I mean it is
it could be I mean part of the problem
is is that you've just picked up forty
you know forty seats and a significant
amount of those seats are coming from
purple districts and they if those seats
have been flipped the the thing that
those new Congress people have on their
mind is that that thing could flip back
and the only thing I can tell you is
that a there must be we need to
to the extent that there are blue
districts and safe seats you need to
primary those people and push them to
the left right so you can't so you're
picking up five or ten seats that way
even even if you don't win in the
primary if you create the the the fear
coming from not from the general but
from the primary that's the way they're
going to function right and and then I
think you also got a hope that four
years out these people are more
confident about maintaining their seats
in these purple districts that's the
only thing I can tell you because I
don't why are they so of why are they so
afraid you know to vote for a $15
minimum wage you know when that was
promoted you know and you know they're
getting backing from third way to not to
do this to have these but the reason
why-y-y most of these people who are
taking back and from Third Way the
reason why they do that is because
they're coming from a district that they
just barely squeaked by and that has
traditionally been a Republican district
and so they're worried that they're
going to lose their seats and so the
question is is that how do you in those
purple districts how do you create more
of a rising tide from progressives to
give these people more confidence that
if they err they should err on the the
left side of the ledger as opposed to
the right side of the ledger and then
separate category of people when you
have districts that are comfortably blue
you've got two primary those those
candidates and even if you lose the
primary challenge it creates a different
set of incentives for them they've got a
hold for the next primary as opposed to
the general election I mean that's what
happens like with Lindsey Graham right
that's why he's such a freak show now
because in part because he's already
getting primary yeah I see your point I
I agree with yours with what you're
saying but I mean
at some point you know leadership has to
tell them you know you were elected as a
Democrat but John John John I going with
your client but but but the the certain
reality is is that Nancy Pelosi and I am
not happy with the way that she's been
talking lately and maybe part of the
reason why she's been talking this way
is because of the dynamic you're talking
about right like she is she has a sense
of what where the caucus is at and she
has definitely shown in the past an
ability to deliver votes right I mean
she we never saw what went to get 257
House members she did now that she has
235 her and somewhere in that area she
can't deliver um yeah I mean I think I
mean I I don't know you it could be just
that she's not good at her job or it
could be that there's just not enough
progressives in the house to push this
agenda and and so the question is how do
you push these other Congress people to
the left that becomes the question like
you know and here's the thing like you
know how many votes like I would imagine
this is just a total guess on my part
but just generically speaking there's
got to be a list right of votes that are
we need everybody voting on these and
then there's a second tier of votes we
don't need it we can release people on
this and you have to release people on
some to get them on the other ones that
are that much more important and
remember you know at the end of the day
nothing's gonna get passed with this
Senate and with this president so you're
gonna want to keep people in line to
stop legislation right to stop something
like a bun budget balance a balanced
budget amendment you're gonna want to
keep people in line for that so but III
agree with you it's it's it's
frustrating and and you know I'm gonna
be talking to David Dahon tomorrow about
Pelosi's top advisor who is this guy
Wendell Primus who is a was not a great
guy and I'm going to try and get a sense
from day and as to what that dynamic is
but I appreciate the call John alright
bye thank you speaking of horrible
people right after the Bernie Sanders
Fox Town Hall they martha maccallum they
went home and cried no she didn't she
tried to stop her crying by bringing on
Arthur Laffer who Arthur Laffer was the
genius behind the whole idea of
trickle-down economics where it's like
if we concentrate all of the tax
benefits and the wealth at the top it
will shower down upon us right like the
like the clouds you know the clouds get
so thick with moisture that they they
rain so innocent rain yeah it would be
like a shower like I like an all the
shower of gold you'd get this golden
shower on everyone hmm from from all the
money being concentrated at the top and
Arthur Laffer had this theory and he had
this thing called the Laffer curve which
he wrote on the side of a napkin it was
so you know it's true and it suggested
that there is a that there is a tax rate
in which everybody would decide like oh
it's not worth it for me to earn another
dollar so I'm gonna stop working now of
course that in some way ignores the
concept of of marginal tax rates because
we don't all have the ability to say
like oh I'm going to make sure that my
income comes in at two point nine
million dollars as opposed to like 3.1
million dollars because every dollar
after three million dollars will be
taxed at a 70 percent rate let's say
so I'm gonna just land a 2.9 because my
return might you know every dollar I'm
only getting 30 cents on the dollar over
3 million well most people don't have
the ability to sort of land their income
in that fashion if you're in the
neighborhood of getting 3 million
dollars it's quite possible you might
get 3.3 million dollars by mistake but
this theory that Laffer had promoted the
idea that we should cut taxes on the
wealthiest people because that's going
to create economic growth and so who
better to go to then to Arthur Laffer to
talk about Bernie Sanders plans to tax
people for health care and in fact to
talk about Bernie Sanders tax returns
you know it's an interesting thing that
you bring up with regard to charity and
of course every American can give or not
give it's there you know it's right to
do now so they're looking at Bernie
Sanders taxes and apparently in some
years he gave virtually nothing to
charity some years just a couple of
percentage points but no no tithing like
you would it's called for bad lord
whatever they want in charity so I don't
punch him he I think it was three
percent three point six percent maybe
art but the whole basis of what he's
talking about is that we all should want
to give back more to even out the income
inequality in this country well he
doesn't say we should want to he says we
will be forced to if he gets in that's
what he's going to do to the tax codes
and you know what he doesn't talk about
Martha which is really serious here if I
may what he doesn't talk about is how
those taxes when he's putting them on
will affect the economy you know
whenever you do redistribution and his
whole thing was energy was environment
was health care was education all of
that when every redistribute income you
take from those who make a little bit
more and you give to those who make a
little bit less by taking from those who
make a little bit more you reduce their
incentives and they work a little bit
less and produce a little bit less by
giving to those who have a little bit
less you provide them with an
alternative source
of income other than working and they
too will produce a little bit less now
this is math it's not it's not right
wing left wing rib breaking different
crap Papapa Papapa spot spot spot zone
now do you understand here what would
but okay put aside the fact that they
don't seem to understand the difference
between charity and Taxation and that
they're like but what the kind of giving
he wants to give would be mandated by
the government yeah that's called
taxation Arthur Laffer would have you
believe you ready for this that if
you're rich and you get taxed more
you're gonna work less in other words if
you get to have less money when you work
you're gonna work less but if you get to
have more money if you're as you say
you'll have a little bit less if you get
more money you're also gonna work less
isn't that convenient that both it if
you're rich and you don't make if you
don't make as much money because you get
taxed more you're gonna work less and if
you're not rich and you get a little
more money you're gonna work less this
is like the in Iraq invasion
intelligence of economics and now
there's that's one way you could just
use reason to say that that's not true
and he just says it's just math it's
just math aside from the fact that
there's absolutely no evidence zero
evidence even anecdotally of someone who
said you know what my major my marginal
tax rate was let's say fifty percent
fifty percent of every dollar over the
first ten million I make and so you know
what I hung back a little bit I just
decided to land it I'm gonna work so
that I make nine point five million
dollars every year because they when you
get over ten million family make it
fifty cents on the GAR forget it why am
I putting in that extra eleven minutes a
week or whatever it was that supposedly
this person's gonna work less or paying
people to work for you which is how a
lot of the wealthy make their link of
course of course they're not only is
there no evidence for that assertion and
there's no evidence for the assertion
that if we provide free childcare free
daycare pre-k higher education if we
provide health care with the raising of
taxes that people are going to work less
no evidence for that whatsoever either
there's a lot of evidence that Arthur
Laffer doesn't know what the hell he's
talking about so we all remember Kansas
right Kansas is a state in this country
I'm familiar and in 2012 governor Sam
Brownback was elected and maybe it was
elected in was it in 2010 I can't
remember but by 2012 they had passed a
massive tax cut bill that was drawn up
by Arthur Laffer and the whole idea was
very similar to the one that Donald
Trump passed if you're an S corp you get
huge tax breaks and we're gonna
eliminate the income tax for you know
4's corpse and all sorts of tax cuts and
what was going to happen according to
author laugher right is that it was
going to spur economic growth and it was
actually the idea is this is that when
you cut taxes you're actually going to
increase revenue because it's going to
spur so much economic growth that more
people are gonna get involved and more
people are gonna pay taxes so the the
amount of taxes is gonna be less but the
amount of people that are gonna be
paying that smaller amount is going to
be so great that it's actually gonna
increase how much revenue you're taking
in here is a graphic of sam Brownback's
vanishing surplus it goes from 2013 at
its peak seven hundred million dollars
down by twenty fifteen to thirty million
dollars and let's see the next slide
they had to cut every
thing the S&P downgraded their the
downgraded their credit rating because
of sam Brownback's tax cuts which caused
massive cuts to education massive cuts
to education it slow job growth relative
to all the states around Kansas it
slowed economic growth relative to all
the states around Kansas including the
country but but more importantly around
Kansas so it wasn't just a regional
thing look at this sam Brownback's tax
cuts now full-blown disaster for Kansans
Kansas tax cut experiment crashes and
burns by 2016 the Republican legislature
in Kansas had raised taxes so Arthur
Laffer sitting there telling us all
about what is math play this a little
bit more listen to this this will
produce a little bit less now this is
math it's not it's not right wing left
wing written different Kratt it's not
liberal or conservative it's just plain
economics
whenever you redistribute income you
reduce total income and that is what
he's doing and I am very afraid that if
he were elected we would have an
enormous crash in the market now that
crash would come in anticipation of his
election but it's much like Obama who I
believe was the reason why we had the
Great Recession as he got closer and
closer to winning the markets collapsed
wow this is like psychic economics if
that's basic economics sorry I think
economics might be he's not
matter ass until you say he's a pedantic
he's a little bit pedantic but then not
the other direction I apologize
absolutely there was a reason why I gave
you a very weird meaningful about but
the idea that there was a stock market
crash the stock market crash because
people anticipated Barack Obama's
election this is something that honestly
if you were to say this in public like
if it wasn't martha maccallum there
he was on another network there would be
people with white coats to say like me
Arthur maybe it's time for you to take a
little break I think you're a little
tired but this is this is how they're
going to try and explain away any type
of recession that hits with Donald Trump
I think that the economic they're well
aware that Bernie Sanders might win the
election so there are I took a couple of
economics classes and I think that the
economy recovered because of the
stimulus and also in anticipation that
Bernie would be elected in 2020 there
was early jingles that there would be a
serious plan for the working and middle
classes that would emerge in 2020 which
is why the economy actually started to
recover in 2009-2010 maybe well that's
well I think that's very very strong
sense it's not like trickle-down
economics has been tried already or
given a fair hearing so maybe we should
give it a chance right well we should
maybe well I mean I think to a certain
extent we have with the Republican tax
cut and it has done nothing I mean it is
JP Morgan three point six billion
dollars worth of extra cash this year
which I guess that should help the real
estate market on in the Hamptons but
that's about it
meanwhile we mentioned earlier that it
was funny to watch Bernie say like you
know we're all Americans we all agree
that we should have $15 minimum wage and
we should not allow tax cuts for you
know wealthy people well here is another
person running in the Democratic primary
who's doing it all wrong this will
probably be the first and the last clip
that we play a verax office wall well on
this show I know but it is he might
produce a few more it's pretty good
pieces of sounds his his slogan go big
be bold
do good what could be in to be fair this
is the joke it's pretty bold at this
point to say what we the real problem we
have will be cured
by bringing Republicans into my
democratic administration I'm the son of
two Republicans I'm married a Hoosier
from southern Indiana who grew up in
pens country I've worked with
Republicans my whole life reaching
across the dinner table and reaching
across the aisle
pausing even the audience that has been
hand-picked to come and see him speak
they're laughing at this stuff because
they can't possibly believe that he's
going to go where he's going
right they all think they're like he's
about to say and I'll tell you I'm
surprised at how much of lunatics they
are and we should have keep them very
far away from government nope get across
the aisle I go on Fox News just so most
of my family can see me on TV
we must see guy our deeply divided
country so I pledge to lead our country
with a team of rivals a blended cabinet
of Republicans and Democrats and we may
have to send out a search party to find
more Republicans who can put country
over party yeah are we sure this is not
a Sacha Baron Cohen character no kidding
right
played by Matt Damon yeah exactly that
does not sound like somebody who wants
to win the Democratic primary I mean is
he he is in Congress so presumably he's
got more going on than being a clip
enstein brother or what are they called
again not clip it's the I always present
Stein I by the way I like the crescent
slides I am a defender of the crescent
science but like what is the play here
like you already have a seat in Congress
so that confers a little bit of
legitimacy I think like this is just him
I think he's running I think he's
running for vice president and I'm not
sure who well
for somebody I don't know who know I've
been laying down markers of when I go
dum-dum I'm gonna add if he is vice
presidential pick I will not be voting
for the demo - dit very hard to believe
well it raises your profile right I
think that's why a lot of these no-name
Democrats are doing it yeah I think
that's why Rex wha well some very good
things Russia's a bunch of
we all need to sit down across the table
give each other health care have
protectors protect each other from
fluoride in the water resist Putin well
someone used him as an example of the
dangers of because I think in that same
speech he said like you know Donald
Trump was controlled by Russia or
whatever it is or he's that I don't know
if he said that or if it was something
like he's please yeah
Donald Trump is you know Putin's you
know greatest dream I can't remember I
can't remember what polio totally gay I
carry the most barrel I couldn't I
couldn't remember what I can't remember
what the quota was but they're like this
is the problem with Russia gate and I
couldn't help but think like yeah
exactly that looks I'm polling like 0.1%
right exactly saying nonsense like a guy
who's just you know shows up on on MSNBC
a lot and another thing you know here
was another thing you're not gonna like
to hear Martha is that Donald Trump was
sucking Vladimir Putin and Elsa key here
it here it is he's on morning general
way out there on the question of his
campaigns relationship with Russia and
you said even in January and MSNBC when
you're asked by Chris Matthews if the
president is an agent of Russia you said
yes do you regret saying now or do you
believe the president Trump still is an
agent of Russia what do you mean by the
acts on their behalf he puts their
interests too often ahead of our own
interest and that again that affects
opportunity at home if we become more
like Russia where it's a top-floor
economy and only orders taking orders
from Vladimir Putin when you say agent
what do you
if he wasn't taking orders he wouldn't
take the interpreters notes if he wasn't
taking orders he would release the
report that he said he's a hundred
percent exonerated with and and so why
does he act so suspiciously with Russia
in ways that he doesn't act with Teresa
may or McCrone or Trudeau it just all of
my experience as a prosecutor tells me
something is wrong with the way that
he's acting the way that he's lying and
that we should all be concerned for you
surprised then that at least in the
summary from the attorney general that
Bob Muller could not find evidence of a
conspiracy no because as a prosecutor I
know that proving a case beyond the
reasonable doubt is the highest standard
right we don't need to hear any more of
that I mean the he didn't say that in
the that there was no evidence he said
maybe there wasn't enough to commit but
McCue know both things can be right one
is he's acting in a very strange way
that doesn't make sense why do you take
the translators notes because you're
talking about something so sensitive
with Putin like I don't want people to
realize that we're doing reproach montt
I find that a little bit hard to believe
frankly but that doesn't mean that he's
an agent for Russia but here's the other
thing it makes no difference what Eric's
wall well says on MSNBC in my estimation
and I still contend like it's just small
well could walk into this office without
his congressional pin on and I think we
would all just be like who's that
if he starts Matt Damon yeah exactly if
he starts pulling at 20 percent on this
stuff then maybe we can worry
or even ten like the idea that there
could only be that reason for Trump
acting weird and making no sense is
funny to me well I mean it is weird
it is definitely weird but it could very
well be he's not an agent he's just like
what are the chances we could still do
that hotel yeah also he like thinks he's
a cool guy he's like a big macho muscle
man on a horse like it's not that hard
to figure it out so cool he's the
coolest did you see that Meryl of
trumpet kissing so yeah here is an
example of just how cool Donald Trump is
he's so he remember this is a guy he
loves
trucks I love big equipment I love it
people don't know this about me but I'm
got a lot of big muscles under my big
muscle guy here is and we sell novel
construction we should just say that he
is at the the NASA truck and equipment
with a press conference with talking in
Minnesota to transportation business
leaders who were explaining to him what
kind of trucks they have Bob NASA's an
us is explaining what kind of trucks
he's has and we sell bubble construction
equipment and what a better setting to
have a Volvo loader in a Mack truck and
these two represent everything that
builds America and moves America how can
I turn this about me make this economy
[Applause]
I've been on many a loader I've been on
many a truck people don't know that
about me it's I guess they do actually
otherwise the Fifth Avenue stuff doesn't
play nearly as well as that well I'll
tell you you know what people who have
been on a lot of trucks to say or don't
say I've been on a many a truck been on
a lot of loaders brag about how many
trucks I've been on because I've been on
a lot of trucks the Fifth Avenue stuff
doesn't play nearly as well as that I
will tell you I've been on many many a
truck and between Volvo and Caterpillar
and John Deere and so many of the great
companies but this is a real beauty and
a considered a very high-end loader it's
great that you do that I want to say
that today is tax day next day yeah I
need to get out of this a little bit
it's so awesome it's great how you do
the big truck thing and so if you really
want to know what's going on inside
Donald Trump's mind here in a the the
you really need to look to fiction and
this is from the president show that the
late great president show Anthony Adam
Rock and his interpretation of what must
have been going through Donald Trump's
mind to be around those trucks and he
did this this is from like a year and a
half ago this is from like the yeah the
first few months of here exactly
so great so cool boom wow I got it get
in there yeah give us a hug
you're free now done come by my Joe guys
let's go
later breaking there's a smokey on the
way there you go and that was actually
that's him
yes that's not there's no gap between
that show but there was he also the
other clip though the other clip when he
actually liked it in the moment that was
actually the pilot episode so good well
I missed that show the only mistake he
made in real life was you know not to
let him keep on going forever well that
was the best part when he had that scene
where he's that guy and driving in the
truck and I've judge drive off the edge
of Manhattan I'm in the water and I
finally just let go I love the Deepak
Chopra one to where he goes on that tour
of his subconscious and he realizes that
he is the Krone and she is him and he
cries and he has this big breakthrough
and then he comes out of the meditation
and Deepak psych what did you learn and
he's like nothing he's like a less
sympathetic version of Tony Soprano oh
no Tony is much more psychologically
rich than Talent
so the still don't know the cause as of
today of the fire in notre-dame
Cathedral there's already apparently
been you know they're they're committed
to rebuilding but of course you're gonna
rebuild you've lost 700 years of history
and some of the most beautiful glass
stained the stained glass windows
supposedly and some of it has been I
think was was saved but for the most
part destroyed and we don't know what
what's causing it and just to give you a
sense of how much the right wants this
to be Muslim terrorism terrorism
performed by you know radical is Islam
assist whatever it is how desperate they
are as opposed to the idea of like I
mean what did that guy was a
Walsh who is it that there is somebody
wrote that guy from TP USA or daily cut
like how is it isn't it suspicious that
this thing burned
oh yeah Matt Lewis Matt Liu it was a
Matt Lewis the guy that we talked about
yesterday right yeah he's like I don't
see how I don't know how a fire like
this could start immediately yeah it's
all wood like 700 year old wood yeah
there's about 13,000 oak trees right
from the 12th century right it's
literally like a magic box and so it's
Matt Walsh right and but here's Glenn
Beck basically providing you the
ultimate explanation if you're a
conspiracy theorist this is the way
they're going to always say that
regardless of what the authorities find
was the cause of this fire it will
always be in Glenn Beck's mine this
answer the Rose stained glass window is
irreplaceable if this was arson this is
going to be bad if this was arson of any
foreign kind of in any foreign entity
any anybody with a grudge I think if if
and this a huge if it might have just
been started by a cigarette we don't
know but if this was starting started by
Islamist I don't think you'll find out
about it because I think it would set
the entire country
spilling mass shootings they've had
people running people down in the
streets the tension is very high you
take away this be like us burning on our
White House I mean what what is what is
iconic like this Trade Centers yeah like
the World Trade Center this is their
World Trade Center moment and if this
was done by terrorists I think that they
will keep it quiet because I just don't
think McClellan and France wants that
internal fight if this was done by
somebody who is disgruntled with the
government etc like the yellow vests you
know they did say this weekend that the
police can put bullets in their guns and
they can shoot to kill the yellow vests
they said that this weekend so maybe
it's that I don't know but this is a
this a really big deal the world has
lost a major major piece of history so
there you have it that is the that is
the surefire way to make sure that you
will always have one answer always
you're anything bad that happens yeah
cuz France is so woke about Islam the
third all I hear out of there is all the
ways in which they're trying really hard
to be nice to Muslims and France it's
this is gonna be the answer well if we
expose the truth and people will be rude
to Muslims this has never been a part of
any a political strategy for any party
in France it's the last thing I would
want to distract from my record
unpopularity and ongoing protests is an
example is an opportunity to scapegoat
Muslims for a horrific terrorist attack
please suppress it so this last clip is
that what's this one oh no what's the
other Trump how we play that one okay
the last thing I want to do and then
we'll go to just a couple of phone calls
and
then we'll get out of here though is
this interview from Melinda Gates
because I found this sort of stunning
so Melinda Gates was interviewed in the
New York Times on tech innovation Global
Health and her own privilege and let me
start with that one
she you know she says to her credit you
know nobody's had to argue with her like
you're privileged in this to her credit
we have to think about our privilege I
have to think about my privilege every
day she says to her credit good for her
that's good and they were they were
asked what's a recent epiphany you've
had about your privilege she wrote that
it's not ours she's answered it's not
enough to read about it you have to be
in the community with people who don't
look like you when I read about a
shooting maybe in the south side of
Seattle I'm not living the experience
where if I have a friend who's a person
of color they most likely are living
that experience or know somebody who is
part of that community and so my
youngest daughter and I we have a lot of
friends who I'm meeting him there of
very mixed races I love that we have
this motto we go by every single person
who walks through our door should feel
comfortable in our house despite how
large it is and that it has nice art so
here's a person who I think you know
look she's obviously well-intentioned
and and there is no doubt in my mind
that Bill and Melinda Gates for the most
part are well-intentioned or let me put
it this way what are those things I
can't possibly know so let's assume it
which is all the more reason why we
should have laws to protect our society
from people like this because they
really do feel like they're
well-intentioned and maybe they are
well-intentioned
but the problem is that the amount of
money that they have can have
such detrimental effects on society when
they attempt to be well-intentioned that
it is unfair to the rest of us it is
undemocratic to allow two individuals
who are so well-intentioned
but so clueless about certain things
like anybody would be clueless about
things do you have that type of impact I
could be completely clueless but all
that I'm saying into this microphone all
the cluelessness that I'm putting onto
the microphone is not going to have
really any type of major impact on
society but when a billionaire is
clueless they can have an enormous
impact on society so they ask her to get
back to philanthropy what about the
notion that the Foundation's work on an
issue like public education is
inherently anti-democratic you've spent
money in that area in a way that maybe
seems like it's crowding out people's
actual wants in that area what's your
counter to that criticism what this is
in reference to is over the over 700
million could be up to a billion dollars
that they dumped into the educational
field invested in just a few districts
in the country to test out their
theories of Education can we run this
like a business can we assess what an
educator is doing in the classroom if we
if we use metrics in the same way we
would do like how many widgets are we
turning out and they did this over the
course of like five or six seven years I
think it was an experiment and she
writes or she responds bill and I always
go back to what is philanthropies role
it is to be catalytic remember that
remember that it's to try and put new
ideas forward and test them and see if
they work if you can convince government
to scale up that is how you have success
but philanthropic dollars are a tiny
slice of the United States education
budget even if we put in a billion
dollars into the state of California
that's not going to do much so we
experiment with
things if we've been successful David
you'd see a lot more charter schools I'd
love to see 20 percent charter schools
in every state but we haven't been
successful to God we haven't been
successful I'd love to say we had
outsize influence we don't now here's
the thing
she is so clueless she's right about the
fact that what she does is to be
catalytic because if a billionaire sinks
a billion dollars into an industry what
else is going to happen right her
billion dollars don't measure up against
what society spends on education but all
the money that's floating around out
there that is looking for a future all
those schools that are desperate for
dollars to get some type of program what
are they going to do she understands
they're catalysts but what does the
catalyst do it creates change in the
marketplace even if it's not a direct
function of what they do so if I tell
you that Warren Buffett is going into
you know he's but he's cornering the
market on flip-flops guess what
everybody's gonna do everybody's gonna
go and buy into the flip-flop industry
that's what happened with this the
so-called race to the top No Child Left
Behind value added on teaching
high-stakes testing all a function of
this experiment that the Gates
Foundation ran and they found out a year
and a half ago that it was a complete
and total failure
that's not my assessment that is the
RAND Corporation which the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation hired to assess
their experiment and it failed that's
why she says we haven't been successful
because they failed now you didn't hear
about that maybe if you listened to the
one or two episodes we talked about on
the show you heard about it but you
didn't hear about it if you watched the
news and you barely know about it if you
read the newspapers but they failed
catastrophic failure to the point where
the RAND Corporation and their internal
audit basically said it's probably right
that we should just do what the
educators
been saying god but yet those ripples
that they created are still
reverberating people are still fighting
against this what they assume to be the
case that high-stakes testing is the
best way to get results because of the
billion dollars they dropped in there
and the problem with that is not that
they're bad people
or that they're clueless the problem is
they had a billion dollars that they got
a tax benefit from to try out this
experiment and that's highly problematic
that we incentivize and allow for just
two individuals who have some kooky
ideas or not so kooky ideas to change
things in the public sphere something
that is supposed to be so democratic is
public education and this reporter
pushes back certainly you have more
influence than say a group of parents
not necessarily she says I went and met
with a group of three dozen parents in
Memphis we thought they had a good idea
a good idea for them they were having
none of it so we didn't move forward a
group of parents a group of teachers
they can have a very large influence in
other words I don't understand what the
word influence means we might not go and
jump a ton of cash in a in a district
where there's a lot of pushback by by
parents but we're gonna dump it
somewhere and when we dump all that cash
anybody who's involved in any type of
investing or a philanthropic work it's
not hard to find a school in every
district well I you know I don't how
many schools people have into their
districts where it's like oh we're
pursuing a tech curriculum because
that's the way we're gonna get a big
funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation I mean there's multiple of
them so we tour around looking at middle
schools and high schools and Justin then
the district of my daughter goes to
school in Brooklyn there's a couple of
schools her
hurting for cash who are completely
reconfiguring their curriculum so that
they can look appealing to these type of
foundations it's in not these type this
foundation so it's just absurd to say a
billion dollars dropped into education
in a concentrated way by one entity
doesn't have influence I mean come on if
she believes this then she's totally
clueless if she doesn't then she's being
liar but either way there's only one way
to deal with this and that is to say
we're gonna take that money off of your
hands well we're not gonna allow you to
make it we're gonna distribute that
money before it ends up in your bank
account and we're gonna put it into the
education system where we actually have
decades if not centuries of experience
in dealing with public education and
what we lack is funding to make it to
distribute across the country and across
the socioeconomic areas to deal with it
and create a quality education for
everyone and then actually what we're
gonna do is we're gonna take some of
that money and we're not gonna put it in
the schools we're gonna put it into the
communities because educators will tell
you Bill and Melinda that inputs are the
most important determinant as to what
the outputs will be at the end of the
process and they came to understand that
if you go read their Rand report that's
what they ultimately learned but
meanwhile there was a seven ten year
period where the country just went off
the rails in terms of Education and
there are a lot of people still think
that these theories that have now been
debunked by the very people who are
pushing them are still operative and the
problem at the end of the day is not
that they're bad people
it's just that they had too much money
and it created an unbalance let's help
them yeah and they were you know
incentivized by these kinds of
narratives to believe that they're
special and they're smart and they know
better than everyone I also like
she describes the meeting with parents
and the teachers like oh it's just a
friendly conversation when I'm sure that
these parents and teachers are expending
time and energy that they would rather
use on other things just to stop these
cockeyed billionaires from messing with
their kids school right we could have
had a bake sale today and made some
money instead of having to ward off the
the invading hordes of extreme
high-stakes testing frankly I mean even
that would have been a net positive but
it's not a nice thing to make people do
this is the this is the this is the the
fundamental problem with the this sort
of philanthropic model is that that's
why I don't give it doesn't it mean I
don't give money it's why I keep it it
really is and in you know I mean bless
their hearts I'm sure they're very nice
people but but it's too much
responsibility for them human beings
aren't supposed to have that kind of
money because it gives them an outsize
power right that's why they have mad
Kings every couple of hundred years you
get a nice one that's sane but then they
end up getting assassinated probably and
that's the that's the problem with
giving you know a billion dollars to
somebody or allowing them to make it
allowing them to you know exploit
society in such a way that they
accumulate that kind of money yes it's
it's it's a real problem there's nobody
in this room who if I gave them a
billion dollars or gave them five years
and and they got lucky enough to make a
billion dollars wouldn't be completely
deluded we would all go crazy
let's go to the phones speaking of come
from a 773 area code who is this where
are you calling from hey friends you got
Michael here from Berkeley California
Michael from Cal time listener oh yeah
buddy I joined back in the old air
America premium days 2006 proud to say
on also location of pmdf and auntie
fought oh sorry Matt I'm gonna get there
dude Wow wanted to very quickly hit you
guys to something that's going on out
here in the Bay Area and about a very
real opportunity that we have to replace
Nancy Pelosi with a young Muslim
Democratic Socialist Bernie Kratt an
activist an attorney with the Electronic
Frontier Foundation guy who's been
agitating against power for over a
decade who's running on a platform of
housing health care privacy voting a
living wage and climate justice as
fundamental rights of all people
his name is Shahid Butare yes I tweeted
out I was definitely right you did thank
you yes
sha hid bu TT AR so he's running a
really serious aoc style primary
challenge in the 12th district you know
he jumped in at the last minute 2018 got
almost 10 percent of the vote doing
almost nothing and it's getting in way
early this time staffing up got a really
impressive ground game and I think he's
really the best shot that we're gonna
have and either taking Pelosi out or at
least kind of forcing her to reckon with
the increasingly progressive
constituency in her district and the
party who see who she seems sort of
eager to dismiss as she obstructs
essential policies like medicare for all
Green Deal and as she of course
continues to promulgate divisive
rhetoric against young and exciting
progressives like AOC in Ilhan omars
so just want to get the word out there
obviously we need Bay Area people to
step up and volunteer but you can donate
from anywhere in the United States the
website is WWE head for change us sha
hid fo our change dot us
and that's all I got for you guys I love
you so much left is best peace out
appreciate the call left this belt is a
great call it is Shaheed Butare and it's
I believe his Twitter handle is at SH ee
y a h sh ee i think this is it right
he's in San Francisco 117 thousand five
hundred votes for Congress in 2018
Shaheed for change that's it yeah did
you see the thing is dropped from Pelosi
I mean this is just getting petty Nancy
Pelosi says a glass of water could win
Democratic districts like AOC
I mean it's so unnecessary and so petty
you know not so on strategic and also by
the way instantly you want to play that
game Nancy Pelosi does not have like the
Harry Reid I represent a state that's a
swing state she represents San Francisco
like we're doing that I'm gonna say that
like a bottle of kombucha could win
Nancy Pelosi's district it's um I well
you know we'll get a day and on tomorrow
to talk about Wendell Primus who is her
chief adviser and maybe he has some
insight like I said earlier and to into
what what is the strategic what is the
concept here I mean you know the only
thing I can imagine is that it has
something to do with that idea that she
wants to seem like she is on the on the
side of the Conservatives in her caucus
I don't understand maybe they're getting
nervous I'm not sure I follow what it's
about if a glass of water could win in
that district what's Joe Crowley's
problem exactly
I guess he's uh he's a half a glass of
water calling from for seven eight area
code who's this where you come from oh I
was relative certitude declare myself
Jefferson Georgia
Jeff from Georgia what's going on Jeff
Hey not much pleasure to speak to you in
the whole crew today yeah because have a
good one it's a little bit stale down
truck over this top a little bit I will
talk about normal people it's somewhat
related to Burgess taters Town Hall I
think which was absolutely fire I don't
know about you guys but uh I know a few
dorable people whatever that means in my
life by which I mean mostly just a
political and I'm surprised they come up
on the show and there's a real nice way
to say it a lot of those people believe
insane things insane things about the
world insane things about God the same
things about humans the same things
about each other they believe all kinds
of crazy nonsense and it's not because
they're stupid it's because there are
powerful forces at work you know looking
to on aggregate make them think that way
make them confuse and you know I think
if you're gonna want to reach these
people and you're serious about it you
know there's a lot of good pieces of
advice I could give you or someone else
to give you but I would just say don't
get ahead of yourself don't don't take
for granted that they just have the same
level of basic knowledge that you do you
gotta meet them where they're at and if
at the end of it you get their vote but
they still think aliens builds a pyramid
of one of the thought you don't need to
be worried about that
because you're not doing politics when
you do that that's that's that's just
what I want to say bad thing yeah I
think that's true and you know there's
sometimes those things get convoluted I
think where people want you know to
change people culturally or on areas
that are not relevant I mean I think
what people forget is that and this this
has come up many times over the course
of my am I doing this is it where people
like well you're just preaching to the
choir well you know the fact is is that
that's all you really need at the end of
the day you you know it's the electoral
politics involve people who just don't
pay attention but when it comes to
legislation and to actual change 3 to 5
million motivated people in this country
could could radically change the way
that we do things the right does nothing
but this yep almost their entire media
project is aimed not at converting
anyone or convincing anyone of anything
it's it's to roll up their base get them
excited get their wallets open and get
them out to you know make voting
literally their second job retirees or
whatever
I appreciate you taking my cone Thanks
calling from a 978 area code who's this
where you come from - can you hear me
I can who's this this is Maddy from
Massachusetts Maddy from Massachusetts
what's on your mind Maddy I am calling
to talk about the stop and shop strike
that we have going on here sweetie so
you don't know stop and shop is a large
grocery store chain here in
Massachusetts and throughout New England
currently 31,000 employees are across
240 stores are on strike in
Massachusetts Rhode Island and
Connecticut well when do say our strike
um six days ago they've been on strike
for six days they've been without a
contract since the beginning of February
and so they are striking for living
wages and against cuts to their benefits
- things are sort of most at issue the
companies often shop which is owned by a
large holding conglomerate that has
reported profits of over two billion
dollars the stop and shop is the has
agreed to raise wages for everybody
however um the wages aren't fully offset
by the added contribution that they're
asking employees to make to their
healthcare premiums so it will actually
be a net take-home pay decrease for
workers which is ultimately what they're
what they're striking against
another thing that will do that is the
change to Sunday pay so currently Sunday
pay is considered overtime pay and so
workers get time and a half on Sundays
they've agreed to grandfather in current
workers so that they'll continue to get
time and a half on Sundays but they are
also looking to undermine the Union by
saying that all new employees will not
get that benefit of time and house on
Sundays which ultimately just really
destroys the Solidarity and within the
Union and so it's really important that
we fight against that and we don't allow
the employer to undermine the Union in
that way additionally it harms their the
Sunday change in Sunday pay harm
take-home pay as well because the
company will just put on the new workers
and let me ask you this what what's
what's happening so our what I'm really
curious about is how our shoppers
reacting how because are they crossing
the picket lines and and where are you
located in Massachusetts willing to
agree oh dude I know where yeah so yes
customers are crossing the picket lines
and I'm I'm concerned because I think
that the general tone seems to be that
people find this a new find this a
nuisance don't really understand what
the workers are striking for want it to
be over as quickly as possible but don't
don't really understand the importance
of it I just have found incredibly
frustrating because five years ago there
was incredible public support and public
solidarity to support the market basket
strike that happened in August of 2014
and it was again a grocery store strike
however it was it's considered to be one
of the most strange labor actions in
American history because it was a strike
in support of the owner right I remember
this it was the the owner was being
bought out or
something what was it yeah yeah so with
that family it's a family owned company
cousins one was a CEO one controlled the
board right the guy who controlled the
board tried to oust the CEO and
ultimately on all the workers and the
public protested and boycott the company
first thing I remember that until the
cousin who was the CEO was able to buy
out his his cousin from the company and
for one and a half billion dollars all
right well I'll tell you I just got an
IM from wooden computers saying stop and
shop shops throughout North East and
Connecticut are empty people are not
crossing the lines there so that's let's
be honest Massholes
I mean to a certain extent there is an
attitude of like come on I have my own
schedule yeah raisins ever since I and
all he's closed why would I why I need
to go to stop and shop oh I read that a
famous hockey player how do you
apologize for crossing the picket line
oh that's good
Raven Bork Oh Ray Bourque yeah old-time
Elizabeth Warren apparently was on the
picket lines with them that's good yeah
and look folks honestly if you're in
Massachusetts or you're in in
Connecticut and you said Rhode Island as
well do bring those stuff like that
because it's not just a question of
making it you know raising their morale
when other people see you bring them
doughnuts they start to think maybe
maybe my attitude towards this needs to
be maybe I need to look into this a
little bit more I mean that's the way
this stuff happens when some people see
some civilians essentially providing
support for these people it starts to
make them think that wait a second maybe
these are issues that I should be the
thinking about and so you know that's I
appreciate the update Maddie and I guess
we'll we'll try and look into it and I
can get up there and take the kids hey
I'm gonna be up in Massachusetts over
the weekend so don't appreciate the call
don't be a scab k somebody Thank You
Jill stop it shops not supposed to stop
my day I don't know if there is a stop
in chopping low stuff I think it's all
price job oh right yes chopper price
Jabba there next yeah price job is next
well will price chop you son of a
go on to a 3 for 7 area code who's this
where he come from hey this is a lethal
mystery Allie what's going on oh not
much
so Felix back I went to my peoples for a
burny event in Astoria yeah
went there I went there when I was about
15 percent towards Warren 85% of our
Burnie and it was awesome there was a
bunch of groups were out there
Millennials for bruni I recognized a
couple of outfits from the Amazon
protest and long story short I'm gonna I
joined the Queen's of burning group
we're gonna be doing a bunch of events
the Queen could be trying to lead some
voter registration drives and so I'm
just trying to get people to check them
out vote for Bernie
he kicked ass and that's unlucky Stein
so just go out there voter registration
look at our site we're gonna be doing a
lot of events I'm pretty excited
great well good luck with it whiz their
website people can get more information
Queens for Bernie a Facebook and oh one
last thing I saw some a lot of my black
and brown brothers and sisters out there
yeah which makes what makes them Bernie
Sanders yeah in my view is doing the
most to address the issues
and get the excitement of our
communities out here a lot of
immigrating other communities in Queens
that are pretty excited by Bernie so I
just want to throw that out there as
well great
appreciate the call
via Emerson Democratic primary poll
yesterday 53% of Bernie Sanders
supporters were black Hispanic Latin X
or Asian 46% for Biden 45% for Beto 44%
for Harris 33 percent for Warren 19
percent for Buddha get Shh you don't say
well what a surprise that cuts into the
narrative a little bit doesn't it mmm
been telling you how much are you
willing to bet that that that though
that those numbers will be broken down
into more specific numbers and
communities till they find one where
he's losing yeah but if you look at the
critical Porto Ricans over the age of 52
in Maryland who owned Mercedes vote I
think it shows that he's not an
intersectional enough jayjay cool do you
guys know why Tulsi fans are insane I've
argued with plenty of people about why
Bernie is the best but Tulsi people
ignore gravity before conceding an inch
by the way Junior soprano would be
against tracksuits some hypnotic genes
great interview today Sam there's a
great video posted by a YouTube channel
innuendo studios name there's always a
bigger fish that touches on some of the
same points when your interview I highly
suggest you check it out it's always a
bigger fish always a bigger fish
innuendo studios
okay smooch court Matt I'll absolutely
listen to the whole show but can you
briefly explain the reference to the
wild - wild believing philanthropy is a
joke I mean it's a pretty common
critique of philanthropy that it just
sort of covers up it's just sort of a
bandage on a prowl a systemic problem
but a little air out of the tires yeah
yeah exactly
guido naira heard your discussion on
pelosi yesterday I think Michael had it
right she's miss reading the room and
believe she is still in her heart of
hearts and progressives just can't get
past the fear of being called
progressive as the new liberal as a bad
word politics from last 40 years since
Reagan not great politics nor wise
understanding of the energy of the party
like you like you said that said she
seems to be slow walking them forward at
least by putting them on heavy duty
committees where they have the
opportunity to have those big moments
you guys have played in the last few
weeks she put them in a visible position
and have been rocking it yeah it there
may be some truth that if she isn't
saying one thing in public and another
behind the scenes which is at best under
50% possibility she's wounding the party
severely small well is my rep he's
better than that clip showed I've talked
to him he's talked about
medicare-for-all and wouldn't do a
wouldn't do a gay joke he's in the Bay
Area but yeah he's got no chance I'm not
sure about what that means Todd from
Nova Scotia do you guys know Barrett
Brown is yes in fact I interview Barrett
when he was in prison it's been on
Twitter ranting and raving about the
intercept closing the Snowden files yes
it seems like he's trying to say
something important but it was very
erratic and doing so no one else seems
to be talking about it any insight on
this I've been following his Twitter
stuff and he is being a little bit
cryptic and I I'm gonna keep looking
into it we may have mine it's not just
the Snowden files there's other stuff
going on too well mark Ames had the
critique years ago that that those
things should be treated in an open
source fashion and not as part of like a
company's business launch there was a
Twitter there was a Twitter there was a
Twitter guy
Tartar z i can't remember his name now
who was who was on that beat seemed like
an odd fellow but i think there was you
know that critique that the snowden
files were monetized a little too
heavily I I think had some you know at
least as a as a pointed discussion some
merit
rancid Tarzi if I remember correctly now
I don't know I have not seen hide nor
hair for a while but William F Buckley
the Rhode Island fan should check out
Matt Brown who recently lost the
governor race to Raimondo he was
absolutely a strong progressive he
worked with justice dams AOC campaign
alumni and his work with nonprofit
global zero lay foundation for the Iran
deal
also check out Providence D s a campaign
for energy justice the Archaic under
Medicare for all would private
for-profit hospitals also switch to a
public system sink the insurance
companies all you want but Medicare for
all can only work if hospitals are
publicly owned to question mark or is
that negligible in the grand scheme
rooting for you from Canada I'm not I
mean I personally don't feel that you
need to get rid of private insurance i I
just don't think that it's necessary to
do what you want to do I think you I
think there's gonna be I think there's
room for them you know supplemental but
you can make people not require or like
you need it exactly but I think there's
going to be always a market for private
insurance I think there's going to be a
market for concierge doctors and some
private hospitals and this and that and
I have no problem with that
coexisting as long as it's some type of
add-on feature and it will be heavily
extremely expensive and not not within
reach so of most people so that it will
not undercut the ability you know for a
good
public system to exist I mean I I sort
of perceive it like a little bit like
like public and private schools I don't
care that there's private schools people
want to send their kids to private
schools
god bless what I do care about is taking
money from the public education system
and giving it to private schools and
giving it to parochial schools I mean
that that system does not bother me as
long as the public system is properly
funded people want to pay extra for as
long as they have that money and we
don't have a wealth tax that's making it
possible for you to do that by all means
go ahead I think part of the question
too was should we move to having public
hospitals right because that's not part
of the plan as of now that's being
introduced I mean I think that maybe
once you get the insurance down and
you've racked up that system then I
think it's time to start to look at that
stuff I don't know if it's necessary or
not I mean I think there's there's a lot
less examples of of that than there is a
single-payer system you know virtually
every Western industrialized nation has
some form of a public single-payer
system the number of like government-run
health care delivery systems is much
less right you see it in UK NHS I would
just want to add really briefly if
you're gonna think more about going into
other areas of the healthcare system to
make fully public I'd be interested in
the pharmaceutical industry much more
than eliminating all private hospitals
or insurance westcoast comrade
late-stage capitalist businessman Sam
cedar nimbly exploits the human capital
of his flexible and passionate support
staff this is how the majority report
can be so creative and innovative doe
link read marcy wheelers
to read the mullah report she's been
tangling with trolls but she's been
providing lots of detailed info we all
had suggested a reading the report don't
jump to conclusions read the whole thing
read the footnotes ignore TV for 24
hours Gregory from Oklahoma democratic
state representative from here in
Oklahoma tweeted that Burnie and Trump
are basically the same except for a few
policy positions and he got ratioed his
name is representative Jason Dunnington
you sure it's not Jason dumbing ttan
owned nice all right one more of the
shofar for the final phone call of the
day I'm sorry folks we have a lot of
people who have been hanging on for a
hundred and four minutes here is the one
hundred and four point five minutes I
assume gone from a 6-1 for area code
who's this where you come from
hey it's Dan I'm from Columbus Ohio dan
from Columbus Ohio what's on your mind
okay so I am from you know what everyone
really recognizes ultimate swing state
little higher correct if you say so I
don't know if it will be anymore you
could have gone full red but go ahead
that's Jim well I am challenging this
assertion for many that Ohio is no
longer in same state and the reason why
is because in the other situation in
Ohio where the county parties and the
urban centers have a lot of power in the
state party right and so we had this
problem where on the state party
oftentimes chooses god-awful candidates
and the county parties chose somebody
who was much better than the state party
and then you're the reverse effect where
the county parties often choose
candidates at a more local level which
are terrible in comparison to the state
parties local candidates and I would say
in order for Ohio politics to get better
it's that the two sides to this the
county parties in the state parties they
need to have a better synchronization on
which candidates they actually endorse
but ultimately not even involve
themselves in a primary with the sample
ballots what they do now so honestly the
main problem for Ohio Democrats in this
my view and I'm in contact with a lot of
local progressive action groups and
others and that is okay and that is
essentially like the conclusion is
that's the problem right well I mean I
don't know enough about Ohio politics
but that sounds like if what you're
saying is correct that that would be a
problem without a doubt and how do you
do what you're talking about
well okay so you I remember a while back
you had the 12th congressional districts
debate on your show but Danny O'Connor
versus 12 Alderson and their whole
debate over the Affordable Care Act and
the 12 district is a great example of
this because what occurred was that a
lot of people at any column that's in
the State House and that ODP there was a
candidate in the primary for the
Democrats named John Russell and she was
actually a Justice Democrat she was a
farmer from Galena which is more rural
part of the district on this district
isn't like half will have heard and she
was also educated at Cornell and he was
he was very good at connecting with the
more rural voters and so this is the guy
that ODT and a lot of people in
Statehouse like that thought was the
best choice but the Franklin County
Democratic Party which is the county
party for Columbus which is a largest
city in Ohio they ultimately decided to
endorse Daniel Clark who was the
Franklin County Record night rye and he
was yes he was chosen to run again the
previous reporter who did not endorse
the current mayor of Columbus okay and
this guy is like but without you're
getting you're getting too too much into
the weeds right you know this stuff
we're talking about so just like broadly
speaking what is broadly speaking
structural what is the structural change
you would make to get to get to where
you want to get to honestly I would say
that what they need to do is to just get
rid of the sample ballots at the local
like County Party level and the state
party
needs to stay out of the state primaries
and ultimately let the candidates go
around the state campaign and then win
the primary in that way instead of a
whole backroom deals kind of thing which
is what we have now and ultimately like
it loses us congressional races and it
loses that statewide I know because they
do this the idea is more democracy right
essentially yet and in the gubernatorial
primary we had Cordray sorry I know I
know but I but I think that's a good
point and I appreciate the call Dan and
if there's anybody listening who is
involved in Ohio politics I think Dan
has a good point and if you're not
involved in Ohio politics get involved
in Ohio politics this is where states
you know
Ohio may not be the swing state anymore
hard to know but you know there are
states in that area Wisconsin Michigan
Ohio you get involved in you're gonna
have an outside influence outsized
influence in the future of the country
that's just the case all right that's it
for calls today I'm sorry folks we had a
ton of calls obviously and I'm gonna
read a couple of AIIMS and then we're
going to go away pajama boy can't say
this is a case for a lot of people but
my sister whose Center left was
massively impressed with Bernie's Fox
townhall and is now much more open to
him and wonder if he was able to change
some regular Fox viewers Minds too he
killed it last night I love Sarah Palin
as a capitalist I'm reassured by
Bernie's taxes and would be happy to
vote for him it's not about the million
or so he's made it's about the
distribution in the current state of the
economy we don't need a businessman like
Trump we need two conglomerate like
Bernie and the left needs to respect
Bernie's conglomerate Sam I don't think
you did a poor job with that last caller
from yesterday America is still America
and I think we need to do better answer
on how to immigration benefits the u.s.
because a lot of people just see
immigration legal and illegal as
importing their competition episode 31
of the anti Fattah episode 31 of the
anti Fattah street legal that Fox News
townhall has me really wanted to see
Bernie a debating Trump lazy taco the
most impressive thing for me from
Bernie's town hall was Peter dows
reaction he got on Twitter
Town Hall and shot off an entire thread
in support of Bernie I was shook I saw
the reverberations of that on Twitter I
didn't know what executive Dow has been
getting on the good side for a while now
Nick from Manitoba Sam great interview
today sir great disco discourses on
nonsensical political analysis I felt
like I was reading JG a Pocock am i
right lastly Michael what does a Bumba
clot mean thank you I don't know what
that means Madoff light Buddha judge
mentioned National Service has a
proposal has me thinking what exactly is
the logic behind the idea that job
guarantee is somehow harder to be
co-opted to undermine that the welfare
state than ubi is how is the job
guarantee not functionally just a
means-tested guaranteed income with a
work requirement with the biggest
difference from work fair being the fact
that you always get a job if you want
one
additionally the job guarantee proposals
I've seen boast about money being saved
on other social services and mentioned
the possibility delivering benefits with
one like paid parental leave I don't
think a job guarantee I mean I guess I
see your point you basically could be
putting restrictions on welfare I got to
think about that more chappie
Mondale said I'd raise your taxes and so
will Reagan the differences he won't
tell you that
butters seventeen is there any chance
Fox is willing to elevate Bernie because
Fox and Trump believe that Bernie will
be the easiest candidate to beat even
though they would be 100% wrong it's
conceivable but I mean sometimes that
backfires like if you were to go all the
way back in history to 2016 sometimes
that theory can backfire Darryl Perry
returns say it Sam I want you to say
kick push push kick push coast in well
way we roll just rebels to the world
with no place to go and the final I am
of the day
[Music]
Sam snuff stash how can they say the
audience was stacked don't underestimate
the conspiracy theorist Russia's paying
Fox to build a Bernie against the
Democrats because he's the socialist
okay sup folks see you tomorrow I think
[Music]
I'm going
[Music]
yeah
take it
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
