[Music]
day
Vergil any closing words that you want
to offer us yeah yeah so I when I I was
originally gonna come on last week but
something came up and I was hoping to
talk about my run-in with the yang gang
which but sadly that's not a novelty
anymore because it seems more and more
people have skirmished with these
ruffians indeed well tell us who the
yang gang is these are online supporters
of Andrew yang and a substantial number
of them come from the all right come
from you know 4chan HN places like that
who were or at least claim to be Trump
supporters but they're like you know
that all right is I mean these aren't
you know people with you know real
values that reflect the the structural
issues in this country they're just kind
of like you know boards young suburban
heights right and so wait so it does
Andrew yang have any support from like
actual voters who would normally vote in
the Democratic primary I mean it's an
old-line phenomenon right now so it's as
near as I can tell and of course the
yang gang like their their voices are
much louder it's like it's it's it's
young people it's it's and specifically
you want a profile it's it's a young
male neat nerds young you need any et
not in education employment or training
I think that was originally a British
term but it uh it's it's what you
describe your average of failed son yeah
oh I see a lot of our listeners oh right
of course all of the Pete all of the
reactions when you because I'm just
I got we put up our first video on yang
on t MBS and like the whole template on
Twitter and on YouTube is exactly the
same as Sam Harris which is this is
totally unfair you haven't researched
enough can't believe you did this
totally wrong
some sort of like the line between hey
can you research my candidate and talk
about him a little bit more versus like
the just total emotional inability to
deal with the fact that maybe you just
other people disagree with your guy is
like non-existent line there my
colleagues have talked about yang as a
candidate before I haven't really spoken
about him yet the the thing is my
running I never said anything uh
unsolicited to andrew yang I just asked
him to pick up a copy of the chapel
guide to revolution a manifesto against
logic facts and reason and he said he
would read it actually so excited for
that he didn't ask he didn't like send
me an address to send him a copy but as
you know you can buy this book at
bookstores nationwide that's my
understanding and then you know I get
all these replies from the yang gang you
know telling me to off because
you're asking him to read yeah because
I'm asking him to read interesting well
they're not but this is all digital you
have not been I've not been physically
accosted but I spend most of my time in
the digital realm so this is the
equivalent of doing literal violence to
my person to my purpose obviously you
know we're out of time and wholly in the
future I can kind of talk about this
more because you know increasingly
people are talking about the ubi and
there's a lot of right there's a lot of
aspects about that right now the
conversation is increases just about the
yang gang in this becoming an online
phenomenon akin to the Burnie Bros or
the Ron Paul people or yes the the Trump
of original you know Magog or pep√© heads
I I do want to say that I am calling
right now on your show for a temporary
ceasefire a non-aggression pact
hopefully a more durable non-aggression
pact between the Burnie Bros in the yang
gang I don't think that any with that
that right now at this time we can have
any sort of productive conversation or
that there is anything to be gained from
this fight of course the Bernie bros
were fighting against the DNC in 2016
the anger will probably have to come
into conflict with the DNC if Tom Perez
says Andrew yang you know you can't
debate interesting uh you know in the
future I mean obviously there are there
are you know strong disagreements on the
issue of ubi even if that seems like a
redistributed
remits I mean yang is not a
redistributionist he's not a socialist
or anything like that but in the in the
short term you know I think we should we
should put our knives away focus on
shared opponents there's you know
nothing nothing to be gained from
harassing each other in this fashion
there you go so if you were thinking
about coming out and harassing a yang
gang member these put on Park of Twitter
the enemy of my enemy is my friend
is that what you're saying it's my yang
not necessarily all right we need a yin
to the yang is what you're saying
all right oh to be continued
