[Music]
on Friday night Chris Hayes had a asean
for a town-hall on the green new deal on
and here is a OC reminding people that
we basically deserted all of the people
in puerto rico 1.5 million losing food
assistance because because and the
ongoing colonization and resource
extraction puerto rico is not just going
on unabated but has been kicked into
high gear now so it's a nice mix between
sort of colonization and disaster
capitalism not have a version of just
coffee
exactly and here's ALC basically putting
the what happened to puerto rico in the
wake of maria into perspective you know
on the events of September 11th 2001
thousands of Americans died in one of
the in the largest terrorist attack on
US soil and our National Response
whether we agree with it or not our
national response was to go to war in
one then eventually two countries 3,000
Americans died in Puerto Rico in the
aftermath of Hurricane Maria where is
our response yeah none not what we did
we have out of response no vulture funds
and paper and cutting and cutting food
assistance it's just sort of stunning
but priming she needs I mean that's the
main reason I think she actually won I
bet if you really I mean in addition to
all of the hard work but I think that
one of the most potent hits on Crowley
forgetting his name was the fact that he
represented such a heavily Puerto Rican
district and was a bagman
these ventures funds out there I mean
that's part of it I mean I think like to
a certain extent there was a whole range
of factors in terms of who got mobilised
in that election but he was clearly very
comfortable he's gone on to have a
lobbying career landed on his feet
yeah don't worry I've do it alright
there's nothing like playing some Bruce
at the bar after getting into all
expensed I like to loosen up before I
play a couple of tunes and I put it on
my literal gold card it's not the
plastic version it's not the metal one
they have now like my gold cut made out
of gold and away was still competing
with each other goodies keep them busy
keeping keeping the race on a little bit
see which one of us see how we doing we
actually have to put some points on the
board here is a se also commenting on
what I noted earlier which was Fox News
is ongoing search for the latest woman
to demonize on the center-left anyone
left of them ALC is just one they've
there's a there's a writer who got hired
at New York University as an adjunct
professor making I think a full four
figures mid four figures she's making is
my understanding and they have demonized
her and attempting to get her fired I
can't even remember what the offense was
she well he if I remember correctly it
was I think she said a veteran was a
Nazi sympathizer for having an iron
cross on like his shirt or a tattoo or
something like that but now she type of
observational abilities that you're
supposed to have in journalism
but I think in generally issues a fairly
good watcher of the far right and so
here's a Elsie she surprised at how what
kind of a fail understand that they just
did a a poll of name recognition she has
something like 80 some odd percent name
recognition on the right and like sixty
percent on the left which I will say
this
they are inept in many respects but the
fact that they are able to define her to
a generation if she does I mean like
they did this with Clinton to obviously
the politics are not the same but uh but
they did this they there was a 20 or 30
year campaign to demonize her on the on
the right and highly effective I think
to it to a certain extent also one of
those reasons why Clinton was a not a
great candidate a lot of people thought
like oh well she's very experienced at
dealing with these type of attacks but
that's not the way it works it is rather
what it was is her negatives would these
people are not only very very they're
they're they're not only extreme they're
deeply deeply ingrained like this is
like this is how you get it into the DNA
of people on the right that ASE is to be
feared despite whatever material
benefits her candidacy wherever that
leads might be offering it's almost it
becomes almost Pavlovian the way and and
and the left needs to figure out a way
of dealing with this you need one of the
the the primary and first order of
business in the context of a campaign
and this is you know you can look at all
of this as an
going political campaign and movement
over over you know over time is to
define your opponent first and they've
already got there but shun Shu
nevertheless you say nevertheless it is
pretty laughable at how hard they go at
her and fail I just want to give a
little taste of like it is a 24 hour on
on Trump TV it's 24 hour in the
conservative movement it's 24 hour AOC
GND like that's that's what it is here's
here's a little taste of what it looks
like what is this green New Deal answer
radical and bona mental socialism a real
serious threat to our way of life absurd
socialist manifesto take green socialist
manifesto say socialist experiment it's
like your kids spew nonsense at you and
you're like quiet quiet learn something
before you come back to me he was a
bartender like two years ago he's kind
of adorable it sort of been the way that
a five-year-old child can be adorable
and she's ranting and raving like a
lunatic they're trying to get rid of all
the cap I support cows I've got a
hundred channels put an ocean
cheeseburgers a milkshake will become a
thing of the past we're gonna ban
hamburgers they want to take away your
hamburgers this is what Stalin dreamt
about but never achieved
the infamous Stalin five year program
were you expecting that yeah 100% that
well I mean there's ticket to 11 it is
next level I didn't expect them to make
total fools of themselves that's a
little bit concerning that she didn't
expect them to make total fools should
profit naive s a little bit naughty to
get your that's what whoever is your
press shot yeah she's like a
five-year-old that how she anticipate
expected you expecting a grown-up
response from the GOP yeah people aren't
calling it a OC TMZ now because Fox News
covers her it's that much no offense to
TMZ no offensive aggressive voice
