from a 267 area code who's this where
you calling from
just type it in here me yeah I just took
the first call out of the range of
people who've been on the phone for well
over an hour
who's this where you come from my name
is Connor I'm calling from Bucks County
Pennsylvania Connor from Bucks County
what's going on I just wanted to call
first of all I wanted to say that I just
finishing my first Ursula Gwyn book all
thanks to Jamie um-hum and then I just
picked up the Malcolm X autobiography as
well but um I wanted to ask you what do
you think so I'm I I live in the same
county as Mindy so I'm actually running
either for township supervisor or for a
Township auditor in the next coming
election
sweetie 2019 but um I'm only 23 so a lot
of the worry within my like local
Democratic group is about like how old I
am and how I lack experience right so
what would you think that the best like
rebuttal will be for that I mean I
pretty well-educated and I have like a
I'm a real estate agent
I am studying for my CPA I have a lot of
different things going for me but I mean
even if you apply it to a greater like
how do you how do you think that
Democrats that are younger like approach
that question I think broadly speaking
okay that if you think you have a
liability for anything and you think
other people think that you have that
liability you start by addressing that
so in any speech or any conversation you
have when you're trying to pitch people
as you say I know I'm young and I know a
lot of people think I'm too young to do
this and I'll tell you why I don't think
why my age why I don't think the the
rational concerns that people have about
someone my age are applicable or at
least I would say I still at the end of
the day to the extent that my
lack of experience is a liability hey I
feel like I can turn it into a strength
and B I feel like I am a quick learner
and I have established myself in the
community both you know professionally
and in terms of you know the community
in this way in that way and I am willing
to listen to people my my age is not
going to be a an obstacle in terms of
listening to what people have to say and
I appreciate that there are people who
have more experience than me and I'm
gonna be looking to them for advice and
for consult but I have an energy and I
have a responsibility and I like to
think it might be somewhat beyond my age
but so the key is acknowledge people's
concerns break it down as to why they
have those concerns and explain to them
why you have other attributes that will
fill in for anything that you lack and
as a function of age all right that's
awesome yeah I have a meeting tonight so
I have to decide within the next couple
weeks yeah I would just I mean look you
sound like a smart person you you sound
like you have lined up you know stuff
and then you know and then once you
address the concerns that people have
and you acknowledge them as being
rational once you do that you put
yourself in what they call the circle of
trust
right because I mean if somebody else
thinks that something is a problem and
you acknowledge that it's a problem but
once you do that you're on the same page
as them and then you're you are able to
provide a solution right or things that
are gonna mitigate that problem but you
need to meet people where they are in
terms of what they perceive as a problem
and you know I mean it's someone's money
it's also an improv lesson right no
denial yes
and basically is what you're gonna say
and I would also tweet at Mindy because
I suspect she might be an asset did you
all have ideas oh yeah she she she
already follows me on there and I've
talked to her briefly about it but uh
that was before I really was considering
a run but my the current township board
is made up of two Democrat I mean sorry
two Republican and one Democrat but the
two Republicans are actually retiring so
we could run to Democrats and really
totally flip the Earl's town and agree
it'd be a totally different ballgame for
us here right well it sounds like you
bring a lot of energy to a good luck man
appreciate the call
