this is this is one of the most stunning
pieces of foot now I've heard some
reports that say that Wilbur Ross is
just completely out of it that falls
asleep in meetings yeah that he's just
completely out of it but he seems to be
not completely out of it here but just
completely out of touch and here he is
being interviewed by Andrew Ross Sorkin
so this is really the functional
equivalent of like well will Andrew Ross
Sorkin oh yeah this is a home game yeah
this is a home this is like beyond home
all street reporters in the history of
life on earth
right I mean I don't want to say like
this would be like my sister Julie
interviewing me she would any more
adversary she would be more adversarial
and so here he is on this is a guy if
you'll remember andrew ross sorkin when
occupy first started he was the one who
bragged about fielding calls from
financial leaders asking whether they
should be afraid of what was going on in
Zuccotti Park and here he is
interviewing Wilbur Ross and Wilbur Ross
is just like wait a second just you be
quiet for a second I'm digging a hole
here and I don't want to be interrupted
mr. secretary I wanted to come back for
just a moment to the US government
shutdown while here in Davos I
interviewed the Alex carp he's the CEO
of Palantir a major government
contractor in the United States working
on behalf of the Pentagon and the
Defense Department he said that the
government shut down he believed was
terribly damaging to the brand of our
country do you believe that pause it for
a second just I mean contemplate what it
takes to ask this question in this
manner the framing is completely in that
perspective it is that's why he cares
it is sociopathic I've just spoken to a
contractor who thinks that our brand is
being hurt by this
we should note Palantir as Peter Thiel's
right right and it's super bad for the
brand
believed was terribly damaging to the
brand of our country do you believe that
I I think that's a great deal of
hyperbole we've had shutdowns before
I'll be it for not such a long period as
we've been thus far put it in
perspective you're talking about 800,000
workers and well I feel sorry for the
individuals that have hardship cases
800,000 workers if they never got their
pay which is not the case they will
eventually get it but if they never got
it you're talking about a third of a
percent on our GDP so it's not like it's
a gigantic number overall mr. secretary
but their mystery secretary there
reports that there are some federal
workers who are going to homeless
shelters to get food well I know they
are and I don't really quite understand
why because as I mentioned before they
the obligations that they would
undertake say a borrowing from the bank
or a credit union are in effect
federally guaranteed so the 30 days of
pay that some people will be out there's
no real reason why they shouldn't be
able to get a loan against it and we've
seen a number of ads when a convention
yeah you could hear him you can hear
ross sorkin going like okay yeah let's
too much of a train wreck I mean I'll
never be able to have another government
official on again
I mean first off the IIIi don't you know
like this is the this is this is this
harkens back to what's-his-face from
from Vietnam well the guy from Ford
McNamara right like look it's just
800,000 people that's a drop in the
bucket for some dummy
even if they never got paid 23 percent
of our GDP it's believable and he's also
sort of implying like the there they're
up to something fishy going to get the
food responsible and get payday loans
yeah exactly I know I mean it's such
it's like this old timey view of banking
right I feel like it's straight out of
It's a Wonderful Life I'll just go down
to the local bank take out a $50 loan
for my which yeah yeah I think yeah yeah
exactly they are there not just the
loans
George Bailey method for a guy like
Wilbur Oz you you can do that you walk
into the bank and it's like oh hello mr.
Ross shall we get you your typical drink
I actually have to go the banker
probably goes to him yeah I know I made
a joke that he's the kind of guy that
thinks a bag of potatoes costs $400
right because he's just never been to a
grocery store he's like that what's a
good what's her name from Arrested
Development Lucille Lucille Bluth no no
clue whatsoever and you could take out a
loan get a bag of potatoes but the idea
just like you know it's a bridge loan
you get a bridge loan and it's federally
backstopped because you know the federal
government is going to pay off as if
like these as if you could walk into a
bank and there's a loan officer there
who's just like has the authority to say
oh sure we'll give you a non securitized
loan pay there was some money I was
washing through Cyprus and there was an
Interpol red notice on it for a minute I
needed a bridge it's like a lot of
people could learn from that it's it's
it's stunning and here is Donald Trump
not to be outdone by his Commerce
Secretary
in terms of complete obliviousness he
also thinks that banking operates like
it did I don't know if it ever operated
like this but as if it's some type of
like you know small-time small-town
movie and you just go down to the
general store and his delusion I mean
this is it is amazing right now of
course nobody's going to see this
although this is on
phox so I imagine this is why he's
losing support is that the veneer is
really starting to get thin here no I
haven't I haven't heard the statement
but I do understand and perhaps you
should have said it differently local
people know who they are when they go
for groceries and everything else and I
think what Wilber is probably trying to
say is that they will work along I know
banks are working along the mortgagees
the mortgage the folks collecting the
interest and all of those things they
work along and that's what happens in
time like this they know the people
they've been dealing with them for years
and they work along the grocery store
and I think that's probably what Wilbur
Ross meant but I haven't seen a
statement no but he's done a great job I
will tell you that yes what does working
Mellon this guy is completely imagining
a world for people that does simply does
not exist I mean I you know I I it at a
hardware store upstate that I go to
quite a bit people have accounts give
them your phone number and they're like
Sam and yes and some people they put it
on their bill contractors can go in and
they just put it on their bill they
don't need cash right there they're just
picking up stuff and at the end of the
month they square up but the idea that
there are supermarkets that function
like this anymore like you're gonna go
into local Kroger's and you're gonna say
to the manager hi I come in here every
week okay like everybody else here I
have no idea who you are and yeah I I
just put it on my tab right I'll get
fired if I do that sir exactly just put
it on Mike because like that scene in
The Sopranos where they go to shake down
on like the Starbucks place and they're
just let be shame something up the
windows they're like no you don't get
this like every penny in this system is
tracked globally like I can't do that
for you and they're just like
no let small business no more but I mean
you so you traveled amongst you know
these folks for an extended period of
time something like that seems to me
more than anything else is going to
start to crack that veneer a little bit
I there's a thirty to thirty five
percent that will never move right I
think that's true yeah but I do think
you know my but my boss jank has said
this before the local mom in Kansas or
in Indiana right who sees she voted for
him because she's socially conservative
fiscally whatever the case may be when
they see the human costs of decisions
like this that's when that support kind
of tries to starts to trickle away and
we're seeing this bear out in the poll
numbers how long they stick who knows
but I think that it's so obvious who is
being blamed for the shutdown and the
narrative is correct and it's it's it's
fascinating to see it unfold he's
crumbling a little bit yeah I think
that's true and even you know there's i
but you watch that you track the AP
headlines the democrats block the
republican version and then in terms of
the democratic version it's just both
bills fell and of course the democratic
one got more votes and i think all of
this has just had donald trump not said
on national TV
oh I'll own it blame me I think there
would have been a very different story
it was actually a very shrewd move by
Pelosi and Schumer with it which you
know in hindsight I thought they kind of
looked a little weak on TV where you
know Schumer is just coward over saying
we disagree right but they got that
soundbite they got a few and it's it's
work
