[Music]
hey speaking of white privilege and one
of the things that we as white guys
always have the ability to do is to to
talk about is to have a certain amount
of delusion about was so much so that
even in loss and this is clip number
nine even in a loss we can talk about
how this reflects well on us and I don't
just mean oh it reflects well on us
because we did our best and whatnot it
is well here is Joe Crowley talking
about how much he helped aoc simply by
existing out of it is because she beat
me having so I take some you know I take
some solace in that
thanks plane well that I was important
enough that people actually took note of
someone beating me would you say the way
that when Eric Cantor lost he was in
leadership he was a big figure you were
a big figure in leadership and so
beating someone as big as you yeah and I
think that didn't happen overnight for
me it took 20 years to get or I should
say 16 or 14 years to get to that point
of leadership but I also think you know
it's a point of saying I didn't
underestimate her I then I appreciate
her closet so his point is the reason
why she is so well-known today is
because she beat him you know you
remember of course and and Melbourne you
know makes it draws the parallel with
the beating of Eric Cantor you remember
of course how david bratt was the cause
celeb in in washington four months four
months after repeat after he beat Eric
Cantor oh my gosh it was david bratt
this David Brett dancing on the rooftop
or should I call ya when that 50 TP as
we affectionately called him around here
ole DB and all the great proposals here
at all doubt boy oh boy I don't think so
but let's listen Joe he's got some more
stuff to say about how much he helped
her by being him
Rustom ater I then I appreciate her our
point about that it was there were a lot
of factors that went into the race and
probably more time that that that we'd
have to talk about that but I wish a
well and I want her to do well I want to
do well on behalf of my constituents and
for the country as well they're not your
constituents anymore chief odo dude he
also took her so seriously that he sent
a former Councilwoman in his place to
debate Alexandria costume that's because
I think Hispanic so seriously what do
you know there you go he was so well
placed in leadership it would have been
unfair I like him he's becoming Boston
Thank You Preston I like that well you
know if you're if I wasn't in leadership
no one would know this little Puerto
Rican fathers but look I wish it about
what's he did some pastries yeah
lobbying thing you know she had any
courtesy she would help my clients
exactly that's the thing she really I
hope she appreciated how much me being
me helped her to be her
it's always the guy behind
oh she was was because of who I was
allowing her to be who she was it's just
a Mike it's just it's just unbelievable
right like there's just no that's that
is what like that's what true grit is
like being a white guy and always being
convinced that even the success of
others as they beat you is a function of
how great you looks like being a Chiefs
fan and saying like yeah we we were so
tough for the Patriots that they had to
beat us and through beating us it's
really what made them the challenge
exactly even that has actually like a
little more validity yeah on some level
because it's like well we toughen them
up or you know but Ryan grim pointed out
that it is true that they they did spend
a lot of money to try to beat back AOC
so it's not necessarily that they just
underestimated her that's not why I OC
one there was some genuine you know
reason well I think I think everything
address said there
totally fine except for this she is who
she is cuz of me part yeah well
