[Music]
this is super heartwarming in
Pennsylvania a representative Stephanie
bore which she's a Republican from
central Pennsylvania's Clinton County
well wait you sure you want to say a
party she's from we could have guessed
oh yeah we could have played let's guess
what party she's from you know what they
say about Pennsylvania right it's like
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and Alabama
in between well she decided to reach out
and on on the day when the the the
Pennsylvania House would be welcoming
their first Muslim lawmaker to the house
she came up to give a a welcoming prayer
I guess opening this session with the
prayer welcoming their their new
colleague and here it is think out what
welcoming this is for someone who is
maybe not Christian or even someone who
is Christian but I'm particularly if
someone who's not Christian the idea
that this is going on in a state house
well here we go representative Borowitz
Thank You speaker let's pray Jesus I
thank you for this privilege Lord of
letting me pray God that I Jesus I'm
your ambassador here today standing here
representing you the King of Kings the
Lord of lords
the great I am the one who's coming back
again the one who came died and rose
again on the third day and I'm so
privileged to stand here today so thank
you for this honor Jesus God for those
that came before us like George
Washington and Valley Forge in Abraham
Lincoln who sought after you in
Gettysburg
Jesus and the founding fathers an
Independence Hall Jesus that sought
after you and fasted and prayed for this
nation to be founded on your principles
in your words and your truth
God forgive us Jesus we've lost it I
just I just I just want to just go back
a little bit and just it's easy you know
to get caught up in the rhythm but she's
saying that this country was founded on
Jesus's principles which I'm quite sure
religious liberty was up there well you
know we get a bad rap but I choose
really this melodramatic will defray the
phone and father's Christ it's like the
Greeks as much as I like Jesus but who
gave the Greeks
it's one thing I say Jesus thank you for
America and Jesus everything that we
have in America is a function of us
following your word Jesus but Jesus
forgive us for what we're doing today
she wants to say Jesus that sought after
you and fasted and prayed for this
nation to be founded on your principles
in your words and your truth God forgive
us Jesus we've lost sight of you we've
forgotten you God in our country and
we're asking you to forgive us Jesus
that your promise in your word says that
if my people who are called by my name
will humble themselves and pray and seek
your face and turn from their wicked
ways that you'll heal our land Jesus you
are our only hope
god I pray for our leader speaker ters
aye leader Cutler
governor wolf president Trump lord thank
you that he stands beside Israel
unequivocally lord thank you that Jesus
that we're blessed because we stand by
Israel and we ask for the Peace of
Jerusalem as your word says God we ask
that we not be overcome by evil and that
we overcome evil with good in this land
once again I claim all these things in
the powerful mighty name of Jesus the
one who at the name of Jesus every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
yes you hold our Lord in Jesus name Amen
yeah people were saying like you know
why I don't like the part about how all
every knee shall bow that probably is
maybe going a little too far someone
yells out I mean we start our morning
loud its can we start praying and
morning prep actually that was kind of
cool every knee shall bow to we can each
choose our own God everyone sham thank
you Thank You Hashem for security report
and Jesus I pray that you let us come in
a little bit later in Monday's Jesus I
hope that Sam got some sleep but Jesus
put put up put a marker and what she
said about Israel because I got a story
in Haaretz about how Bibi Netanyahu told
an aide I don't need a pact anymore
because I have the evangelicals but I
guess he likes it because they still pay
his way when he comes to the states or
so the free trip and my son gets to meet
Sapp gorko which is a big deal for him
hopefully will keep him from being the
first school shooter at Israel huh
speaking of which where is he
so here is representative Movida Johnson
Harrell she is the first in the state as
I should say a the first state
representative sworn in as the first
Muslim woman representative and here is
here's her I mean first of all that they
picked this woman like did the leader of
the chamber not realize that we're gonna
find the was this a surprise to anybody
that's what's really offensive you can
always find some person who is a
religious fanatic who thinks that their
religion ruber all A's and but you don't
pick that person to give the opening
remarks particularly on a date frankly I
would say the time for you to pick them
is never but certainly on this day
you're culpable too buddy
but here is Movida johnson Harrell that
prayer in the beginning is meant to be
inclusive and to bring everyone together
we as Republican and Democrat can find
many many things to fight about
should not be one of these every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
Jesus that you are Lord I thought that
was political but I also thought it was
a political statement when she talked
about everyone will ballet me and
talking about how if that people are not
Christian that they are condemned your
promise in your word says that if my
people who are called by my name will
humble themselves and pray and seek your
face and turn from their wicked ways it
was directly a political statement and I
think we need to be very very clear that
everybody in this house matters whether
they're Christian Muslim or Jew and that
we cannot use those issues to tear each
other down and not only that it was it
was made during my swearing-in I Movida
Johnson Haro which was a moment not only
for my district in my city but for the
entire Commonwealth to be the first key
Jabby woman to stand on the State House
floor to be elected to the House is
great for the entire Commonwealth so to
use my religion against me and the to
then storm off the floor I thought
number one was very very immature and
number two very very disrespectful to
say the least
yeah I mean yeah I know the opportunity
of my swearing-in for a theocratic
fascist threat was a little bit unseemly
both sides
I mean honestly just oh yeah I saw that
but uh what about the tax thing well you
guys I wrote a translation that Muhammad
was it a nice guys majority part doing
apologetics for Muslims yeah I hear what
you're saying about maybe she shouldn't
have done that prayer and I don't like
Christianity either but I feel like you
got a question why would the
Assemblywoman be a Muslim ah there's a
thing called the hadith which I've heard
about on several podcast there I look
we're not gonna get too many calls today
at all folks so don't hang onto too long
but one of those calls could be someone
who was a Christian who is calling in
and
wants to talk about what that means that
we've got to take the knee because we
know historically what that means when
you did not take the knee we have
examples of that during the Spanish
Inquisition in fact when you did not
take the knee and and certainly I you
know I don't want to say that
Christianity is the the mother of all
bad ideas but certainly when you say
hello I mean it's just it kind of makes
me realize why they have a thing like
like ECTA in France we're just like all
religion there's a blanket ban on it in
public
municipal life like I don't I didn't I
don't think we need to go that far
people just need to not be psychos about
it but this woman making me think maybe
we do it's a I mean it's pretty
disturbing and good flea did who would
it be targeted that good not that woman
does in France good why does your bad
policy ideas I mean I get your sentiment
I actually have more sympathy for it
that people might think but it's about
power and what it gets instrumentalized
against and actually right there is a
perfect example of that there is a
Muslim woman who's quite happy to have a
civil polity where people could express
their faith and there's literally a
theocratic fascist trying to terrorize
her out of her behind limit and how long
you're allowed to go on for when you're
doing that kind of talk yeah and you
know I really do think that probably you
could have given that little diatribe
maybe in your own home Jesus probably
would have heard you if he's so powerful
I got the sense that she was practicing
that in her own home I bet I bet
