[Music]
and it's the contours of this race are
becoming a little bit more clear I think
even though it's quite possible in
October we're gonna have multiple
debates again Tom Styer apparently is
going to qualify because he was able to
buy a lot of donations
I know Matt Iglesias said on Twitter
that everybody knows the Tom Stiers
donations are fake I don't know if he
was being a you know funny about that or
or not I imagine if you have a lot of
money to spend right you don't need to
raise money then you can spend more on
your revenue then you get in revenue and
it still has value to you this is a
dynamic that exists in in in the tech
world quite a bit actually I mean it is
true the way that companies sell
themselves so they get bought out is
they will spend a dollar and ten cents
to to get $1 worth of revenue and then a
bigger company comes along and says oh
look at all this revenue we can help we
can help with expenses that's easy
because we we have you know we can
amortize it across are all our different
operations and we can get rid of some
redundancies but this new revenue will
take that and in this instance there is
federal government's not saying like
what's your net revenue in terms of
spending versus what comes in it's just
or I should say the Democratic National
Committee they're just looking at how
many donations you got and so Tom Styer
maybe in the next debate there maybe
it's possible Tulsi Gabbard maybe in the
next debate but the contours of the
evening you know I think made it clear
we'll talk more about that with Digby
specifically I'm talking about just sort
of the wide array of forces that were
deployed to basically say don't believe
your lying eyes Joe Biden had a sharp
night last night and anybody who messed
with him was doing something wrong and
I'm not convinced frankly that there
weren't people on stage who were also
sort of trying to promote that idea a
little bit but but certainly you know
Rahm Emanuel I could have told you what
he was going to say three weeks ago if
you told me that he was going to be the
first voice as a neutral commentator on
ABC television which carried the debates
I mean and look I don't know how much
this has an impact or not on things but
a a broad acceptance of some of the
reality about what Joe Biden showed last
night I think would hasten if not make
his demise in this primary inevitable
and I'm gonna spare digby having to
watch this clip I mean look this is you
might enjoy it hear it well it's true
but and and and there's people are gonna
say like this is cruel you're picking on
it but look here's the bottom line two
things cannot coexist one we cannot say
it is a existential question as to
whether Donald Trump should be
re-elected or not and then say you're
being too mean by picking on somebody
for something they can't control I would
never make fun of Joe's teeth right well
I mean that's the point is that like
look seriously you can't make an
argument that this is the most important
election in multiple generations but you
gotta cut the guys lack because look
you're gonna end up there too and I know
it I know it I there
the be caught the the idea that I'm
going to have an embarrassing moment
with my teeth at one point in my career
is I I've accepted that I know you were
saying the other part like you need to
get record plays in front of those kids
well we're gonna get there but here is
Joe Biden the moment where what do you
say the bridge fell down the gun fell
out graders would be in eighth grade
today at the time there was a
groundswell in this country to get
something done President Obama asked you
to lead the push for gun control he sees
even ality to reach across the aisle to
get things done but four months after
Sandy Hook a measure to require expanded
background checks died on a set of
evolution up push it up if you couldn't
get it done after Sandy Hook why should
voters give you another chance because
my god done before the only one appears
ever beat the NRA
yeah I mean he's playing around with his
teeth and he just didn't have him set
and when he started there and I mean
look like I say well first off let me
just say this get quick calm slash
majority there is a reason why I have
been so so attuned to my dental hygiene
over the past couple of years because I
know I'm getting to this age I know
there's a certain inevitability I know a
lot of people frankly who have that type
of bridge work but the bottom line is
and this isn't the biggest argument as
to why'd you know Joe Biden shouldn't be
President or shouldn't be the nominee
but you can bet Donald Trump would make
some hay on this I'll be interested to
see if he says anything now because I
think he's actually sort of wants Biden
as the nominee and it'll be interesting
to see how strategic his his mockery is
certainly come on make fun of people's
eyes blowing up and bleeding it's you
know in a sense it's really unfair
really taste this right you know maybe
Joe still does have his
yeah exactly it was certainly a nice way
to underscore the outdated miss of his
politics for anyone who didn't get that
yet well the thing is is that that's
part of the narrative I mean part of the
narrative is people think that Joe Biden
has lost a step or two or five and if
this happened to Elizabeth Warren I
don't think she has a bridge but Bernie
Sanders very well may if it happened to
Bernie Sanders sure it would not I mean
for other reasons I think it would get
blown up but it doesn't necessarily play
into the same narrative there's nobody
out there who is saying Bernie Sanders
has lost the step they may say like he
said he's been a cranky old man for 35
years or something to the effect but the
fact of the matter is everybody knows it
everybody who pays attention to these
things knows what's going on with Joe
Biden and the people who don't care
about it like a rahm emanuel they just
know that look there's been multiple
presidents who've gotten into office and
had to be basically walked through
everything and that doesn't matter
because it's guys like me Rahm Emanuel
who be there actually pulling the
strings and I'm perfectly fine with that
in fact I that's the way I would like it
so but we'll talk more there's more
substantive I think critique of Joe
Biden but this plays into a narrative
and frankly it captures one of the
issues that people have that like this
is not I would not be supportive of Joe
Biden 15 years ago but that's a separate
issue as to whether people who would be
supportive of Joe Biden 15 years ago can
today say like that's the Joe Biden I'm
support give me a break Sam to even like
Earth Wind & Fire and let's get real
deal here
