let's talk about AOC a little bit more
um
she was on Chris Hayes last night this
is like he's at a good show
Hayes had a great show last night but I
feel like this is like it's like this is
what I think people probably imagine
like our my like dreams like the dreams
I have of like Chris Hayes sitting down
and talking with a I'll say that type of
thing right I mean the day they get
together to talk about expanding Social
Security that's that's probably the day
I retire folks
I'll have seen it all I'll have done
when she when she said when she sits
down with with Hayes in the Oval Office
and he at her for his first question is
with a majority Democratic Socialist
Congress and Democratic Socialist Senate
what will be the first thing that you do
president Cascio Cortes and she says I'm
going to expand Social Security and
finally lift the cap with a small
doughnut hole just for the sake of it
that's that's when I basically say like
my job here is done folks and I walk
away I walk I turn instead of having the
Sun behind my back I turn and walk into
the Sun like at the end of Josey Wales
there it is anyways and reverie huh I
think that's what's known as a reverie
yeah that's it I just I just spoiler
alert I just gave away the end of the
show that's when it ends hopefully I'll
be able to actually then walk away as
opposed to be just wheeled away that's
when Brendan comes up and he's like it's
time to go mr. cedar your and we'll just
wheels me away so one of the
controversies non controversies that
have surrounded Alexandria Cascio Cortez
was her announcement that we she also
made with to to liebe right the from
Michigan that they were via Justice
Democrats going to continue to primary
Democrats
it sounds like primarily in blue states
although it seems like across the board
but they're going to do so in a way that
is thoughtful I don't know if Andrew
Gilliam was one of the Justice Democrats
but the model seems similar right and
here she is discussing that primary in
and there is a desire like you know
people out there getting freaked out
how could you primer how could you talk
about primary Democrats
that's what primaries exist for like
he's saying if you have a problem with
someone announcing that they are going
to primary Democrats then what you
should be working for is the dissolution
of primaries in your party I mean it's
absurd but here she has an opportunity
to discuss it in a way that hopefully
rational human beings can understand you
just as Democrats just a Dem such a
group that had sort of worked with your
campaign early on you and they had sort
of announced your plans to continue the
process of primering incumbent Democrats
which is how of course you got to
Congress I wonder like how that how does
that color the Reid relationships you
have with the incumbents well I think
what's important to articulate what
justice Democrats is about is really
it's not their mission their mission
isn't we're gonna primary Democrats
their mission is we're gonna support
working-class candidates to run in
midterm elections and so they have
supported and endorsed candidates and
to Blues in open primaries and but they
do not shy away from from actual
primaries and blue races either and so
you know I don't I'm not sure if it
really changes much because incumbent
Democrats support and endorse against
other incumbents all the time you had
Dan Lipinski earlier this year that's
what it come to see it that is part of
the quote and so so but you have people
that also support other primary
challengers to incumbents as well like
again you have dan Lipinski this year
where you have Kirsten Gillibrand neopor
millage I appalled that came in and said
we need change in this community so I
don't think it's anything two out of two
- I don't think it's a departure from
precedent right but I also think that we
need to realize that at least for me and
what I tell my community is that we
don't once we get elected to Congress we
don't own these seats we rent them from
our communities and we have to make our
case every single time and that's not
gonna be I'm saying this to you as as an
incumbent to be and I realize that that
that that means I hold myself to that
standard as well but I think it makes
our democracy healthy I mean the it is
it is stunning to me that people are
uptight about this I'll just mention
horse whisperer a anonymous centrist
account on Twitter which I don't know if
you guys are familiar with but was
freaking out about the Pelosi stunt
saying like did it look at long numbered
thread about how she has to learn what
to do in Congress and I just don't
understand that reaction from people
especially now first of all it belies I
mean if that person was sincere okay and
I don't know if that person sincere
right but if that person sincere they
don't understand politics at all it is
just as likely that Pelosi welcomed that
Nancy Pelosi nothing they were asking
for was inconsistent with their agenda
the more pressure Pelosi is under the
more she can go and leverage that that
is exactly how politics work I would
love to give you the
but my constituencies gonna make me pay
so you've got to come towards my
position a little bit that's what that
is it that's what DRC are that's what
that's what Barack Obama said I mean you
don't understand politics if you're
freaking out about that and particularly
you're also not aware of what ALC did
she went in there and she was nothing
but gracious to Pelosi and Pelosi was
nothing gracious to back to her I if you
if you told me I have a tape of those
two talking to each other beforehand
about like hey heads up I'm gonna come
and join the thing and like Pelosi
saying good this will work out well I
would not be shocked the FDR quote is I
agree with you I want to do it now make
me do it and the interesting thing is
like the first two clauses aren't that
important like even if somebody doesn't
agree with him you can still attempt to
make them do it but it's obviously
better to have people that want to be
made to do something
well those first two clauses basically
just provide the the how paramount the
third clauses right because it's like
never mind that I wanted to do it that's
irrelevant mm-hmm what I want to do is
irrelevant is what he's saying exercise
the power over me plus if you think the
composition of these Democrats are
troublesome with regards to you know I
guess being corporate if we want to call
it that the Dixiecrats were Democrats
with the Dixiecrats were a bit had a bit
more structural obstacles I think to
passing some of this stuff exactly Colin
from Nebraska
what are your ideal federal income tax
rates tarp top rate starting at what
maximum income top rate starting at what
amount of income maximum income I I got
to be honest with you I don't have an
ideal federal income tax rate because I
haven't sat down and done it but I am
perfectly comfortable with with
something that is similar to what
had in the you know 50s and early 60s
where you know the top income rate is
90% and you know on the first you know
every dollar after I don't know two or
three million dollars that you whatever
it was I think it then it was like four
hundred and seventy thousand dollars now
today that would be two or three million
dollars well you know how we got
speaking of FDR we got the ninety four
percent rate as FDR wanted to make every
in today's dollars every dollar over
three hundred and fifty a hundred
percent taxed and three hundred fifty
thousand two hundred fifty thousand not
in today's dollars in in in today's
dollars would be three hundred thousand
and those dollars would be to twenty
five thousand dollars a year it was
ninety four percent on everything over
twenty five thousand dollars well this
is what this is the proposal so FDI
proposed a hundred percent top tax rate
at that time of quote grave national
danger Roosevelt told Congress in April
1942 that no American citizen ought to
have a net income after he has paid
taxes of more than twenty five thousand
dollars a year that would be three
hundred fifty thousand dollars in
today's so that was his opening salvo
but it's not where it lands that's not
where it landed but that's how he
started
and that's I'd be totally happy with
saying nothing over yeah I would I would
say like half a million dollars or
something like that a million to every
dollar after that ninety cents 100 cents
on the dollar but I would say like I
would have a hundred percent option twos
where like I don't know if you put that
ten million dollars so basketball
players could get their full cut close
to their contracts or something like
that I don't know that's who I can
that's who I'm worried about you're
worried about the baby only the only
people I care about when it comes to
raising these tax rates or our
professional athletes and and video game
makers know rock star needs to unionize
even though Red Dead Redemption to is
great
