[Music]
talk about what's happened in Brazil and
you know I interviewed Greenwald on my
show this reporting is stunning and you
know I've reviewed this case on this
show it obviously means a lot to me and
it's very nice to have this reporting
mean that more people are catching up on
it
because it is really important it is
really important that we have the
world's most prominent political
prisoner in the world sitting in a jail
cell in the world's fifth largest
economy in the largest economy and
country in Latin America and that there
is almost undoubtedly a US Justice
Department role in it that matters
and I think it also matters more broadly
because it goes to the heart of why we a
need to put foreign policy back on the
table in terms of conversation and
particularly u.s. interference in Latin
America and B because a simplistic
one-dimensional rhetoric about quote
unquote corruption has been proven quite
Aunt Polly to only benefit far-right
authoritarian leaders like Donald Trump
drain the swamp or jr. bolson ro or or
bond or putin or duterte or Modi or net
or even that Yahoo hilariously enough
but I'll just touch on briefly the
releases from the intercept keep growing
and growing and growing in terms of just
the stunning corruption and
politicization of the prosecutorial team
that went after Lula they maintained
publicly the whole time that they
weren't political that they didn't have
an interest in the outcome of the race
and the fact that Judge Sergio Moro who
was sort of a you know served this odd
dual judge prosecutor position took a
position as jerub-baal senarios justice
minister that should have been enough
for every single person in media and
person people with any progressive
political bona fides to immediately
reject and along with the fact that the
case against Lula was threadbare and
relied on compelled testimony of one
person that should have been enough but
now these documents are endlessly
filling in and I'll just highlight a few
things so one of course contrary to
their public
position they were actually hugely
invested in the outcome to the point
where Judge Sergio Moro collaborated
with and secretly coordinated an apt
strategy with the lead prosecutor in a
way that I think is absolutely illegal
and a totally unethical so he would plan
when to go on raids he would help them
rewrite briefs so they were stronger
there was work to undermine Lula's
interview ability to do an interview
even after they had already jailed him
in this political way and the other
really significant thing was the case he
was convicted on the prosecutors
themselves the lead prosecutor uh Delton
dalla GaN says in one of these things
basically he's like I he's basically
saying
apart from this item I am I am I am for
I am apprehensive about the connection
between Petrobras and the enrichment the
enrichment is supposedly what they what
they convicted him on was that not even
for getting an apartment actually it was
for getting improvements on an apartment
so this is him talking about that case
Petrobras in the enrichment after they
told me I'm apprehensive about the
apartment story he wrote in a group
telegram chat with his colleagues on
September 9th 2009 four days before
filing their indictment against Lula
these are points which we have to have
solid answers on the tips of our tongues
none of his subordinates responded to
his messages and the materials examined
in this article so four days before
indicted a former two-term president a
national icon who brought tens of
millions of pop out of poverty he's
saying to his own prosecutorial team
what we're about to charge him with
seems pretty weak and not related to the
case now there's new revelations on at
least one Supreme Court justice that
have come out and an endless amount of
stuff really revealing the corruption
and and just utter disgusting this of
Judge Sergio Moro and Bernie Sanders
finally and thankfully has come out and
said I stand with political and social
leaders across the globe who are calling
on brazil's judiciary to release lula
and annul his conviction the 2018
elections are completely illegitimate
lula LED in all polls
was jailed in this totally corrupt and
political way and I have to say don't
take politicians words for it but I
played this on my show before Lula was
put in prison in this grotesque farce of
Sergio Moro on lava jato and it is
worthwhile to listen to credible foreign
leaders particularly when they're
incredibly successful progressive
presidents here is Lula da Silva
speaking with Amy Goodman last spring a
couple of weeks before he is put in
solitary confinement on these ridiculous
charges and kept from being elected as
brazil's president which he almost
certainly would have been we are
awaiting cues to show at least some
piece of evidence that indicates that I
committed any crime during the period
that I was in the presidency now what is
behind that is the attempt to
criminalize my political party what is
behind that is the interest together
with a partner reinforced by the role of
the judiciary preventing from becoming a
candidate in the 2018 elections you
continue gives up here the pilita
federal and I continue challenging the
federal place the office of the Attorney
General I continue challenging show the
world and to show Brazil single piece of
evidence of a crime committed by a
portamento dupatta judiciary mr. t
behavior of the judiciary in this
instance is a political form of behavior
that's absolutely right all of the
reporting validates this 100% and I will
say look forward because this team of
prosecutors in Sergio Moro are so
political right
and unethical they've already they were
illegally tapping Lula's phones they
released distorted phone conversations
to embarrass people and so on going back
years so I'm sure they will respond with
more dirty tricks in propaganda he's a
political prisoner he needs to be freed
now and we need to look at this very
seriously just really briefly from the
intercept a probe however is also the
probe this is the carwash prosecution
has been accused of political bias
repeated violations of constitutional
guarantees and illegal leaks of
information to the press a separate
article published stated by the
intercept reveals that the carwash
prosecutors who long insisted they were
a political and concerned solely with
fighting corruption we're in fact
internally plotting how to prevent the
return of power by Lula and his Workers
Party so this reporting is incredibly
crucial because first and foremost he's
a political prisoner he needs to be free
Brazil didn't have real 2018 elections
corruption as a discourse favors the
right and we need to understand how to
talk about it properly and in capitalist
and oligarchic terms and then also
because the US media still to this day
has covered this case in an incredibly
biased way which has elevated these
right-wing hack prosecutors and repeated
their propaganda and lies about Lula and
it wasn't just the New York Times The
Guardian The Washington Post and so on
who did horrific jobs on this and you
need to be reading Brazil wire and of
course the reports the intercept it was
even some quote-unquote progressive
sources wow that's kind of a I don't
know that kind of that's amazing yeah no
that's amazing I want to get a lava jato
t-shirt yeah I don't know if anybody
else wants it I I'm gonna pass on the
lava jato t-shirt particularly if you're
talking about another country it's your
obligation particularly if you're on the
left
why don't you seek out real left-wing
sources in that country because even the
ones in Brazil that were much more
critical of PT
would have told you that the process
against Lulu against Delmas Rousseff was
a coup and that the prosecution of Lula
was totally politically motivated and so
you have almost certainly with some
direction in support of the US
Department of Justice a social
democratic government that refused to
privatize key geostrategic assets that
lifted tens of millions out of poverty
built hundreds of new universities made
incredible gains in public health
criminalized and now a fascist is in
power and part of the handmaiden of all
of that is just repeating corruption
problem I feel proud of myself about
that I mean look it's a problem you
can't understand what is the difference
between someone working within the
confines of a corrupt political system
to deliver for human beings versus
taking ten million dollars in putting in
a Swiss bank account it's a
fundamentally different thing and even
in the United States I would never
compare Hillary Clinton to Lu Lao it
would be a profound insult to Lula you
know Democratic Party has accomplished
nothing compared to what the Workers
Party has accomplished but that being
said how did we get into a situation
where a guy who is corruption itself is
running around talking about drain the
swamp and then Hillary Clinton who
absolutely was involved in what I would
call structural corruption she get
stared as the corrupt one which she is
part of the corruption of our system
against the guy who like literally has
endless accusations of that you need to
be able to make these distinctions to
think intelligently about it and
ironically the other horrifying thing
about Brazil is that what happened to
Lula is what Trump is always lying about
and freaking out is gonna happen to him
right I mean he persecuted by the deep
state
Lula basically was law fair by the
Brazilian political class to criminalize
him in his party lie about him make him
a political prisoner and then on the
other hand Donald Trump quite clearly
would love to be able to do what these
people have done to Lula to Hillary
Clinton to Barack Obama
so there's a lesson on both ends of this
year hey you need to bro Connor released
a statement Bernie Sanders released a
statement you need to go praise them
both and then you need to go and flood
everybody else with a pretension to
progressive leadership they should have
done it months ago and today after these
revelations that not every single forget
even progressive Democrat hasn't come
out and demand that his release is
stunning and I'm including that on a
spectrum of everybody from a guy like
Bader O'Rourke who likes to pretend he's
in tune with things too at the very
least I mean my god I'm always being
told about what an anti-imperialist
Hulsey gabart is she hasn't even signed
any of the Lula letters to begin with
I'm suspect of that is is that that to
me this is red flag all over the place
that's exactly how I put it
and another great example to show that
Elizabeth Warren has no global
solidarity has no understanding of
international affairs from a non you
know interventionist and a real critique
of u.s. foreign policy perspective and
of course you know aoc profoundly
disappointing and no speed you know from
Grijalva or other leaders it's it's it's
just incredible
