[Music]
this is a couple of things that we
should do here here is let's start with
Trump calling on China oh we have that
that was yesterday's right so yesterday
Donald Trump calls on China to
investigate Joe Biden and again this is
a that that comment we mentioned this
yesterday on the show when Trump came
out and said called on zalenski to
investigate Biden calls on Qi to
investigate Biden I think is his way of
saying I cannot cover this up I've
already called on him because it was
reported today that in fact there was a
call where Biden came up with G and this
is the way that I inoculate myself from
these charges it's not illegal I'm
saying it publicly really in many
respects like hey Russia if you're
listening get me those thirty thousand
emails but this is retro actively
covering his steps here is we got couple
clips on this Marco Rubio today
responding to it needling the press
knowing that I don't know that's a real
request for him just needling the press
knowing that you guys were going to get
outraged by it he's gotten he's pretty
good at getting everybody fired up and
he's been doing that for a while and the
media responded right on right on right
on task you're one of the loudest
critics of China and it's human rights
abuses
to say that I don't think it's a real
request aginity I think he did it to
give you guys I think he did it to
provoke you to ask me and others and get
outraged by it I said I mean he plays it
like a violin and every falls right into
that's not a real request we know it was
reported that Trump brought this up in a
call to G and in June it's according to
CNN Trump raised Biden with G in June in
a call housed in the highly secure
server now I don't know why they're
hiding that maybe there was a lot of
other things but think it's by this yes
to that question as to whether you know
like what it would take for a certain
sector of Republicans to leave Trump I
think to a certain extent the idea that
this trade war is a function of get me
Joe Biden's stuff well I'm just Megan
I'll just pay off my my farmers but here
is Peter Navarro
he is Trump's trade policy adviser on
with Jim sciutto on CNN NEWSROOM and Jim
sciutto and maybe I'm not pronouncing
his name right is hinting at like what's
the deal here
like what's the connection between this
trade war and Joe Biden and Donald
Trump's determination to get some goods
on Joe Biden he said it was an internal
issue and he encouraged he encouraged
both sides so rain for so what's the
point here Jim I'm asking you are you
disappointed the president has never
disappointed in my president ever
disappointed in my president when you
heard the president yesterday call on
China to investigate an American you and
I have spoken multiple times about how
China breaks international law timeout
here interrogation here it's like I I
feel like I'm it like Adam Schiff is
sitting in front of me and by the way
I'm a journalist I ask questions of
Democrat I understand but but but this
is like an interrogation right so it's
an issue here's the thing here's the
thing we this is witch-hunt
part two okay
residents out here Regina should
investigate in America finish you have
told me many times that China breaks
international law is it acceptable US
president do I get a chance to talk I've
asked the question so my one point here
is I've been in this town now for three
years we went through which on part one
for two and a half years Adam Schiff
sociopath
what do you hear refutable evidence
several Russians now she had you and
your hectoring now we have Adam Schiff
saying that he doesn't know the
whistleblower never and now president
said I know that Adam Schiff has become
a talking point for Republicans the
president on the White House yesterday
American you talked to the president
about this well I'm telling you is that
this is a witch-hunt
that's hurting the American people we
believe three point five percent
unemployment rate impeach that Peter you
and I have talked about how China is a
bad actor repeatedly and you and I we
agree on that
would you would you grant me the fact
that this president is the greatest
president in history standing at the
[Laughter]
China alright so there you have it that
guy wrote a book called death by China
in 2011 Navarro did yes
they keep trying to add a lot of
credibility on the China hating issue
but I you know this is the type of stuff
where Trump is like undercutting their
own talking points on this stuff and it
becomes a little bit problem for him
here is here's Trump now trying to
distance himself from and I would
imagine there's got to be some somewhere
there's got to be some evidence of
Donald Trump maybe they maybe a bill bar
as smarter than that you only tell me
what to do when I'm sitting right in
front of you and we've already checked
through a recording devices but you
recall the question that Carla Harris
asked bill bar over the summer in those
hearings have you been
asked to investigate anybody and Bill
Barr was like asked well yes has it been
suggested suggested somebody I'm just
trying to figure out your question here
is uh Donald Trump denying that he ever
asked bar to investigate anybody I don't
know you that you'd have to ask is the
Justice Department investigating Joe
Biden well that you'd have to ask
Attorney General bar but I can tell you
just as an observer what I saw fighting
you with his son he is pillaging these
countries and he's hurting us how would
they like to have as an example Joe
Biden negotiating the China deal if he
took it over from me after the election
he would give them plate he would give
them everything he would give them
everything how would you like to have
that Joe Biden would just roll out the
red carpet he'd give them everything so
again this doesn't pertain to anything
but corruption as that has to do with me
I don't care about politics I don't care
about anything but I do care about
corruption and to have somebody take out
a billion and a half dollars out of
China who's totally unfit he's unfit to
have him get a billion and a half
dollars to have him and now I'm hearing
the
fifty thousand a month now I'm hearing
the number of fifty thousand dollars a
month is very low it's a much higher
number that vy-jee son was getting per
month fact is much higher the him is a
totally unqualified person if you get in
hundreds of thousands a month is very
very dope so again is the Justice
Department investigating that I just
don't know he's such a good communicator
it really is I don't mean that it's
unbelievable yesterday he started out
with like it fifty thousand dollars and
two other things and today it's more
than fifty thousand by the time he was
done it was hundreds of thousands of
dollars a month ins
just pillaging and it's path for us it's
bad sometimes you pillage it's good for
us other times you pillage it I like the
idea how he's just an observer nobody's
like I have no I'm just watching this
news junkie if I'm the center for is he
doesn't know if there's an investigation
he's just observing the investigation I
look I've been giving money to
transparency international deck I mean I
hired the best people and I'm just an
observer but I think there should be I
mean on some level when I see this type
of stuff I start to think they should
impeach him that they should just
impeach him rat rather quickly or have
some type of rolling things or something
because the more they let it hang out
there the more time they're giving them
to sort of speed up their plan to sort
of build this this fake narrative yeah
do you think that's the case no I mean
that's necessarily what they're gonna do
they have to do that do you think the
Democrats should be quick on impeachment
or what I mean how quick just introduce
it tomorrow
well I mean as opposed to like let's get
it wrapped up before Christmas or let's
bring this thing into the spring yeah it
is nearing the end of the year I mean
it's I don't know how to do an
impeachment Sam I've never done one
before I never never never put one
together this is the first book you
wrote and you did okay with that I did
but writing a book is not the same as
organizing an impeachment well of course
I mean as a caterer I don't even
don't even know who to call for
something like that Dubois your book
party wasn't it just go with what you've
done you know that's all I'm saying I'm
gonna rent a Belle bar in Bushwick yeah
what do you think yeah there should be
an open bar absolutely named cocktail
well I mean okay so what's what's the
alternate position that there should be
a methodical case building and with with
televised here how many different
articles of impeachment do you bring in
from different things emoluments and
these other issues well I mean
originally I thought that it should be
it should be wide-ranging you should
have multiple committees doing the
enquiries and but directed towards one
goal that's going to be a battery of
articles of impeachment that the whole
entire house votes on right now I mean I
don't know how Nancy Pelosi intends to
organize this process I know she said a
few days ago where this is just gonna be
about Ukraine which then I didn't really
agree with but after the latest round of
revelations I think that makes sense
just to have a kind of central Clare
concern is though you do that and you
know that passes the house and there's a
trial in the Senate and they don't
remove him and Trump says there you go
you see I was I was right nothing was
wrong you know I didn't do anything
wrong because you know I was acquitted
that would make it harder to get him on
either 300 other things probably right
like you can't you probably don't get
another shot right especially if he's
re-elected or something we're gonna have
a new impeachment hearings every month
on the 1st of the month we're gonna vote
by but that's also dangerous because
that just means oh he has carte blanche
to do whatever crimes that he wants and
he gets 46% of the popular vote and gets
reelected and he's acquitted by the
Senate so he can literally do whatever
he wants which honestly that is the two
that the de-facto position right now
that is really the state of things it's
really how you resolve that dissonance
between what your conception of the rule
of law is your belief that you live in a
country where no one's above the law and
the obvious fact that yes there is
someone above the law
yeah yeah and if that I mean ideally you
resolve that dissonance
by you know going to political
radicalism and articulating a theory of
change but I fear that it means I'm
governor bull if you will yes but I fear
that it's its form for many people
especially like the intellectuals and
people who watch MSNBC it's just gonna
go in the other direction it's just
going to become anesthetize again and
neuroticism III just want some good
hearings where some people squirm I want
to see Rudy
we all want the hearings and that's I
think that it would be helpful and
cathartic and and politically helpful
but otherwise you know okay if this is
if this is it this is all you need then
you know wrap it up in November yeah I
go back and forth I'd like to see what's
going on with this IRS whistleblower
frankly that to me seems pretty salient
is well I mean you know you can't
impeach him in October of next year
that's not gonna make any sense
well I think you got to wrap this up by
basically going into into the summer
like you got to get this done by the
spring and people take a vacation for
the summer and come back in the fall and
you're talking about this guy you know
the Republicans kept this guy from being
held to account and I think maybe you
provide you you do various articles of
impeachment because to the extent that
these congressional races and senatorial
races are localized you can also have
your cake and eat it too in so far as
this nationalizes the election did you
vote to protect President Trump or not
and did you vote to protect him on this
particular article of impeachment as
opposed to that one in Minnesota you
know the idea that like you know maybe
you would enrich yourself by doing the
hotels sounds a lot worse than maybe
some other thing that might have more
salience in in an in in Maine I don't
know why I think the you know go with
the moments go with things like that but
as long as the the the evidence is clear
and the narrative is simple because your
III I think people who even tuned out of
this whole process they're still gonna
intuitively understand what bribery is
what what a quid pro quo is hundred
everything that's more ambiguous or just
talking about colluding with foreign
powers the everyone's tuned out for that
right yeah I agree
well listen
