[Music]
and and there's also that parallel we
should also say and I'm jumping ahead
again but you wrote a piece about you
know the the 2018 primaries that talked
about the the d-triple-c coming in and
basically you know being at odds with
with with local folk running for office
or trying to recruit candidates and you
know I combined that that the the
reporting you did there with the the I
think was a feta Scott ball and Lena
Putnam I think I'm getting her name
wrong I think and there was one other
person who did similar research and they
were the the stories were similar well
you know some of it involved ideology
but some of it was just like hey we're
the experts and we come from you know
Washington we know what we're talking
about and you're gonna do what we say
because also this is this is our
business like this is how you know we
throw money to certain consultants and
then when I move on to my next job they
get me my next job or they help me out
or their social friends I mean people
experience this in their real lives all
the time it's just that the stakes are a
little bit less public ye-yeah and the
best example of that would probably be
Laura Moser in that Texas primary
because she was not an insurgent leftist
candidate you know she was part of the
resistance she launched his daily action
app that let people make you know a
single text or single phone call a day
to resist Trump
she was Pro Pelosi she was just a fairly
you know Liberal Democrat but her
husband worked for revolution messaging
the consulting firm that kind of worked
on the Bernie Sanders campaign which
meant that it was the black sheep of the
Democratic consulting world and when
they attacked her publicly then
you know this miss made big news it was
so strange that this Democrat DG was
attacking and Democrat publicly one of
their most significant takedown points
of her was that she had used her
husband's consulting firm for some
foursome work which was just a hilarious
charge for the d-triple-c to may because
the exec executive director D triple C's
wife was at the time getting a bunch of
contracts from the d-triple-c and this
is like that's that's how the d-triple-c
right does that's not an anomaly that
that's just what you do
and the fact that they highlighted that
to me was a he was a tell that that it
was that it was about the consultants
but like you said this is she was not
using one of us this this is a threat to
the you know if if revolution doesn't
just do Bernie Sanders campaign but
starts doing winning House campaigns
then that's a threat to the whole
d-triple-c
consulting necklace it so this is that's
an important I mean I think a thing for
people to keep in mind that it that you
know I think we tend as people who you
know follow politics and are engaged
because of ideological reasons presume
that everything is bait that that that
based on ideology when sometimes it's
just based on I just want my friends to
be able to get paid because that means
that I get paid at one point and that is
that's I think an important thing to
understand at least in terms of when
you're looking at this stuff and it also
like you know which is gets back again
to that sort of central hinge of of your
of your reporting here in this book is
that where you get your resources from
ends up being a huge part of every
decision that that you're able to make
at any and any given point and and I
don't want to skip too much over the
dean era but in many respects he
was the one you know Jerry Brown tried
it but Dean in the internet age it seems
to me built the framework for I'm not
saying he himself but the people on the
campaign built a framework for the small
donors in so many of the people that
influenced our politics today in some
way particularly on the left and the
more populist arguments came out of that
campaign right right and and he sits
with what you were talking about less
ideological yes fighting spirit like he
himself wasn't terribly progressives he
no heard that way because he was a he
was anti-war is from Vermont
he was doctor who was into universal
health care and so you take those things
together and you're like this guy's
probably aggressive we've since learned
that that's not necessarily the case but
he was one of the few people who was
willing to willing to go right at Bush
when Bush was at the height of his war
popularity and so that that willingness
to fight is what does--what gathered so
many people around him and I think yet
that like that's a big difference
between his campaign and Jackson's and
you know Jackson didn't have the ability
to translate all of the energy that
exploded around him into small dollars
that could then be invested in in TV ads
and building the infrastructure of a
national campaign whereas whereas Dean
did have that and so it took him from a
huge long shot of a candidate to I don't
the front-runner and presumed nominee
for a while and there was a crack
society wasn't electable another story
well yeah I mean it's an interesting
story too I mean in so far as the you
know the there was intense dislike of
Dean on the on the campaign bus as it
were like the press didn't like him
there was that was where
sort of and again like you know this
point can't be made enough Dean is a
perfect example of this
Dean was rather conservative at least
you know from a financial standpoint and
as governor of Vermont and the dislike
the dislike for him was in many respects
like the fact that his campaign was the
birth of I think like the amateur
journalists and the you know like the
the activist journalist that came with
the blogs that the press really hated at
that time I mean really yeah with a
white-hot passion right it's it's hard
to quite appreciate how much they hated
bloggers at that time I mean you can
kind of sense some of it just in the
rhetoric around them pajamas and sitting
in their mom's basement eating Cheetos
but yeah they they felt like and also
you know it was all bound up in the they
felt the collapse of the print
journalism industry and the most obvious
and easiest people to blame would be the
bloggers you know rather than you know
Craigslist and all the other you know
threats to to the print the print
industry they saw these people as the
ones that were that were driving them
driving them out of business and it's
just a couple of punk kids I've had no
idea what they were doing as far as the
press was concerned and it wasn't even
just that from a business standpoint
because I don't even think they were
aware of what was happening from a
business standpoint it was a status
thing like you and I you you know
Marko's Meletis but forget mark so
smelly malicious you I'm trying to think
of what nate silver's you know handle
was like paco something or something on
you don't have the same authority to
talk about politics as i do
and the idea that you know people are
reading you know Atrios and
you know some guy you know whose name we
don't even know and you know our ik
waiting you know
Atrios with me who works for the New
York Times is disgusting like I mean it
was literally that type of like personal
to the point where people thought that
Atrios was Joe whatsits Joe Klein I
think it was because they because they
wanted to imagine like oh there's no way
just some some boob is writing with this
level of insight and right so that's
what happens going forward from there
and and that's where everything starts
to take off right like the blog's that
are empowered by Dean Dean was empowered
by the blog's in many respects and those
people start to infiltrate different
offices and the biggest I think sort of
like dynamic change from a politician
because of that seems to me you write
about is Harry Reid mmm-hmm yeah and I
had always gotten that sense and so it
was it was nice to be able to talk to
him about that and and kind of walk in
through it without prompting him and and
he said yeah that he he saw he went to
the first yearly Coast Conference and he
said he said I didn't quite know what
this whole thing was about but I could
tell that it was it was going to be big
that there was energy around it it was
something new and important that I
wanted to be on the front end of it
rather than you know in the middle or
the end of it
and then he ends up yeah hiring people
out of that out of the blogosphere inge
was into his office and they start using
the office of the Majority Leader
eventually as as in a weaponized way
that the left has always said you know
that that uh
political power should be should be
wielded bunch of those folks from now on
the on the Bernie Sanders campaign and
and read very much shifted left on a
whole host of issues
you know through his interactions with
the with these bloggers Turin staffers
and I don't think people understood like
he was he was the guy who I think during
to the extent that any Democrat takes
responsibility for protecting Social
Security during the obama use because i
think a lot of the credit frankly goes
to the freedom caucus because they just
wouldn't they do it could not make a
deal to even though you know they could
not take yes for an answer but to the
extent that anybody does i read not only
changed and and you write about in terms
of marriage equality ultimately and
Don't Ask Don't Tell repeal which people
forget was repealed less than ten years
ago I guess now he was also adamant
about Social Security and there was a
conflict with him and Joe Biden tell us
about that one mm-hmm oh yeah that was
and that goes to Biden's you know
professed you know calling card we you
know he's talks about how he can work
with Republicans and you know there was
a particular moment after the 2012
election where all of the Bush tax cuts
were expiring because they had used
reconciliation which means your
legislation can only be in place for ten
years that's the that's the you have to
give to get the fifty bucks
Vista vote threshold and so if Democrats
did nothing then all of the Bush tax
cuts would expire and so Reid was
driving a pretty hard bargain with
McConnell and as he told me in a later
interview that's because he actually
intended to go over the cliff and let
the tax rates go back up because then
his argument was now we're talking about
tax cuts because it taxes have gone all
back to their original spot now okay
you want some tax cuts let's talk tax
cuts let's do it let's do a middle-class
tax cut and make it a huge middle-class
tax
trillions of dollars I'm good with that
and McConnell would have to be calling
for a huge tax cut for the rich and Reid
felt like especially with Obama's 2012
reelection that they were in a good spot
to argue that and at the last minute he
gets yanked out of it by the White House
and they send in Joe Biden and Joe Biden
in like a day or two cuts a far worse
deal than McConnell had even already
agreed to like McConnell had already
agreed that taxes on everybody over 252
making 250 a year would go back up and
they were stand they were sorting out
the details from there and as we know
Reid was gonna let him go over and
probably wouldn't even know given him
that much but Biden comes in and
basically wipes out the estate tax and
says that everybody making 400 and above
so everybody between 250 and 400 gets
they get saved by basically like them
Reid was like I'm gonna sell you this
car for 25 grand and Biden comes in so
I'll take care of this I'm gonna sell
you this guy for 22 grand McConnell had
already said well I'll take the car for
25 grand but I also want this car stereo
and Biden comes he goes I'm gonna give
you the car stereo and I'm gonna give
you the confer 22 grand and some tyldus
reaches onto the desk and takes his
three grand back exactly so thanks okay
why did Biden do that so that's a good
question part of it is he's not very
good at his job I don't think he's late
he's very lazy like that's that's a big
knock on him another is that he spends a
lot of time with rich people and so to
him like maybe increasing taxes on
people on this on the 251st thousand
dollar that you make on
what seemed onerous we just loves
striking deals with McConnell and
Republicans you know and he also wasn't
too concerned about doing a lot
legislatively so Reid wanted one reason
you know one reason Reid wanted to bring
in that extra revenue is that they're in
an era of paga
where all of the spending you know had
to be offset somewhere with some sort of
revenue increase or elsewhere and so you
know letting the Bush tax cuts expire
gives you a ton of revenue that you can
apply to new to new spending programs so
that and Reid want to do that but I
didn't what how it didn't seem that they
they were very pessimistic about their
ability to get anything done anything
through Congress so they were so what
good is the revenue anyway
well yeah it's well I asked to read that
exact question he said you'd have to ask
Joe
