I'm from San Antonio
John what's on your mind is that you
joined Aven and found comfortable - yes
it is
thank you that's nice yes it is thank
you what's okay
yeah when asked who's better at handling
the the economy in the latest NBC poll
Republicans had a 43 to 28 lead so
you're probably right about debating
charlie Kirk on Trump's economy but you
would have probably dominated him on
cultural issues also I've completed my
most thorough listing for the most
livable districts and I want to talk a
little bit about the different layers of
the highest percentage of flipping these
districts five or six top of the top
most of liberal districts are occurring
in Pennsylvania thanks great great to
the great work by the activists there
the question the state constitutionality
of the gerrymandering there and one
Democrats are expected to flip to 5th to
6th or 7th in the 17th districts while
Republicans are expected to flip the
14th district New Jersey 2nd district is
expected to be an easy win for Democrats
from the 7th most livable district to
the 18th most listenable district if you
average the top eight aggregators who
evaluate these races and traditional
states of toss-up lien likely and safe
majority to these ratings give the
Democrats the advantage in every race
all of the aggregators who break down
these races as a percentage also have
Democrats winning every race and
Democrats are leading in polling in all
of these races in Minnesota's eighth
District which is the 18th most
flippable district Democrats incumbent
Rick Nolan decided to retire Trump won
this district by 16 points and most
aggregators have Republicans slipping
this district publican pete sauber has a
15 point lead in the latest C in a poll
so so a were at number 19 on the most
flippable district at this point in the
top eight aggregators have the majority
the next
eight races
toss up races but a smaller percentage
give the advantage to Democrats an
example of this is the is it number 19
the sixth District of Illinois is where
two aggregators have have leaned
Democrat one tilt Democrat and five have
these races of the toss-up and most of
these races polling is is very close and
breaks about fifty fifty right so does
first district is currently represented
by Tim Waltons has decided to run for
governor in this district he'd flipped a
Republican seven of the eight top
aggregators of this race had this is a
toss-up in one thing it's Republican the
only poll by the highly partisan
Republican pollster Harper has
Republican Jim Hagedorn winning by
fourteen points while 538 currently has
it's only is a one-point win for hagit
Dodd so we're now at number 28 on the
most flippable district let's assume
Republicans win when three seats there
is expected to win if if Democrats win
all of the other races like many
aggregators say and they're going to do
there'll be at 220 seats over the 218
they need to take the house if you just
go by pulling there'll be at 214 the
next four races the majority of
aggregators I mean this is kind of
Awesome I mean it's it's it's it is
tightened significantly at least in
terms of the polls right I mean we don't
know no it hasn't
well I mean there's there's some races
that are purely tight races like you
were talking about the 19th race 19th
district Antonio Delgado's that just had
a poll that came out that had a
one-point lead by Sienna let me go ahead
and just break go down to two it breaks
it down the most you know so so let me
just break us down the top and the top
18 seats Democrats are expected to win
16 of them fairly easily all across the
board they say that so all I'll need is
seven seats at that point so in the next
twenty six seats
pure toss-up right so you're saying out
of the mean so so we we need to win
out of 26 pure toss-ups assuming that
the pulling on those first 17 are
correct to take for the Democrats to
take the house right it's not just one
pollster every all all eight of them are
saying that nobody's nobody's saying
like you know that the edge of that or
the race is let's say in Minnesota is
2nd and 3rd where they're consistently
on average about a five or six point
lead
no all right well you know I want you to
do this is to you know start to pick out
those races that you think are going to
be the sort of the indicators on on
Election Day because we're gonna we're
gonna be doing our election coverage
next well not next Tuesday but two weeks
from this Tuesday and we want you to
call in at least a couple of times but
certainly at the beginning of the night
to give us a sense of like where we
should be looking and what what could be
breaking all right buddy all right thank
you
all right bye-bye okay thank you
