[Music]
with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
elite
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday November 14th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today marcy
wheeler journalist proprietor of empty
wheel net on matt whitaker and donald
trump's what could be soon to be failed
attempt to shield his kids from
indictment also on the program today
white house imploding is a strong word
as milania champions the Iran deal well
maybe not quite finally not why not
exactly but borderline props and
speaking of finally finally someone
lends a helping hand to Amazon New York
to give it 1.7 billion dollars worth of
tax breaks and incentives and as
recounts continued in Florida
Republicans keep losing South's House
seats across the country final
democratic tally could net 40 House
seats and over 300 statewide flips
meanwhile democrat working pretty blue
yes Democrats unified in fighting the
Republicans attempt at quashing the War
Powers Acts use to curb the Yemen fight
meanwhile corporate Dems fall flat on
their latest AOC attack and top census
scientists blows the alibi on the anti
immigrant census questions meanwhile top
climate change scientists at a slight
computation error in the acceleration of
the warming of the Seas but we're not
out of the woods yet know as 48 dead in
California wildfires continue to rage
and lastly hate crimes rose big time
last year big league all that and more
on today's majority report ladies and
gentlemen today we have a an interview
that I pre-taped with marcy wheeler
about 36 hours ago and there is one
update and it's interesting I want to go
back and and find out her her take on
this and maybe I'll give you an update
after the the interview but during the
course of the interview one of the
things that comes up is a meeting by
some key players in the Trump
administration players whom I had
speculated many others had speculated
usually when I speculate I'm it's based
upon readings of other people's
speculation I should tell you that and
there was concern about the people who
were in succession to Jeff Sessions
including the Solicitor General other
other individuals in the Trump
administration and according to to Marcy
wheeler turns out these people are not
quite as horrid as we may have
anticipated but that's still unclear
part of that was based upon a
presumption that she had that the office
of legal counsel in the Department of of
Justice the OLC being essentially the
administration's legal advice as to what
is legal within the context of the
executive branch and how government
works not so much you know Donald
Trump's lawyer but rather the president
has the powers to torture if you know
John Woo is working there and so the OLC
has just come out with a memo saying
that Whitaker's hiring or I should say
hiring as Acting Attorney General is
legal there is a suit that has been
filed in Maryland right now to fight
that but nevertheless I just want to
give you that update the OLC x' ruling
is less relevant because there's already
a suit in some respects because it's
going to be tried in court the OLC had
they come out and said it is not legal
that would have basically made it much
harder to maintain for the
administration to maintain the the
premise that his hiring was legal but
marcy wheeler will get into this much
more in in just a moment want to remind
you folks oh oh this is actually good I
took this home and I've tried it out and
it's already
come a source of a bit of a fight
between Sol and I there is no need to
suffer through another sleepless night
now as I've mentioned I have sometimes I
have problems sleeping and calming
comfort it's a blanket by sharper image
is the luxurious weighted blanket that
helps you relax so you can fall asleep
and stay asleep naturally have you ever
had one of these a way I'd like it I
have it but it sounds very appealing
well you know you the big thing that
people in bedding now have our
comforters and they generally tend to be
pretty light right but you forget you
get a nice heavy blanket on you it makes
you go to sleep now this is what I like
to do I like to keep the windows open
and I like to be a little bit cold
I like yes well Saul likes that too we
now have a fight over the blanket it's
designed with high-density comfort fit
muscle amout of it I mean that's a
little bit of a no-no he screams yes I
scream okay good to provide the exactly
the right amount of weight to help relax
your body it mimics the soothing feeling
of being hugged and helps the production
of serotonin and melatonin that's the
thing this all does not like it when I
hug him he's like don't you're crowding
me he says so you can sleep better feel
great stress less plus made with super
soft Velveteen material calming comfort
is 100% machine washable dryer safe so
basically what happened is I got the
blanket I've been using the past couple
of nights we do a I'm not need to get
too specific about the arrangement that
Nikki and I have but it's a 2 to 5 5 and
people who are divorced may know what
that is and so Saul will climb into bed
with me you know two or three times over
the five days I'm there first day he
does he comes in he likes this blanket
next night can I use this blanket then
the fights begin
nevertheless maybe the answer is you get
to but I'm not getting him his own
blanket he can he's the kid he can deal
with it the father-son rivalry exaction
the common comfort way to Blanc comes
with a 90-day anxiety free stress free
best night's sleep of your life
guarantee from sharper image right now
just for listeners of the majority port
you can go to calming comfort blanket
calm that's calming comfort blanket calm
use the promo code majority a checkout
get 15% off the displayed price again
that's calming comfort blanket calm
promo code majority and because you
can't put a price on a great tonight's
sleep go online now calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority for
your special discount today so yesterday
it was revealed and Andrew Cuomo bill de
blasio some union reps at a press
conference in New York City that new
young New York had won the lottery they
were splitting it half the water yeah
Mega Millions they were splitting it
with a place outside of Washington DC
and the details of the plan are
essentially that New York is providing
at least and I'm seeing higher numbers
because here's the thing this is the
plan right I mean this is not the
exactly the same thing as Foxconn
although the way these things go is
generally in the same trend you make the
deal then the jobs don't quite reach the
amount that they're going to be but the
costs get exceeded I mean this let's
just put it this way the numbers they
announced today I guarantee you will go
in opposite directions the cost to the
to the city and the state will go up and
the supposed benefits will go down
because and we know this because every
a single type of incentive deal like
this that takes place anywhere that's
the trend that it goes but even if you
are convinced that it's still worth it I
got a buddy of mine who is convinced
that it's it's a good deal
ah it's a good deal we make deals he's
in tech and I always natural I have no
doubt I have no doubt that this will
increase the size of the tech industry
in New York I'm sure it will cool the
point is at what the point is at what
cost
I mean even if you think it's specific
but but but the the problem with this is
what it does to the broader community
and AOC does not represent Long Island
City as a listener corrected me on but
the implications of it are going to
spread out I mean this is the way it
happens right like as soon as Long
Island City gets priced out and and and
in metropolitan New York has already
driven out hundreds of thousands if not
close to a million middle class folks
because it's just simply too expensive
and this is going to maintain that that
that trajectory ALC came out and said
this is a billion dollar company the
idea that it will receive hundreds of
millions of dollars in tax breaks at a
time when our subway is crumbling our
communities need more investment not
less is extremely concerning to
residents here yeah at the very least
but but let's be fair Stuart Varney of
Fox Business visited Fox and Friends
today to make the substantive case as to
why New York City needs us now remember
okay maybe Amazon would go somewhere
else if there was no incentives and I
say maybe because it's quite clear
amazon needs New York
far more than New York needs Amazon
there's a reason why they chose these
two places because they want to be near
the the seats of power in this country
they don't want to be the primary they
don't want to go to a place where they
dominate the the scene like they do in
Seattle because it causes too much
scrutiny on them
I really thought Tulsa had a chance well
that's the thing if you go to a city
like that you're expected to do
something for the community honestly and
here nobody's gonna be saying like
where's Amazon contributing they're
gonna throw a couple bones but this is a
this is a trillion dollar company
maybe trillion is a little bit much but
it's we're talking this is ten a company
worth billions upon billions of dollars
the idea that they need a subsidy to
come here is is it is a joke but
nevertheless New York does not need
Amazon however let's hear the argument
from the other side there could be a
very substantive argument here as to why
we should be investing in Amazon this is
putting aside all the other problems
that we might have with Amazon any
argument I could make about Amazon three
days ago I still make that the company
itself is problematic in terms of its
size we had an interview when was that
Brendan that we had on from the the
woman from Portland Maine and and what
what was yeah Mitchell and about
Amazon's attempt to become the market
not just dominate a market but to become
the market but putting all that aside
let's hear the argument as to why it's a
good thing here the young lady does not
understand growth you got a grow a
business
she doesn't understand growing a
business you got to put money in to get
money and some of them are just one
second now positive
one second now I don't know what
business he's talking about Amazon that
business is growing but it's not the
business of the state of New York to
grow Amazon all right Amazon's going to
grow anyways
that's a big part of the problem now
maybe he's talking about New York State
as growing a business but New York State
is not a business it's a state and the
mission of New York State is not to
increase its GDP the mission of New York
State is to help the lives of its
citizens no you guys can agree to
disagree on that one week and agree to
disagree but let's hear Varney's come on
this is gonna be we want to be fair and
balanced here let him have his second
econ 101 here we go understand growing a
business you got to put money in to get
money and some of the money does go
infrastructure right absolutely it does
infrastructure new high school they're
gonna build a new school but the price
per job is something like 48 thousand
dollars per job that New York is giving
up in tax actually it's 61 thousand
dollars per job in New York City which
is a very stiff price I think it's worth
it because to bring in a company like
that with all that money you can say no
go someplace else so if they're giving
up 60,000 per employee what does the
average employee make there I don't know
I simply don't know what what kind of
employees I don't know I do know this so
that's the argument I'm I don't know the
details just know like what are you
gonna do say go somewhere else i minored
in economics at Bates and I hated the
numbers but I did end up acing my finals
with a fee where he gonna to go
somewhere else you gotta give it go
somewhere else how much is it gonna cost
I don't know like you understand
economist genomics very well yeah man
it's expensive yes I also like how he
basically is making all these Kenzi and
arguments all of a sudden wells I like
it's like whoa you're saying all of a
sudden we aren't worrying about spending
and we're not being tightwads because
you have to spend something to make
something I guess this only applies when
you're giving corporate welfare here's
the
if New York State is capable of
providing $50,000 61 thousand dollars
per person for job why not go out and
hire people to do exactly exactly what
will benefit New York State build a new
way schools fix the subway I don't know
let's let's just assume for a moment
like we know you'd have ideas as to what
that is surely there is a commission
that could come up with a list of things
that the state could do that would
increase the the happiness and the
productivity if you want or whatever it
is the value of being a citizen of New
York State that would undoubtedly have
benefits to other people but it wouldn't
be a bank shot how can we benefit people
directly and maybe that is we you know
like a local state senator who says
let's get rid of all of New Yorkers
student debt I mean we know the
implications of that in terms of the
economic value of that right more people
by the the number one reason given by
the president of the Home Builders
Association in the nation for why there
have been the the the number one
inhibitor to building new homes is
student debt according to the president
of the Home Builders Association of the
United States I mean just the numbers
for this argument she just says we
should just get rid of student loans
what are you gonna say no to that
well enemy doesn't make any sense the
there's so many other ways to directly
benefit New Yorkers if you're going to
expend this money and since we now know
that we can expend this money let's
expand it and if Amazon says well then
in that case we're gonna go to Boston
fine fine the reason why I come to New
York is because New York is New York and
I think Boston I would suggest that they
also don't offer them that kind of money
yeah but that's
I mean Bezos will put on his secret
bionic suit he's been working on and
just start taking out cities right I
mean is where this is going I mean if
you look at his steroid regimen this is
a very disturbing time and trends we all
seen what happens at Lex Luthor I'm not
an acceleration Estelle
I mean I feel like we have no choice
we're all riding the wave right now and
if giving up basic public services to
build a helipad for the richest man in
the world brings on the rev increases
class consciousness silver linings well
and just so that people know you're
talking about apparently there's they're
gonna build a helipad and he gets a
hundred essentially like passes of over
we can do over a hundred of where he can
do is helicopter flights in I mean mr.
Blasio is a tough negotiator it's easy
to do it's easy to poopoo that but think
of how much work that means you're gonna
be hiring one more guy who's gonna be at
the helipad full-time velocity of money
and and then and then there's all the
arguments as to why why Amazon is
problematic period what do you say no to
them so you know it is a problematic
thing to do if you don't care about
monopolies and the implications of
Amazon you know nationally and as an
entity but then it's a problematic thing
to do from the perspective of just being
like a mayor or a governor of a city or
a state just got to hopefully Bill de
Blasio will be listening to this podcast
and one of his commutes from the Upper
East Side to go walk on a treadmill in
Park Slope there you go folks speaking
of health nice segue Michael one of the
most important things we do for our
health every day is brushing our teeth
yet most of us can't do it properly I
swear to god this is completely
impromptu no today as we said we had a
quip add Michael literally said like a
this is not even a joke it's weird I'm
shocked oh good this toothbrush it
literally forces you to speak like ad
copy in real life quip is a better
electric toothbrush it's created by
dentists and designers quip was designed
to make brushing your teeth more simple
affordable and even enjoyable with
sensitive sonic vibrations it's gentle
on your sensitive gums my dentist I had
deep cleaning last Thursday where they
shot me full up of novocaine and the
dentist was like just take it put it on
the angle I said I got the quip she's
like good that's the best kind that kind
of the vibrating kind the built-in
two-minute timer pulses every 30 seconds
to remind you when to switch sides and
guide you to a full and even clean what
we've got to do is come up with a maybe
equip where I am singing the ABCs
because that's what I do for so it's a
good idea better yet quip doesn't
require a clunky charger instead it runs
for three months on one charge and it
comes with a multi-use cover that mounts
to your mirror for a less cluttered sink
space no wonder equip is one of the
first electric toothbrushes accepted by
the American Dental Association folks
you know why I love my quip I'm like
slowly everyone around me is going to
have a quick everyone everyone around me
I've already bought a clip for somebody
you did yeah really yes
well I'm also very supportive of
people's rural hygiene blue my puppy
oh my dad okay I find that up sure that
sounds like a story folks I know how you
you will love quip as much apparently as
we do in the office it's getting weird
they are backed by over 20,000 dental
professionals quip starts at just 25
bucks and if you go to get quip dot-com
slash majority right now you get your
first refill pack for free with a quip
electric toothbrush that's your first
refill pack free at get quip GE t qu IP
dot-com / majority you know what I mean
I gave equipped to my sister for I don't
know it was Hanukkah last year it's not
the most you know sort of like luxurious
like but it is a really practical thing
that she is super super psyched that I
got her super super psyched and you can
buy you know like a year's worth of
refills in advance you get the first one
free check it out get quip dot-com slash
majority all right
quick break and right back with this
pre-recorded interview Marcy wheeler
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program Marcy
wheeler she is the proprietor of empty
wheel dotnet Marcy welcome back to the
program oh it's good to be on so on
October 30th you wrote a piece in The
New Republic entitled if Trump fires
Muller anticipating that perhaps after
the election we may see some action on
that front and we did but it started
with Jeff Sessions let's let's let's
start with with that but but what is the
what is the top line that we should be
aware of at this point following the
election in regards to Trump and Trump
Inc I guess in terms of their legal
jeopardy we don't know we don't know and
I don't think we'll know for about a
week or so about what happens with
Muller and it may be within that week
that we actually learn a lot more about
what kind of legal jeopardy Trump is in
so this is going to be a busy week all
right well maybe or maybe you know
Muller a good fire dance or something
right okay well alright let's start with
this then let's walk through the the
firing because I think the the the piece
that I think is most instructive of
yours at least for the moment the most
comprehensive is the question did Abbott
flood mean to create a legal morass or
is he off his game so Donald Trump so
okay so Emmett flood was by your
reckoning one of the few competence that
Donald Trump brought on board he was he
helped Cheney deal with the special
counsel in Congress back in the day he's
a longtime Washington I guess
lawyer defending politicians and various
things I think he was involved in may
even Clinton's impeachment yeah alright
so okay so let's start with this
question of what is the relevance of
whether Jeff Sessions was fired and/or
resigned and when okay so really quickly
to go over what happened is starting at
11:30 the day after the election Trump
gave a press conference lied about how
well the Republicans had done when that
was going on Trump had already had John
Kelly call sessions and say we want your
resignation session said can I have
until the end of the week Kelly called
back later and said nope we want it
today
and he replaced sessions with his chief
of staff a guy by the name of Matt
Whitaker and Whitaker on paper is sort
of qualified he was US Attorney for one
of the districts in Iowa under Bush so
yeah he's a lawyer at least which you
know who might not get that from Trump
right but he's really a hack I mean he's
he's kind of the quintessential
Republican hack he spent much of 2017
saying here's how to get rid of the
Moller probe he was interviewed that
summer for a job as part of trumps White
House Counsel defense team and then in
the fall he was he didn't get the White
House Counsel job he was made Jeff
Sessions cheapest at sessions chief of
staff was given a big promotion creating
an opportunity there the White House
forced sessions to hire this guy
Whittaker and so he has been a senior
DOJ official for a year and under some
interpretations of the law that means
that if sessions resigns you can replace
him with somebody a sufficient seniority
in a temporary appointment and that's
what the government that's what Trump
claims happens now it's on you know it's
clear that sessions was forced to resign
he made that
in the front the first line of his
letter and the Democrats in the house in
are just be clear on that in the first
line of his letter he said you've asked
my resignation here it is right there
was some paraphrasing but he made it
clear that he didn't offer this except
for upon the at the very least the
insistence or the request and there may
be no difference right when you're
talking about the president that here is
a right and also frankly you know if
Kelly says when we have your resignation
he says Friday you can have it and Kelly
says no we wanted today that makes that
seems to me it's a coerced Rezac it's an
even more coerced resignation and the
Democrats in the House are making it
very clear that they believe it was a
firing if he was fired if sessions was
fired then Whitaker's appointment is not
legal because you can only have him in
place rather than some of you Senate
confirmed if sessions resigned basically
the idea is the president can't fire
somebody to then put in place somebody
who was not Senate confirmed in addition
there are a couple of other questions
about whether he would be a legal na
appointment as well including from Neil
Koch out who is the guy who wrote the
special counsel regulations and George
Conway's Kellyanne Conway's husband and
they argue that for one because you have
a senate-confirmed person right there in
the form of Rod Rosen Stein who is the
person who would take over if the
Attorney General were gone or disabled
you got to go with him you can't go with
this hack from Iowa and you also there
are rules that say you can't do this in
India Jay catch-all has written another
piece that says even if his appointment
is legal he can't supervise Muller
because then you have basically an
inferior officer supervising an inferior
officer in other words there's a bunch
of reasons to think that his appointment
is not legal and that his supervision of
Miller is not legal and
we know everyone's talking about what we
don't know and we won't be able to
decide whether that's true or not unless
somebody gets standing and challenges
his appointment in court but that's
actually not true and um this is one of
the most interesting things from last
week CNN did this great Buy that's far
like one of the only really good reports
on the firing and it described how as
soon as John Salley called sessions he
and deputy turns general Robertson
saying he's the guy who ever seeing
Miller right now his principal deputy
who is also involved in overseeing
Muller and this is a really key the
Solicitor General Knowle Francisco who's
the third ranking DOJ official assuming
sessions is still there on that day he
was the third ranking and then also
Steven Engel who is in charge of the
office of legal counsel who again Senate
confirmed very senior DOJ official all
of them with the exception of Rosen
Stein's deputy all of them were senior
twit occur and they're sitting in a room
with Jeff Sessions going what do we do
and how do we protect the Russian
investigation and according to CNN's
report somebody in that room that they
don't name said we don't even know if
this constitutional just like the rest
of us are except the difference being
that in that room
Steven Engel is the guy who for DOJ for
the entire executive branch is the one
who decides whether these things are
legal so I had least suspect that those
people said okay Steve give us an
opinion
give us a memo and how soon can you have
it done because if he comes back and
says no it's not legal under under the
vacant seats Reform Act you can't have
you know you can't appoint Whittaker
when Rosen Stein's available then it's
not legal and DOJ is is arguing that
it's not legal and one of the one of the
things I point out is that the sessions
resignation is not dated much less
time-stamped okay hold on hold on with
sessions not being dated I just want to
get into that dynamic
about the OLC so the OLC for people who
don't recall was the agency within the
the Department of Justice
you know the sub agency I guess that
lets say the Bush administration went to
and said we need legal justification to
torture John you wrote this up and and
and whatnot
if the OLC writes it up is it
necessarily binding like doesn't it
still have to go to court at one point
or or is that just a way to basically
say the OLC is saying to the Trump
administration like you have no legal
standing like you'll have to come up
with a theory on your own because the
government doesn't have one as to why it
would be legal for you or constitutional
I guess may be legal because this is
under a statute right to a point
Whitaker in this instance right it's at
me and they're pointing to the no they
actually are pointing to an old OLC
opinion written by Ed Whelan for those
of you who remember a tree lands Roland
Cavanaugh conversion um but but it isn't
exact it doesn't exactly follow to what
we're looking at here and the only time
you know that that people who know this
stuff can think of where you had
somebody in charge of DOJ who wasn't
confirmed for for more than ours was
during Watergate after board was firing
people and so it you know it it's never
happened before there's no precedent and
you know what the White House is saying
whether as I said we Lynne opinion but
if if angle is really though did or is
revisiting the issue then that poses
other legal problems and it also gives
Mahler an opportunity to say and he's
writing a memo about this right now as
we speak by the way but it gives more an
opportunity to say to say the DC Circuit
oh do day has told me that Whitaker is
not a regal appointee and therefore I'm
still reporting to to the person who in
the
sense of an attorney general in the
absence of an attorney general didn't do
this I'm still reporting the guy that
I'm supposed to be recording to who
destroyed residence time and so this is
one of the reasons I say we don't know
what is going to happen I just have a
hunch but something like this is going
on and like and then there are the other
questions about even if Whittaker was
legally appointed he's got all these
conflicts he's run a political campaign
for one of the grand jury witnesses he
had all these statements before he was
appointed both attacking the Muller
investigation but also saying oh sure
everyone would take the same meeting
that Don jr. took and he as I said and
he was interviewed to be part of Trump's
defense team so that is also problematic
so there's all sorts of conflicts not
the least of which he was part of a
company I guess that was investigated by
the FBI you sort of didn't times these
things slip slip the mind and you forget
about those things but the real it so
the the long and short of it is at the
very least regardless of how these
questions would be answered what they do
provide is a grounds in which Muller
would contest any actions that Whittaker
would take that would slow roll as
investigation that would defund his
investigation that would do anything
else because he would then go and
correct me if I'm wrong I'm just trying
to understand how sort of this
practically goes forward he would then
go to the the DC Circuit and I guess to
a panel of three judges and say you know
please enjoying him from doing this
because hey all of the things that are
sort of public that we know about make
his hiring invalid and then and be
there's also and there may be this is
hypothetical and OLC memos that suggests
that his his hirings not valid that he's
not really the guy so I mean is that
how it would work that's how it would
play out if it goes down that route yeah
and it may not go down that route I mean
it may be that it may be that on
Thursday Rosen Stein said you guys blew
the resignation and we have until Friday
to put stuff in place it may be that
Muller already has indictments sitting
waiting to be unsealed and he's just
kind of finishing with Jerome Corsi
among all people it may be that you know
so there are a bunch of possibilities we
you know obviously Miller's not telling
we'll find a couple of hints as I said
he's writing a brief you on Monday a
week from today in subpoena challenge
somebody close to Roger stone and that
subpoena challenge was heard the hearing
was heard last Thursday and there were
some interesting things that Michael
Dreeben who works for the Solicitor
General that he said he basically said
well we can indict somebody on our own
we can you know give somebody immunity
on our own we can do CLE agreement on
our own we can't subpoena a journalist
don't know so you know he was sort of
laying out what he thought what he
thought they could do without going to
their superior which may be Whitaker
maybe Rosenstein still we don't know and
and that by itself was interesting but
the judges on that panel said you know
that they started that hearing by saying
let's pretend that what happened
yesterday didn't happen and then we're
gonna ask you to give us more briefing
on what you think what did happen
yesterday has an impact on this
challenge and so we'll learn on Monday
if not before
what Muller thinks his legal status is
and how Whitaker's appointment changed
it so you know we may not know until
then but we should learn on Monday okay
so just to be clear we are pre taping
this on Monday the 12th between now and
then there's there could be you know
Muller will have a better sense of his
status is quite possible that
by you know midway through this week
because of the nature in which they
solicited sessions resignation that the
statute in which they're operating under
which caught which applies if a guy like
sessions actually resigns rather than is
forced to resign nullifies Whitaker's
appointment and makes it too susceptible
to legal challenges so they have to
basically do it do over or just give up
the ghost on this on this plan you
mentioned the idea of Muller already
having indictments we walk us through
that like you know like it's almost a
fail-safe type of mechanism at least to
the extent that you that it exists if we
don't know that it does but that Muller
sort of may have anticipated a day like
today or probably did and so what does
that mean there are sealed indictments
just walk us through what what what
would have happened up to this point if
today there are X number of sealed
indictments who would they be sitting
with who could unseal them who could
stop them from being unsealed if anybody
so we don't know whether this happened
or not and there's a lot of hopes you
know there's a lot of rumors on the
internet claiming there are you know one
hundred sealed indictments I would
distrust that but it is in fact true
that I mean obviously Muller anticipated
something like this might happen
the Friday before Election Day he was
really pressuring to get some witnesses
against Roger stone on the record so
just for example it's possible he
finished an indictment against stone had
the grand jury vote to approve it and
then left it sealed and if that's the
case once the indictment as far as I
understand it once the indictment is
done and sealed then it no longer
belongs to DOJ it belongs to the court
and in this case it would belong to the
to the judge overseeing the grand jury
which is the chief judge in DC her name
is Beryl Howell
Obama appointee she has been totally by
the book and I can envision her being
you know the the next incarnation of
John Sirica so so it would be up to her
and and you know Muller could go and ask
to have it unsealed one of the
interesting things that happened there's
been a lot of talk about how Miller sent
parts of the investigation to other
places most notably the Michael Cullen
hush payment stuff to to Manhattan
basically and that's a really
independent US Attorney's Office and
that's going to be as hard to fiddle
with as fiddling with Muller is just
because that's the culture of SDN Y so
that's one way that he we know he
protected parts of his investigations we
know that Trump is being investigated in
that Trump committed campaign violations
in that case Wall Street Journal
reported out the other day the other
thing that he did is three of his team
members have already been spun back to
their home department and and they
they're just there as as protected
employees of DOJ and it's something hey
we're went went to go on and and and
there's the reason to believe that
they're continuing to work on related
issues they could then go to the court
and say we want these grand jury
materials because they pertain to our
day job so they could free them you know
once the house once the Democrats take
over in the house if things went really
haywire they could try and go get those
grand jury materials so there are ways
to get that I'll be very different let
me just recap though so the people
aren't lost because a lot of information
there so okay so so we don't know how
many indictments Muller has we know that
there's it's been reported that there's
one or 10.we isn't there hasn't there
been reports that there's at least one
sealed indictment maybe from a couple of
months ago I mean is it possible that he
would have but but let's just assume
that we don't know it could be anywhere
from 0 to I don't know whatever number
let's just pick a number
twenty-five indictment yeah we're
emphasize it could be zero though okay
really when I proposed that so it could
be zero and but if there were anything
more than zero they would be with the
judge you mentioned Soraka I didn't know
how to pronounce his name but this was
just recently revealed that there was a
basically a plan the is no you're
referring to the judge from the
Watergate case all right okay and so and
these were recently released by a I
guess it was a FOIA what and and I want
to ask you what you think about the
timing of that but just to cover where
we just covered so these indictments are
there and they could be unsealed if if
Muller was fired tomorrow by hook or
crook could you're suggesting that
people from his team who have been
reinvented back in the DOJ go to the
judge and there is basically a almost
like a thread hanging from there from
other stuff that they're doing that
would unseal these indictments or could
could Muller
maybe not unseal it but maybe pick up
the prosecution's in their home area so
one of the prosecutors has been spun
back as a woman named Kyle free and
she's a money-laundering specialist so
she's back I think in New York
and if Muller was fired tomorrow could
she then pick up bribery and money
laundering
yeah maybe and she'd be in New York and
it'd be a lot harder to screw with her
so that's another possibility is that
you've got these team members who know
their portfolio they're part of the
portfolio and even if you fired the
entire Moeller team today they'd still
be there with the knowledge and with the
ability to free up grand jury materials
for further prosecution okay great
and so okay so assuming all of that is
there and they how would Muller could
Muller do anything with those things or
is it just up to the judge at that point
to say like okay I'm watching this go
down and it's time for me to unseal
these these indictments
well somebody from DOJ have to ask to
have them be unsealed so you know it
could be somebody from Miller's team
most of Muller's people are DOJ
employees so they're actually harder to
fire and they could go and say we need
to until these indictments again if
there are any and I want to stress that
there may not be that that they could
then I mean basically somebody has to go
to the judge and say we gave you a good
reason to seal these back on November
2nd when we got when we handed them up
now it's time for us to unseal them
we're gonna go arrest these guys and
that's how it would work but ultimately
it's Beryl Howells it's the judge it's
her decision to unseal and it's her
decision what happens with the grand
jury materials and that's something that
could be litigated forever but that's
something that's kind of the real
failsafe that if everybody is fired the
House Judiciary Committee is going to
come after those materials and it would
be up to girl how to decide whether or
not to share them all right so let's
let's just go down that road for a
moment - is it possible that the House
Judiciary Committee comes in whatever
January 22nd or something they convened
there first you know they have their
staff and let's say Muller is fired now
could they could they hire Muller as a
staffer I mean what they're not going to
they won't they you know they different
committees in the house are going to do
different things
Schiff is going to pick up a lot of the
threads of the Russian investigation
that were dropped by under Devin Oona so
you know you should expect some
attention into the finances you should
expect witnesses who avoided testimony
like hope Hicks
she was allowed to not answer all the
questions and she obviously knows a lot
about the response to the June 9th
meeting for example so they'll bring
them back and they'll flush out certain
other areas of the investigation it goes
to the house I mean the reason the House
Judiciary is important is because if
there were an investigation of the
President
that might turn into impeachment if that
goes through the House Judiciary
Committee and they're important you know
that's where the Watergate precedent is
is worthwhile in Watergate what
Jaworski did what the prosecutor did was
he said okay here's what I would do if I
were gonna impeach the president can't
do that so let me take the actions that
I would impeach him for put together
basically box up the information the
evidence I have for all of the actions
the president took that I would impeach
him for and have the grand jury vote to
share that information as a kind of
freestanding report that makes no
accusations it just says here's what the
president did and here's the proof have
the grand jury vote to be able to share
that with the House Judiciary Committee
that's what happened during Watergate
and I would imagine one of one of
Miller's attorneys actually worked on
the Watergate team we imagined that
Miller is taking certain lessons from
Watergate and I would imagine that he
would at some point and possibly did
before the election thinking something
like this might happen at some at some
point do something similar had the grand
jury give him permission to share
information with the House Judiciary if
it comes to that so that's how House
Judiciary would get the information
Trump is worse than Nixon Nixon actually
okayed the sharing of that information
back in the day and you know Trump I
would imagine would fight it because
Trump is Trump but you know then then
Brett cab and I will get to decide or
something like that I mean look
ultimately some of the arguments the
trunk is already making and that the
appointment of Whittaker makes is that
the that the judiciary has no role isn't
a free Britain it isn't even a third
branch of government with its own power
to keep people in line and enforce the
law and that's the kind of stuff that
pisses off judges and justices
regardless of what party and the Nixon
precedent I think is a pretty solid
precedent I don't think you know even
this Court is going to overturn it in
substantial fashion so
that's sort of where we could be headed
if things go really haywire but who
knows maybe Miller will be able to work
out the week he'll go into Roger stone
and then we'll be in business the
release of that roadmap that you talked
about what was that a coincidence well
what do you make of the timing of that I
mean I mean that's quite a coincidence
and that was when it came out right
before yeah I mean who was it that
released at exactly and what do you what
does that tell you about the the timing
and whatnot okay one of them some he was
on Nixon's defense team has been trying
to get it released for years and then
been with us and Jack Goldsmith from LA
affairs said hey let's go get it
released I'm not even sure if they knew
of the other FOIA so they tried to get
it for it but they tried to do it more
urgently and while his release was
actually stopped that was already in the
public record but released in the form
that it was released in the roadmap so
in other words they're still redactions
in there but at least it shows us how
the roadmap works what it looked like
and they did it Ben and Jack did it
because of the Malheur investigation so
it's not it's not you know it's not a
coincidence they did it for that reason
right a bad said I'm sure that I mean
like I said Miller has somebody on his
team from the Watergate investigation so
he would have that insight if he hasn't
already gotten that road map and I know
of another key player in this whole
process who obtained a copy of the road
map before it was released in FOIA so we
may not have been able to see it but at
least one of the people who would need
to see it had seen it before it was
released publicly so there was somebody
associated with the team who was trying
to conform what they were doing to this
this previously designed road map the
the notion that it was I mean obviously
it's been there's been attempts to FOIA
this for a long time as you say do you
think that the release of it was timed
by the releasing body was was it the
archives or was it the do
J that had to release it and and I want
to correct I want to make something very
clear please when I say that somebody
else has gotten a copy of the road map I
have no idea whether Moeller has seen a
copy of the road map there were claims
that Ken Starr wanted it and never
thought all I'm saying is that and I
don't and I'm not speaking I'm not
saying at all that I know what molarity
molar stream has done they have somebody
from the water day team on their team so
that's where their knowledge would
definitely come I'm saying somebody else
somewhere else in government was able to
get a copy and it's somebody that you
and I would be happy had a copy and was
thinking in these terms ahead of the
game so that also was happening before
the road map which was publicly it was
released by the archives with the
approval of daryl hall and this is this
is also probably not a coincidence but
that point a case went to the chief
judge in BC again there how who is
overseeing the molar grand jury and she
is because she's overseen the molar
grand jury she's the one who would
decide whether or not report from the
grand jury gets shared with the House
Judiciary Committee so and she's one who
would like to be able to share the full
world map what she did was approved
order basically the archives to release
whatever had already been publicly
publicly released and she's waiting on a
DC Circuit decision to to decide whether
or not she can release the rest of it
but so what does that do
once it's public I mean assuming that
you know there was be some vague
awareness of that road map at the very
least on a Muller's team and adding the
notion that there's someone that you and
I might appreciate was aware of it too
so that they you know maybe can can you
know provide some other sort of like
what is the what is what is the were
they simply acting on like okay here's a
FOIA and we're gonna release it or does
it what does it do to have that release
publicly did you just create more
pressure of like create more
of a structure to validate any actions
going forward that may that that that
may follow that roadmap
well it's I mean it's fifty years forty
five years so it's not we're not talking
about the molar roadmap being released
tomorrow we're talking about we're
really when I say the failsafe we're
talking about Muller successfully
sharing the results of his grand jury
with the House Judiciary Committee if it
comes to that right
I don't even fix you know I may not come
yeah I mean well I mean I write because
I would ask but it but I it would be a
lot more support to do that if similar
gets fired then there's gonna be a lot
of pressure to make sure that that
happens
whereas if Miller is still working
they're not going to get anything and
they probably won't ask and and as I
said the committee that's going to do
the most investigation on the Russia
question right off the bat is going to
be shifts the House Intelligence
Committee not the Judiciary Committee so
you know tradition committee it's going
to investigate they're going to
investigate Whitaker's appointment
they're going to investigate the
investigation into Cavanaugh the vetting
of Cavanaugh they're going to
investigate Trump's use of the pardon
power but they're not going to
investigate Russia per se unless
something happens to Mahler in which
case they're the ones constitutional
adoptive okay and so um
lastly Jerome Corsi maybe not exactly
maybe not exactly lastly but I should
just remind people Jerome Corsi is the
guy who wrote basically built the Swift
boating of John Kerry right he's the one
who who assembled the Swift boaters and
he's a World Net Daily guy I guess maybe
not so different from Roger stone in
that respect from that sort of same
swampy environs what has he got to do
with this yeah behind the birther and he
was also the birther guy too
I mean he's had a very esteemed career
on the right but what does he
to do with the Muller investigation so
Miller has been interviewing him for two
months and he did a broadcast last week
where he basically he made it clear that
something was going down with a molar
investigation and said he might not
broadcast today and I don't think he did
so he may be facing an indictment
himself
my guess is what's going on is that when
when Stumpf first gave excuses for how
he knew that Podesta's time in the
barrel was coming he said well that has
to do with the report the Journal of
course he did for me in August in the
same time period August 2016 but what's
interesting and I've laid this out is
that Steve Bannon and Rebecca Mercer had
a report on August 1st of 2016 so right
after the DNC emails drop where they
basically say Hilary is the one with
close ties to Russia it was a crazy
report but they did it you know I think
it's a really good question why they had
it ready on August 1st
they had been working on it since March
but in any case that's in the background
one of the things they do in that report
is attack John Podesta before he served
on the board of this company called
jewel and Roger stone has at time said
that's what the time on the barrel
comment was at other times he was saying
that he was talking about Tony Podesta
and his PI's we now know to mana for but
his ties to the Ukrainians but what's
really interesting and what I respect
Muller is after in part is that on
October 6th so this was the day before
that the desk emails start after having
not touched that jewel attack the the
John Podesta has close ties to the
Russians he didn't touch that between
August and October on on October 6 the
day before the emails dropped
dramatically 11 WikiLeaks releases
emails that
oh gosh have to deal with jewel and so
it's as if and I think it's I think
there's good circumstantial evidence
anyway that course II and through course
II or maybe to stone that stone in
course he learned back in August that
think that WikiLeaks had these emails
and expected that they were going to
come and waited on their they're kind of
magnification of this jewel attack until
the emails came out and they anticipated
that the emails came out and they were
talking about what the email showed
without even pointing to the email so my
guess is that that's one one good way to
prove or to at least suggest strongly
the course Ian stone sometime in mid
August 2016 warned what WikiLeaks was
going to release in October and learn
specifically that an attack they had
already launched on John Podesta would
be not substantiated because these
people are conspiracy theorists but
would have a tie to something that
really was going to release right before
the elections all right so just so that
people understand you know Roger stone
basically seemed to predict that
something bad was gonna happen to John
Podesta right before these emails came
out he's trying to pretend like oh no
you're mistaken I wasn't talking about
that John Podesta or I wasn't talking
about those emails I was just saying
like you know October is always a tough
time for the campaign manager or
something you know whatever alright well
so what are the implications if Roger
stone knew about these release of these
emails before before the public did is
it just that he's lied about it to maybe
to the FBI are to the grand jury or is
there something else that that
implicates well it depends where they
learned it from and what kind of
discussions they had about the
sequencing of the release of them and
the timing you know if they were
legitimately conspiring if they were
optimizing the release of those emails
to fit the attack they wanted to make
undaunted s right before the election
you then I think you're getting you're
getting into conspiracy with the people
who have to leak the Democrats and
that's where I think Miller is going on
top of that yeah do I think that I mean
if that's true but I don't know that
that's true but you know that's my
suspicion of one of the things that
motors investigating with stone
another thing with stone by the way is
stone literally overnight changed his
mind about who had done the hack and he
did so basically at almost the exact
same time as this attack from Stephen
and Rebecca Mercer
so basically August 1st 2016 he wakes up
one day and says oh yeah you know I
believed it was the Russians up until
today but today I've discovered a
400-pound hacker in his mother's
basement and so on August 1st he changes
his mind he says it's you know it's a
hacktivist which is sort of his cover
story now and he was like yeah I was
talking to gusoff her but that's that
guy was just effect that's that hacker
in mom's basement it's not a Russian
sitting in in in Moscow and so I think
there's an interesting story to that and
have no idea what the answer is but um
you know I suspect that's another area
where where Muller is going and and then
yes on top of that did Roger still in
lied to the House Intelligence Committee
has Rogers did Roger stone develop an
elaborate cover story back in March of
2017 and did Roger stone threaten Randy
credit go to back his cover story at a
time when Randy was being subpoenaed and
those are I think some of the some of
the gravy stories and I also think the
this guy Andrew Miller who's fighting a
subpoena had said I know nothing about
Lucifer or WikiLeaks but he did say he
did sort of suggest you might have some
legal exposure on campaign finance
issues so it's possible that in the same
way that Muller has charged mana for it
with other financial things same with
you know Manhattan and Sdn YCharts Cohen
with other things it's possible that
Muller is going to throw on some
campaign finance issues
on top of these to make things more
difficult for Roger stone I don't know I
don't know alright so and there was a
report the other day that jr. is going
around telling people he expects to be
indicted what what's your take on that I
think the you know jr. pretty clearly
entered into conspiracy with Russians
and so if Miller is going to charge it
you know I've argued a quid pro quo
conspiracy the Russians promised dirt
and the trumps promise sanctions relief
and jr. was at the center of that in a
number of ways so jr. is running around
saying that he expects to be indicted
for lying to Congress which he probably
did
and again that's House Intelligence
testimony and they're gonna I think move
more aggressively on that in January
anyway but but I also think he's at
great risk for this conspiracy and he
would be kind of a central player in
that conspiracy case so so yeah that's
you know if if he's indicted I think
that's also where we go okay and so
lastly let me just ask you the Omnibus
question is there is there anything that
you think that we should we should know
going into the next week or two where
there could be I mean and maybe this is
sort of like make this a two-parter what
should we know and what what is the
range of things that we could expect
happening over the next week or two as
far as you know you would guess well the
range of things is Muller gets fired and
Trump believes he is shuttin the Malheur
investigation too Muller rolled out in
documents naming say jr. and Roger stone
and a bunch of other people and and I
think that that's the full range but I
also think I mean I think the most
important thing is we don't know the
answers to the most important questions
yet we don't even know whether Whitaker
has been briefed on what more is up we
don't know that
and so without that knowledge we really
don't know what's going to happen what
we do know is yes Muller had every
reason to
but something like this would happen and
Muller has been very good at keeping
secrets so I suspect Trump badly
misunderstands how much he could do to
undermine mower at this point I mean
somebody who is closer to all of this
and I am told me that you know he he
doesn't think you can shut down well a
lot of people don't think you can chat
similar at this point and that may well
be true and even if you shut him down
there are other places where this
investigation can can crop up so yes my
big message is people people should take
what's going on very seriously I do
think it is a constitutional crisis I do
think the appointment of Whitaker was
utterly cynical ham-handed
may well backfire but a clear indication
that Trump will go to great lengths to
protect themselves but I will also
emphasize that Muller and Rosenstein
have a lot of cards to play and we
haven't seen those cards yet and we
should not we should not enter full
panic mode we should make it very clear
that we bet that we take this seriously
and I think the Democrats are doing that
but I think it's still a little bit too
early to panic and is there what I mean
if Trump does believe like okay the the
horses out of the barn and you know I
got Whitaker in there because he told me
he had a plan on how you would starve
the investigation and it wouldn't cause
any political turmoil because I would
just cut his funding and you know Muller
is not gonna go out there he's not gonna
go in Jake Tapper show and say that my
funding has been cut or anything like
that like if if he realizes if Whitaker
if the Whitaker plan gambit has failed
and it appears like it it may have to a
certain extent right I mean because now
you know Whitaker's having to say
publicly I'm not gonna cut Muller's
funding and who knows he could lie it's
not like it would be hard for him to do
that but like what what is what it mean
what it what does he it does Trump have
any moves he can he can have multi or
but if he thinks that he can't stop the
investigation
what else can he do well you can start
pardoning people right I mean you know
he could if the witnesses against him
and this here's another thing that's
that that is interesting
pre-taping on Monday on when on Friday
is Tom Anna Forks first status report
and there was a report from ABC which
said Paul Manafort actually isn't
cooperating all that all that nicely
also sometime this week I think that the
seizures the fourth the seizures of man
affords forfeiture start going into
effect we don't get the Trump Tower
condo which is really sad because
frankly he doesn't own it but mana fort
is forfeiting 46 million dollars take
out the Trump Tower condo and that's
still 43 million dollars of stuff to the
federal government and once he forfeits
that then you know Trump can still
pardon him but it you know he's still
screwed like he still doesn't have the
money to pay a legal defense he still
will be prosecuted in New York and
Virginia in Florida so mana for you know
I said when he took the plea deal that
it was not partner ball technically it
still was but things may take place this
week that get us much closer to the
point where we're men afford is not
pardonable and and that also is
something that trumps may not mean he's
a pardon mana for today right but
there's not going to be it doesn't have
material benefit Manafort what's the
point well it you know it yes there is
limited material benefit and possibly as
soon as tomorrow become a lot less
material because pub lost everything
including the ostrich doesn't sure but
but but yeah so manna for is moving
forward as well and that's that I think
makes things more interesting but but um
you know if that's if that's where Trump
is at the two other people you can
pardon to buy their silence or Roger
stone and
right when that may be his last line of
defense if in fact Muller as far as we
think yes he could be and maybe he was
sitting like I just have a vision of him
maybe in the shower in Paris in a ball
in the corner like one of those really
dramatic scenes from a movie where he's
like realizing he's starting to run out
of moves
well I'm not saying about the Whitaker
movies it was really an confidently done
because it seems like you could have
found somebody who Alex's are who runs
HHS you could have moved him in and and
not had to deal with all of the problems
that Whitaker brings and he didn't do
that so we may have it shouldn't be that
hard for the Trump administration to
find someone who has already been
confirmed by the Senate who has
absolutely no integrity and will do the
president's bidding right although I
mean Alex Lazar is under consideration
to be the real AG one Whitaker you know
hatchet jobs Muller but it's also I mean
one of the one of the other really
interesting things about the meeting
last week after sessions was told he was
going to resign in that meeting I said
this already Rosen Stein his deputy the
guy who decides whether or not the
appointment was legal and nor Francisco
now he's his solicitor general I said
he's number three in office first of all
one sort of would suspect that if
something really haywire happened all
those people would resign which would be
a big deal but the other thing is
remember when we were like okay he's
gonna fire Rosenstein right and then the
next in line will supervise Muller this
was - Francisco right and this Mensa
Washington Post figuring out how to
protect the Russian investigation so one
of our fears which is that Francisco
would become Motors boss actually
probably isn't that big of a fear
because he's on Rosen Stein said he was
trying to figure out how to protect the
investigation so the fact that it that
they chose Whittaker indicates that
maybe all those people that we were
worried about are
not willing to go the extra mile for
Donald Trump and in that moment when
when rod Rosenstein was fired was based
on a Washington Post or I think it was a
New York Times story that told about rod
Rosen Stein joking around about a wiring
somebody to go in to talk to the
president and there's some speculation
that Whittaker was the guy who related
that story maybe he heard that story and
then he related it to The Times
yes I would bet fair amount money that
he was one of the sources for The Times
but he tried to get Rosen Stein fired in
September and then succeeded in getting
his own boss fired in November had they
gotten Rosen Stein fired in September
that might have been adequate timing but
but no Francisco would have been charged
so you know it wouldn't have turns out
in all Francisco's not not loyal not
loyal well I mean either these are
lifetime lawyers right and and they may
be in it's like look at George Conway
Kelly Ann's husband right people do not
do not mistake him for a screaming
liberal but he is a lawyer and he does
believe in the law and the Constitution
and he has made now two arguments about
the law and the Constitution that have
been very unfavorable to Donald Trump
but that are what you would expect from
an honest lawyer even a conservative in
his position and and maybe that's where
Francisco is maybe you know for instance
Co doesn't want doesn't hope for this
investigation into Trump but recognizes
that rule of law requires that the
investigation proceed mr. Wei Marcy
wheeler folks you cannot do better in
any format medium temporal or spatial
way of informing yourself about what's
going on than to read empty wheel net
Marcy thank you so much for your time
today I really appreciate it
thanks so much Beth all right folks
that's our interview today we're going
to head into the fun half of the program
we're in
we will play some audio sounds and some
video and take your phone calls and
answer your IMS let's put this up though
right now I think I said at the
beginning of the program
the Democrats have picked up a net of
what do we say 33 and there it is quite
possible they're still counting in
California and in Georgia one or two
other places that at the end of the
final tally there will be 40 plus I
should say for a net gain of 40 House
members in the Democratic caucus
yesterday Josh harder beat Jeff Denham
in the San Joaquin Valley in California
there are two other Republican seats
that the counting seems to be going
against them one is in Orange County
this is California 45 Katey Porter I
want to just speak briefly about Katey
Porter I don't want my comments
yesterday to be misconstrued and David
daen had a very good thread on this and
specifically a piece that he wrote about
Katie Porter's role in making California
responsible for something like 40% of
all recoupments on on bad mortgage
shenanigans mortgages that had no
underlying documentation as to the debt
owed and the securitization the lien
against the house and she was personally
responsible for for helping out
thousands of homeowners as a basically
working
four out of Kamala Harris's office and
you know day in spent a lot of time
obviously probably more than more than
certainly most and wrote a great book on
it
chain of title on that aspect of the
mortgage crisis so despite the fact that
she so ran to the middle you know she
was doing so you know Orange County
which is a I don't know if they've had a
democratic representative there in
decades but nevertheless and so so far
we have images of the members elect now
Republicans I think they flipped two or
two or three seats and then of course
there was also some retirements and
whatnot so there are about let's say one
two three let's say I don't know about
25-30 Republican members elect there you
can see the pictures of them all there
is one woman amongst them and one guy
that guy who was on Saturday Night Live
who has an eye patch that guy yeah
I know I bring that up not because I'm
I'm mocking his eye patch but I'm
looking for I'm looking for some measure
of diversity we have one women a woman
out of those 35 or some odd people and
one guy with an eyepatch and then you
know to be fair there's at least two
guys who seem to be completely bald
and then a lot of guys with the receding
hairlines and then and also to be fair
there's at least two or three guys who
have facial hair some guys not wearing
suits so there are there are two people
three people know four people not
wearing suits so there's a lot of
diversity there you have a live touch
gun coming through
you have all these white men some have a
summer balding a couple wearing glasses
someone has an eyepatch and one one of
those white people is a as a woman let's
go down and take a look at the Democrats
I think no I was a pirate the trip
points goodbye that was good and then
you look at the Democratic members elect
and it is just it's like a completely
different place scary we have multiple
African American folks we have folks who
are I see at least four people that
might blow up the new Congress in a
suicide bomb yes there is a Muslim a
woman and they're like she's gonna hug
you into native vest is the woman from
Minnesota Ethiopian or Irian I think
know you either she's Somali no Somali
and in them we have I mean we have men
and women I think the predominant are
women it is pretty striking that those
two got a single eye patch now you look
at this and I ask you which party which
party is based on identity politics like
what is the identity of the Democratic
members elect I couldn't what is the one
identity that you can you'd stayed about
they all make me want to cross the
street no all right to be fair I gotta
watch my wallet no eye patches I just
said that no I pageants not a signal
representation so why is this party so
big it's batter up to the to the
Republicans I mean this is you know like
whenever you hear someone say that
Democrats are about identity politics
look at this and tell me which party is
about an identity
it's just absurd it is an absurd talking
point the in fact the talking point
itself refutes the talking point there
is no identity advance can encompass the
the Democratic at least incoming members
of this one one might mug you why might
suicide Bob you how about that's to what
do you have yes bets video why do you
hate vets that's my question there you
go I think there's some vets in the
Democratic that's who love America don't
hate America I guess this speaks to the
bad things about the both sides argument
right because they both do identity
politics to some degree but the
Republican version is like everyone
should be white and the Democrat version
is not everyone needs to be what the
reality is everyone does and everywhere
does identity politics in some fashion
or another right and but the reality is
when you look at this there is I mean to
the extent that I even know what
identity politics means right that you
take your cues and you vote based upon
you know I guess what the identity of a
certain person is there's no consistency
amongst the Democratic Party right like
there's it's clear that there is not
they can't be a defining characteristic
of an identity that is that is the the
catalyst for your vote I could give you
defining characteristic none of these
people could get an apartment in any of
my buildings well dad I could well it's
probably I don't know so just want to
put that up whoa here's an eye patch the
others with us that's bad luck the other
we'll talk more about this in the fun
half about the Republicans are now ROH
Khanna has a
a War Powers Act a resolution bill that
has been submitted it is a privileged
resolution because of the nature of the
War Powers Act the Republicans are
attempting to vote to make it
unprivileged basically to defang the War
Powers Act so that they don't have to
take a vote on Yemen and we will talk
more about that the Democratic Party
more or less I mean I imagine they're
some that aren't but the leadership
certainly is unified in this we will
take a quick break
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is gonna
have to be a short one today but we will
have it nevertheless oh just a reminder
quick plugs everybody today you can
become a member of the majority report
by going to join the majority report
dot-com last night was tea MBS Malaika
Diwali the color of economic anxiety and
a deep dive into Amazon voter
suppression on Friday contra point get
your tickets to the Bell House show and
don't forget what I am do you Sam oh
right thank you so this week on the
intifada
we still have our episode out with jay
firestone who infiltrated the alt-right
in new york we also have an episode
forthcoming about the Greek debt crisis
as well as a bonus about some good riot
stories from Greece also Sean is
recording an episode of POD AM America
today where he does a history of the IWW
and that should be out tomorrow so check
it out literary hangover Catherine where
cedric more and more people are talking
about her because of the episode we did
this week bringing her back bringing her
novel back I hope leslie about the
Pequot War and a lot of different things
with patriarchy and slavery in
Massachusetts colonial times also don't
forget you can buy tickets to the live
majority report happening on January
13th Sunday afternoon 18 and over at the
Brooklyn pod fest at go to majority dot
F M for more information
folks don't forget common comfort by
sharper image it's the luxurious way to
blanket that mimics the soothing
feeling of being hugged so you can sleep
better feel great and stress less the
calming comfort weighted blanket comes
with a 90-day anxiety free stress free
best night's sleep your life guarantee
from sharper image right now for
majority report listeners go to calming
comfort blanket calm use the promo code
majority a check out receive 15% off the
displayed price that's calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority because
you can't put a price on a great night's
sleep
[Music]
sweetheart sweetheart get me a beer we
are back Sam cedar fun half look at how
quick we get transitioned into the fun
half today it's pretty good
what uh oh here we go
cher Brown makes a point of pointing out
the obvious here which is that in the
context of Georgia you had the Secretary
of State personally disenfranchising
voters and shutting down voting voting
stations in an election that became
incredibly close and sherrod Brown who I
believe is going to be one of the many
people on the Democratic side who may be
throwing his hat or her hat into the
contest to become president was at the
National Action Network talking about
that race in Georgia gun lobby populace
don't appeal to some by pushing others
down that that's why say in America we
will never give up the hallowed ground
of patriotism to the extremists at our
Statehouse Joyce in the extremists in
this White House in
we also will never give in a senator
cardin said will never give in on voting
rights we have seen what if Stacey
Abrams doesn't win in Georgia they stole
it it's clear it's clear and I would say
say that publicly it's clear what
they're trying to do in Florida - the
gubernatorial candidate into the Senate
candidate running for re-election what
they tried to do in Ohio with some
success by voter purging what they did
in Georgia when they shut down rural
precincts that were predominantly
African Americans where many people
simply don't have transportation to get
to the polls that's what they do they
can't win elections because there's way
more of us and there are them they can't
win elections fairly they win elections
by redistricting and reapportionment in
voter suppression in all the ways they
try to scare people particularly people
of color how they make it hard for
people in college campuses especially
Community College where there are more
low-income people and more people of
color we know those despicable laws are
often aimed that way we must make sure
obviously that every votes counted in
Georgia and Florida net all right there
you have it and the Democrats are going
to be introducing at least in the house
bills that would reinvigorate section 5
of the Voting Rights Act to institute
motor vehicle automatic registration a
series of voting reforms including
offering an amendment to repeal Citizens
United this of course will not pass the
Senate but it will put some pressure on
some Republican senators to the extent
that they can feel pressure from normal
human beings in other words those who
are not living in a state that is
incredibly red as it were but sure
Browns statement is also self-evident
there are in fact more democratic voters
than Republican voters they are not
there in our district in a way that
provides us with results that are
reflective of that disparity you had
significantly more Democratic votes than
Republican votes nationally in terms of
Congress obviously that ended up being a
net 40 difference but when Republicans
165 vote 65 net pickups in 2010 they did
so with significantly less votes than
Democrats had in this election and same
294 just the district redistricting his
is in such a way that it mitigated the
size of the Democratic wave but 40 by
any definition is a wife that's just the
reality of it while we're talking about
the diversity of our let's go to Ainsley
Earhardt this was just from the other
day I'm Fox and Friends you know it's
it's not just that taking time the time
it takes to count all the ballots the
absentee ballots in close races the
provisional ballots it's not just that
that is obviously in self-evidently
evidence of fraud because why would you
keep counting ballots after the day that
they were cast but there's another
problem with it too it's just not and I
think part of the fun of voting and
having your voice heard is finding out
on election night we all stay up really
late to see what these votes what what
when they come in and when these races
are called
if you are you're still counting votes
after 10 days and I understand if it's
super closer that's boy that and it is
down there but if you're still counting
votes if they change it for going
forward we're still counting ballots 10
days after it kind of takes the fun out
of election yeah well I'm willing to
take the fun out to get it right though
Ainsley right and we should
ultimately though when Brian Kilmeade is
the voice of reason dude there is a
trend you know you have a problem
there's a bizarre trend with kill meat
it's not a bizarre to know he's sitting
there going like this is the dumbest
thing I've ever heard in my entire right
so just repeat that back to yourself
Brian Kilmeade sitting there and going
this is the dumbest thing of my entire
life
he's done that three or four times now
but you're having to but you hate the
thing with regret I didn't kill Mead as
opposed to discrediting Ainslie oh I see
no contradiction I was charred a third
way daddy he's a total and kill me
by standards that kill me die give him a
little credit I'm sorry like even a like
a fourth grader couldn't come up with
that something that stupid well now why
you got to insult fourth grader I'm not
insulting fourth graders I'm just saying
that there's actually like a
physiological lack of development of the
brain of kids that age they have not
been exposed to a you know decades
multiple decades worth of information to
to be on a to be talking about politics
and sort of bemoan the fact that it
takes that long because it's not fun and
it's like that's part of the reason why
you vote
cuz it's fun to find out well we know
she doesn't really believe that she just
can't say we don't want to count the
votes because that would hurt
Republicans I'm not convinced that she's
really really dug creative it goes and
it reminds me of how I'm you know my
family we open presents on Christmas Eve
which is a bit early but I me and my
brother just warden down my parents so
much and I'm with Ainsley like I want to
open up the ballots as soon as they're
submitted what are we waiting for fun we
could probably just do this much easier
with a show of hands but then we move
from the sublimely moronic to the more
consciously
cynical and malignant and then of course
I'm talking about Matt slap on on Fox
and Friends with brian kilmeade now
Kilmeade will entertain this one a
little bit more than Ainsley what's her
name Earhart saying it's just not fun
when you have to count all the ballots
welcome airhead folks we said it
incidentally this is the guy who said
the only reason why Michael Steele was
named RNC Head was because he was black
and then tried to explain to Michael
Steele like you can't take offense at
that man I was stuck getting triggered
yeah stop getting triggered by that they
they were friends I'm not sure if they
still are but here is a match slap
accusing or claiming that a state
mandated recount in a state that is run
by Republicans constitutes Democrats
test run for stealing elections I know
some of these counties responsibly
realized how close it was
and by goodbye their state constitution
they get they know their recount happens
so they quickly started recounting again
through the machines we know what
happened in Palm County they overheated
and they got to go through again because
one for Senate one for house so it's a
problem so it's gonna be delayed are you
concerned what concerns you most about
this process positive so there it is
like are you concerned and even kill me
realizes like I haven't set up anything
nefarious whatsoever I better make this
an open-ended question
assess what concerns me most about this
process is that at the very beginning is
where a lot of the wrong wrongdoing
could have occurred when the Election
Commissioners didn't follow the law
explicitly and say how many ballots they
still had to count it and then they took
the counting behind closed doors and
didn't let people like you and from the
media
it created a question mark in all of our
heads posit well no there are there are
County electors from both parties you
know that right match lap of course you
do you also know that in the panhandle
of Florida there was a County affected
by a hurricane that contravene Florida
law and allowed people to fax in and
mail in their ballots now personally I
have no problem with that
I think the point is you want as many
people to vote as possible and make it
as easy as possible and have the
flexibility to deal with those types of
things but that's not what Matt's
lappets worried about he's worried about
the fact that Brian Kilmeade was not
allowed into the area they were counting
ballots like Brian Kilmeade is in every
other county and district in the country
where he's allowed in there to to watch
them count the ballots
it created a question mark in all of our
heads what are they doing behind those
closed doors and that is the biggest
problem we'll never know how they
handled all types of ballots including
ballots that were illicit ballots that
were not legally cast we'll never know
we're gonna spend a lot of time in court
what does that mean ballots that were
not legally cast what does that mean
it's the absentee ballots from the
caravan if they if they go what they're
doing now in Florida is you're going
through a mechanical recount if the
margin and the Senate race is after that
recount still within 0.25 and right now
it's at point 2 they will then do a hand
recount and during that hand recount
there's a significant Munt a number of
under votes in the senatorial race some
also over votes only the undervotes
those are ballots that are there that do
not have a vote for the Senate but do
have votes for other offices they look
at those and they see did the Machine
not pick it up yet and that's where
you'd want you know understandably
because there's a subjective analysis
people around that's all the pictures we
saw the hanging chads they don't have
hanging chads now they just have other
problems apparently
but they're making this up they're
making it up
that's literally we're gonna spend
millions of dollars were going to waste
a lot of time I believe at the end of
this Governor Rick Scott will be a
Senator Ron de santis will be the
governor but what the Democrats are
trying to do here this is a trial run to
figure out what they do in 2020 when
Donald Trump is on the ballot you watch
they are learning lessons that they can
do everything possible to stop her than
2024 that is just bizarre it's gonna
come down to Palm Beach again I guess in
2020
yeah they created a question mark in our
heads that wasn't there before
that's the yeah that's the white news
white news sit down sit down white news
you ought to be ashamed yourself get the
call called screening double slap devil
slap I called rubian oh he's absolutely
a coup being you got his 23 M you back
in his pure coupe he is pure QB and he
is pig grafted from a mad scientist in a
cave no question calling from a 336 area
code who's this hey the fam yes it is oh
this is so awesome same I watch your
show all the time this is a Danny I'm
calling from the Coastal Carolina area
Danny from the Coastal Carolina area
let's keep it let's keep it pretty vague
Danny what's what's on your mind it's
cool well I just want to talk really
quick about the about this this
narrative of liberal media bias you know
I see that you know everybody is always
assuming that the the media is just
always in it for the Democrats and that
they're just you know super liberal even
though they're really like Morris Pro
establishment damn but when I look at
shows like Hannity and Ingram I mean
like Donald Trump literally has two
hours of ads every night for him I mean
he literally had to Fox anchors I mean
yeah I guess I guess
box two that are like literally
defending him no matter what and I just
wanted to bring up really quick I saw
this example that was president nobody
talked about like when it came up I
didn't see anybody like known talking
about it but Hannity was for the Iraq
war and Hillary she also voted for the
Iraq war and we know that Trump at first
he was for the Iraq war even though he
tried to lie about it and say that he
was and when that whole thing came up
during the debate right and I saw in
these videos around that time Hannity is
literally criticizing Hillary for
supporting the war and defending Trump
for not supporting the war even though
he disagreed with Trump and defending
him for lying about it and saying that
Trump was still right and criticized
Hillary for being wrong even though he
agreed with Hillary and going to the war
Danny and like the mental gymnastics you
have to do for that is insane Danny
listen are you sitting down those are
that are you sitting down yeah alright
but yeah I gotta tell you something
Sean Hannity does not have integrity I
hope that does not say there is nothing
there is nothing Sean Hannity wouldn't
reverse himself on wouldn't lie about
exaggerated there's nothing this is so
deep it's a deep stare ID there there is
nothing and a he literally works for
Donald Trump I mean he doesn't get paid
yeah bill shine his best buddy from Fox
does get paid and works for Trump but
Hannity works for Trump he advises Trump
it's well known it's well reported both
he and Ingram have shown up at campaign
events
yeah it's absurd and there is nothing
there is no equivalent to what exists
with with Fox and you know just to go
back to the interview that we had on
Monday yoky Bentley yoga Bentley the
they have done a lot of research about
the about these things and so yeah
yeah Sean Hannity is never going to have
integrity so I would not I would not get
too hung up on that but I appreciate the
call Danny yeah
thanks super easy if you have an
integrity you just go you just do it
call from a two one five area code who's
this where he come from - one five two
one five gonna turn your computer off -
one five Sean doesn't care because he's
a man calling from an eight four
seven area code who's this yeah this is
Krista from Indiana Chris from Indiana
what's on your boat hello yeah what yeah
one of the things I've been actually
with the whole Whitaker with the whole
Whitaker situation it I've been kind of
puzzled about because it seems I don't
know a little obvious to me but I'm
again I'm not a lawyer or anything but
nobody really seems to be talking about
whether or not Whitaker is already
guilty of conspiracy to commit - to
commit obstruction of justice because I
mean the plan he laid out in CNN was
straight up obstruction I mean he gave
intent and everything he was just like
hey I'm gonna we're gonna defund the
Moller investigation to end it and Trump
may have been able to get away with that
it's like it was just somebody normal
and they could have played coy about why
morale was getting you know defunded but
the problem it seems to be a huge
problem seems to be that Whitaker just
gave up the game already and he's been
hired on this thing I mean the argument
I've seen people raised that the
argument that I've heard is he was
working in a different capacity at that
time and he was just giving his opinion
but a show and and and that's it now
there's also it's clear that he's been
to the White House multiple times there
a reports that he was doing an
end-around on the Department of Justice
I mean these things are all though
allegations right like the only thing
that we know in terms of like fact that
is indisputable is
he never got a Senate confirmation
there's even Marilyn didn't seem to
bring up the fact that Jeff Sessions
clearly stated in his resignation letter
that you asked for this letter of
resignation there's another term for
that it's called you fired me and if
Jeff Sessions was fired then you cannot
replace him with a you cannot replace
him under the the Act that calls for
acting you know heads of agencies now
there's also an argument that the
Department of Justice is a specific type
of agency in terms of its close
proximity to the power the president
that you can't have anybody sitting
there who hasn't been confirmed by the
Senate for a similarly situated role so
the fact that they I under
I understand all yeah I mean I
completely understand all there are
people who are me and there are people
who are making the argument that you're
making and you know commentators are
definitely talking about that but the
but but from a legal perspective you
know that's it that's one of those like
you and what army type of situations
that you're referring to I know I mean
generally the it seems generally the
hard part about conspiracy usually is
proving intent that somebody actually
made the plan because I mean it's
illegal to plan to agree with somebody
else even if you don't know their full
identity to commit a crime in the future
you can't like you know say for instance
talk to somebody hey I'm gonna we're
gonna rob this Bank
you know on Tuesday you've already
committed a crime at the two of you have
made that agreement I mean that's been
so I mean that's what I started
wondering about the whole conspiracy
thing is that you know Whitakers gone on
TV said hey here's this whole plan to
obstruct justice and it just makes it
one they're like well I Christmas
surprise me if Muller
is not adding to his list of evidence of
obstruction and of intent to obstruct if
this entire episode isn't part of that
that firing yeah I mean you're right I
mean look we know why Trump fired
sessions right like there's no there's
sessions
knowing that is not aligned with Trump's
agenda except for the fact and trumpet
said this multiple times publicly that
sessions all right yeah I'm firing him
because you recused himself in the
investigation - a little thing called
not protecting my criminal activity so
there are some disagreement it's quite
possible that all of this is gonna be
part of an indictment at one point or at
least in a report but and I've heard
people reference it I just think that at
this point there the people are focusing
on stuff that is actionable at the
moment where you can actually go to
court and say here is a we don't need to
argue about the the facts in this case
we simply need to argue the law and so
that's that's what's going on
appreciate the page I mean I would I
guess okay thank you all right I can't I
can't I can't fix all of it
I can't what did Jeff Sessions yeah
slight difference of the agenda the
Attorney General not protecting the
president's criminal activity what kind
of push that you go to dumb Watergate
with the bad lawyers you have yeah this
is pretty stupid Watergate with no
choose the noise you have that this is a
Mehdi Hasan he's on what is it AJ you're
dreaming or English English Global News
and is this the one that's exclusively
online or sits online and I can't
remember no they'll Deezer I think they
are available on some cable packages so
Mehdi Hasan has on Steve Rogers who is a
an advisor on the Board of Advisors I
guess to Donald Trump's twenty20
campaign best people and you know it
just he wasn't prepared for other
questions that were about stuff
the president lives daily multiple times
when he says we're the only country in
the world where a person comes in and
has a baby and that baby is essentially
a citizen the United States is that true
or false
no it's what it's a misstatement that
means that okay okay he said there were
riots going on in California against
illegal immigrations and so-called
sanctuary cities where there any riots
in California
oh yes there was a lot of civil
disturbances in California there was
there are Street skirmishes in Los
Angeles the spokesman for the California
police chiefs Association says there was
no there were no riots taking place as a
result of a sanitary city policy there
were no riots he just made it up when he
was asked to say whether why he said go
look for them
I can give you many more he said during
the campaign that there's six to seven
steel facilities that are going to be
opened up there are no US Steel has not
announced any facilities why did he say
they've announced new facilities that's
a lie isn't it no it isn't because there
are a lot of companies offering up there
are steel facilities that are going to
be opening up all right he said I know
it's difficult for you I don't you want
to try and offend him let me read the
quote to you US Steel just announced
that they're building six new steel
mills that's a very specific claim US
Steel have not announced six new steel
mills they have said they've not
announced six new steelman's there's no
evidence of six new steel miss he just
made it up and he repeated it he didn't
just say once look I don't know of what
context these are statements were made
but I could tell you this the president
of the and I said what I'm about to say
is not true the US Steel is opening up
six thing that's the part they take me
out of here but he doesn't say that what
I said right before that is I wish what
I'm about to say we're so in an ideal
universe what I'm about to say would be
true now let's go ahead many lies about
thick journalists yes the President of
the United States has been very
responsive to the American people and
the American people are doing well and
the president can be a liar there's no
contradiction between those two
statements all right I am NOT gonna say
the President of the United States is a
liar but I've just put to you a multiple
lies and you've not been able to respond
to any of them let me ask you this I
can't respond to them what didn't happen
is you didn't hear what you wanted to
hear what did I want to hear I wanted to
hear that there are no steel no one just
may want didn't hear me say now well
let's go on I mean you want to go on
because you know it's a lie
there is there anything better than
someone with a British accent yeah like
pressing people on stuff like that
that's how most interviews should be in
the quote unquote liberal media but the
creepy part is they can get caught in
lies on lies and lies and it's not going
to change any of their supporters my's
not at all not at all
it is it will alienate like think clear
thinking people alienate certain people
and in some ways it's like look Maura
but you're thinking people who are going
around going like I wonder if Donald
Trump is a liar I think the reason
Republicans are so unpopular generally
is because this is all they do and it
just takes time for people to catch up
well I think there's also that I think
that's true - that's actually chapter 5
of my blame the voters book there are
plenty of clear thinking members of the
ruling class who are very comfortable
with the lies and the choices they've
made look I cut your taxes so let me
have a couple lines here is Mike Gundy
 me at all you know nothing about
it Samantha I really don't I don't I
don't follow I'll follow the big 12 the
behind dog yeah what kind of doggy
figure skating can it Samantha right I
mean I don't even I mean is this sky you
know football coach is that what they do
they like Oklahoma State University
Cowboys yeah now the Cowboys I don't I
do not follow college football I just
don't because you know you grew up in
the Northeast it's not like you have any
big powerhouses yeah sure I didn't think
other college football Boston College
well you know Holy Cross they were
actually we there was a guy I can't
remember his name but this is beside the
point but he he went bought Gill
somebody went bum
play defense and offense no lacrosse
used to be big in basketball like if you
go back to the early 70s they were top
ten nevertheless here is Mike Gundy and
I suspect that if Mike Gundy and I sat
down have a beer he wouldn't like me
at all but here he is somehow not only
making like sort of a category or like
he had he doesn't like a generation and
he thinks it's because their their their
political inclinations but also it may
just turn out to be that he's just a
jackass and this is Mike Gundy doing his
monologue from the play hey you kids get
off my lawn is that the biggest
difference players these days it seems
like transferring is a lot easier to a
lot of a lot easier for guys to do that
maybe it was back in the day posit now
my understanding is and I don't know
what the rules are today but I know that
back in the day if you transferred you
were blue shirted for a year you had to
wait a year now I don't know if that's
the case anymore but if that's the case
now that's a function not of the
students but rather of the is that right
see that I have that right Brendan okay
so that was a rule change that took
place because the National Collegiate
Athletic Association wanted to make more
money that was a purely conservative
capitalist move that disregarded the
education needs of the students and said
you know what we're got this free labor
and we're not maximizing it we're
actually inhibiting the value to all of
us so that's the story of why students
transfer now to different schools they
go to a school that has maybe a lesser
quality football program and then they
go to one that has a better quality
football program because they prove
themselves at the lesser quality program
school or maybe they maybe they want to
get closer home who knows but this is
all done by the n-c-double-a to make
more money so here we have I'm sure Mike
Gundy is going to blame the
organizations that are supposed to
protect students well I think we live in
a world where people are non-committal
we allow liberalism to say hey I could
just do what I want and I don't have to
really be tough and fight through it and
you see that with with young people
because it's an option they're given we
weren't given that option when we were
growing up we were told what to do we
did it the right way or you go figure it
out on your own in the world today
there's a lot of entitlement I'm a firm
believer in the snowflake I think it's
it's setting there and I'm not talk
about table Oh table oh and I've had
multiple good talks talking about every
millennial young person generation Z I
think what they call them that's the
world we live in because if they say
well it's a little bit hard and we say
okay well let's go try something else
versus hey let's let's bear down and
despite through this so you see a lot of
that nowadays and that doesn't have
anything to do with Thabo or McCleskey
or anybody that's been on the portal
here that's just in general in society
even if you're working down here at
Walmart yeah that doesn't anything to do
with table I think he's talking about
table Oh when when Nicky
he is a I think a star player on
Oklahoma State University which would
lead me to believe that he doesn't give
a crap about what he's saying if he can
get a good player out of it if it helps
him directly Gundy makes five million
dollars a year incidentally I wonder how
he got that do you think he got that by
saying to Oklahoma State or to the to
the school that he was coaching that
before like I'm never gonna leave here
cuz I'm totally committed to you I would
never leave for more money or to better
my situation give me a break
it's it is super McCobb that none of
these athletes that actually you know
put people in the stands make any any
money off of this they get education but
that should be free you know flakes
meanwhile I'm making five million
dollars because they're going out there
and getting concussions exactly develop
CTE frankly please it is so I mean I
guess you're we're not supposed to
advocate criminal behavior
show but like that every single yes but
every single college athlete that has
ever taken a bride from a sports agent
or brand should be pardoned and
immediately have the money that has been
stripped away from them giving it back
to them you know it's a travesty that
they're not paid yeah that's that's a
lot like indentured servitude hmm
nothing such a snowflake JB
the regimentation has some I think some
long I think there's some very very
troubling historical echoes there yeah
be committed be committed maybe you
should treat Gandhi with a little
 respect come from a gay
Giavotella pod column from a 4:08
area code who's this where you come from
I'm sorry folks we got a lot of people
on hold and they've been there for a
long time come from a 4:08 Eric I love
this who's this
here's me it is you hello hello okay
I am I'm re calling from the Bay Area
Ari from the Bay Area
what's on your mind Ari I want you to
talk about something that in one of your
callers alluded to the other day
actually it was talking about sort of
the reactor mass reaction to the to the
Pittsburgh terror attack you know and
then that you know I've been noticing it
it's sort of these you know Sam Harris
type allies I find there you know
reaction to it very interesting I'm yeah
if this is sort of obvious point but it
seems to me that there's sort of a a
cottage industry that sort of transcends
beyond just the the Robert Spencer's of
the world orders really fanatical but
you know one of these I was following
one of these ayaan Hirsi Ali
disciples was actually gained a certain
level of prominence and it's interesting
she had you know previously the incident
that happened in Toronto where this
individual got robbed it ran over a
bunch of people and her initial response
was like you know quoting you know
essentially quoting sam harris that you
know we're all living in israel they
just don't know it yet and all this
other stuff at that couple hours later
it turns out that you know it was it was
one of those insults I mean do you think
that a lot of this stuff is really more
of a product of some for some individual
some personal bad experiences coupled
with a conservative sort of think tanks
one Engler or because you see it seems
like you know there's a whole industry
behind the you know let's all fall a
profit off of you know going on tour
with the Douglas Murray and Dave group
and warning about pouring the west about
the infiltration by infiltration of the
West by Muslims so you know I don't
think I mean listen I think the I don't
think that all right let me put it this
way this is the way I think it works I
think that they're on II on the right
there the attitude is let a thousand
flowers bloom now you can have that
attitude on the on the left as well the
difference is that the right has enough
money that we're going to fertilize
enough of the area that more flowers
bloom okay and so so Dave Rubin at the
very least gets a bunch of coke coke
brothers money they don't say we're
giving you this money to go promote you
know Jordan Peterson and ben shapiro but
they give him the money here and then
you know shapiro maybe he gets his
funding from some other right-wing
billionaire or through the Heritage
Foundation or something like that
and they go on each other's show and
it's profitable for both of them and
they can turn around and show their
funders look at how many hits I have on
YouTube and they get more money that way
and so that's the way it works there's
nobody there with a grand plan and and I
imagine there are plenty of people that
they end up shadowing money to that
don't don't pan out and that's fine
because there's just a lot more money
that money doesn't exist on the left and
so you know it's the only I could tell
you is that well having been a student
of early antiquity religions you you
could see like there was you know we
could have ended up with something
called you
Minoo there may be Christianity wouldn't
have been the primary it just it was by
chance we could all be you know minions
at this point it's just that was one
that just didn't the environment wasn't
right for it to survive but there's
enough oxygen pumped into the right
there that that stuff grows and that's
what I think happens they're gonna say I
think that I think some people without
no you go re and then okay so yeah I was
just gonna say that I mean the Shapiro
thing there's a did I think there's a
distinction because I would actually I
won't be surprised that your pure opal
leaves a lot of what he's bowing by I
mean David Dave Rubin is Dave Rubens
just the whole I mean the guy goes to
the highest bidder whoever doesn't know
he used to be
I think I'm Harrison jock and always you
know mostly you know on the Jordan
Peterson bandwagon but there's a
distinction there but obviously yeah I
mean gauges you know it is it does
pretty much function the way you're
talking about that right I appreciate
the call re I can tell you is that like
you know I think there is for a lot of
these people there is a basic you know
set of beliefs some may be more closely
held than others
and you know you'd be surprised on how
motivating you know easy money is to
enhancing those beliefs I mean that's
why I think you know III think that's
the story of Gavin McGinnis I mean I
don't think I mean gap McGinnis was
always sort of an obnoxious
I think inclined to have the ideology
has but III think he he also if he'd if
someone stepped up to him and said like
hey Gavin we're gonna pay you three
million dollars a year to host in each
program we just need you to tone down
your politics he would have been like
politics what politics III have heard
that speculation I think is rooted in in
real things oh yeah no III know I I had
interactions with him I know people who
know him I know of offers that have been
made to him for various you know if
somebody stepped up
that money his politics would go right
away but this and listen you know he's
getting paid by CR T V I don't know how
much he money he's getting I know very
few people watch his show but he gets a
lot it he's like what is known as a lost
leader you know it's like an HBO show
that nobody watches but gets a lot of
press that's what he does I can tell you
this that mark Stein someone whose name
most of you have never heard and I
mention him on the show but he fills in
for Rush Limbaugh occasionally and when
you fill in for Rush Limbaugh you are
chosen because you are no threat to him
Dylan bah so that you know that you're
basically you you've peaked mark Stein
was brought on to uh see our TV was a
writer I think for the National Review
guy who lives up like up in Vermont or
something and from Canada I believe or
by way of Canada he came down to New
York he did the show for a couple of
months the show fell apart
he went to arbitration okay he went to
arbitration which means that they didn't
want to pay him what was due him in his
contract he probably had a pay or play
contract I don't know for how many years
it is let's just assume it was for five
that would be pretty long for Internet
world but let's just assume was five
they had to pay him out in arbitration
for million dollars now I will tell you
something I know the metrics of this
business there's no way
mark Stein was going to generate four
million dollars nevermind over five
years over 10 years this dude when to do
it the amount of money that they're
pumping into the system and no one's
quite clear where the money's coming
from its supposedly mark Levins
operation but Mark Levin does not have
four million dollars to pay out mark
Stein so there's a lot of money there
I'm not exactly sure what it is all
right that's all right freak who did the
cat video yes mmm Jesus Christ right
that's how he got a budget for that they
should police should I believe in using
the
treat act on that guy I want to see
what's going we have one more call
calling from a two one five area code
I'm sorry I got a jump at relatively
soon damn Mindy Mindy hi listen I just
hi how are you good what's going on I
wanted to make some clarity on my on my
area because you were talking about it
yesterday everybody was weighing in on
Richboro Bucks County and okay and all
that this is the Fitzpatrick yeah I'll
give you a little bit of clarity about
it if you want to hear it Joanie hear it
yes okay so anyway Brian Fitzpatrick the
guy that won viewed himself as a
moderate and that he said that he
opposed Trump a lot which I think his
record was like 83% but he snowed
everybody here plus he got all the
endorsements from like you were talking
about yesterday but he had massive signs
I'm talking like billboard sign size
signs like I don't know 15 feet by like
10 feet signs that he had all over that
said you know sushma endorses me and
this union endorses me and that union
endorses me so that's that was one thing
he did the other thing was that a lot of
people I know wanted to work for Scott
Wallace and he was so cocky he never
answered anybody's phone calls he never
called anybody back he never engaged
with the people here and he just thought
he was going to win with all of his
money that was to and the third thing is
this area is about 30 years old that
it's been developed it used to be all
like pig farms and cows and a lot of
like there was KKK up here originally so
when we started to move in would all the
like the McMansions that we bet that we
put in you know there was like tons
there's like tons of them there's like
tons or like house after house after
house we have two High School's four
Middle School's like ten elementary
schools on the same school system and
what happened was we built this and so
the the older people where Republicans
never got used to us and we never got
used to them and we just lived like five
by side with them so there was always a
big blue collar and conservative
population here that was originally here
and then to boot we started to get
really russian populated like we're
extremely Russian here like a lot and
they all go they all go for Republicans
so well I mean I think you know listen
Mindy the real the real weird thing is
just sort of how it's not surprising to
me that Republicans would vote for a
Republican what is more surprising to me
is that democratic institutions would
lend support to a Republican it doesn't
yes but also you have to understand a
lot of the people have money here and
they got a lot of money they got a lot
of the tax break back to the old I guess
a year
hmm I get that I get that but I'm
talking about not having the voters I'm
talking about why should this guy get
union support where you know I think
it's a mistake it's a short it's
short-sighted mistake by the unions
frankly you know you know he got his
brother's seat right Fitzpatrick Brian
Fitzpatrick God is Fitzpatrick got his
brothers seat who was loved here right
you know and also he makes pretend he's
for the health thing he does he does
this all open thing he's very aggressive
he did this other thing where he would
like have fake calling town halls all
the time but he would only talk about
opioids so and he's very um blue-collar
you know he's just that not every guy
that every guy guy oh yeah I can't annum
and you know that's why he wants but
last thing it was scott Wallace's seat
to take and he was a little more
proactive and he engaged in room with
the community and he would have reached
out further he definitely could have
learned missed opportunity indeed thanks
so much
opportunity appreciate neighbor one I
told you that right yeah
appreciate the update all right I got a
gun fatal thank you
Thank You Mindy alright folks I'm sorry
no more time for calls let's go to some
IMS and oh we should tell you this is
pretty exciting
DJ : on and over at the the majority
reports sub reddit thread which we have
a link to in our podcast description
today came up with the majority report
bingo card just a couple of them you
could play this at home you can look for
it we'll post a link at on the podcast
description you can you know there's
things like Sam mentions Casper
mattresses Jimmy reefer cake some
background laughter Jamie as an
anarchist socialist Marxist quote caller
says is this me the is this drug this is
you one is that's that's I'd look
strongly for that right Sam responds
with this is you that's a good
point is on there that is available you
can play along with the show
Harry's ways razors crew but there's
also a second majority report bingo card
doesn't use our new logo but still very
very exciting and and of course a
function of my free bingo cards calm
where everybody wants to go this is from
it limits socialist or I limits
socialist it's hard to know but you have
things like right-wing and Mandela
impression zero-sum game now it's Bernie
Sam drops an f-bomb Brendon speaks this
Sam dropped an f-bomb last I have a
little while sjw Susan Collins
impression Kardashian explainer for Sam
Jimmy Dora's mentioned phone system goes
down Michael's in the bathroom Matt
makes obscure reference
tough road to hoe and no I am Bhama
impression malice bernie impression
jamie gets interrupted i love and hate
that that's on there Labe keep saying no
there's all sorts of there's all sorts
of them on there so check it out you can
download both and play at home and maybe
you know I don't know maybe we print one
of these bad boys you know do a late
night thing and if you do you have to
give the time codes so we can check
right yeah you can't just check it I'll
just tell it's not gonna believe you all
right let's do some AIIMS and we're
gonna get out of here poor man afford
fast food worker sir would you like
fries with that poor man afford this is
what well that's what we that is what my
preference is yes retcon I don't think
you guys talked about this yesterday
Politico reported a top hrc Hillary
Rodham Clinton aides said Hillary is
running for higher office in 2020 no
well first off that is inaccurate mark
Penn who was not involved in the 2016
Clinton campaign claimed that mark Penn
is a mark Penn is a as a total loser
oh but he wasn't oh he was gonna run for
a higher office maybe this is different
maybe there's a different report but
she's gonna run for like a congressional
seat or something maybe governor I'd
respect that
maybe governor in New York oh maybe not
bad run run for like a state Senate seat
Hillary I actually state yeah you know
what represent Westchester state
assembly I'll tell you something not
comptroller to my power I tell you
something governor of New York State I
down with that over Cuomo was that
running again though I know but I think
I actually think that Clinton might be
pretty good pretty serious I think she
would be the same they're friends I
don't understand why you think she
endorsed him I think she is I think she
would be better on
education I think she would be better on
health care yeah
it's done what based upon what her
policy positions were in the last
presidential run not the totality for
like career and record well I mean I
think she III you know if you go back
and look at Hillary Clinton care it was
far better than what we ended up getting
aware that Hillary care was better than
Obama care but the but from being on the
board of directors of Walmart which okay
to her like actual record in the Senate
which was a very right-wing record
bankruptcy reform I think if she wrote
all series if she runs for the
governorship she's not gonna run for
anything else and that would be it and I
think that I don't think she has secret
liberal politics I'm not saying that
she's secretly liberal but I think that
in the context of health care and
education which had the to you know sort
of primary functions in the context of a
governorship it's all very triggering
for me I was hoping to not ever have to
talk about her trouble the trouble
jammie jammie-jammie let me just say
some before you finish your point that
will help you be less triggered the
white electorate at home is highly
irrational and identity-based that is
the only way sometimes to explain their
bizarre theories about why Hillary
Clinton might be a good progressive girl
like I don't even care what we're saying
about her right now I feel like the more
we talk about her the more like clout
points she's getting somehow mystically
all right well let's move on v spa I
mean I you know I'm saying this in a
vacuum it's quite possible there would
be someone who I like better running but
I'll give you one I'd vote for Hillary
Clinton over Bill DeBlasio well I mean
who do you who would you anticipate
would run for a governor I have no clue
I mean I but I could tell you honestly I
mean even joking I probably I would vote
for de Blasio over Hillary Clinton
frankly so actually you could probably
name me well I would vote for de Blasio
over clay okay so DeBlasio is actually
the only other big name that I've heard
in contention and I'm sure she smoked
him yeah thank you
I've heard that guy's okay Amazon Cuomo
is governor for life there's no point
having that can I get a shofar for being
blocked by Dave Rubin on Twitter sure
you can
says bespoke crystalline in the case of
many artists and small businesspeople in
Long Island City and Mazzoni ax is a
death knell it's not likely the fledging
arts community can be maintained for
much longer I personally have at least
for a little more than two years will
see how much I can count on that
so in light of that the coming weekends
open studio events could be the last in
the neighborhood will host so anyone
interested come check it out while you
still can
yeah it's a good point judges gars lay a
question for the full crew but Sam first
our Linda Sarsour and Tamika Mallory
antisemitic if not how do you know I
don't know I have to be honest with you
I'm not familiar with what Tamika
Mallory was part of the the woman's
March she said that's climb with a
Farrakhan I don't really consider either
them to be anti-semitic I understand why
it bothers some people but I also think
people need to be a little less
melodramatic but I'll look into it a
little more it is I think she's super
tone deaf but I don't know if she's
antisymmetric i it's it's conceivable
that she's anti-semitic it's conceivable
she's not I don't know enough but I am
quite convinced that the concerns about
if you can point to me a case of leftist
violence against Jews then I would I'd
be far more concerned about it but I can
tell you that in 2017 the anti-semitism
acts of anti-semitism is reported by the
FBI have shot up significantly and I
don't think it's because of Louis
Farrakhan Ono who is on the right let's
let's let him never forget that that's a
that is such American racial rhetoric
like the only reason that he is
identified on the left is purely because
his black his politics his economics his
religious views are right-wing but DX
fool he supported Trump he supported
Trump and he has a long history
he supported you know Reaganomics
essentially he is a man of the right
politics don't make any sense the DX
fool hello social Jewish Warriors is the
ion bucket open unlike yesterday
regarding Monday's interview Fox
employees were reportedly mad at Sean
Hannity for lumping Fox News with the
media at the Limbaugh Piro rally with
Trump that partly
to Claire McCaskill's out asked her my
question is why is Fox News not
considered a member of the media and our
outlets like Washington Examiner News
max Breitbart part of this group also
its transgender Awareness Week and still
no T GNC members in Congress jamie
peaches breaking mike espy will debate
Cindy hyde-smith on November 20th in a
one hour broadcast debate in Jackson
Mississippi
excellent Louis seventy-seven I'm
curious to hear Dinesh D'Souza's pretzel
logic regarding the Democrats and their
racism in light of the recent
representative elects I guess according
to him being a real racist means
electing people of color into higher
office most of the African Americans who
won one in predominantly white districts
I mean overwhelmingly white districts
turn Bega Sam I've been using your Kirk
in libertarian debates in my college
freshman writing class to teach students
about argumentation they thought you
mopped the floor with Kirk and I student
who was self professed libertarian seems
to have changed his mind do more debates
for the kids thank you that's very I I
can't tell you how much I appreciate
hearing that's awesome
and when aura Republicans keep talking
about how to continuing to count the
votes putting the results into question
someone's online said well these are the
results the chris lopaka i like veterans
who don't have both eyes if you have
both eyes that means you're not
patriotic enough i'll shoot okay three
more dave in miami sam bernie recently
said in an interview that it's good
strategy to use the fact that trump
doesn't actually believe in anything
against him in other words he would be
willing to pass whatever bills make him
look good do you think this is a good
strategy now with the house yes
no zeny Dems should introduce
legislation on making presidential and
midterm election days holidays it would
be win-win-win I agree and the final I
am of the day
I don't need to base my entire identity
around being white because I actually
have a personality interest intrinsic
value in myself etc see you Oh tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
