[Music]
we were talking about impeachment here's
Nancy Pelosi this morning addressing
this question of impeachment I don't I I
mean for the life of me I have no idea
what where she's going with this
there are now 96 96 Democratic
representatives who have come out one of
them is Katherine Clark she is in the
leadership at least of the Democrats in
the house I mean not necessarily you
know I think with the reelect campaign
nevertheless she's a she's a democratic
leadership member who apparently has
been released by Nancy Pelosi or not
there's a lot of reports that Jerrold
Nadler
is getting into more and more heated
exchanges with Pelosi over this he is
beginning to feel the heat himself as
there is a primary candidate who's been
who's announced and has at this point
been primarily running as far as I can
tell on this question of impeachment and
this came up I think in our conversation
with Sean McElwee at Netroots nation
this is another value to two primary
even primary Congress people who are
more or less okay right like the whole
idea is you want to deploy your
resources where they're needed the most
but I think there is a very strong
argument that primary and candidates who
you may even like basically keep them I
don't want to say honest but we'll give
them at least a another arrow in their
quiver or another reason or an incentive
to pursue policies that you want to see
implemented here is Nancy Pelosi for
some reason wearing mistletoe at the on
the house today I'm Brad
of course know somebody identified
colleagues believe you're simply trying
to run out the clock on excuse me that's
not you know I'm not trying to run out
the pot let's get sophisticated about
this okay okay we won't proceed when we
have what we need to proceed not one day
similar and everybody has the liberty
and the luxury to espouse their own
position and to criticize me for trying
to go down the path in the most
determined positive way again their
advocacy for impeachment only gives me
leverage I have no complaint with what
they are doing but I know the mother
what president would keep calling them
special counsel mother mr. Muller said
the other day confirmed confirmed in the
public mind that the president has
obstructed justice you know what he said
it was to go to exonerated own people
whatever didn't but he was not able to
investigate the president's finances
personal business or otherwise and that
is what we are doing in the courts so
I'm willing to take whatever heat there
is there to say when we run we the
decision will be made in a timely
fashion this isn't endless and when we
have the best strongest possible case
and that's not endless either I mean it
may be endless in terms of the
violations of the law that the
president's engaged in but that's what I
say to you I in all honesty I feel like
I could sit down with that piece of
video for an hour and a half and not be
able to tell you what she's talking
about and I don't know if she's being
deliberately evasive in that like she
clearly thinks that there is some
threshold of information that has not
been crossed she can't possibly think
that she's going to get that threshold
through the courts if
if the Democrats wanted to see Donald
Trump's taxes they could see Donald
Trump's taxes from new york state
yesterday they could see them richard
neal didn't want to they want to look
into the finances they could do that
they could have done that yesterday if
they are worried that their subpoenas
are not being pursued with any vigor or
taken seriously by the administration
there is one recourse for them to start
an impeachment inquiry which the courts
have already made clear it advantages
subpoenas over subpoenas that are issued
in a non impeachment inquiry so I mean
in part I think she's just sort of like
lying but she can't even see it we're at
the point now where like there doesn't
even see BA it seemed to be an effort to
offer a cohesive argument against like I
don't know what it is and it's clearly
they're trying to run out the clock now
maybe maybe from her perspective maybe
the requirement is I need assurances
from Chuck Schumer that we're not going
to have ten or twelve Democratic
senators voting against impeachment
hearings or in voting against the
articles in the Pietschmann if it shows
up in the Senate or maybe the idea is
that like oh we're gonna start
impeachment proceedings in you know July
of 20-20-20 so there'll be no time to
vote on I don't know I just think I
don't know either but I just think you
know like keep it simple in the sense
that they are clearly they're obviously
trying to run out the clock and any
number of things I think that they're
quite confident and cocky about beating
Donald Trump and they are absolutely
risk-averse and incredibly cowardly and
timid and so these other factors might
be a consideration but I just think it's
as simple as like they have their
limited case studies there
they probably are thinking of Clinton in
98 even though it's really not a good
comparison at all at all it's like a
shockingly bad comparison I'm a little
bit more skeptical but I'm not as
gung-ho about it as other people are at
all but that's a stupid comparison in my
opinion I think that they just they want
nothing that could disrupt gliding into
2020 that's it but all these other
things though about like I'm saying like
yeah I guess that I'm trying to just say
is I just think we can't you know sure
like Schumer's pretty just so ludicrous
but Pelosi and Schumer are unit
I mean she's not trying to protect I
don't know if that's the case it's in
calm the evidence arguing that they're
not a unit would be the border bill
right because she certainly thought that
they were going to fight the border bill
and they passed one that they liked in
the house they sent it to the Senate and
that border bill died they brought up
Mitch McConnell's it won something like
eighty nine to eleven which means that
thirty some-odd Democrats voted for it
there's a noise Schumer came out and
said I'm shocked that the House passed
it he said the same thing
well weeks ago but the house has to pass
I understand your Senators I get it
votes against the bill and so that is
evidence to me that they're not on the
same page and that she cannot rely on on
Chuck Schumer now I haven't seen any
reporting to that effect and it may
behoove her to not do that because they
obviously there's nobody complaining in
the Senate but I'm more focused on
reining in an AOC and doing that than
she is in this the short-term struggle
if she running Nancy Pelosi I'm trying
to describe it dynamic if she sees that
she's not able to do anything because
she's hampered by Chuck Schumer it is
much easier for her to pick on four
freshmen Congress people make that the
story of the day rather than trying to
go after Chuck Schumer who she cannot
she cannot success there's no success in
that yeah I mean I just want to say
quickly like we
we don't know what's in the mind of
Pelosi but we do know what priorities
the staff that she has with Drew Hamill
indeed and the staff of Hakeem Jeffries
happened it is to go after the left
that's like what and what's yeah I mean
what Grimm said Grimm said look these
people are more interested in not even
running the house but internal control
of one half of that I think if she
really really were smart about trying to
get internal control though she would
not be playing into their hands like
she's kind of right there are only four
votes they don't have that much power a
lot of their power comes from their base
and it comes from social media and it
comes from the attention that they're
getting and by making that a story she
is seeding that ground to them and I
feel like it's only gonna help them in
the long run in the long run it may but
I think you know in the short term she
just I think it just gives her something
to talk about
like that's like you know that I need
content baby exactly like she was trying
to run our clock out on that statement
just now no kid I need some content
speaking of which
