[Music]
this one clip this is uh I like to see
this because there is at least you know
some pushback in our society and I like
the fact that I mean soccer has always
been a the probably the most political
of all sports because of the nature of
the the countries that have you know had
it as a national pastime to the extent
that day we could say that I've been
more political than then you know the
countries that let's say have baseball
per se but it's it's catching on and I I
like it you know even obviously even in
the context of a US soccer here is
Alejandro Bedoya he plays for
Philadelphia Union and he scored a goal
against the DC United and watch what he
does he runs over to a Mike
[Applause]
[Music]
in the third minute the captain comes up
with a very big goal he runs over to the
microphone they put microphones on the
FIFA ambient fields how that gets this
field Sam yeah and he runs over he sees
the microphone and it was weird too
because like all his he's right right
there no bright before that go go back
all these guys start running back onto
the field and he's like he goes right
for the microphone he goes to completely
the other direction looks like he's
running off he's running like you know
back to the locker room beside drop
that's pretty awesome Miller did you
anticipate him politicizing this gay
Eurosport like that
