all right well let's get to the story
about Khashoggi because the CIA now has
said that they have fairly significant
evidence that MBS was aware of this now
it also is the most obvious answer that
Khashoggi was I mean that Mohammed Ben
Solomon was involved in this first let's
start with with Donald Trump being asked
if he's letting MBS get away with murder
and here is Donald Trump's essentially
his statement I mean they released
another statement that was all about
justifying this position but this is the
position are you letting the Saudis get
away with murder murdering a journalist
this is about America first they paying
us four hundred billion dollars plus to
purchase and invest in our country
that's probably the biggest amount ever
paid to the United States
don't you believe the CIA didn't make a
determination and it's just like I said
I think it was great maybe he did maybe
he did they did not make that assessment
the CIA has looked at it they've studied
it a lot
they have nothing definitive well I mean
a lot of people are asking like why
would it be why would Donald Trump be so
hesitant to to hold the Saudis
responsible for this in particularly MBs
and the argument that it's about jobs
and money is obviously bunk I mean
people have debunked this all over the
place
the the deal is closer to 28 billion
dollars and it goes to Lockheed Martin
in there creating less than a thousand
jobs close so close but it's so big so
big what do you have 28 million yeah I
mean and the number keeps inflating like
even this debunking was like every time
he mentions a hundred and ten billion
dollar arms like today it was like four
hundred yeah it just keeps going up he
just pulls a number out the comics
Kareem the more accurate answer as to
what is motivating Donald Trump I think
possibly could be found in a May 19th
2018 piece in The New York Times by Mark
Mazzetti ronen bergman and David
Kirkpatrick headline Trump jr. and other
aides meet with Gulf emissary offering
help to win election Donald Trump jr.
the president's eldest son three months
before the 2016 election was part of a
small group gathered or Trump Tower one
of the people there was an Israeli of
specialists in social media manipulation
another was an emissary for two wealthy
Arab Prince's one of whom of those Arab
Prince's with Mohammed Ben Solomon the
third was Eric Prince from Blackwater
the emissary Jorge Nader said that the
princes who led Saudi Arabia and the UAE
were eager to help his father win the
election they made some type of deal the
the Israeli social media guy ended up
getting paid a couple of million dollars
after the election Nader was brought in
multiple times into the campaign not the
type of profile that you would have if
your offer of help was rejected
but the question becomes like is Donald
Trump really the type of person to get
help being elected and then just be
incredibly loyal for instance let's say
you were the first senator who came out
and supported Donald Trump would he be
loyal to you even even if you killed and
your name was Jeff Sessions I think the
answer would probably be no it's I mean
I don't even think of this is like a
tit-for-tat type of situation the way
the Trump is acting he may have some
deal Donald Trump jr. may have some deal
Kushner may have some deal or the Saudis
may have information that would be
dangerous for them to share with other
people about Donald Trump or Donald
Trump jr. like I mean they they made a
deal it is unclear what that deal was
and Donald Trump's loyalty is been
proven time and time again to not
necessarily be super deep the most loyal
it's very strange
it's very strange
what's going on here now I will say that
a lot of the players who were talked
about in this piece they've already
talked to Muller or they have been
talking to Mahler so we will probably
find find out I have a feeling when
Muller ends up bringing out to his
report if he does that it's gonna be
much wider in its range than we
anticipate there may be some elements
about Russia and there may be more I
mean the collusion stuff seems to be
pretty much of a slam-dunk at this point
when you're trying to prosecute Comey I
mean I would like to prosecute Mikami
but it would be more like under the
seeder bylaws
