this is literally this is what you would
have seen now I don't know that you
would have had frankly AOC without the
new technology that we have now frankly
you know the desire for such type of
politics was there but you wouldn't have
had a OC but if you did by some fluke of
the imagination who would the left
voices be on television it would be
Whoopi Goldberg it would be Whoopi
Goldberg and that would be it that would
be the one that the left got that voice
and here is what the left
I mean air quotes would be saying just
imagine there was no other place to
respond to this
I for one warned to be the limit let me
just say this about Ocasio cortez she
just got in on Thursday she was sworn in
yes and she's very opinionated which we
like we like opinionated women but it is
very very difficult when people make
accusations when you say you know the
Democrats have have done nothing the
establishment of the Democrats have done
nothing and I just want to throw this
out to you John Lewis oh yeah wasn't
sitting still right
Dianne Feinstein wasn't sitting still
there are a whole bunch of people in the
Democratic Party who have been busting
their asses to make sure that women get
what they need people get with any
children get what they need so and you
just got in there and I know you got
lots of good ideas but I would encourage
you to sit still for a minute and learn
a job
you know and just you know because there
are people in that party who have been
working their tails off for they know a
lot and they know a lot and you could
learn some stuff from that and I just
feel like you know you don't have to be
born into it you don't have to know it
when you step out but before you start
pooping on people and what they've done
you got to do something - very well said
very well said it's funny that she
brings up John Lewis because I imagine
when John Lewis before he was a
congressman had some critique of what
was going on in government and had some
critique of what the Democratic Party
was doing in fact I would imagine there
is a whole host of activists and
community leaders and protesters who
have critiques of what Democrats and
Republicans or any parties any members
or any party where our government is
doing and I have a strong suspicion that
Whoopi Goldberg well I don't know but
I'd be curious as to what Whoopi
Goldberg would have said fifty years ago
when John Lewis part of the civil rights
movement is critiquing what's going on
with the government I mean you know like
the this is this is the old this is the
old just protecting their turf and the
idea that anybody would be like you're
hurting the feelings of Diane Feinstein
are you serious really but again fifteen
years ago that's that's what you would
hear from the nominal left well it's
also the rich defending their turf right
I think that's part of it I don't think
Whoopi Goldberg is afraid of her money
being X appropriated I think in her mind
it really is more just feeling
it's G I think it's generational I mean
she or to the extent that it is cultural
and may be informed by having money in
that respect it accelerates the process
of being old and not just her having
money but like what our major networks
willing to pay you to say you know
there's certainly a range there that
doesn't go that far to the left there is
nothing that Whoopi Goldberg couldn't
say on that show about aoc I mean she
couldn't maybe swear but there's she
couldn't say there's no I have there's
not a moment where I would think that if
Whoopi Goldberg said AOC is great the
Democrats need to get on the ball I
agree with everything she says times
three that she would not hear from
anybody at the network about that no way
it just doesn't happen like on a show
like that they're not there's nobody at
ABC going like Whoopi you're getting a
little bit out of control
it's more just like she's just you know
swims in that ocean and self-selecting -
yes you if she was in the habit of
making but I don't think that there's
anything that's going to be said on the
view that is going to in some way raise
the you know the concerns of you know I
don't know that you could get somebody
you know Jamie I don't think that you
would get offered a job on the view
goddammit but it was my plan but but if
you if Whoopi Goldberg called you up and
said Jamie tell me what to say tomorrow
and you said and she said it all I don't
think she would feel in the slightest
bit her job be threatened pretty cool
Whoopi my lines are open there you go
I wonder if Whoopi Goldberg would have a
problem with Reverend barber criticizing
what's going on in the Senate in the
house we also have to look back in time
right because this kind of culture has
an end and it clearly is ending and its
hegemony it also had it had a beginning
I I'm still I am fully onboard with my
theory about the generational
that that that is one of the big movers
here I'm I'm quite mean every day that
passes I get more but you want to look
back before the neoliberal era
I mean Eugene debb's ran for president
and people reported on that seriously
the Overton Window has moved so far to
the right we got a lot of work to do but
I think the left now like this
especially the generation of millennial
leftists or whatever have much more in
common with the old left like the labor
left of the 30s than the new left of the
60s
