[Music]
there was a vote basically a
parliamentary maneuver in the house that
Paul Ryan put into play to essentially
attach a motion to bring forward a bill
that Rokon is sponsoring the house it's
a parallel to what Bernie Sanders Chris
Murphy and Mike Lee are working out of
the Senate to halt us funding refueling
and really active participation efforts
in the Saudi Arabian United Arab
Emirates war on Yemen it's killed tens
of thousands of people it's caused a
cholera outbreak food shortages it's
targeted schools hospitals funeral homes
it's a it is one of the most savage
sustained and brutal crimes occurring on
a daily basis in the world today with
full active United States and US and UK
participation in this calamy led by the
Saudi regime Paul Ryan very much has
that same blood on his hands has that
same Yemeni blood in his beard and that
maneuver which as I understand it was a
parliamentary maneuver to attach the
motion to proceed with the vote on
defunding the war on Yemen was attached
to an agriculture bill which meant that
basically the the agriculture bill being
voted on and moving forward would delay
a vote on the Cana bill until the new
year so 18 Republicans crossed party
lines to vote for it
five Democrats cross party lines to vote
against it we'll talk about those five
in a minute
but first this is Roe Cana on the floor
of the house yesterday explaining the
maneuvers that are going to lead to even
more bloodshed and yeah
thank you to Paul Ryan's disgusting
leadership Americans around this country
are wondering what does a farm bill have
to do with the war in Yemen and the
answer is absolutely nothing you wonder
why people are frustrated with Congress
why they think Congress lacks common
sense it's because no one understands
why you would have a vote on a farm bill
and you would tie it to a vote on war
and peace in Yemen the only reason the
leadership is doing this is because they
know that there are dozens of
Republicans who will stand with
Democrats to stop the killing in Yemen
how do they know this because Senate
Republicans are voting to stop the
killing
in Yemen I came to Congress because of
my grandfather who inspired me who spent
four years in jail in Gandhi's
independence moment and I came to
Congress to say that America should
always stand for human rights I urge my
Republican colleagues look at the
pictures in The New York Times in
Huffington Post five-year-old kids
seven-year-old kids starving to death
a Yemenis child dying every ten minutes
they tell us to wait till January
that would mean thousands of more
Yemenis kids dead I don't think this is
a partisan issue
this is an American issue let's stop the
killing in Yemen let's end the famine
let's have a vote in this house so we
can stop the civil war in Yemen and save
lives
I'm gonna quote now briefly from a great
piece and splinter five Democrats joined
Paul Ryan to vote for more Yemeni blood
on their to vote for more Yemeni blood
on their hands is the correct title of
the piece House Speaker Paul Ryan
because he's a ghoul doesn't support
ending the war on Yemen Ryan also
selects the nine majority members of the
House Rules Committee which gets the set
rules under which a bill will be voted
on on Tuesday night
House Rules stuck House Rules that's the
House Rules Committee stuck stuck in a
small part to the rules for the farm
bill which again was expecting the
passed and now has passed and has
nothing
to do with Yemen that blocked the house
from voting on a Yemen resolution
sponsored by Democrat ROH Khanna that
rule change went to vote Wednesday
afternoon reasonably immediately caused
a stir over Adamic over a dozen
Republicans flipped to no votes right
away and several more followed but
ultimately five Democrats handled handed
this one to Ryan who are these five
despicable obscene disgusting need to be
immediately primary Democrats they are
Jim Costa Al Lawson Collin Peterson
Dutch Ruppersberger and David Scott
we're gonna talk more about the bloody
five who need to be primary to need to
have their offices called who need to
have letters sent to them who need to be
tweeted out and need to be ashamed and
protested in every forum but just to
give you a flavor of the bloody five who
voted for a Yemen genocide
here's representative Collin Peterson
he's a Democrat I don't know what state
we're gonna get these guys states
Minnesota he's representative Collin
Peterson Democrat Minnesota explaining
why he sided with the Republican
majority and Paul Ryan on continuing to
murder Yemenis he said quote our party
gets off on tangents which is how he's
deeming cholera famine the murder of
tens of thousands of people with us
support and weapons this is Jeff Stein's
full exchange with him Jeff Stein from
you can read that Jeff Stein I'll read
Peterson okay can you explain your vote
on the Yemen resolution yeah it didn't
belong in there why not can you just
come back and done another vote no we've
worked for two years on this farm bill
and I'll be damned if I let anybody
screw it up do you have any thoughts
about the war in Yemen I don't know a
damn thing about it
and it should be in there and it didn't
it didn't do anything anyway what do you
mean by that all it did was say they
couldn't have a vote or something didn't
authorize anything it didn't you know
our party gets off on tangents it's
ridiculous so we all we basically know
why Colin Peterson I voted for Yemen
genocide because he is literally
absolute addition to being callous and
immoral obviously a complete airhead who
is totally no one with this level of
total moral failing plus complete
intellectual inability should be serving
in Congress and I know that there's
plenty of people with no moral ability
and total intellectual shortcomings who
serve in Congress but we should still
have higher standards in Colin Peterson
is an immoral airhead and that explains
his vote for the enjoining the Yemen
genocide caucus and the leadership of
Paul Ryan and I'm pretty sure all these
five or a good chunk of them are in
pretty safe Democrats these are safe
Democrat seats they all need to be
primary I actually want to give a shout
out I believe it was Tommy Vitor who is
a a pod safe guy I don't have it in the
packet he tweeted out last night are you
interested in primary any of the five
there get in touch with me excellent
well done Tommy well done Tommy great
stuff
