the idea that dana perino is now taking
our cues from AOC is actually I don't
know how really I don't know how really
to deal with this but it's sort of
fascinating just to see how much the
idea that one person can be dominating
the narrative like this and it's not
terribly different from stuff that
Bernie was saying but it does sort of
take it a step further I think in some
ways and she just from she's just more
representative frankly of the what is
now becoming the largest voting bloc in
the country and that is Millennials but
here is Dana Perino who launched her
career or first became a national figure
by lying on behalf of the Bush
administration and their insatiable lust
for war he is the intellectual leader of
the left that said dinner and the polls
are backing that up project
she said we cut it off just a little bit
there she says that Alexandra Acacio
Cortez is the intellectual leader of the
left and Jesse Watters says that sad
scene that up and she they're all having
to respond to her we'll see how well
they handle their own Trump right there
I just said in the break that I would
love to sit next to President Obama
while he listens to something like that
and and to hear what he thinks because
it would be interesting to hear some of
her ideas right it's not just that
they're unaffordable is that their bad
ideas and so then how do you counter
those bad ideas if they are
directionally true in her mind then you
got to explain why there are bad ideas
and we could give you a million examples
I'm going to tell you where I think the
Democrats have a good point on on the
economic argument against President
Trump the way you hear them frame it and
I think the Republicans better pay
attention to this it's that there was a
tax cut was for the rich it absolutely
helped the ridge you look at the stock
market look at what the companies did
they bought stock back they didn't
reinvest
you have billionaires that are wealthier
you have wages that have only gone up 2%
knock it off Dana I'm just telling you
do you read Maryanne Marsh is a she is
often frequently seen on Fox News she
writes at Fox news.com
she writes a piece this week that I
think they have a way to make an
economic argument against President
Trump the Republicans better pay
attention we love when you give advice
to Democrats data god he is the he is
the worst the worst
I mean viscerally my I just like my
stomach churns looking at him the
interesting thing is and that's
absolutely true the interesting thing is
that they don't no one at the table even
attempts to refute those pretty damning
points I mean I'm sure there's other
stuff that that the the left is
critiquing but that's a big big part of
the critique
they rush off that point I mean this is
deviating from the talking points that
we know Fox News given that's Dana
joined Deus DSA DSA what she should do
but I just mean that it's it's I I think
it's fascinating the phenomenon of you
know you mentioned Bernie Sanders the
response to Alexandria Cosby cortes and
the media obsession with her versus
Bernie Sanders he's kind of seen as this
fringe person where she's dominating the
coverage as just a freshman
congresswoman and I'm kind of going a
little off topic here but I do think
it's fascinating how some liberals white
liberals especially are responding to
AOC versus Bernie Sanders they are so
inundated with wanting to appear
accepting and wanting to think about
identity politics in a lot of ways that
they are so quick to accept her and want
to like her and want to seem like they
like her but still have this hatred of
Bernie Sanders and I think it's allowing
in this kind of perverse way for his
ideas to permeate parts of the left and
parts of the center that otherwise
wouldn't
she's a Trojan horse no doubt paying
attention although I think on the flip I
think like as an example at some point
if Bernie runs
I think she's definitely gonna have to
endorse him oh sure right and I'm sure
she will
and so then that like oh yeah look at
her clapping bit because it is
interesting because I think you're I
think it's like on one hand she's
changing the whole terrain of the tax
debate for everybody so it's a huge
success but there's another chunk of
people who in the group you're talking
about that really like they relate to
politics like pop culture so she's just
like another person that's like look at
her own on Twitter or this and I think
that's true I think that's true but I
think III think emma is point is
well-taken there are the there is not
the chill towards the ideas that she's
espousing which are I mean in many
respects not dissimilar to the ones that
Bernie were espousing I don't say
they're identical but they're more like
identical I mean it's not like there
were Bernie's ideas he was just like the
only one talking about it in in who was
an elected representative and they
seemed much more amenable to that you
know it's interesting
Shaun McElwee who we've had once or
twice do you know him from data progress
he familiar with the work I'm familiar
with the name he he was you know abolish
ice for a while on Twitter and now I
can't remember exactly I know he his
outfit does a lot of data work for
various progressives sometimes
candidates sometimes you know other
groups and he has been saying for some
time that progressive ideas combined
with a strong candidate who represents
women of color is the winning recipe for
Democrats in a vast majority of seats
because they all of those things align
it you want someone who is who looks
like the people that they're
representing because people like to
think that their representative
understands their their issue sets
and one of the ways that you do that is
you look and de-seed do they look like
me on some level and it is but it
she undeniably has has mainstreamed
ideas not just just as were broadly
speaking but with people who were
specifically resistant to Bernie because
of you know you know issue issues you
know without judging why they were
resistant to him okay I think in some
instances it was sincere in some
instance it was just sort of like
irrational resent my I will use this
anecdotal example of my my lovely
parents right who are centrist Democrats
that worship Obama and I'm you know like
their worship civility and the
institutions and Democrat bah bah bah
blah blah love you know their so their
trip over themselves to love AOC but
then Bernie it's like oh you know did
you hear about that sexism in his
campaign and it's it's frustrating
because I think he's the Godfather of
all of this but maybe it will come full
circle in 2020 we'll have to see but I I
do think his identity is going to be an
issue
I mean without it
