[Music]
apparently according to a twel come on
dude this is not I don't know about okay
a former apprentice staff for his claim
that Trump was a speed yeah was a speed
freak who invited beauty contestants up
to his suite well a team beauty
contestants up to a suite let me say I
don't know either of those things
regulation but a lot of people are
saying it and when people say things
well it reported and also you have to
believe them because I totally believe
both of those things
I actually think say I think the theory
that Trump is a speed feat freak is
actually the only charitable way like if
Trump isn't on speed then he's maybe the
worst human the planets ever had right
like I I think Trump being a speed freak
is is probably one of the better case
scenarios this is a friend TMDs crew
majority report friend and a great
journalist Corey pine tweets this out
the late Wayne Barrett who was of course
a legendary New York's New York City
journalist interviewed on the show
interviewed on the show like shortly
before his death but the one of the
indispensable resources for
understanding Donald Trump and the whole
disgusting little Trump cabal the late
Wayne Barrett also investigated the
rumor that Trump was hospitalized for an
amphetamine overdose in iIRC if I
remember correctly if I remember
correctly there if I remember in if I
remember correctly to early 90s had key
interviews but didn't publish for lack
of documents and he's quote tweeting
Ashlee Feinberg oh yeah and this was
right ashle 2016 right everyone should
always listen to me always in my opinion
and this is back a Gawker piece
everybody should just look at your watch
you got you that's a good shoutout to
the Splinter Gawker arts department all
right this is Ashley Feinberg rumor
rumor rumor
doctor-prescribed people say other
people are saying it and by the way
doctors saying it rumor doctor
prescribes Donald Trump couldn't quote
cheap speed and this apiece I remember
actually reading this piece in 2016
let's read the top graph of it I'm
quoting now from Ashley Feinberg back in
December Donald Trump's personal doctor
declared to the world that Trump would
be the healthiest individual to ever
elected to the presidency everyone knows
that it almost wouldn't even have to be
said well that particular claim is
unfalsifiable though almost certainly
incorrect according to his source with
knowledge of Trump's current
prescriptions that letter isn't telling
the whole story most notably Donald
Trump's allegedly still taking speed
like diet pills
rumors of Trump's predilection for
stimulants first reported I liked this
phrasing first started really popping up
in 1992 when spy magazine wrote quote
have you ever wondered why Donald Trump
has acted so erratically at times full
of manic energy paranoid garel garrulous
and well he was a patient of dr. Joseph
greenberg from 1982 to 1985 at the time
dr. Greenberg was notorious for
allegedly doling out prescription
stimulants to anyone who could pay I
mean untreated syphilis or speed would
be the most generous explanations of
Donald Trump or like horrifying
childhood abuse yeah it would probably
make any of us sympathetic for anybody
if this was a those are the best
speculations this was an episode of
house m.d. we're like after the first
commercial breaks we've got like two
different hypotheses
seize that but it's really starting to
narrow down into those right it's a
clear which means we don't know could be
both but could be everything I could
just be every type of up that is
humanly possible and for all of these
like I remember every time that we've
joked or pointed in the direction of you
know we don't know but at least credible
reporting on this I know a certain
segment of idiot on YouTube who does a
lot of like or like on Twitter who does
a lot of concern trolling but these guys
I keep believe it tabloid journalism
sometimes tabloids turn out to be
correct and when you Nixon Nixon got
away with the open secret that he beat
his wife how did he get away I don't
know that's right basically this I hurt
well so Anthony summers sort of well I
don't wanna get into that sy Hersh in
his most recent book came out and said
like yeah we all knew about it but we
just that wasn't sort of a news where
they kind of hush that up right so it
was just a massage in this context yeah
okay but so but that point being and
also like look you don't ever make stuff
up or report things that are wrong but
when you're dealing with a dangerous
erratic corrupt authoritarian
politicians in general you explore every
viable angle of who they are and that
story we have no idea if it's true but
it's viable
that is a definite viable story yeah I
mean in and it's sort of you know you
think about Kennedy you talk about his
sort of health problems that might have
been certainly irrelevant in certain
cases like his was it Addison's disease
or whatever he was taken steroids in his
back right um that also might have made
his libido a bit overactive like that's
a known side effect to what Kennedy was
on and also like Nixon well my god Nixon
was on more I think I forget the type of
dial a pen or something like that yeah
he's a development I actually did yeah
some reason but wasn't he also was he oh
yeah you can hear in the Nixon tapes
because the recording devices in his
desk when he moves his like drinks on
the table tumbler you can hear the
tumbler like scream like setting down on
the table every time it's actually one
of the more audible things on those
tapes and you know like it sucks but
like this these sorts of personal things
can be relevant when we don't have a lot
of these decisions aren't taken with
democratic transparency right definitely
and also I just think frankly like
there's a democratic like first the
centrist mainstream Democrats did like
oh we're not you know you know
unfortunately the unfortunate phrase
when they go high when they go low we go
high right and that is just it's not
gonna work in political warfare but then
there's this like crazy overcompensation
that some people did was like oh we have
to because we have to find our own Trump
was just as ridiculous just as
over-the-top and that's not gonna work
in the Democratic Party it's not gonna
work to put together the coalition that
you need to defeat Trump it's gonna need
to be different but if ever there was
like the type of story that a good
Democratic candidate could intimate just
to freak Trump out and make him look
ridiculous in a debate as an example
that would be the type of thing I'd like
to see them doing I would love to see
Bernie Sanders or sherrod Brown or
calmly Harris or beta will work I'm
super agnostic for purposes example if
whoever it is right on a debate stage
and I don't know how you do it but just
the type of like like you know you
couldn't be like why sniffling you all
right like whoa you seem a little amped
up like do what he does in terms of like
everybody's saying it hinting at it I
think if the right person did it in the
right way that's exactly the type of
thing that would
get under his skin and make him make an
ass of himself which would be great yeah
I mean I'm out that's politics baby this
isn't just politics
hundred percent Trump should have been
trolled with Epstein thing but he
couldn't for reasons we've already went
in on precisely
