CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it's almost Wednesday July 31st 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program tonight
recapping of what you will perceive as
last night's debate but what we know was
tonight's debate that's right ladies and
gentlemen it is 10:40 6 p.m. Eastern
Time we are recording tonight's episode
we're not going to be in during the day
today we will not have a live show until
tonight which is actually tomorrow
Wednesday night at 7:45 we will start so
no stakes debate tomorrow yeah tomorrow
night's no stakes debate we can walk all
over that crap yeah I look forward to
water and although it's gonna be
interesting because they're actually
well let's let's let's table that
because I actually think there are big
stakes tomorrow night right because you
have the front the the the front leader
the front-runner Joe Biden on the debate
tomorrow night but as bless me Father
for I have sinned as far as Wednesday
night's debate if for whatever reason
you didn't watch it and maybe you didn't
because we only had about seven or eight
thousand people on our twitch stream
there's no reason why that should be the
case we were we were the number three in
the just chatting and we should say that
we we had a youtube stream but I I had a
feeling
I had a feeling and my whole thing now
is I trust my gut
we got deep we got we got hit with a
copyright strike and we used our backup
thing which is good because on our
backup channel which we haven't used in
years used distri stream live
we can't stream live for 90 days but
that doesn't matter because we never do
that and so there that's our burner
account that's our burner account so
tonight on the debate Michaels had a
beer so watch out facts we don't listen
it's 90 degrees for everybody I Got News
for you there's no way you're possibly
exhausted more than I am there's just no
way I'm sorry yo I actually believe that
it's a totally believe that but you live
in exhaustion that's true that's true I
swim in that ocean yes tonight John
Hickenlooper Steve Bullock Matt Pete
Buddha judge Amy Klobuchar Beto O'Rourke
Tim Ryan Marianne Williamson John
Delaney and Bernie Sanders Elizabeth
Warren okay let's go around and we'll do
a quick round of everybody's thoughts
and then we'll get into more specifics
or no you know what let's just go into
specifics as we go I think tonight now
obviously look everybody knows our
biases around here but I thought Bernie
did excellent I thought Warren did
excellent at different points they both
shined ads the way that they do I the
only other thing I would say like that
that comes out of that is that Warren it
seems to me made a very and I'm not sure
how Bernie would have done the reverse I
don't know how that would have worked
but Warren made a very subtle but
distinct appeal to Bernie supporters it
seems to me she opened by saying that we
need structural change she closed by
saying we need structural change at one
point when we heard the closing she you
know we were making a joke that she was
stealing Bernie's lines and
she may or may not have been but the
point is she was clearly appealing very
subtly but I saying I mean I'm sorry the
the words structural to me you never
hear in a debate I don't even know if we
heard that from Bernie frankly the only
other person talking like that was
Buddha judge not to mention she also
said she needs a grassroots movement you
have to help her achieve this stuff and
that is small donors are in that same
line yep and that is one key difference
that we've been hammering on between the
two of them up until now and I don't
think I don't think and I don't think
it's transferable I mean I I still to me
obviously again as I say I don't think
it's just that Bernie's the best
candidate I legitimately think he
represents something different and I
think it does actually come across
because she does have to play catch up
on some of these really key things but I
think the bigger takeaway like I think
that distinction is important I'm happy
to make it but they basically if I
accept the CNN frame that this was
liberals versus moderates or I would say
a progressive and a social democrat
versed dishonest reactionaries with
really poor media training and the CNN
monitor the modern difficult to put in
the Cairo very difficult to put in the
chyron they won together and they did
actually you know what we said which is
that of course they shouldn't go up
against each other I think she did try
to make some subtle encroachments and I
think he kind of you know held his turf
but on the other hand they took some
very demonstrable moments to have each
other's back on substantive issues
against all the other candidates lies
and I thought Bernie did great I'm
thrilled I think he actually had the
most I'm starting to learn to train
myself to watch these things for
clippable moments and so even on the
foreign policy one where I thought his
answer absolutely could have been
stronger he should have talked about
Yemen I realized from a clip perspective
the differences he's a pathological liar
right done
there's the clip I wrote the damn bill
right strong relentless clear and then
the other thing I just would say is that
I mean Oh talk about manufacturing
consent I mean this really was going
back to the Noam Chomsky and
Edward Herrmann stuff I think Edward
Herrmann CNN was appalling and the Jake
Tapper first strike thing on Warren was
one of the most obscene things I've ever
seen worse than any of the Republican
debates worse by far let's let let's try
and keep it general Jaime and then we'll
get them well dig a little bit deeper so
that we can so stretches yeah on a more
general level I was kind of scared after
the last debate that I watched Bernie in
that maybe something about the format or
whatever wasn't allowing him to do as
well as he should be doing and as we all
wanted him to do I thought he did much
much better tonight thought it was
really great to see Bernie and Warren
working together despite some very
hostile questions from the panel of
bootlickers assembled by CNN and that
just makes me feel a little bit
optimistic that our man our candidate
can stand up to the you know the tricks
the dirty tricks of the lamestream media
and this movement that's it started a
long time ago actually that has a lot to
do with the financial crisis it has a
lot to do with occupy it has a lot to do
with just the growing immiseration of
average working-class people all over
this country the media they have some
power but they don't have all the power
and they really can't stop it like the
the power is there the momentum is there
now what makes you say that they're
bootlickers as opposed to people who are
actually wearing the boots as well
precisely yeah fair enough I mean they
certainly have their Jaffer's
it was pure glass interest where the
boot and they guess guess who at the
Washington Post tweeted this out why do
I always have to turn down the sound
when Bernie answers yeah Jennifer Rubin
Glenn Kessler
I mean hey I'd like to fact Jigen there
was a lot they're gonna make a lot about
him yelling and this and that III just
want to remind you this is the way that
they did with Dean and the idea that
someone would get excited on stage is
problematic to them in some way it's
offensive in some way
there is I mean I I think irrespective
of that I mean I think it's just I think
Bernie helped himself I think he was
much better in this debate I think
Warren was better throughout the debate
I she was a great veteran just and I
said this earlier the the sensation of
watching the the sort of the power the
attention on the most progressive people
on the stage is a dynamic that I have
never experienced in a democratic debate
in the history of me being conscious of
democratic debates I mean it's just not
happened in this way and it really like
you know there was a quality to this
where if you were to take the sound off
and there's gonna be a lot of talk like
Delaney helped himself today well of
course he did because he got he got more
question
I haven't we have we seen a breakdown of
the talking times yet somebody's got it
done it's gonna be shocking when you
contemplate the idea that Delaney as far
as I can tell has not even rated at one
percent in the polls at this point and
he got as much time to talk probably
more than anyone you know it's possible
that he didn't get more talking time
than the good candidates we just felt
that way because it could've been a more
or less but the point is is that it's no
way commensurate no I mean and and yeah
regardless he got thrown to a lot
doesn't seem right but whatever okay so
he got 1031 Warren and Sanders okay
maybe so you got a behalf but I mean he
got Wow
you know what he's honestly just you
know what you're right Jim it's cause
he's so obnoxious but okay be
that as it may still you had to lay me
there he was a good foil they used him
as Joe Biden and he didn't frankly I
mean I just it is clear and I and I
tweeted out at one point
Jake my plan is called Medicare for all
for something that sounds like
Bernie's more popular plan but it's not
because that was the sort of the tenor
of the debate everyone was trying to
sound like they were either warned or
our Sanders but just slightly more
palatable and frankly just like in a
general election people are gonna vote
for the real Republicans to the
Republican light in this instance you
have people chasing their their policies
and I and I think that is gonna I think
it's gonna help both Warren and Bernie
and I think it's you know that's what
tomorrow night is so it's gonna be so
fascinating let's play the the what one
point I think Warren and alluded to it
but Bernie made it very explicit there
are gonna be commercials tonight on this
very broadcast from the pharmaceutical
industry arguing contrary in fighting
against what you know what we're saying
here let's let's watch what that ad was
here it is and I should I should tell
you that as a professional actor myself
I didn't do much on camera commercial
work I did mostly a film and television
[Laughter]
it's fine you know it's not like I did
an Arby's anyways here is here is the
pharmaceutical ed these are all paid it
comes from different walks of life but
we agreed on one important thing we
don't want to be forced into a
one-size-fits-all government insurance
system buzzer years holic Medicare for
all to Medicare buying or the public
option but they mean the same thing
higher taxes or higher premiums lower
quality care
politicians and bureaucrats in control
of our health care ought to afford one
size fits all plans we need to fix
what's broken let's start over
they got nothing wake up there you go
so those are the exact same talking
points that john delaney delivered
during the
Jake Tapper Jake Tapper I mean it was
shocking and good for Bernie to to sort
of like I don't know that we would have
picked up on these ads had he not made
it a point I mean it really does make it
really explicit wasn't it the same thing
with the really funny thing that he did
at the post a couple of weeks ago where
he just said this is sponsored by Bank
of America and I think that this is this
is interesting because I to some extent
I think the kind of worry about Sanders
is noise because I really do think that
they are building a a very some at least
significantly enough different kind of
campaign in terms of sort of movement
building and organizing but what did
disturb me in the last couple of months
was that they stopped doing what they
did out of the gate which is when they
went to Center for American Progress and
they said they sent that letter
basically saying like look guys if
you're gonna do this we have people to
we can push back at you if you're just
gonna release trash about him and I
think the dialectic of Sanders is that
they've done that and then at the same
time they've also wanted to say look if
you're supporting us be polite to people
on Twitter and we want to have like a
kind of good-natured campaign and I
think in the last that there might have
been a kind of over correction in the
last couple of weeks and it's nice to
see or the last couple of months it's
been nice to see Bernie taking advantage
of his actually very avuncular
personality to just say like to push
back on this stuff in a way that
actually is kind of charming this is the
thing that I think why initially and I
think there was some validity to it but
I think it you know I think that when
push came to shove it wasn't the case
and with all due respect Jamie there was
some talk that Beto was going to draw
from Bernie because Beto had a quality
of being unique and not of the
establishment because in a in a
subtextual way because he was just
different and he was unique and
authentic authentic a different rich
white guy up there well I think
ultimately what happened is that sort of
facade fell apart and he couldn't
maintain it but so good I think you know
like they're going to be let's play this
this thing about the damn Bell now you
can find on Twitter and you're
undoubtedly going to
here this on CNN tomorrow and there's
gonna be people on MSNBC or gonna say
the same thing like I was really put off
when he said damn bill I you know I
there are kids watching and damn like
whatever it is like a D word there yeah
he's he's he's too reminiscent of Trump
he's being crass and this and that the
crassness is what people like about a
trip i well forget about what people
like about Trump I think the what people
like is they perceive him as authentic
even when he's lying I mean I go back to
that interview that we did with the the
mesmerizing with the mesmerism where
it's like oh I know the guy's a liar but
he's lying for us not against us and I I
think Trump wears it honestly people can
see they're people aren't fooled by him
they like they like they like the show
they think it's authentic and I think it
is authentic I think he's a raving
lunatic I don't think he's any different
behind closed doors other than maybe
using more you know swear words for
black people than he does in public but
more or less I think he's the same and I
think when Bernie does stuff like this
even though you'll hear the people in
the in the middle sort of like complain
like it's a little bit crass I think
this stuff actually gives him a lot of
like meta points class this is my pass
point yeah this is this is him
responding to I think it was Ryan
talking about what's in the
medicare-for-all bill second of all he's
talking about what happens I can't
remember specific Union it's all right
what happens in health care look here's
the bottom line with the unions and the
health care bill they're going to make
it and Tim Ryan was trying to argue this
and and it's just not a strong argument
that you're gonna lose benefits that you
have under union health insurance and
the benefits that you get under Bernie's
plan is not going to be sufficient to
replace it that's not the case I mean
look I'm I'm sure there must
I'm sure there must be a union insurance
somewhere for someone and I really do
think it's a very small set of people
that could be conceivably better than
what a medicare-for-all bill would be
but that's not what's going on here
what's going on is that unions are
afraid that the one sort of asset that
they can offer people to join a union in
an era where they aren't able to get
union dues and agency fees as a matter
of course because it's a union shop is
offering them health care they are
afraid of this now I understand the fear
and it could actually be a legitimate
concern that it will make unions less
enticing but I can also tell you that
just in my experience just in outside of
everything is that people who've done
one thing for a long time in one way
think it's catastrophic if it stops
being that the bottom line is if the
unions don't have to require from their
employers to pay into a health insurance
fund they're gonna either gonna get more
money or even at the same wages that
they get now they're gonna have less
co-pays cuz I just know I mean I I also
I just I think you're you're are you
definitely right about some people in
unions but more aggressive labor union
organizing types all say that if you
liberate people from that level of
threat I mean I get it's an enticement
but also the overall structural threat
of employees controlling your health
ensures there can be a hell of a lot
more likely to organize that's right
yeah that's right if your health plan is
off the table you'll be able to use your
bargaining power for other things like
wages exactly exactly
but I'm just saying that I think like
Union leadership you've done something
in one way for 25 years 30 years
whatever how long you've been in
leadership the idea of doing it some
other way it's completely unrelated but
this is what what what what I think
about when I think about this lesson was
shooting beat cops for NBC studios
and we we were we wanted to shoot on
digital video and they had never shot
anything on digital video and the guy
said to me the head of NBC production
said I think this is a suicide mission
and I was like wow in within probably
eighteen months of him saying that to me
half of their production was on digital
video I mean of course it was easy but
it was just he'd never done it that way
and they were afraid and so that that's
the way that works
you know leadership is not always right
about everything well that's right and
if you don't support single-payer health
care you're a scab all right and let's
put it this way if if Bernice if you
cannot trust Bernie Sanders to do the
right thing for unions there is no
politician who you can I mean the the
the the there is no politician who
exists who you can trust more and having
unions interest at the forefront than
Bernie Sanders another very like sketchy
part of this whole line of attack is
that it's also predicated I mean once
you strip away the fear mongering it's
like John Delaney and Joe Biden care
more about labor issues than Bernie
Sanders sure let's play this clip of
Elizabeth Warren because this is the one
where almost all of us I feel like if we
didn't hurt you if we didn't articulate
this which I think way I feel like we
did the people on like if we didn't
articulate this it was all sort of like
at the forefront of our minds and on
some level this is like you got to give
it up for for Warren staff here no this
was because this was clearly a a line
that that she knew that she was going to
deliver at one point and it's clearly
aligned like I'm convinced that the
staffers in Bernie's campaign were like
how did we not how did we not make sure
this was a this was a line that was this
is John Delaney going on and on about
how like they're so aspirational my I'm
offering a completely unambitious plan
that probably has an equal chance of
getting passed but it sounds like it has
more of a chance of getting passed and
it's the important part is it has no
ambition
and this is what Elizabeth Warren shot
back with I don't understand why anybody
does to all the trouble of running for
president of the United States just to
talk about what we really can't do and
shouldn't fight for that smile got me
remember to smile remember to smile John
she got you and she wasn't your poster
wash you John shouldn't smile she should
take the smile this look on Delaney's
face can we freeze it can we freeze it
because Delaney's face like right he go
further right right there right there
right there
that face happened like four times
tonight where is like he just got it was
either Warren or Bernie basically took a
2x4 and smacked it right you can almost
see the imprint of the two-by-four right
in his forehead just above the eyebrows
in the two-by-four you don't see like
little Canaries flying around to say he
looks like somebody just passed health
care what's gonna be fascinating is I
want you to go on and and and of course
now most people are gonna hear this
tomorrow
you know 12 hours after the debate but
go back onto Twitter look for writers
from the New York Times The Washington
Post people from CNN MSNBC I would
imagine some but not as many on CNN I'm
on MSNBC you'll see some right-wingers
talking about this how this the the
sleeper winner was was John Delaney and
I want you to count those up I want you
to just take a full assessment of those
and then look at where he he has
absolutely zero bounce in the polls and
in fact what's ultimately going to be
happening may be wrong but I think
ultimately what's gonna happen is he is
going to have been essentially like
contemplate the idea of a pole vault
right and way
you're running down the the track
heading towards the the place where you
get a vault you stick the pole in the
ground right John Delaney is that patch
of dirt that the pole goes in and I'm
convinced that all of the bump that
Warren and Bernie are gonna get cuz I
think they're actually gonna get a bump
I agree from not from each other from
other place candidates other King I
think I think specifically maybe she
from Harris and him from Biden either
way but I mean I grew here I think was a
great wait that's and and that too what
why tomorrow night is actually as much
as we don't have terrible excitement
about the candidates what why tomorrow
night's going to be so interesting
because if Joe Biden stumbles tomorrow
night because I will say this about the
performance of both of both Warren and
Sanders tonight not only from a
political standpoint that I like their
programmatic approach but they both
seemed incredibly confident with a
tremendous amount of energy when you
compare this to Joe Biden's energy
because they're in the same age bracket
essentially it is stunning to believe
that these people are basically cohorts
and they had the energy they basically
they both had the fight that supposedly
people think you need with the with with
Donald Trump you know every time you had
John Delaney with his dumb grin on his
face that was him basically saying I
just lost I just and there's no images
of Bernie or Warren doing that no and I
think to the other thing I'm just to add
to that is that if it doesn't work with
Delaney I think the governor of Montana
will be the other one that will get the
ridiculous look he was an interesting
message set because Hickenlooper and Tim
Ryan are simply unsellable product right
you can never protect muffin market yeah
take him off the market and I will say
the other danger that I see cuz I I'm
you know I'm very anti Buddha judge and
I thought his first debate performance
was very poor tonight I thought he did
very well and I thought he did what he's
sort of supposed to do and I would
actually make its implants from check
him out relative to Harris because I
actually was feeling tonight that
Harris's biggest weakness is that she is
two transparently insecure insincere
she's very good in a lot of ways but
she's so not good at her spinning and
Pete Buddha judge is actually much
better at appearing abuse all things for
all all things to all people so I think
he might have actually hurt her a little
bit in that weird center-right mid-tier
and Beto's done yeah better like I
forgot that he was he just needs to give
up and move into my house it wasn't as
bad he wasn't as bad as the first debate
but it was sleepers you can sleep on a
pallet of hay in the closet he wasn't as
bad as the he wasn't as bad as the first
two bear he wasn't as bad as the first
debate but he needed to be much better
he basically came in and met all
expectations which at this point were so
low that it was like that they were
actually almost negative um you know
like I honestly do not remember one
vaguely memorable thing that he said
tonight no no he he has like uh you know
I don't like to get too performative but
it really did feel like Beto forgot the
the part like it's almost like he was
doing this this this Broadway review for
months and months and months and months
and he went out there and one night he
like tripped and forgot his lines and
then got terrified and when he got back
out there he forgot the character that
he was present the one thing I remember
the one thing I remember from Beto is
when he started talking about Texas and
I immediately stopped listening to what
he said the rest of the answer and said
you should just run for Senate a big
dork I think that III know we shouldn't
waste too much time on him but I do just
want to say because people didn't
embarrass themselves by comparing bado
to Obama and I said right out of the
gate if someone was you know obviously
politically quite a critical Obama or
policy wise politically maybe a
supporter or a defender but Obama when
people said when he was running for
president that this guy is so young and
he has no experience and as soon as he
gets hit around a little bit and and
when Obama ran for president against
Hillary Clinton and John
every single adversity he faced whatever
else you say about him
he not only exceeded he basically was
able to transform to his asset yes like
across the board
Beto's he was like firestorm when he got
faced by something he absorbed the
energy and then it came at bay doe is
Jeff he's got tremendous skills and
resilience and comparing bado to that is
just like people I can definitely see I
can definitely see the the appeal of the
wounded guy yeah I can see that but I
don't want him as president me neither
Sam right but yeah that's not what Jamie
suggested no I think we the only other
thing that I thought was interesting
about there was a funny moment where
Hickenlooper said to Bernie like look
there are mayors and governors up here
we know what it takes and then Bernie
goes I was a mayor for many years and
Hickenlooper was like oh yeah okay I
thought you already hole like we have
experience people also managed to just
like I'm the one who's tected I was
total technical mastery out of time
Friday I was you you were a mayor right
okay the thought of that before I
launched a laser all right bad forget
about that the other thing I noticed who
was Delaney and this is relevant not
because I think Delaney is gonna be
around very long I think
Delaney's gonna have a couple of days
and it's gonna be very uncomfortable for
the staff that told him to quit in
August they they said to him a couple
weeks ago the reporting was quit in
August they're gonna have to like my
guess is like they're texting each other
now his staff and saying like maybe we
should just lay low cuz he's gonna think
that he's got it he's like he's gonna
stay in the race let's just wait for the
polling because how should we handle
this we can tell me did great but it's
just not your time and with that said I
do think it's possible
that biden's people are looking at
Delaney and saying what worked and what
didn't work right and because I think
the certainly CNN was using him as a
surrogate for buying and I and at one
point I just want to I just want to flag
this after I think Bernie accused
Delaney from profiting from health care
do we have that let's let's play that
but also as Delaney turns away Delaney
said I think you're against the private
sector which is you know how dare you
well I mean that's where it's gonna go
that's that's where it's gonna go like
he you know the idea that in the
Democratic primary you would get this
type of stuff is ironically problematic
yeah here's that moment make money off a
health care but our job is a not
clapping help damn simple burger walk
further there's that smile there's that
two-by-four smacked across his face
sorry John Delaney also Warren had a
great time just looking at my notes
Warren had a great run on addy what's
his last name back 80 bar count 80
Barkin who is first got famous I think
by questioning was a Ted Cruz on a
flight somebody a flight and he has MS
yeah I think it is and the guy has been
a tireless advocate for health care in
this country and I thought she made a
very very strong appeal emotional appeal
early on that really resonated those are
the big those are the big points of this
I think it's gonna be fascinating to see
not only how both Warren and Sanders
come out of this but what happens
tomorrow night because I I feel like
this puts pressure on on on Harris and
Booker and remember tomorrow night is
also Bill DeBlasio and Bill DeBlasio is
like
he's like in Bullworth mode right now
okay
chris Christie no nuke in 2016 no you
know Bulworth no I don't poll worth is
the oh my god I'm so old what's his face
did the movie Warren Beatty
did a movie about a politician who found
who thought that he was dying and he
just goes off and I feel like de Blasio
is in this mode where he's like there's
nothing I can do that's going to hurt me
like I have no where like he is still
running you know to the extent that he
even wants to be mayor anymore I don't
know if he does or doesn't but like he
has a very unambiguous role I think in
his mind and so he's gonna go to Biden
super hard and I think Harris Harris and
he may go at Harris and Booker in
Harrison Booker are gonna feel like they
need to go abide and super hard and
frankly like I don't know if Biden could
handle four or five people going at him
by his way I want a caution I just want
to say like Biden is still in a like his
support is still not evaporated and so I
I don't take any you know of course I
want to destroy Biden but Biden
continues to be more resilient than you
know people might have anticipated and I
will say tomorrow I don't think and
unless frankly unless it's really just
the fact that he's actually like not
physically up for doing this if unless
that's the case tomorrow
I think he's Parkinson's defender if you
look at the way he walked on stage he's
very weirdly and it's very in a sort of
shallow um no but I think tomorrow he is
inevitably bad campaigners gonna have a
better night than he did last time I
actually had I want to play that I
really want to play the expectations
games on this because he he you know I
think he's gonna have a better night
than he did and I think that they're
looking tonight way the fright made me
excited yes for tomorrow night in a way
that I would not have anticipated
well the because they did so well I
think they did show
like it was just one of the my notes is
I think this is the best case scenario
for how Bernie and war and would
synergistically run campaigns I mean
this is I mean I just so exciting to see
this type of power coming from this type
of policy set on a debate stage and I
think you know like it's it's very it's
it's conceivable if not the next set
around a debate certainly it two debates
from now they're gonna be up there
against Biden and I think from their
perspective and it makes sense to me
their primary objective get Biden out of
the race like if this is survivor right
if this is survivor they are going to
stay in an alliance until Biden is gone
and when Biden's gone then you're down
to the final three you know for whatever
whatever it is I'm using survivor jargon
now that's when they go at it hmm yeah I
was gonna ask like here's where I hit a
little bit dangerously close to blaming
the electorate how many times does Joe
Biden need to wet his pants onstage to
not be the front-runner anymore because
it seems like he shouldn't be now and
yet he still is yeah I have a one-note I
think is relevant to people who both
thought that Russia impeachment is
played too much by Democrats and people
who think it's very important is that it
wasn't brought up once even in the
Democrats opening and closing statement
let's so I think we can maybe take some
arrow to those tires boat ride we
completely forgotten about it very I'm
still a little traumatized from the
Moller hearings the other day I'm sorry
the media might fixate on it but the
Democrats didn't in the midterms and
there nodded no I think from the from
the perspective of the I mean I'm
surprised I didn't get a question about
it to be honest with you it's sort of
shocking in a way I guess it's just a
notion of how CNN wants to move on from
it I'm it's actually now that you raise
it it's sort of shocking that they did
not raise a question about it but at the
same time it didn't even occur to me
about there being a question
folks look there is uh there's pain
shooting down my leg now so I'm going to
have to go sounds about right
the sciatic is kicking in and we've been
this is sad oh no what our this is today
what we've been doing but Matt let's go
high before tomorrow night
I would be so close to doing like I've
had some experience performing high back
in my comedy days and I just remember
one time I went on stage I got high I
went on stage which I would rarely do
but it was a open mic night at catch a
rising star at like midnight there was
literally only like ten people in there
and David Cross literally came from out
of the audience to tackle me on stage
and I couldn't physically took me down
to the ground and even if I was not high
I would have had a hard time like I
don't know how to maneuver I don't know
how to like make this seem not weird but
I was so high that I I don't know I
would almost like it rebounded and I
actually sort of work walk work my way
out of it so let's do that tomorrow so
maybe all right folks tonight you can
find us on Twitch and excuse me twitch
dot TV slash the majority report or just
go to majority dot F M we will have a
link on the front page of course if you
follow us on Twitter we will have links
there and and check it out we will be
doing the same coverage and I think it
was pretty fun
yeah people had I'm not saying we had
fun but I think people had fun watching
it oh of course
I had fun it also for about like 10% of
it when relevant people were speaking
and the tortures I did during the Mahler
hearing oh this is good too Jake your
question is a Republican talking point
they went have to yeah that's way it's
because this is remember this was a very
successful tactic done by folks like
Newt Gingrich
and and others in the Republican Party
but you didn't often see the
frontrunners do it and in some ways the
tables are a little bit turned in the
context of the the the the Democratic
campaign and so it's good that Sanders
and Warren are in unison about this like
we're not gonna let you use Republican
framing for questions to Democrats they
can't go to the doctor and when they
come out of the hospital they go
bankrupt all right what I am talking
about and others up here are talking
about is no deductibles and no
co-payments and Jake your question is a
Republican talking point at the end of
the day by the way and the biggest way
by the way the health care industry will
be advertising tonight on this program
and you senator senator Warren it's your
turn senator Warren so we have to think
of this in terms of the big frame I will
say one other thing that is interesting
just from a performative basis Sanders
does yell there he's yeah he's yelling
throughout for the most part at one
point when I think Tim Ryan says you
know at the yell at me I like Tim Ryan
actually seemed hurt backfired
he but Sanders went down but I will say
this it's interesting dynamic I have
been in studios where the cameras and
the other people are far away from you
and here I have heads headphones and so
I know exactly I can calibrate how loud
I'm speaking when you're in front of a
microphone and people are over there
further away there's a tendency to
immediately to speak to those people in
a voice that you think you need to
project to them without a consciousness
of the microphone it's a skill he
apparently just decides like I'm not
going to learn that which is which is
fine and I think on some level it
probably works to his advantage again
because he
as an image of this guy but that is but
you will hear they'll make a big deal of
this and I'll tell you right now they
have run this playbook before I just
don't think it's gonna work I tried with
Trump to write like wheezing and kind of
yelling and looming over Hillary and
people don't care about that stuff I
mean I think there is there is something
to be said about some optics on some
level but the yelling in particular they
did with Howard Dean and I just think
that the savvy is different now yeah the
people who like him like that he yells
and is very frank with people and I
suspect it's it's less about like the
the action and more about the narrative
and how that works in media than the
actual action for the people that's the
thing that I think has not caught up
with certain generations and that is
that the performative aspect of being on
television is not as important as it
used to be that content overrides that I
mean I think that is I have a much
broader treatise and that that is
greater than even politics but it's
gonna be interesting there's a lot of
different interesting things going on
these issues are worth killing about
right - Utley think we're in an era
where it's like if you're not mad you're
not paying attention
I mean also let's be honest here like
I'm just hearing and I you know like
that Chris Matthews is is is attacking
Bernie on MSNBC like you know right
optics and not yelling alright we're
gonna take a break for 24 hours and
we'll be back tomorrow night live for
the second night of the debate see you
then
to get to where I want but I know sir
I was
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made
so the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
