[Music]
weeks but I'm really starting to like
nerd out on global healthcare systems
like how does France actually provide
health care how does the NHS do it how
does Canada do it how to South Africa do
it how does Israel do it has Germany to
it and so on and I just want to say that
like some people say and it is true in
France as an example private insurance
exists and a lot of studies basically
show I think like Britain is maybe 2 or
3 and France is number one like France
has just like the gold standard in
health systems and I just wanted to be
very clear though that any time you hear
somebody saying like using an example
like France to say that there's another
way of having like socialized medicine
which is what it is other than Medicare
for all in the United States that sounds
interesting and that better be
immediately followed up by a even more
vest aggressive taxation scheme and
investment into public healthcare which
France has France has such expansive
public healthcare that you don't even
just forget free at the point of
purchase and all the other things that
any decent system would have you're
talking like like people sent to
families homes to help with child care
you're talking about a and even things
that might be and not to mention it from
like the Republican like hundreds of
years ago yes and you're talking about
mental care dental care which a lot of
candidates including I warned not clear
on what she's offering so and the
insurance companies that still exist are
all non profit or Mutual's and Mutual's
literally means owned by the collective
shareholders so like if the four of us
owned a health insurance company
collectively I would feel a lot more
comfortable about how that would take
care of
our respective Health's so I just want
to say like you know it's very I mean
Warren there's objective ambiguity and
she's good in the debates and she's not
good at all in other contexts but and
clearly and Biden is overt and how bad
he is and Budaj edge and Harris are
dishonest but I think that in my opinion
but I think that when you start hearing
people say that there's other systems
that can achieve the same level of
expansiveness that meet then okay then
what's your French plan to go up against
the Sanders Canada plan and I would be
interested in hearing that because that
would even be way more systemic and
involve bigger money and more offerings
more regulation and a bigger government
role because at the end of the day even
though those things still exist there's
huge public ownerships of hospitals
there's most government as you know is
controlling people's and taking care of
people's health and you know there's
there's doctors have autonomy but that's
a different thing and that doesn't
really get implicated by any of these
bills as far as I understand them so be
very wary of people who might sort of
point vaguely towards other models that
they're not talking about the debate was
between whether we want to model
ourselves or through the NHS or the
French system beautiful but that ends
not where we are I've said this before
but with the friendships and when I was
there a year and a half ago the person I
was with got sick and had to spend an
overnight in the hospital and when we
were done they just waved us out of
there nothing didn't have to sign
anything just nothing I had to sign
something but like there was no bill at
all yeah it's way way better I like it I
like that you're getting very granular
on this I feel like in the same way that
Social Security is Sam's bailiwick I
feel like this could be the Michael
Brooks bailiwick it would be very well I
care about health care and I like going
global so that could be fun uh I will
try I have a lot more to read
so yeah when libertarians mentioned the
Singapore model yeah the Singapore model
is not what they think it is I mean this
thing
or model like so many things Singapore
is like super aggressive government and
public intervention like I love what
libertarians like I don't know I would
feel really uncomfortable with that but
you know in Singapore where they just
like deduct things from taxes so it's
almost like it's like souped-up ACA and
they use that as their model like that
libertarian chair that debated Sam is
like well if you were smart about what
you wanted to do I not let people die on
the streets are going to medical debt
for lack of healthcare you would do what
cynical poor Singapore is doing it
sounds like is that what you want to do
no I don't want to do anything right
precisely um I do want to do I I think
it's really interesting and I also want
to know and this is stuff I don't know
so tell me if you guys know or anybody
knows like okay the UK as the NHS which
is great and to the extent there's
problems it is because of cuts and I
don't buy any waiting time arguments
because like there's things people wait
for right like you you're if you're
about to die from you know a heart
attack or a gunshot wound you can die in
the United States for something that
could be preventable because you went to
the wrong hospital that will never
happen in the United Kingdom
so okay you have the United Kingdom then
you have France and then you have but
then and then if you look at the list
like even the top ones there starts to
be like a slightly gradual decline like
Germany and Switzerland it's great but
it's not as good as France or the UK and
then certainly Canada is really good but
not as good as those because it doesn't
cover things like dental and stuff and
what I wonder is like like I know in
Germany there is like a there's more of
a role for private insurance if you want
it it's not and my understanding is not
quite as regulated as France basically
it seems to me that like the more there
is an actual private insurance industry
the lower the health outcomes and I
wonder how long that I mean first of all
I'm just tapping into this so if I'm
wrong I'm wrong but I'll keep reading it
this is like first run-through and then
I wonder like the
how long it took a country to implement
a national social system relative to how
long a parasitic industry got to
establish itself and eat up room in
terms of political patronage because
that's what happened in the u.s. the
reason we don't have single-payer I mean
literally Harry Truman put that on the
table and what some of the first PR
influenced fake news campaigns in the
country were funded by the American
Medical Association to terrify people
about communism and health care it makes
me so mad
yeah it's it's I mean it's of wild
history check out Kim Kimberly Phillips
fine
the invisible hands I believe is the
book on that I'm the DuPont's and those
sorts of names also Tim fasts book I
haven't read all of it yet but it is
very good so far and fair he's a real
wonk on Medicare for all any answers any
questions you have he will probably
answer them health justice now dope he's
