[Music]
yesterday but the full numbers came out
yesterday in terms of Bernie Sanders
fundraising and the reason why you know
we're getting stuck on this for I don't
know we're talking about it too much but
Bernie's clearly the fundraiser I mean
excuse me the the the the front-runner
and the real question was going to be
that I think a lot of people had at
least in some quarters how much of
Bernie's support was a function of him
being essentially the only other
candidate in the race with Hillary
Clinton yes martin O'Malley was there
but he did not necessarily have the the
charisma or the foundation to to make a
name for himself in that race and so the
real question was is how much was Bernie
Sanders a a reaction to Hillary Clinton
or how much of it was proactively Bernie
Sanders he got 43% of the vote in this
in the the primary election and and look
if we had a presidential election where
one candidate got fifty five percent of
the vote and the other one got forty
three percent of the vote that is a
landslide I mean that would be a
landslide now it's it's the dynamics in
the Democratic Party are a little bit
different than the nation at large so
you know the Democratic Party is not
nearly as polarized and the dynamics as
to why you vote for someone in a primary
a little bit different than they are in
terms of a you know a general election
but forty three percent of the vote
that's a lot of vote if he could retain
the question is how much of that 43
percent would he retain does he have the
ability to build on that because one of
the things that Hillary Clinton had in
favor was a sense turned out to be not
necessarily correct but that she was a
sure bet she would definitely win and a
significant percentage of voters
probably in both parties vote for
someone in a primary who they think has
the best chance of winning in the
general election obviously a certain but
you know significant percentage of
people who voted for Hillary Clinton she
was her first pick regardless of what
they perceived as her ability to win so
the real question with Sanders was going
to be how much of that support would he
retain on day one and the numbers are
are in and they're pretty stunning I
mean we know what the polls say but
that's all well and good
Sanders collected ten million dollars
from 360,000 donors it's an
extraordinary number I think his total
donor list in if I'm not mistaken in
2016 was two million that was over the
course of a year and a half long
campaign to have twenty percent of those
people show up on day one is nuts and
here's what's interesting about that to
thirty nine percent of those donors used
an email address that had never been
before used to give to mr. Sanders now
that obviously doesn't mean that there's
forty percent new donors some people I
gave money when I was in college three
years ago and now I gotten rid of my
college email address or you know I
finally got off of hotmail or you know
my email account got hacked whatever it
is there's always some churn but even if
that's half even have 20% of the people
our brand-new donors
it's incredibly impressive ten million
dollars and just to compare it Sanders
got two hundred and thirty million
dollars in his 2016 primary so he has
already gotten about five percent of
that total a little bit less maybe but
significant portion of those people
committed to almost fifty thousand
donors have agreed to give Sanders a
reoccuring donation oh yeah I signed up
for six dollars a month cuz I'm a bro
well there you go
1 million dollars a month each so
there's another almost you know 15
million off the top and it's pretty
stunning so you start off on in the
first week with already essentially
having raised ten percent of your total
from 2016 which is it's it's stunning
Elizabeth Warren 20 times what Elizabeth
Warren did on her first day Kamala
Harris did a 1.5 million and their first
day and I think a lot of the other ones
have they even released it because I
think some according to a piece I read
last week a lot of the candidates have
not released these numbers and
presumably they would release them if
they looked good
yeah and and then some are deveined I
mean they these fundraisers have a
notion they have a calculus as they can
tell what other campaigns are doing
close her close anyways and here's the
amazing part so there was 20 donors out
of the 360,000 who maxed out I mean this
is it's it's crazy which means that
there were officially three hundred and
fifty nine thousand nine hundred and
fourteen donors so three hundred
59,000 894 can give again I just want to
say two quick things one is is well I'm
not gonna say it's petty I'll just say
you owe me five bucks from the abet with
Perrine when I predicted Bernie would
run and you did not yeah all right but
the second more important point I think
is I and I actually like I mean I think
Bernie's campaigns so far and they don't
we'll get to it has been you know I
think they're I mean certainly not from
like places like MSNBC and CNN mostly
but from people like Bill Fletcher jr.
is an example there was valid criticisms
of Bernie which I think they're
responding to and I also like the idea
that even then he's told his supporters
like to basically be chill online which
i think is good well got that but i just
want to say that i guess the big
takeaway that was like this is also just
like listen to what people say people
are excited about this guy because of
the agenda I mean there's a reason
there's durability here yeah and and I
think this is at least indicative that
his the support for him was not merely a
not merely a reaction to Clinton surely
some of it was and other people are
going to go to you know some of those
former Bernie supporters are gonna end
up going maybe maybe to other candidates
who knows I mean the question is has
been how much of that 43 percent would
he retain could he build on it I don't
know that you need to build on it in a
race many people also I mean it's a
historical strategy for Hillary Clinton
but she I feel like she actually had
both experiences because I think in 2008
it was about like there wasn't really
any difference between her and Obama in
terms of policy but it was like we need
something really different here and also
a rock was a really big deal but it was
very stylistic it was very generational
it had a lot to do with where you stood
and don't forget I mean because her
campaign then under Mark Penn where's
you know they put out a memo saying like
Barack Obama like in
Asia as a kid saved that for 2040 like
they ran on some very nativist stuff but
I think 2016 was definitely the real
sign coming out of black lives matter
and occupy and the living wage movements
like no you got it start delivering for
people yeah and I think a lot of young
people who supported Obama in 2008 are
supporting Bernie for a lot of the same
reasons
after being very disillusioned by Obama
and I think well I mean I think we'll
have a better sense of that as we go on
but clearly what is I think these
numbers you have got to scare you if
you're working on another con another
campaign I mean there's just no there's
just no two ways about it
you know I can only imagine right now at
Howard Schultz is sitting in a bunker
somewhere surrounded with people who are
making millions of dollars to tell him
that he can win so soon will be having
problems I gotta do this gotta feel
about like actual bunkers and it's gonna
be very disturbed give me another double
espresso we're gonna do this so 10
million dollars in less than a week is
super impressive
