this is you know chuck grassley gets
still like I just do any credit that is
given to any of these Republicans Chuck
Grassley has been given like some type
of I don't know some credit for being
you know in some way a balanced
Republican right I mean and aside from
the fact that he lied his way through
the Cavanaugh hearing and then
apparently but I said sexual assault was
bad which proved my bipartisan bona
fides and and for anybody who says that
like look they're not all racists the
Republicans are not all racists and and
you know who you are that are listening
to me who say that to me occasionally
and like I'm being full of hyperbole the
bottom line is if you are willing to
ignore someone's blatant racism and vote
for them or endorse them then guess what
you're racist that's that is I mean that
couldn't be more unfair I disagree with
Steve King and Hawaii ethno state but I
support him for giving tax breaks to
Monsanto and I'm just tired of all the
divisive this in the Quetta section I
don't need you to say that because
here's Chuck Grassley saying that Iowa
needs Steve King in Congress
I also need Steve King in Congress I
feel like I do a good job of
representing Iowans and so often I have
found Steve King to be such an ally an
ally that I need in the other body
called the house representatives he's
worked with so many things that are
important to Iowa agricultural issues
the farm bill alternative energy things
that are very important to Iowa like
wind energy particularly possibly just
alternative
probably ethanol right is is the getting
definitely today up children of color an
ethanol and biodiesel as well without
his help in the house representatives
Iowa would not be the number one ethanol
state in the nation and Steve King's
district is stronger in ethanol than any
other congressional district in the
entire country but also I don't want you
to forget that he's very pro-life he's
vouch for a strong military but for
those things that are very important to
Iowa for the working people of Iowa like
he was for the the tax cut or he
promoted a small business tax cut the
first time the small business had any
recognition in the tax code and all of
these things are important to Iowans and
Iowans need him because his first
concern is representing Iowans yes
well first off it's clear it's clear
that this is like Grassley's last words
I mean it's that it seems like he's on
his deathbed when he's doing this and
also he's held hostage can we get the
just the front part of that again
because I really enjoyed the countdown
that they gave them so ready aunt when I
get to three you just start endorsing a
white supremacist okay here we go and
just because he's you know you don't
have to agree on everything we worked
for ethanol together and then I say hey
Steve what are you gonna do when he goes
I'm gonna go burn across in front of a
black family so him I go okay I'm gonna
go read the paper he specifically
doesn't mean that you're with him every
part of the time and I'm goddamn tired
of it he specifically didn't mention
anything to do with the border which you
know Iowa doesn't share a border with
Mexico but that doesn't stop Republicans
from North Dakota and Montana from
talking about I'm worried about biofuels
nobody's always trying to distract from
the fact that Steve King has a Holocaust
replica in his living room I've got to
work on the issue the people of Iowa
he's the only one from the Iowa
delegation who'd be willing to go to
Auschwitz I understand he goes to
Auschwitz and he considers it a vacation
in a relaxation spot the other way
people would do Club Med but that's not
my problem my concern is ethanol I'm
tired of liberal media looks like he's
due for a fresh infusion of poor people
blood exactly get Peter to on the line
