CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any elite
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday April 30th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of history at Northwestern
University
Daniel Emma waar on how to hide an
empire a history of the greater United
States also on the program today
impeachment talk increases as Trump
stonewalling increases including a
lawsuit against Deutsche Bank and
Capital One to block release of
financial records to Congress also on
the program today Trump to charge
refugees fees for asylum rod Rosenstein
resigns praising Donald Trump's good
humor and Mike Pompeo praises our
involvement in the Yemen slaughter
meanwhile Joe Biden staking out the
Republican Lane and the Democratic
primary and Democrats fight to maintain
the promise of lone relief for public
workers and in Ohio Ohio Republicans
remind us that the problem
his Republicans and lastly the u.s.
cheers on an attempted coup going down
right about now
in Venezuela all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
welcome to the program everyone's here
today Jamie is back from her where did
you go Jamie first I went upstate to
work on my book proposal and freaked out
about that and then I went to the
24-hour drone festival which was as
always a transcendent experience I don't
even know what that means what does that
mean
Oh drone music oh okay it's like I need
to say I thought you were saying not the
kind of plan I made the same mistake
last year actually I did yeah I guess I
didn't pick up that where is the drone
where is the drone festival it's at
Basilica Hudson which is a beautiful
former factory building owned by Melissa
after Marr and her filmmaker husband I
know that place very very well cool my
daughter has gone to camp right next to
the Basilica oh my god yeah I didn't
really this this one
I mean why experience was not for kids
I'll tell you that much last weekend I
can only imagine not for beginners I can
only imagine alright folks a couple of
couple of emails I got from from
listeners that I want to share with you
because longtime listeners both one is
from listener Alex
hey I'm our crew it's my brother's
Spencer's birthday and I was hoping you
could give him a shofar he did the same
for my birthday and it made my day we
are both daily listeners and members he
was gonna get me a membership for my
birthday but found out I had already
joined keep fighting the good fight
pajama boys and girls left his best and
I'm gonna combine that so far with one
from film fest guy longtime listener
associated with the Film Archives could
I have a birthday shout out it was my
50th this past Saturday welcome welcome
to it buddy and to both you guys happy
birthday thanks for your continued
listener ship much appreciated all right
let's go to this bench here Oh still on
the it seems like every every week he's
got a new favorite freshman woman
Congress Congress person that he is
obsessing about I think ill honza's
favorite Johannes his favorite now well
because you know in the attempt to deny
the obvious truth that hate crimes
against Muslims against Jews against
really anybody who is not white in this
country or not Christian has gone up
since the entrance into the race by
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
which enabled Donald Trump's rise which
trained its
its electorate to vote for a guy like
this that has excused time and time
again rhetoric that ranges from I'm sure
there's some decent non rapists Mexicans
too you know we're gonna ban Muslim
countries Muslim immigrants to just
we're going to charge refugees money if
they're seeking asylum and on and on and
on I'm sure there are good people on
both side the whole thing in their
desperate attempt to hide their and deny
their own complicity in this stuff
whether they dress it up as like we're
we're just exploring ideas here we're
rebels we're talking about stuff that
was you know mmm
but as popular since we were talking
about eugenics or something they are
constantly looking for other people to
blame for what they know ultimately is a
function of their politics and here is a
bench Pierrot trying to somehow tie Ilan
Omar into the white supremacist who who
shot up a synagogue a couple of days ago
as I said before if you are blind to
anti-semitism from one particular side
of the aisle because it favors your
political position you are not in the
fight against anti-semitism you're part
of the problem
if anti-semitism is just another
political club to be wielded if Iran
Omar pause it you know it's just amazing
because I one could be forgiven for
assuming that that was the way he was
about to introduce his apology when
anti-semitism is just simply used as a
political club and with that said I had
an epiphany and I'm going to retire and
I'm going to go work somewhere else and
do something else with my life because I
realize what I have been doing has been
so wrong but instead he turns still on
Omar
you're part of the problem if
anti-semitism is just another political
club to be wielded if Iran Omar is given
the credibility to speak out against
anti-semitism while routinely engaging
in anti-semitism she has a lot of the
same opinions about Jews that the white
supremacists had in that manifesto in
that manifesto the base that the white
the the shooter basically says
effectively says about Jews that they
control the world media that they
control the way money runs that they
control opinion about Israel and I posit
now Allah Omar has said none of those
things none of none of the things she's
ever said could even be remotely
interpreted by that the closest she's
ever said is that the pact that is has
an ins mission statement to impact the
to impact the public opinion of
Rell in this country does it by
expending money on candidates just like
Thomas Friedman said although Thomas
Friedman said it a little more
aggressively and a little more pointedly
and a little bit more studiously but she
she never said any of the things he's
lying about now
so you think how decrepit you have to be
in your brain to make this case that we
shouldn't politicize anti-semitism as
you are lying to politicize
anti-semitism and basically comparing
Alon Omar to a white supremacist who's
just shot somebody up because and he has
to lie about the similarities in their
manifesto and I want you to keep that in
mind we don't need to hear a bench
bureau anymore because Ben Shapiro when
we talk about manifestos when we talk
about the implications and he's ray I
don't know what the point is he's making
that Alon Omar and he lies about her
opinions are similar to those of the
shooter but we know for a fact that the
guy who shot up in Canada which number
is this one that we have here the Quebec
City mosque shooter in the Washington
Post the guy's name Bissonnette appears
to have obsessively visited the Twitter
accounts of Tucker Carlson and Laura
Ingraham David Duke Alex Jones Mike
tsarevets Richard Spencer and busy at
checked on the Twitter account of Ben
Shapiro ninety three times in the month
leading up to the shooting so if you
want to talk about similarities in
perspective if you want to talk about
inspiration for four attacks like these
here's a video who did this video this
is a clip from a Vic burger Vic burger
did a video compare
the rhetoric from Shapiro with the
testimony not the testimony the I guess
the interrogation of this guy
Bissonnette listen to this many Muslims
are trying to kill Jews end of story
this idea we are all Muslim no we aren't
and the only people who think we are are
leftists who are fully insane or Muslims
who believe that we all should be
Muslims and that they get to kill us if
we disagree so all of this politically
correct nonsense it's gonna get a lot of
people killed a lot more people will die
because there are people who believe we
are all Muslims here's Bissonnette I
wanted to save people save people they
asked yes from terrorist attacks I mean
the the I don't know if I can say that
that Shapiro inspired this guy but we do
know in terms of factually this guy was
obsessively checking the messages he was
getting from Shapiro
and that his perspective is his fears
were completely aligned with the
warnings that Shapiro was giving so it's
really stunning for this guy to come out
and say this that mister if we're
talking about manifestos actually read
the one from the New Zealand guy and I
would like to see Ben Shapiro explicitly
say how his views on the dangers of
Muslim immigration differ from those
expressed in those manifests he's very
interesting to hear I mean it's it's
pretty shocking to hear Ben Shapiro
going out and trying to make this
argument yeah and he can stop using all
Jews as an excuse by the way because
most Jews do not agree with him well he
would not to be fair he would not
consider those Jews to be Jews because
Ben Shapiro completely inconsistent with
the with Jewish tradition feels that he
is the Pope of the Jews apparently I'm
the pulp of the djinns
or he certainly it appears to act that
way animus biases uh folks reminder New
Yorker a magazine represents the best
writing in America today both online and
in print The New Yorker covers a full
range of topics including politics news
international affairs climate change
popular culture the arts fiction food
humor cartoons not to mention the New
Yorker touches on subjects that many
readers may not have previously put much
thought into like the world's
diminishing supply of sand or paper jams
stink bugs I think about stink bugs
quite a bit actually hunting down
heirloom beans some of the New Yorkers
incredible writers include contributors
like Ronan Farrow who broke the news on
Harvey Weinstein in Les Moonves in Helen
Rosner a James Beard award-winning food
writer contributes essays and reports
stories on all things gastronomic we
spoke about a New Yorker story yesterday
involving the sort of the grift that is
the NRA
you can go check out a profile on John
Bolton that's in the the piece now
basically his attempt Bolton's attempt
to sell Donald Trump on neoconservatism
again there's a piece on the return of
al-baghdadi from Isis there is things
billionaires and Jack Dorsey's Ted
interviewer interview that's the guy
from Twitter
I was very informational I bet extremely
so we're all in good hands yeah exactly
everything's gonna be fine anyways if
you're not reading the New Yorker you
really you're not reading anything
frankly and now our listeners can save
50% and get 12 weeks in The New Yorker
for just 6 bucks when you go to new york
or calm slash majority and enter the
coupon code majority you'll also get an
exclusive tote as well as unlimited
access to the New Yorkers apps online
archive crossword puzzle and New Yorker
calm with 10 to 15 exclude
of sight only stories every day that's
New Yorker dot-com / majority enter
majority 50% off 12 weeks in the New
York over just six bucks give me a break
also as you know third love a sponsor of
this program they have more than 70
sizes including their signature half cup
sizes third love designs bras with
breast size and shape in mind for a
perfect fit premium feel you just answer
a few simple questions via third loves
fit finder quiz to find your perfect fit
in 60 seconds then thanks the third
loves 100% fit guarantee you can wear
wash and put your broad of the test for
60 days and if you don't love it you can
return it in third love will wash it and
donate it to a woman in need this is
hands-down the most comfortable bra
you'll own our official tester rights
the fit is great I usually have to
return most bras I order online even
though they're in my size I ordered two
and both fit that almost never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic they have straps that won't slip
tagless labels lightweight super thin
memory foam cups not to mention they
have a new line of incredibly soft
smooth and breathable cotton bras third
love knows there's a perfect bra for
everyone so right now they're offering
my listeners 15% off your first order go
2/3 love.com / majority now to find your
perfect fitting bra get 15% off your
first purchase that's third love.com /
majority for 15% off today and lastly
Mother's Day is coming up and there's
nothing we wouldn't do to make sure the
special moms and our lives are happy
sharise berries has a special Mother Day
berries designed just for Mom they're
topped with chocolate chips pink shimmer
sugar and swizzles they're beautiful
folks and you choose your delivery date
to ensure that mom gets you your gift -
Sheree berries exactly when you want or
- better yet your satisfaction is always
guaranteed
folks we've gotten many shipments of
Sherry's berries here I'm literally
hanging again maybe someday I'll get to
try one but maybe you eat like maybe
maybe hello I do have a bit of a problem
with eating just one of them they are
delicious and I wish I had more right
now but it's a great gift for mom don't
wait to the last minute one on this one
folks visit berries calm to order
freshly dip strawberry starting at
$19.99 for moms in your life and you can
do you can determine when they get
delivered so do it today so you don't
forget you only got about 10 days until
Mother's Day less wait what's today know
about 10 days 12 days to make mom really
happy you can double the berries for
just 10 bucks more mother's days Sunday
May 12th so visit berries calm
that's berr IES calm then click on the
microphone in the upper right hand
corner enter my code cedar as in Seder
as an sed er that's berries calm click
on the microphone code Cedar sed er
alright we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back we're gonna be talking
to Daniel mor on his book titled how to
hide an empire a history of the greater
United States we'll be right back
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at Northwestern University
Daniel Emma VAR an author of how to hide
an empire a history of the greater
United States Daniel welcome to the
program it's a pleasure to be here all
right so let's just as an overview this
is a almost like a geographic history of
the of the Empire of the United States
why what I guess what is it about
knowing the geography as you track it
over the course of a couple hundred
years that is so important to our
understanding of of America as as an
entity I guess yeah no that's right um I
start the book with maps and one of the
reasons I do that is that frankly I
think a lot of people in the United
States and a lot of people outside of
the United States don't really have an
accurate map of the full borders of the
country in their head so you know if you
ask most people what does the u.s. look
like on a map they called in mind that
familiar shape just the contiguous blob
with Mexico and Canada on the north and
south and the oceans on either side but
the thing is those have only been the
borders of the United States for three
years of its history there's three years
of US history where those are the
borders partly because in the 18th and
early 19th century the United States was
expanding but because after it stopped
sort of expanding in the contiguous
North America it started expanding
overseas taking first uninhabited
islands in the Caribbean and the Pacific
in the Caribbean and the Pacific and
then you know taking large inhabited
colonies by the end of the 19th century
it had a very large and populous empire
and those overseas parts of the United
States both the colonies and then later
on the military bases hundreds of them
that the United States claims those are
I think just don't really feature in
most people's maps of the country and as
a result they tell a truncated version
of its history of a history that only is
interested and only focuses on the
mainland and they miss a lot of the
action when they do that and does it
and do we also does it have implications
in terms of the character of of the
country I mean that we don't fully grasp
the history but do we not fully grasp
you know I guess the I don't know I'm
just thinking you know we're we're
obviously its primary season and so we
have a lot of candidates who talk about
America as an idea and I'm not sure I
hundred percent know what that means but
yeah does it implicate that idea I think
it does because the vision that you get
of the United States if you're just
looking at what people in the
territories call in the mainland first
of all it's a vision where Republican
ideals holds not perfectly but fairly
well most people live in parts of the
United States that allow them to vote
that allows them to have sort of votes
votes for representatives in Congress
now that's not true in DC so there are
some little anomalies and and Native
American lands have their own sort of
legal arrangements nevertheless you kind
of feel like it's wall to wall carpeting
in terms of the Republican system once
you look at the other parts of the
United States
the overseas parts you realize that a
big a big part of US history is is is a
peripheral zone a zone that is doesn't
have representation in terms of the
ability to vote for the president
doesn't have the ability to vote for
delegates who then have voting power in
Congress and in many cases isn't even
covered by the Constitution
so that's disenfranchisement or
subordination by all three modes of
government and that is I think a serious
cognitive dissonance or contradiction
between the ideals of the country as we
often articulate them and the ideals is
there actually lists I mean I guess and
as we go through these sort of these
these areas I mean do we have a an
accounting of particularly in that
respect of the of the numbers that we're
talking about I mean how does that
translate in from and it may be high and
low points in terms of just how many of
those of people are in that sort of that
that area of they're not sovereign but
they're not in any way represented sure
so we're at a relative low point right
now
and you know the United States still has
five inhabited territories and between
three and four million people live in
them if you add Washington DC that's you
know a few more hundred thousand people
without full representation that the
kind that citizens living in states have
but you know that's a relatively low
point if you go back to 1940 which is
where I sort of opened the book as I
tell the story of how World War two
comes to the territories at that time
nineteen million people who live in the
United States 19 million people who are
US Nationals live off the mainland
outside of the States and just for some
perspective if you live in the United
States then there's a one in eight
chance that you're colonized there you
live in the territories which means that
you're more likely to be colonized than
you are to be an immigrant you're more
likely to be colonized than you are to
be african-american by odds of three to
two so this has been at various points a
very substantial part of the United
States s population and even at times
when even or even in places where the
populations are kind of low small
islands military bases which are
relatively small enclaves those spaces
have also been really important to us
history beyond their effective the
people who live in them or right around
them I want to I want to start with with
with with Pearl Harbor and and and and
the the story you tell about FDR and the
way that he was sort of framing this for
the for the Estates but it occurs to me
as you're saying that about that sort of
the really stunning number of people who
are you know I mean disenfranchised is
almost like an underwhelming word in
that context when we add that with with
slavery which where you had people
obviously in in you know probably
material situations perhaps even more
oppressed but certainly the number of we
have had in a expansive history of
having Dominion or control over people
without their having any participate
in what we perceive as the idea of
America that has been sort of more than
norm than not yeah well certainly it's
been throughout US history every you
know day of US history there's that you
know there's some version of this going
on you can find some moment when the
promises made turn out to be restricted
to you know in the 18th and 19th century
to a white settler population rather
than see the full population of all the
land in North America which includes
Native Americans which includes enslaved
African Americans yeah and but what's
really important to recognize I think is
that colonialism is one of those
important accesses of subordination
actually it's a really big one and so
when we're talking about the ways in
which people are disenfranchised or
legally subordinated or sort of they
don't count within the you know that
sort of sense of Washington of who
matters and who doesn't actually
colonialism is a fairly big chunk of
that and certainly as so is especially
in the first half of the 20th century so
let's talk about the the attack on on
Pearl Harbor which in fact yeah well I
mean you you may you know I I just found
the whole thing sort of fascinating
because I have always referred to it as
the attack on Pearl Harbor when in fact
in some respects it was from in terms of
the war it was not it doesn't have the
same relevance in terms of like like the
ads all the other attacks that took
place that day yeah but we don't have
that in our consciousness because of the
way because if I guess what the
consciousness that Americans had of what
constituted our territories at that time
explain that yes so Pearl Harbor is not
really the best name for what happened
and the reason it's not the best name
for what happened is that the attack
began for the United States with an
attack on the naval base Pro Harbor in
the territory of Hawaii but it didn't
stop there in a near simultaneous attack
this all took place within hours it's a
little confusing because part of the
attack took place on the other side of
the international
dateline and therefore it happened on
December 8th but this is all happening
within a singer single solar day the
Japan attacks of the US territories
Hawaii Wake Island which is and not
indigenously inhabited but nevertheless
occupied territory Guam and the single
largest territory that the United States
had ever held which is the Philippines
and the the reason that Pearl Harbor is
not a particularly great descriptor for
all of that is first of all it's not
clear that that's even where their
greatest military damage is done the
damage to the Philippines is quite
serious and takes out the sort of pillar
of air defense in the entire Pacific but
more importantly the attack on Pearl
Harbor is just an attack whereas the
attack on Guam Wake Island the
Philippines and then later Alaska this
wasn't in that day but it happened with
you know within months was a Japanese
attack followed by more attacks followed
by invasion and occupation and so I you
know the largest colony that the United
States had ever held the Philippines was
occupied by Japan for years it was a
brutal occupation and folks in the
Philippines had a very different kind of
war than people in Hawaii had in fact by
the end of World War 2 Philippines had
lost what was a 1.5 million people or
1.6 week okay so it depends on how you
count if you're asking how many
Filipinos died in the Second World War
the government count is around 1.1
million if you ask how many people died
in the Philippines and that's who
includes Japanese and that includes US
mainland servicemembers then it goes up
to 1.6 million but just to clarify that
makes World War 2 in the Philippines the
bloodiest event that ever took place on
US soil that's two civil wars and yet
you rarely hear about this in US history
textbooks because the kind of US history
that we often do and teach in this
country is a history of not the entire
United States it's a history of the
mainland only and so things that take
place outside of the mainland don't seem
to count as part of that history and
talk about how FDR addressed the country
the United States
I guess the Americans in in sort of
framing what happened
on that day and like you know I guess
the question I have as you explain it is
is it simply because like this is not a
teachable moment to explain how we've
been you know how many territories we
have or is it that like this is not the
vision that we have of ourselves and so
we don't I don't want to really push
that at this moment yes so FDR face is a
really interesting choice and in fact
not just FDR anyone who's describing the
attack the attack that we now call Pearl
Harbor in in those you know hours and
days after it is facing an interesting
question which is how to describe what
happened and we've got a term for it
Pearl Harbor but they didn't have that
term how that was the name of the
military base in April base but no one
called the full attack Pearl Harbor in
the way that we did that didn't come out
for a few days so you can just go
through the newspaper headlines and see
editors try to put a descriptor to it or
probably try to put a name to it or try
to say what happened and often they
would say that well the last things
happened Japan attacked Hawaii and Guam
or Japan attacked the Philippines in
Hawaii wasn't clear where the focus
needed to be Eleanor Roosevelt gave a
speech the night before
so before FDR's date which will live in
infamy speech and she's focused
attention on Hawaii and the Philippines
and that's also how the draft of F CRS
famous speech when FDR produced that
dress and it was about Japanese attacks
on Hawaii and the Philippines and then
you can just see FDR noodling with the
draft and when I say you can see it I
mean literally because we actually have
his marked up successive copies and his
emendations and his deletions and one
thing he does is he takes out prominent
references to the Philippines he makes
this a story about Hawaii there's still
a sort of back back page reference to
the Philippines people don't always
remember in that speech there FDR gives
a list of other places that Japan has
attacked
it's an indiscriminate list so it
doesn't distinguish in any way between
u.s. and foreign territory and it's sort
of talked to the back of the speech but
nevertheless the focus of that is on
Hawaii and it seems pretty clear to me
why I don't think this is a sort of
grand conspiracy but I think what FDR is
responding to is that there is very
little support on the US mainland for a
military defense of the Philippines
which is has a very small white
population is very far from the mainland
or for Guam and there's more support
although even that is kind of wobbly for
to use the US military to defend the
territory of Hawaii which has a larger
although not majority white population
and you can see FDR worried about even
Hawaii because the final entity makes it
a speech between the last draft that we
have on paper and his actual spoken in
the speech is that he inserts the word
American in there before he describes
the target in Hawaii just to really
underscore to his audience and I think
FDR was nervous about what his audience
would hear that Hawaii might sound
foreign might feel foreign but actually
is American territory and therefore a
Japanese attack on it is a cause for war
so all right so let's go back and in
what what what is the genesis of I mean
I guess the genesis of of the American
Empire begins as the I guess settlers
and colonialists start to move west
right what is the genesis of this sort
of lack of awareness I mean it and maybe
maybe this is like a generic shyness
about being an empire but it doesn't you
know like it seems to me like the
British Empire was sort of you know they
were pretty psyched about making sure
that everybody was aware that they were
an empire I don't get the same you don't
get the same sense of American history
in that way yeah so two things first of
all you're right that in some ways these
questions of empire go back to day one
literally today one in that the right
after the United States is formally
independent from Britain so the treaty
has been ratified by both sides and now
the country is independent its name is
the United States of America which
suggests that it's a union of states but
it's not it's a union of or it's not
even a union it's an amalgam of
dates and territories the word Union
suggests voluntarily entered into but
the United States from day one has
territories in this case western
territories and we'll have territories
every day you know until now I mean so
every every intervening day it's it's
it's always states and territories but
at first that's a not a hidden kind of
thing about the United States people are
very aware of it the civil war has a lot
to do with the battle for slavery in the
territories
you know candidates for president will
talk about they're sort of you know
log-cabin you know backcountry roots i
think the moment when the imperial
architecture of the united states
becomes the kind of thing that has to be
hidden is when those territories are no
longer receptacles for the filling up
with white settlers when they become
large populous places full of people who
are perceived from the perspective of
the mainland as non-white and who can't
just be dislodged by white settlers and
so we're talking here about territories
like Puerto Rico Hawaii the Philippines
Alaska Guam and that kind of imperialism
the kind about we're ruling distant
populations the kind of Britain does so
proudly that's the kind that the United
States never sort of or very rarely
trumpets proudly and for most of its
history experiences as a sort of
cognitive dissonance about you know on
the one hand it has a vision of itself
as you know a republic where everyone
has sort of some say in government on
the other hand the reality is that you
know millions of people live under this
different kind of government and that
never quite fits in the same way that it
fits easily into British political
culture is that what it is it's because
that that reality butts up against the
the the the the I guess the the
narrative of the character of America of
the idea of America and and is it is it
that and or is it also that we're this
is about resource extraction or about
some type of like we need a base here
well yeah it's interesting that the
colonialist story of the United States
is overseas colonies is not largely a
story of successful resource extraction
there are sugar plantation
pineapple plantations and such but it's
not like the United States depends for
its absolute livelihood on its overseas
territories it does in the later 20th
century start to care a lot about you
know all of its military bases all over
the planet but but why does it have
large colonies it doesn't really turn
out to need them in some deep way
nevertheless there is there's a real
contradiction between how the United
States which was born of an anti
colonial revolt envisions itself the
kind of pattern that had that it had
been in and in the 19th century where it
did you know states and territories but
it always you know or it intended to
upgrade those territories to States once
they were filled with large white
populations and then the kind of pattern
that you know it acts out in the
overseas territories which doesn't quite
fit that model and therefore doesn't you
know can't be part of the sort of or
doesn't turn out to be part of the
national myths of the country I want to
go through start going through the
history but but but but I'm sort of hung
up on like what so why was there so much
of this like what did we will so much of
what of that of main maintenance of
territories when we don't need the
resource it was it we need the markets
was it the I mean because I know you
know we have some dynamics where it's
you know gives us a little like it's
almost like Guantanamo Bay on some level
that is a little bit extreme but that's
a model of what we use these territories
for like it's outside of the purview of
the United States but we still have
control so we can experiment with some
stuff and maybe do study quasi legal
that type of thing well so Guantanamo
Bay is a pretty good example of this
because you know now we think of
Guantanamo Bay as for the perspective of
you know the United States and the
national security apparatus it has been
a very useful space it's this little
part of Cuba that the United States has
exclusive jurisdiction over and
jurisdiction that is so complete it's as
if it were a sovereign but it's not a
sovereign and that difference between
not quite technically being a sovereign
is what allows all kinds of legal things
to happen or things that would be
illegal as they were happening on US
soil so you think of that as a very
useful kind of space but you have to
realize
that the United States had had
Guantanamo Bay since the very early 20th
century and you know sometimes it had
been it had them genuinely really useful
other times it had been a little less so
and there's a kind of history of
experimentation what can be done with it
Haitians who are you know coming to the
US mainland can be detained there that's
something that happens before it gets
its prey use and I think a lot of the
history of the u.s. colonial empire as
opposed to the history of the
pointillist Empire in the military bases
it's a history of speculative
speculative desires but desires that
don't always pan out so this is great
enthusiasm at the end of the 19th
century for the United States becoming a
big colonial empire for it having Hawaii
and the Philippines and these will be
you know highways to Asia and to trade
with Japan and China that trade doesn't
really become a huge thing but
nevertheless in the same way that you
can you know the couple can fall out of
love but stay married a country can grow
less imperialist or sort of lose its
initial imperialist desire and and
remain an empire and I think that's the
history of the US colonies at least in
the early 20th century there you know
they do have some kinds of uses for
Washington but they are not the most
useful parts of the country nevertheless
they're still part of it and a part of
the country that is neglected that lives
in the shadows but that could be a very
weird part of the country to occupy tell
us a little bit how like the guano
islands and that notion of appertaining
yeah which I found fascinating yeah so
what happens is there's a a Gregorius in
the united states in the mid nineteenth
century and the reason it's happening is
you know kind of fairly predictable is
that if you grow food on a farm again at
you go a cash crop so it could be grain
it could be cotton it could be tobacco
but if you grow it again and again on
the same plot of land and you keep
selling it somewhere else selling it
somewhere else rather than consuming it
nearby or consuming it on the land and
then depositing the nutrients back in
the lands through feces or just you know
by putting the waste back on the lands
you end up depleting the soil and
particularly you start running down the
soil
nitrates which are kind of hard to
restore if you just keep you know doing
that year after year so farmers get
really nervous about finding some way to
replenish their parched farms and a
thing that does it is guano which is but
guano can mean bird or bat feces used
for fertilizer but it turns out that
this is the droppings of seabirds on
these small dry islands that don't see a
lot of rain where the birds just land
and you know they eat their anchovies
and land on the islands and they
defecate on the island and then it's
just you know just keeps piling up for
years centuries millennia drying in the
Sun that stuff is a really useful
fertilizer and so in the middle of the
nineteenth century this is actually the
first u.s. overseas expansion the United
States plays claim to nearly a hundred
uninhabited guano islands and annexes
them to the United States and there's a
guano island act that's passed and it
says that these place will be once
they're sort of claimed and a claim is
ratified they'll be appertaining to the
United States which is a kind of a weird
sort of language but what it seems to
say is that they're they're fully part
of the United States now that just that
phrase a pertaining to the United States
that's the legal foundation for the
United States is overseas Empire that's
the first time that the United States
had annexed overseas territory and
there's a Supreme Court case about
whether appertaining really does that
mean that these these places are really
part of the United States or not and the
Supreme Court decides yes so it's it's
you know these just you know hundreds
small uninhabited islands there quickly
scraped free of guano and then after
that they're not as useful anymore but
nevertheless they are the the actual
legal foundations for a much larger
populous Empire you know one that
includes you know up to 19 million
people by the evil 4:04 - it's an
amazing metaphor that Empire the project
of the empire is literally built on
mountains of crap but yeah yeah that's
exactly right yeah and and I'll just say
one other thing because we talked about
the ways in which these these places can
be useful and not have an obvious use
from the perspective of Washington
you know sort of develop on a little
later those guano Islands after the
guano is scraped off of them they sort
of fall into disrepair or disuse but
then it turns out in the mid 20th
century for all of the reasons that
they're interesting to birds as places
to land they're also really useful for
places for airplanes to land and then
suddenly the guano islands become
absolutely some of them become
absolutely essential to the US military
strategy and it is with the guano
Islands that the United States fights
world war two in the Pacific interesting
and let's talk about let's move to the
the early 1900's when the Supreme Court
does sort of make a distinction between
incorporated and unincorporated
territories what would the implications
of that and what how how much staying
power did that have yes so it's a really
interesting moment so the United States
has just acquired a number of populated
territories it's gutted Spain's Empire
in a war and it's also taken Hawaii in
American Samoa
and then there's this legal question of
well what are these places are they part
of the United States and if so how much
are they part of the United States you
know are people who live in them
automatically citizens there's a law
it's called the fourteenth amendment
that says if you're born in the United
States you're a US citizen does that
apply to Filipinos does the rest of the
Bill of Rights apply to Filipinos so the
Supreme Court argues it and it's it's a
contested thing it's a it's a very
public thing these arguments and
ultimately what the Supreme Court
decides is that there is a distinction
and this is a novel distinction it
wasn't one that had been around before
but the Supreme Court introduces it
there's a distinction between
incorporated territories those
territories are part of the United
States in a constitutional sense so
those are the old western territories
and they're also the two overseas
territories that have the largest white
populations Hawaii and the Supreme Court
decides Alaska but all of the
territories that the United States had
claimed from Spain which is where most
of its colonial subjects live those the
Supreme Court decides are unincorporated
territories which means that they are
part of the United States but they're
not part of the United States that's
covered by the Constitution and so
that's why even today you can be born in
American Samoa you're born in the United
it's no one disputes that you have a
u.s. passport the stars and flags Stars
and Stripes fly overhead but
nevertheless your US passport does not
say you're a US citizen because the
Fourteenth Amendment doesn't extend to
you you're a US national instead I mean
the to put it in context this is the
same Supreme Court that basically said
literacy laws for voting we're okay and
poll taxes were okay I mean the the the
agenda is pretty clear right
yeah and it's actually nearly identical
to the court I mean there's I think one
member different that decides the first
of these cases they're called the
insular cases that also decides Plessy v
Ferguson which is the case that
enshrines
separate but equal as of you know
constitutional way of running the
country which administrative Lea divides
the country into two in terms of white
and non-white the insular cases do
something similar they divided the
country into two in terms of a
constitutional zone and an
extra-constitutional zone and they also
do it appealing to exactly the same
logic you know who's really part of the
country and who's for racial reasons not
quite really part of the country the
difference is this Plessy v Ferguson I
mean that's recognized today as one of
the sort of worst mistakes in the courts
history and it's been overturned the
insular cases are still good law yeah
well I made Plessy v Ferguson we could
be just a couple of years away from from
that from that type of regime returning
in some respects but maybe I'm
overstating the case maybe a little bit
but certainly the Lochner era may be
back soon
but with that said so this law the the
this so how is it that well I mean I
guess it's it's quite obvious why it's
so durable right is because what what
why has that been so durable I guess is
is really what I'm asking like why what
were the forces that didn't allow Plessy
V Ferguson to stand but but allowed this
to stand yeah I think one difference is
that the Jim Crow was it was a obviously
a form of racist subordination but
was also fairly public you know it was
hard to not know that the country had a
Jim Crow system if you were living
anywhere in the country in the 20th
century nevertheless it's been very easy
not to really understand the colonial
system or even the fact of overseas
territories if you live in the mainland
part of the United States or if you have
looked there in the 20th and into the
21st century so an example of this is
even after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto
Rico and you know laid waste to the
infrastructure of the island
there was a you know who made all the
headlines there was a national poll that
asked people in the mainland are Puerto
Ricans US citizens and barely a majority
of people adults polled were able to
correctly say yes Berto Ricans are US
citizens and if you asked adults under
30 only 37% of them were able to cough
up that number so I think one difference
between the racist regime that had
applied to african-americans is it was
very much in the public view whereas the
colonial forms of subordination and
segregation those of those have kind of
happened at the off stage at least off
stage from the perspective of the
mainland since we're talking about
Puerto Rico tell us the story of
Cornelius Rhodes because that is you
know we've talked on this program you
know that the the long history that the
United States has had that in many
respects is really one of you know
almost waging some type of war against
Puerto Rico and one form or another and
Cornelius Rhodes I think sort of
exemplifies that a little bit yes I said
that the you know overseas parts of the
united states are often off stage from
the perspective of the mainland and
what's important to grasp is that all
kinds of things can happen offstage that
couldn't happen under the glare of the
spotlights and the Cornelius Rhodes
story is a great example of that
so Cornelius Rhodes is a doctor he's
Harvard trained he's from the mainland's
but he goes to San Juan he goes to
Puerto Rico and he goes there to study
anemia what condition
from which many Puerto Ricans suffer and
so what did he do well suddenly the you
know when he hits the island he just
becomes a very different kind of doctor
so first of all he intentionally refuses
treatment to some of his patients just
to see what will happen he tries to
induce disease and other of his patients
also to see what will happen he
describes patients such as this to his
colleagues as experimental animals and
then he writes a letter he writes one of
the most extraordinary letters that I've
read as a historian where he writes to a
colleague to a Boston colleague and he
you know starts off it's a very chatty
letter and he said you know how are you
hope everyone's well well here's some
gossip about the field and then he says
oh and me Puerto Rican Amin Puerto Rico
it's beautiful the island is great the
only problem is the Puerto Ricans
they're awful they're filthy they steal
frankly they're the worst and the best
thing for Puerto Rico he goes on to say
would be a total extermination of the
population and then he says in fact I've
started it I have killed eight of my
patients and I've tried to transplant
cancer turns out it's very hard to
transplant cancer but he doesn't know
that I've tried to transplant cancer
into thirteen others you know hope your
wife's well all best and and it's even
credible letter right because he just
confessed him he seems like he's
confessed to murdering eight people and
extraordinarily the letter gets found by
the Puerto Rican hospital staff and it
becomes a major scandal in Puerto Rico
of course it does there's a there's an
investigation by the government that
investigation uncovers yet another
letter which the government the governor
describes as worse than the first which
is kind of impossible to imagine for me
but nevertheless the government destroys
that second letter so we've never seen
it as historians and and concludes that
he wasn't really serious about what he
said he didn't really kill a people and
extraordinarily Cornelius Rhodes is able
to just leave he doesn't face any kind
of trial he just he doesn't even lose
his job he just goes back to the
mainland what happens in San Juan stays
in San Juan and then his medical career
takes off now it does I mean what's
amazing about the story is that in
itself would be incredible but it
doesn't end because as his medical
career takes
she becomes the vice president of the
New York Academy of Medicine he goes
into the army and while he's in the army
he oversees a he's a chief medical
officer in a large-scale series of tests
of chemical weapons on us servicemembers
so u.s. servicemembers are have toxic
agents applied to their skin to see what
happens many of them suffer permanent
damage they're put in gas chambers with
gas masks to see what will happen some
of them are put out in jungles and told
to fight while they're gassed from
overhead a lot of those people are also
Puerto Rican and Cornelius Rhodes is
right there in the middle of it writing
up reports does black skin blister
differently than white skin Cornelius
Rhodes will let you know you know he
gets a medal for this and then as a
result of those experiments he one of
the things they figure out is that some
of these toxic agents are actually good
at fighting cancer and Cornelius Rhodes
uses that to become an authority of his
career the first head of the
sloan-kettering Institute and basically
one of the pioneers of chemotherapy and
that's what he's remembered for for
decades on the US mainland as a medical
hero the you know the father of
chemotherapy and it really takes an
extraordinarily long time before Puerto
Ricans are able to get the message out
that this guy who's been on the cover of
Time magazine as a hero is actually the
sort of like Mengele of Puerto Rico and
I mean for me that's that's kind of the
that's the final extraordinary bit is
that the informational segregation is so
tight that it takes decades for Puerto
Ricans to effectively you know do
something about the fact that Cornelius
Rose is being celebrated and openly
celebrated as a hero on the mainland and
the people who are celebrating him have
no idea what he was up to in Puerto Rico
that story is just so nuts man but it
really it does capture I mean it is it's
almost the perfect metaphor in some
respects right I mean that is the the
extraction or the the oppression ends up
you know fueling on some level at
different times the expansion and the
the six you know the success
of the country in some fashion and then
you know we don't have too much time
left here but it the the nature of the
Empire changes to being less colonial
and in many respects more like like it
would you call it sort of through via
influence or I mean maybe the the Hoover
screws story sort of is is a good
metaphor for this yes so that I think
there are two things would happen um as
the United States you know gets through
World War two it becomes the most
powerful country in the world and it has
the option militarily I mean it
physically can do this it has the option
of doing what Britain had done which is
expressing its power by taking a lot of
colonies and controlling a lot of the
lands of the planet right at the end of
World War two the United States actually
has in occupied zones mainly I didn't
attend colonies which is a slightly
lesser number it has more people who are
under US jurisdiction who are living
outside of the mainland then who are
living in all of the states I mean
that's how much land the United States
briefly controls at the end of World War
two and so then it faces an interesting
question it does is it want to be
Britain again does it want to sort of do
that whole thing and then claim colonies
and annex Japan and all that kind of
stuff
and it doesn't and you know it still has
a colonial empire they there are still
five inhabited territories of the United
States today and millions of people live
in them but nevertheless the United
States sort of pivots away one thing is
it does is it seeks to find ways to
influence outside of its borders to
extend its and project power not by
extending its borders by annexing new
places but by controlling processes in
foreign countries but under girding that
and this is what I focus on particularly
is that the United States does this not
by observing territory entirely but by
claiming just a bunch of small
territorial points and buy a bunch I
mean literally hundreds that's the
number of foreign military bases that
the United States has but these points
act as sort of staging grounds and
beacons and and just little sort of snot
connectors that
allow the United States to spread a much
more diffuse influence out throughout
the world which is still undergirded by
some sort of territorial component but a
territorial footprint that I think looks
more pointless than colonial I mean it's
almost like it's almost like the like
the web but like a series of servers we
have something like nearly 800 bases
across the country I mean across the
world if the network right and and how
does that is that is that is the the
influence there exclusively is it
projecting power from a military
standpoint like these are you know we
have the high ground in these 800 places
or we have control you know need be you
know the harbor or is it also a a
cultural one - yes what's like what I
think is so interesting about the basis
is that their purpose is military that's
what they're there for that's why we
call them military bases but that's not
all they do because you have to imagine
these places as little or in some cases
actually not so little enclaves that are
full of people from the United States
and there's all kind of interesting
contacts between people on the base
often who have quite a lot of money
compared to the surrounding region and
the people around it so in the book I
tell the story about the complicated
interactions that people who are on base
have with folks who are living in the
shadow of the bases and it actually
becomes a really important vector for
the spread of US culture so one of the
questions I take up in my book is why
does Liverpool become this sort of world
city of pop like why is there so much we
know about the Beatles but you know
they're like the benches like five
hundred bands deep there's a lot of you
know bands that like we're pointed in
the direction of the Beatles you know
we're doing that kind of music and
they're all coming out of the Liverpool
area and why is that because Liverpool
hadn't have literally been the major
city for pop music in Britain and the
answer is that you know Liverpool is in
the shadow of the single largest u.s.
air force base in Europe a space called
Burtonwood
and it's really clear that not just the
Beatles but all these other bands are
kind of subsisting on I mean you know
these guys in the base were very rich
who were going out into the clubs at
night who were demanding us style rock
and you know
Ringo's stepdad works on the bass makes
his money there and gets all these
records as a result of working there
that he gives to Ringo John's mom is
what's called a goodtime girl such as I
imagine she's spending some time with a
guy from the basis she also has an
incredibly up-to-date record collection
and that's that's how Paul gets his
records to and Jorge sort of steals them
from the local record shop which is also
bristling with all kinds of like really
good what they then called race records
which are african-american records of
African American music and all of that's
coming from the portal of the base where
there's just all this money there's all
this glamour and they're all these guys
sort of you know waiting to spread it
around for willing young teenagers who
can play us style rock so it's not
entirely surprised that the Liverpool
area becomes an area sort of where rock
takes off because these bases are you
know in some ways little just portals of
the United States and little portals not
just of US military power but of us you
know industrial standards and and and
culture and and all in language and all
these other things that come with the
United States that seep through the
portal as well well it's it's
fascinating stuff I wish we had more
time to get to the the standardization
of screws which I found fascinating and
longtime listeners of this program will
remember the story of the Northern
Mariana Islands and Jack Abramoff and
Tom DeLay
and how they would visit that in the mid
arts as a way of basically getting made
in USA goods by basically near slave
labor practically but there's there's a
lot more in here how to hide an empire a
history of the greater United States
Daniel innovar thank you so much for
your time today we will put a link at
majority dot F M of your book
thanks so much it's been a pleasure to
be on alright folks we got to take a
break head into the fun half of the
program wherein we will have
more fun more fun than we really should
be allowed to have a close-up video of
Seb Korca talking to Michelle Bachman
that's always fun
also we have real con of fighting a coup
o is if we didn't do some new sound
coming okay great we have Oh Joe Biden
talking about his his new his new slogan
we have hey I don't know I don't know if
this isn't you know an interesting sort
of misreporting on on both Biden support
with minority voters and really sort of
gender splits in donations coming from
MSNBC and of course Stephen Moore's
last-ditch effort to argue that he is
better than Herman Cain all this and
more just over will Betty ideas
yeah can we play that drop just because
it's we've we've contemplated one day
coming into work and just instead of
actually doing a show just play this one
clip from Dave Rubin over and over again
I have to say that my brain is still in
recovery mode from taking in so many
high-level important ideas honey I have
to say that my brain is still in
recovery mode in taking in so many
high-level important ideas I have to say
that my brain is still in recovery mode
from taking in so many high-level
important ideas I have to say that my
brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many I level
yes I have to say that my brain is still
in recovery mode from taking in so many
high-level important ideas I have to say
that my brain you know it's always
better though when you can see his face
though because he is saying this without
any sense of like this is a weird thing
to say
oh he's taking it in he's so he's
literally taking it so that was prompted
by a conversation he listened to between
the Weinstein brothers so how many times
these two guys who no one's ever heard
of like the greatest thinkers in the
history of the world I don't know let me
search my Rubin report podcast feed
David's gay folks just a reminder you
can support this program by becoming a
member by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report
dot-com and when you do not only do you
support the the daily free show but you
also get ex content virtually every
single day you make this show possible
so if you've been thinking about joining
please do and of course if you do not
have the financial means but you want
access to the fun half send us an email
at majority reporters at gmail.com wait
an inordinately long period of time for
us to go through the emails takes us a
long time but we will get there and we
will work out a deal for you I promise
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off today is Tuesday on
Tuesdays what happens is day turns into
night and then in Tuesday night then
high level ideas high level ideas
happened when your brain has recovered
may bring us to recover from the
majority of employed
sorry I can't take it tonight dr. maté
that al-hasan we're talking about the
uprisings in Algeria and the Sudan
through the lens of Malcolm X and his
relation to Africa the Middle East and
liberation ana kasparian is coming in
studio and we are going to dunk on Joe
Biden and Pete Buddha Gedge Lula da
Silva did a really important interview
we're going to talk about that and of
course the coup in Venezuela so a ton of
stuff tonight and at 6 o'clock as if
that wasn't enough a special livestream
on the Spanish election results with
Nando Vela on the Michael Brooke show
YouTube channel so 6 & 7
Michael Brooke show YouTube channel
patreon.com / TM yes for the whole thing
this weekend Anna listed history of
humanitarian law Jamie
the Intifada this week on the anti fada
we have released the very first edition
of a new side project called pro litt
cult to the AAP Andy is doing for our
patrons it's about UFOs conspiracy
theories space news and the paranormal
but from a Marxist perspective so check
that out if you're a patron or this
might be a good time to join also Sean
spoke with the guy from means TV over
the weekend that's gonna be out in our
free episode later this week and we
still have our episode from last week
where we talked to George Chikara Lamarr
about the coup in Venezuela which seems
very relevant in light of the news
coming out of Venezuela now and lots of
other luminaries of the left so check it
out on YouTube episode 20 of literary
hangover looking back on the Spanish war
essay by George Orwell is available for
patrons there's another essay on the
same topic by the same guy
it's called spilling Spanish beans by
George Orwell when he was fresh from the
Spanish Civil War healing from his
throat wound and he was pissed off that
he was called a Trotsky fascist in Spain
and he said explains what that's about
that's that's yeah
there's too many ideas and so many ideas
there's a lot of ideas in spades aside
to keep track here of all the ideas I
don't know enough about Franco but I do
know that he's he's ray he's really into
market Frank not sgw literally getting
the sjw's out of the schools
what are your thoughts on Spanish leader
Franz
Franco I don't know there's a lack of
that and this min and Trotsky we're with
it what does it deal with those two guys
all right we'll see you in the fun half
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty
you
damn cedar on the majority report so
this morning apparently according to the
Washington Post at about 10 a.m.
whydo went to the plot saw Altamira
surrounded by soldiers
he led supporters in singing the
Venezuelan national anthem by late
morning around 5,000 people had arrived
some chanting yes we can and according
to the Washington Post a dozen soldiers
were present I feel like you're gonna
need more if you're going to if you're
gonna stage a coup were they like the
a-team of Venezuela yeah a dozen
soldiers seems like not enough and then
vice president pence of this country
took to Twitter to support the coup and
ROH Khanna was on was on MSNBC taking
some issue with frankly the idea that
the Vice President of the United States
would be actively cheering on a I guess
presumably a military coup but I mean
with a dozen soldiers I just don't think
you're gonna cut it like they had Martha
Bay of Pigs
what the US government's role should be
going forward now given this well this
is why some of us in Congress have been
urging restraint we condemned maderos
regime they it's been a failed regime
but we have been saying that the vice
president shouldn't be interfering and
inciting violence with wydo what we
should be doing is deferring to the Pope
to have a negotiated settlement or
Uruguay or Mexico and it looks like the
United States is getting inching into
yet another bloody conflict and this is
not going to be easy then as well as one
of the most
armed nations in the world 1.6 million
militias the military appears divided
between blade oh and Madero and the
question is is this really the United
States role to get involved in yet
another war overseas I mean it's it's
unclear you know what this is it sounds
if it feels like they're you know
they're trying to jumpstart a process
that didn't seem to be going anywhere
because all the chips seem to have
settled and nothing was happening in
terms of Guido quite OHS attempt to take
power in Venezuela so we shall see
hopefully this time tomorrow we won't be
talking about US military intervention
in any fashion I think you know 100 Rus
not it's not the ground helps that not
happen it's not like inconceivable right
I mean it's just I mean who knows but it
would be obviously highly problematic
I think the coup is gonna fail well it
sort of feels like this is a oh there's
some desperation like they don't have an
ability to understand that there is both
for I mean real politic reasons which is
that the military's totally embedded in
this government in ways that make it
very resilient and there's also organic
support for this government period it's
and no matter how much they repeat
otherwise it's just bolide by the facts
in some ways it's stunning how resilient
the support is given some of the serious
mistakes that have been made right Randy
you know massive Imperial pressure from
the United States however the only a
mitigating factor apparently is that
Eric Prince I don't know what his
company is now is a J or formally
Blackwater is basically pitching to the
US government mercenaries papers and
mercenaries to go down there we'll we'll
wrap this thing up that should work out
well
and track record there yeah exactly
let's go to the phones you call them
from a four seven eight area code who's
this where he come from well I do know
what Jeff from Georgia how are you sir
hey ma'am I'm doing great business is
the whole jewelry poor Cruz is back I
will say thank you so much for all y'all
do I know you had a bunch of proof of
course shows but and it just like the
same with that your live voice tinkled
it's my style ears ma'am I understand
believe me I understand uh just real
quick I don't know if y'all y'all know
this I was actually born in Guam my dad
worked for old Sam's Air Force so that's
what he was he was doing over there I
ain't been back since I was but a little
bitty bitty baby but a little bit of
what I do know about mom is that despite
being one of our more prosperous
colonies in terms of per capita income
it it has a ton of problems that are
really the direct result of the two
largest industries being the military
and tourism there and it's really it's
really made an environmental mess to the
whole island crazy things happen like
like I was told that when it rains there
are so many toads that would flood the
the roads that you literally couldn't
drive on them so many frog guts
everywhere yeah exactly it's
insane it and like I said it's my
understanding mom is actually one of our
more prosperous colony and there are
severe severe problems between you know
the the the servicemen and women and
their spouses and families that there
and their standard of living which is uh
you know most mostly good if a little
bit strange kind of so far away from
everything in a way especially in terms
of America but but for the the
indigenous people the Chamorro does what
they're called it's there it's really
it's never been good it has to be good
honestly since the forties probably when
the Japanese took over the island uh I
know I have a large point to any help
all that except to let people know this
is still a going concern you know I'm
not an old man I was born in 1985 at
Guam is still around and Guam still has
laws the same problems that it did when
I was a little boy
well interesting I had no idea but I'm
not surprised my only experience with
Guam was that the original Air America
founder I think was arrested on Guam and
some type of school some type of like a
cool I know he definitely I definitely
was making use of the expansive
territories of the United States that's
for sure what it's there for
Jeff I appreciate the call have a good
week ma'am
so Donald Trump still looking for
someone to put on the federal reserve
and stephen moore despite the fact that
he on national television said i get a
pretty big learning curve for this
little steep but i can handle it and I
desperately need a job probably not one
of the guys that you want to be
overseeing the monetary policy of the
country but he's still making his case
he's better than Herman Cain well part
of what some of the things you're
writing show are to summit observers
saying it shows that you're not
qualified because of your views on
gender including things like pay equity
I want to point out something you wrote
in a 2014 column you actually asked what
are the implications of deciding which
women earn more than men we don't really
know but it could be disruptive to
family stability a lot of people look at
it and say what does it mean I just want
I just want to make it clear he wrote
this in 2014 not 1914 2014
we don't know what could happen if women
actually start making this is this is
basically a movement to put an in sell
on on the federal is this Jordan
Peterson right here yeah a lot of people
look at it and said what do you mean by
that well look first of all when you
look at what's happened under Donald
Trump and what's happening with wages
now in increases income
I think prosperity and economic growth
are our women's issue they benefit you
know blacks they benefit minorities this
is us as you just said this is a
sizzling economy right right now I'm
very proud to have played a role in this
I was a senior economic advisor with
Larry Kudlow to that campaign it's a
really really strong economy women have
benefited you know right there you're
the lowest unemployment rate for women
and 15 right you know the Coquille in
right in that article you're taking on
legislation designed to close the wage
gap what we are closing the wage gap I
mean the way to close the wage gap is by
creating a healthy economy right now we
have 7.1 million 7.1 million more jobs
than people that are filling them right
now that's allowing women minorities
others to increase their wages I mean
look I'm happy and proud of the fact
that I've played a small role in
creating an economy today that's
probably as good as it's been in 20
years
in terms of the labor force issues right
now George this is the best labor market
for workers in your in my lifetime I
mean look I'm not gonna apologize for
that I think it's a fantastic thing I
just want them when it comes to wages
and and you know gender equity I want
that to be decided by the market I don't
want government to intervene those kinds
of you know I yeah I mean do we have
more of this
what does Stephanopoulos do after this
like he's just sat there as more is
specifically not answering his question
and just going on and on in a desperate
attempt to ingratiate himself with
Donald Trump so he gets appointed to the
Fed I mean this is this is one of the
most naked well we'll have to leave it
there we have to have megamix
to incite ignite I bail on Omar I do
Stephanopoulos follow this up by going
like loosen I first off I want to
apologize for asking you to apologize
for all the success that you've had I
really apologize for that women have
benefited you know right there you're
the lowest unemployment rate for women
15 right you know heel in right in that
article you're taking on legislation
designed to close the wage you're going
to do freely and as good as it's been in
20 years in terms of the labor force
issues right now George this is the best
labor market for workers in your in my
lifetime I mean look I'm not gonna
apologize under equity I want that to be
decided by the market I don't want
government to intervene in those kinds
of things your fate is in the hands of
the Senate including some female
senators senators Collins
we're like what like what is going like
is he is he like contractually obligated
to not make his his his into his
subjects answer the question I mean this
is my Salman's up it's bizarre asking
for it's like a total flight like wait a
second are we supposed to believe that
he answered that question it really is
stunning I mean I I just don't
understand like surely Stephanopoulos
was aware that he's not answering the
question he's just decided like well I
did the whole thing where you ask twice
you know get the answer we just move on
he could at least register that he did
not answer the question right right just
so that my audience doesn't think
they're completely insane I'm not going
to pretend like you answered the
question you clearly don't want to
answer all of what you just said there's
no reason to believe that if you think
it will destabilize the family unit if
women make more because of legislation
then you would if they just based on the
amazing success of Donald Trump but they
don't need to address that
he did good I like him he praised me and
better than Herman Cain better than
Herman Cain he also thinks that it wants
to see kids 11 and 12 working he's a
kind of a radical on that sort of thing
I'm sure I'm sure he won't really in the
fields I think sure he was in the fields
when he was growing up wonder what that
would do for our social systems if we
reintroduced child sweatshop labor even
more stability right I don't want to
deny those kids the chance to succeed
that's right so Joe Biden is on the
trail apparently you know a Joe Biden
zillion person is talking about Donald
Trump although you know I think
certainly Bernie's McBurney's been
talking about him quite a bit I'm sure
all the other candidates but only Joe
Biden according to the news is talking
about Donald Trump I'm not sure what
that's about but here he is Joe Biden
with his slogan which I actually think
we do we determine whether or not this
was specifically the actual slogan that
George W Bush used to run against Al
Gore making United States moral again
this was restoring honor and zeal in the
White House it's an absolute repeat it's
basically the same thing here the
president has a motto make America great
again
do you have one make America moral again
make America return to the essence of
who we are the dignity of the country
the dignity and people to treating our
people with dignity and this god-awful
doublers division that's being taken to
in order to separating people to
aggrandize his own power make america
return to the essence of who we are
would be a marked - right
Biden also came out yesterday said he is
not for I mean so we so we've heard what
Joe Biden's campaign is based upon it's
to make America moral again to return it
to its essence etc etc
he also when he went when Joe Biden got
specific he said he is not for Medicare
for all it's not moral and well alright
let's I mean here's the question Joe
Biden wants to make America moral again
and he will not support the idea of
health care as a human right in this
country a public option in a marketplace
private competitors available only for
10 million Americans is not perceiving
health care as a human right a debarking
the an activist health care activist who
was really bad I mean I think maybe
people recall that at one point he was
on a flight and he has is it ALS that
has been slowly basically eating away at
his ability to speak walk etc and I
think it was only about it maybe it was
less than two years ago when he was on a
flight I think it was with Ted Cruz I
mean that's how he sort of like got on
the national scene and he recorded an
exchange I think was with Ted Cruz but I
can't remember where he was basically
saying like how can you cut the
Affordable Care Act we need to expand
health care well he was at a hearing
yesterday was it today or yesterday
today's hearing this morning
it's a medicare-for-all hearing he is
using a device which basically tracks
his eye movements I believe that allows
him to type into a computer and then it
generates a voice so let's let's hear
that testimony three years ago Rachel
and I felt like we had reached the
mountaintop
we had fulfilling careers a wonderful
community of friends and family
and a smiling chubby infant boy we could
see decades of happiness stretching out
before us the sun was shining and there
was not a cloud in sight and then out of
the clear blue sky we were struck by
lightning ALS a mysterious neurological
disease with no cure and no good
treatment a life expectancy of 3 to 4
years most of its victims are in their
50s and 60s I was 32 every month since
my diagnosis my motor neurons have died
out my muscles have disintegrated and I
have become increasingly paralyzed I am
speaking to you through this computer
because my diaphragm and tongue are
simply not up to the task
although my story is tragic it is not
unique indeed in many ways it is not so
rare Jennifer Epps Edison the president
of my organization is sitting next to me
like me
her husband was struck at a young age by
a neurological disease multiple
sclerosis 10% of Americans have a
serious disability every family is
eventually confronted with serious
illness or accidents on the day we are
born and on the day we die and on so
many days in between all of us need
medical care and yet in this country the
wealthiest in the history of human
civilization we do not have an effective
or fair or rational system for
delivering that care I will not belabor
the point because you and your
constituents are well aware of the
problems high costs bad outcomes
mind-boggling bureaucracy racial
disparities bankruptcies Geographic
inequities and obscene profiteering the
ugly truth is this health care is not
treated as a human right in the United
States of America this fact is
outrageous and it is far past time that
we change it say it aloud for the people
in the back health care is a human right
I mean there you know
it is sort of shocking to me that Joe
Biden would come out with his proposal I
think it was yesterday in the context of
this but this is you know the angle that
he is that he is writing and I don't
know and it's gonna be fascinating I
mean obviously like look I think the if
we were to do a poll of the audience of
this program I would imagine that Joe of
all the candidates and I think there's a
fairly wide disparity of support for
different candidates in our audience Joe
Biden I would imagine would be near the
bottom certainly in the bottom half I
would say of the distribution of what
people in this audience would want for
the most part obviously there's some
people who do but it's gonna be
fascinating to see how much of what Joe
Biden's actual record has been gets
disseminated to the the broad Democratic
base I mean look there was I think a
real understanding a real sense maybe
this is a slight exaggeration but in
2008 when Joe Biden was picked I think
there was a real sense that people had
it like Joe Biden's never gonna be
President he's going to be you know past
the age in which we generally elect
presidents and I think over the course
of those eight years in part because
Donald Trump won at age 70 in part
because Bernie Sanders you know ran a
vibrant campaign as you know someone
who's going to be older and people
wanted Sanders and and Warren
you know Joe Biden's in play but his
record really I would say I mean of all
the Democrats in the race I mean there's
a couple you know like I don't know ones
who may not make it through the debate
or you know Chlo Bashar but you know but
his record is not good well it from
bleah from I mean even in the context of
contemporaneous with his sort of heyday
he was in the more conservative part of
the Democratic Party and now it really
is I mean he's anachronistic and it's
gonna be interesting to see if he can
maintain this support that comes with
being Barack Obama's VP which is really
what it is it's really gonna be a
function of just how much of Joe Biden's
record is gonna be sort of more the the
awareness of his record is gonna
impermeable we'll see it's gonna be fun
to watch Bernie and Warren smack him
around though like she came out strong
on the first day that he announced cuz
she she's been dealing with him for
years because she took on the credit
card companies and he was you know Pro
credit card company that's absolutely
right and yeah Joe Biden has basically
on is out there today or yesterday I
guess in his announcement yesterday in
in in Pittsburgh calling himself a union
man four days after having a fundraiser
with one of his top sort of bundlers who
is a partner in a law firm that is an
anti-union law firm who talking when he
announced this he was talking to a bunch
of guys from the afl-cio a bunch of guys
a bunch of women I guess and they are
all dealing with massive pension cuts
that was a function of an Obama era law
that was the multi-employer pension
reform Act of 2014 and it was also a
that rolled back some of the dodd-frank
consumer protection regulations yeah cuz
sometimes you can get too much of that
it also lifted limits on campaign
contributions to national political
parties the measure allows sponsors of
pension plans who can demonstrate their
in declining or critical financial
condition to cut promise worker benefits
in order to remain solve it
members of Teamsters Local 249 who Biden
spoke to are facing up to 30 percent
reductions in their retirement benefits
so here is a Bernie on Anderson Cooper
arguing that Joe Biden's proclamations
of being a union man need to be taken
with a rather large grain of salt maybe
actually close to a Salt Lick obviously
a critical organized labor is critical
support in in a Democratic primary are
you concerned that that Biden can make
inroads there that Biden has a leg up
there well look I'm running against I
think 19 other people so I'm concerned
about everybody but I think when people
take a look at my record versus Vice
President Biden's record I helped lead
the fight against NAFTA he voted for
NAFTA I helped lead the fight against
PNTR with China he voted for it I
strongly oppose the trans-pacific
partnership he supported it I voted
against the war in Iraq he voted for it
so I think what I hope Anderson what
this campaign is about and I got to tell
you Joe Biden Joe is a friend of mine
but I think what we need to do with all
of the candidates have a issue-oriented
campaign not personal attacks but talk
about what we have done in our political
lives what we want to do as president
and how we're going to transform our
economy so that it works for all of us
and not just the one
percent I mean in many respects it's
gonna come down and this is gonna be
maybe the this will be the final chapter
of my blame the electorate book it's
gonna be a you know function of just
like how you know deep is our voters
digging into on issues that they care
for I mean obviously Joe Biden by saying
I'm a union man is going after the same
people that you know Bernie Sanders is
the question is who you know how deep
are those those voters going to look
into their accomplishments and it's you
know it's across the board I mean it's
you know um you know Pete Buddha good or
bad or or can say you know he's he's a
champion of immigrants but it's really
you got to dig a little deeper to see
like what has he actually done in terms
of protecting that trade is a really
good area to focus on because I think
that my sense not just a polling but
those trade agreements there's a very
big sense of the direct relationship
between those agreements and the harm
that people have felt particularly in
the demographic that they're both
talking to in those clips and I think
some of the issues of Biden are huge and
he should be relentlessly hit for things
like the bankruptcy bill obviously but I
think the trade agreements are very much
liked in the DNA and the lived
experience of those places and I think
that it's a great place to hit him on
hard it's also like what issues do
people actually care about because okay
in the primary I think it will be a big
liability that Biden has been on the
wrong side of things like busing
minority rights women's rights like all
of that stuff and he has not been a real
progressive in the general election um
we're gonna see them making two
different kinds of appeals to the swing
voters because there are swing voters
who voted for Trump last time around
because they are socially
conservative maybe they're racist maybe
they're sexist all of that stuff and
there are swing voters who went for
Trump's economic populism and we're
gonna find out which one of those has
more pull not but not to mention all the
people who don't normally vote which are
obviously gonna be more towards Bernie
because they skew very poor well we're
gonna see what well you know who drives
that and in the primary it's gonna be
interesting to see and and frankly you
know in terms of you know people's
motivation in terms of of policy you
know seeing Warren down where she is in
terms of the polls is not encouraging in
terms of what motivates people's votes I
think that trade has an advantage in
terms of like it it it it speaks to
something beyond just policy I think it
speaks to like a kind of broader sense
of what's happened to certain places in
terms of geography economics that's a
way that's sort of that's how Trump used
it and I think it kind of has the
opportunity to bridge those things
because obviously I mean for better for
worse most people are not gonna dig that
deeply into policy but they're gonna get
senses and sensibilities of things and
instincts and arguments and I think
trade is a good
meanwhile the to the extent that
Democrats were not it's it's sometimes
just sort of stunning where you and and
this is also I think you know a problem
not just with Democrats although I think
the relationship between Democrats and
sort of the the mainstream media is
different from Republicans in the
mainstream media and the idea of
impeachment despite the fact the the
sort of the the breadth and the depth of
the corruption that is involved in the
Trump administration has not gained any
traction until the president starts
violating process issues now this is
important because again we said this
yesterday
if you do not hold the President to
account in terms of its obligations in
the the executive branch to its
obligations to you know responding to
subpoenas from Congress then really you
have fundamentally undermined the checks
and balances of our government and right
now Trump administration is suing
different blanks to BA to block house
how subpoenas for their records and this
stuff pertains to like were there
fraudulent loans that the that that
Trump and his family members got from
banks was their money laundering was
their I mean and all of which is based
in testimony these are not fishing
expeditions right I mean these were
testimony that they got from public
testimony from his consigliere here is
Katey Porter on CNN explaining that the
Trump administration wants it both ways
it sounds like the president and his
adult children and businesses say that
you want too much you want too much
you're going back too far you're looking
into too many personal details and they
are suing to block you from being able I
will tell you this I am old enough to
remember whitewater which was a real
estate deal that took place like 15
years before the Clintons got into the
White House I think even maybe even
before that and then an investigation
that lasted like six years yeah it was
nothing culminated in a frigging
impeachment process over a lie that
their lies are told in a deposition
about what the definition of sex was not
a lot so many times in the gobby-o
technicality
how many personal details and they are
suing to block you from being able to
see that
well I support chairman waters doing her
job on the Financial Services Committee
she's asking for these documents to fill
in some of the gaps that are revealed in
the Mueller report and the president is
not a private citizen he has become a
public figure by choosing to run for
office he gets public benefits like
living in the White House and getting to
fly on Air Force One and with that comes
disclosure of things that would
otherwise be private so I think those
subpoenas are targeted and I have great
confidence in both our court system and
these financial institutions to disclose
the adoption here's what the Trump legal
team says the subpoenas issued to
Deutsche Bank in Capital One by
chairpersons Schiff and Watters are
unlawful and illegitimate they seek
information going back decades from
anyone with even a tangential connection
to the president including children
minors and spouses he was a private
citizen whose children were private
citizens then so how do you response
positive incidentally we should remind
you that at least one of his children is
a top adviser to the White House that's
my tell a child negotiated that moscow's
however for me so how do you respond
specifically to those complaints when
somebody runs for office and becomes
elected they have a duty to disclose and
answer questions the reason that we're
asking for these these documents is
because they pertain to a pattern and
practice of dealing with Deutsche Bank
and Capital One we didn't subpoena every
business dealing that the president has
ever had these subpoenas were narrowly
targeted and I respect the president's
desire to petition the courts for
redress but this is also a president who
said he should enjoy special protection
from the courts and he should enjoy
special protection from the president
for instance from being having to answer
questions in person under oath during
the Mueller report Mueller investigation
and now he wants to have it the other
way and be just a private citizen so
with public with public duties come
public responsibilities and I think
that's what we're trying to do if you
were a tasked with creating the perfect
spokesperson to go after Donald Trump on
financial issues what you would do
you would go into a laboratory and
create Katey Porter you would you would
you would create someone with an
incredible brain for this stuff why
because she's mean very well-spoken and
then make her look like she came like
she just like walked out of a house in
suburban Ohio essentially she really
does have like middle-american decency
on lock it's wrong mom energy oh my god
it's crazy it's not that I'm angry at
you Donald's I'm just a point every
discipline disappointed that her
deranged sociopath who's violating the
Constitution I don't want to have to
call for impeachment that would never be
my first choice Donald it's sort of like
oh look at you didn't eat your carrot
sticks and also your financial
disclosure forms section 503 C are not
compliant with what federal law statute
is about loans you know what is funny is
that she actually has very much the
capacity to actually effectively go
after Trump the way Clinton tried to but
she has she has that credibility well I
mean I don't think it's she's not I mean
she's not going to make any type of
moral case it's the case I was looking
the more of the like the when she would
say oh look at him he's nuts like that
sort of like I'm an adult and charge
thing that didn't work as well she does
that very well against him she's not
even dressing she's just like you know
talking about the actual the actual
specifics of what she's doing I mean
that's what she's not you know I respect
his his right to have her address in
courts that's fine I respect his adult
children yeah exactly
we all respect Donald Trump's adult
children the word is respect the large
adult show the large adult children
speaking of the small one - speaking of
kid no we actually do respect that one
speaking of Katey Porter one of the
highlights of Katey Porter is a tenure
brief tenure in Congress at this point
was her questioning of
of Jamie Dimon the CEO of Chase Morgan
JP Morgan and Chase Bank and let's check
out what Chase is uh is using its
Twitter feed for these days it is to
admonish people for not saving in their
bank give them helpful advice right and
here it is the chase tweet of the day
this is Monday's motivation coming to
you on a Tuesday you :
why is my balance so low and the bank
account speaks back to you make coffee
at home eat the food that's already in
the fridge bank account says you don't
need a cab it's only three blocks and
then you say I guess we'll never know
bank account seriously that's why
there's no money in that Bank because
you haven't cut back on things you've
learned your $3 coffee you you you let
the food go to waste do you know the
concept of the panopticon and Foucault
like of this sort of like internal gaze
of surveillance you can easily see all
the cells basically from one central
point right there is it and there's this
way in which it's like not only is that
disgusting and inappropriate and we'll
you know explain all the ways that that
Chase benefits from public largesse but
like the way it taps into like a certain
kind of like relentless self-criticism
that people already subject themselves
to which which they shouldn't in a time
of absolutely scarcity like like the
psychology of our time that the response
to record inequality and lack of
opportunity and and basic decency is
like well you shouldn't splurge on a
clue we just didn't try hard enough
that's why people are poor and now your
account has that same did a couple of
interviews in the past with
ethnographers who have gone across the
country looking at poverty in people who
lost their homes in the in the financial
crisis and one of the things that was
consistent was that they all thought it
was because of personal choices that
they made
not have the the bird's-eye view to see
like there were major policies that left
them in these type of situations now
jamie dimon you know obviously doesn't
work the the Twitter feed for Chase Bank
but you know one way that Jamie Dimon
the his Bank could have responded would
have been you know you why is my bank
account so low chase because you didn't
get three point seven billion dollars in
additional profit because of the tax
cuts that Donald Trump I mean could you
just imagine just if even if you were
just you and you got just let's say a
quarter of that less than a billion
dollars worth of benefit from Donald
Trump boy you would you could take that
cab if you in fact you can take that cab
just across the street you could give me
a three million dollar bailout I could
make do with that right and that's
nothing oh yeah you have chump change
you can that's total bullsh 1% of that
and you would be like forget it I'm
gonna buy a coffee every single day boom
even if I don't drink coffee just be
pouring it out on the street but are you
pouring that coffee yeah it's my bailout
there's also other reasons despite not
getting a 3.7 billion dollar windfall in
the Trump tax cuts and a Katey Porter
points those reasons out to Jamie Dimon
just weeks ago as they as the bank still
sort of like contends that the reason
why you don't have money is because
you're not cutting back on things enough
this woman had and I apologize you're
gonna need to follow orally she had 24
2425 dollars a month she rents a
one-bedroom apartment she and her
daughter sleep together in the same room
in Irvine California that average one
bed her apartment is gonna be $1,600
she spends $100 on utilities take away
the 1,700 and she has net 725 dollars
she's like me she ties a 2008 minivan
and has gas $400 for car expenses and
gas net 325 the Department of
Agriculture says a local
food budget that is ramen noodles a lobe
food budget is $400 that leaves her 77
dollars in the red she has a cricket
cell phone the cheapest cell phone she
can get for $40 she's in the red 117
dollars a month she is after school
child care because the bank is open
during normal business hours that's 450
a month that takes her down to negative
five hundred and sixty seven dollars per
month my question for you mr. diamond is
how should she manage this budget
shortfall while she's working full-time
at your bank I I don't know that all
your numbers are accurate that number is
a start is it generally a starter job
she is a starting employee she has a
six-year-old child this is her first job
you can get those jobs out of high
school and she may have my job one day
she made it mr. diamond she doesn't have
the ability right now to spend your 31
million dollars wholly sympathetic short
567 what would you suggest you do I I
don't know I have to think about that
would you recommend that she take out a
JPMorgan Chase credit card and run a
deficit I don't know I'd have to think
about it would you recommend that she
overdraft at your bank and be charged
overdraft fees I don't know I never
think about it so I know you have a lot
of love to call up and have a
conversation about her financial affairs
and see if we could be helpful the idea
right here nobody say you know what you
got to do stop taking so many caps they
have your coffee at home so welcome home
and he thought about it and this is what
do you came up let me first ask you you
partially iced coffee drinking a lot of
those does your kid need childcare and
chase then quickly apologizes our Monday
motivation is to get better at Monday
motivation tweets thanks for the
feedback Twitter world hmm yes there you
go let me get back to like every company
has hired like a handful of agencies for
the same like brand design and ad copy
so like can we at least get back to like
the dick cheney era of like I'm evil
 you and we have to have like chase
be sorry about that we're just gonna go
back to totally pillaging the rest of
the
I mean destroyed your life hashtag case
of the Mondays somebody may have
reminded them that they got 25 billion
dollars worth of tarp bailout money
taxpayer money I would have liked now
have a phone conversations I meant that
those of you want to call in and tell me
that they they paid that money back I'll
tell you what I'll do you give me twenty
five billion dollars I'll put it in a CD
I will pay you the money back twelve
months later how's that give me the
ability to loan it out you give me that
money at 0% interest and I promise you I
will pay you back in a year and a half
or two years and then you will never
hear from me again
I will be somewhere probably in the
coast of Mexico in my own you know bread
and bed and breakfast bed and breakfast
well I'm gonna run a little
bed-and-breakfast I'm not gonna charge
anybody
very chill I'm already in it yeah
depends there's like you were like
sneaking up to this like you sneak up to
the rooftop pool like no that's the way
it's gonna be very very inexpensive the
bed-and-breakfast with top quality stuff
but you get to listen to me why is it
why isn't anyone joining me in the
commissary yeah hi I made the
commissaries commissaries open they're
lying about the Nellie's breakfast this
morning's gonna be very exciting you
would still do anything you would just
do once a week that's I'm saying I
wouldn't have you once a week no I would
have a bed and breakfast and have like
captured audience that's right you'll
see tonight I know you're is locked
being the outside 19th century story is
better breakfast it's like that's why
light so that one way one way intercom
in all the rooms good morning good
morning
it might want a fresh day because we're
talking about the actuarial report it is
Tuesday April 30th
[Laughter]
podcasting live from you what you
thought was a dream vacation go to the
phones gone from a 603 area code who's
this where you come from
hey Sam this is James I'm from Concord
New Hampshire I've been a big fan of
yours since you played cliff n mo Lian
coma B's oh and I'm a non-binary yeah
I'm a non-binary transgender person I
used the pronoun stay in them okay
there's an LGBTQ debate scheduled for
October 10th which is National Coming
Out Day for the Democratic primary to me
none of the Democrats are championing
transgender rights I'd say I'm a Bernie
bro but I'm not a man so I'm not
anybody's bro but I saw Bernie talk in
Concord and he gave a stump speech
realists all of his ethnic minorities
gay people will all these identity
politics issues and I'm screaming there
and trans rights and trans rights like
I'm not going to get any help from Trump
cuz he's trying to legally he's trying
to like legally make me erase and which
just literally that kills trans people
didn't beat the race and so my question
to you and you know the gang who I also
like what what is a democratic
transgender voters supposed to who who
is like who's the choice because it's
like butta judge I don't give a
about Buddha judge no national
experience we all know we kind of waged
a war on his own poor and his hometown
on it like that's your one so it's like
what what do you think a trans person is
supposed to do in this Democratic
primary well all I can tell you well let
me first state by I'm surprised that he
didn't bring it up because he did bring
it up in Brooklyn at the at the rally I
went to but I I mean the the reality is
is that I think there is some measure of
of I would bet I mean I don't know of
this for sure but some measure of fear
amongst even the Democratic candidates
to bring trans rights up I mean it it it
you know Donald Trump is
I didn't want to run yeah I don't know
if he ran on it but it certainly was a
big Republican talking point right the
the bathrooms you know that they came
out of that the Department of Education
directive the Obama administration and
and you're right I mean Trump is not
going to be any help I don't I don't
know that any of the Democrats so far
have come out as a particular champion
of trans rights I don't know about I
haven't heard Buddha Buddha judge
mention it much I don't I wonder if like
III don't know I mean and let me just
say this generically because I don't
want to like I say I don't know I I
haven't heard his speech but you know
one of the advantages from a at least
from research that Obama had in terms of
race is that he didn't have to speak
about it whereas Clinton had to speak
about race a lot more and it triggered a
lot of racists in some respects more
then Obama did I mean I think once Obama
got into office Fox News and the right
did a very good job of making it as if
his presidency was all about delivering
you know goodies to to black people you
know the Obama cellphone and whatnot
so i you know i don't know i really i it
is it is i don't i think my sense and my
and my thing no my thing though is that
it's like it's that's the fundamental
problem of a democracy is that if we
don't have because one party the
Republicans they're just there's no
point in bringing it up so it's like one
party can't hold the other to account
because neither of them are really
trying to get my vote because I'm not
there's not enough of me yeah yeah I
mean I think I mean I think your
assessment is is correct
and I think that they're going to
they're going to
you know rely on the fact that you have
nowhere else to go now with that said
somebody just sent me you know a post
that Bernie Sanders did in on Facebook
in in February this is when the Trump
administration was rolling back
protections for transgender students
specifically specifically in terms of
and and Bernie came out very strongly
with that said I think you're gonna have
you're gonna have problems getting them
to actively seek your vote in the
context of a campaign because the there
they're afraid and I think you know your
assessment is correct there's you know
from their perspective there's just not
enough numbers and you know I you think
you do make a great point about how like
the fact that the fact that they can
just lose more votes by talking about it
than they would gain by talking about it
I mean I think that's their calculation
which which is not to say that when any
of these candidates get into office that
they won't be aggressively championing
trans rights and in fact I I have no
sense of all you know there's so many
candidates frankly but I'm quite
confident that you know the top five or
ten candidates would obviously be far
better than Donald Trump on trans rights
and that's an office that you're going
to see you know many of these things
reversed and further protection going
forward I mean even you know Obama who I
count as someone who was very very
reluctant to identify with rights of any
segment of the population that was
specifically a subject of discrimination
in many respects by the end of his
administration was you know was putting
out these directives and was trying to
move things forward I suspect that you
know these candidates are not going to
campaign in the way that
we would want them to in terms of trans
rights but would be more likely and you
know and that is in and I'm not I want
to make it clear that I'm not that's I'm
not being apologetic for it and I
understand that that's problematic in
and of itself because you have you know
mmm
depending on the month multiple trans
people killed because they're trans and
the fact that we don't have people who
and the people who kill themselves not
directly because either killed but
because they feel you know all those
issues right and when politicians and
just leaders in our country are silent
that's silence in and of itself adds to
creating those tragedies and so you know
but the the cold reality is I think your
assessment is correct they think that
there are more votes in most places for
them to lose than than to gain well look
to be fair though Bernie did hang the
transgender flag outside of his office
very recently on the trans day of
visibility he had a tweet about it he
said discrimination has no place in our
society I'm proud to display this flag
as a symbol of my support for the
transgender people across the country we
must stand with chant transgender people
in all of our communities and he has had
a fairly good record there's a bad
record I'm just talking about in terms
of like what you can expect on the
campaign trail so the thing I think
you're totally right but I would just
because we did I remember it very like
it was part of the speech structure in
Brooklyn so I would check out you know I
and I don't know I'm gonna check out too
but check out some maybe check out some
of his other speeches because it might
have honestly just been I mean this
sounds trivial in the context of what
they how important what we're talking
about is but sometimes there's genuinely
just like trip ups in a speech and you
miss lines and you miss things that you
usually say and points it or he stresses
different things or he stresses wins
right I mean yeah that's also possible
but I would I would check it out you got
a look at somebody's very good to see
what they're actually going to do in
office because talk is cheap but I mean
Bernie Sanders
opposed Don't Ask Don't Tell he opposed
the discriminatory bathroom laws and he
opposed Donald Trump's push to ban
transgender people from the military and
he took a number of measures when he was
mayor of Burlington in the 80s to make
it a safer place for LGBT yeah he's been
out for marriage equality and I well I
agree that bernie is really like the I
mean D candidate in these regards but to
me it's just it's what my biggest
concern is and it's not just this
election moving forward the fact that
currently at least you can't talk about
these issues therefore you can't have
the two part like the two parties can't
compete where they aren't competing for
the attention affection and votes of
trans people yeah so that's my biggest
well on that level they're not competing
for the attention and affection of
Hispanic people african-americans gay it
like yeah you know that's the bigger
thing right is that one party is
literally just the party of oligarchy
and white identity politics so that's a
bigger you know no doubt you're totally
right but I think that affects all
groups yeah of people appreciate
appreciate the call
I just wanted to say also my solidarity
to the Jewish community and I just
support all of Jewish allies appreciate
it thanks guys
thank you hello calling from a 702 area
code who's this bro flamingo what's on
your mind
the vacation was not as restful as I had
hoped
but Saul did learn to swim so I was
psyched about that you know we've seen
the beam at synagogues shooting you know
and it just becomes apparent that you
know we're never going to crack down on
these white supremacist thoughts I leave
this administration and
we have a serious problem you know and I
think at the end of the day look when
you're not like Berman like Megan McCain
and you know uh you know other
white-winged trash running around about
you know government's on both sides to
Patoka you know the equivocation the
falsifications and the presses let you
guys slide it's one of the most damaging
get talked to things we keep letting you
guys get a pass on I mean you guys
aren't I mean
people with no all right but you know
when the average Joe is sitting down and
watching making Macomb's about this
garbage it's ridiculous you know just
absolutely ridiculous also you know we
really need to have a task force you
know cracking down on these guys and I'm
talking about like for example you know
you look at the Parkland shooter we look
at the southern let's bring shooter
these guys have ties to terrorism or
I'll call them terrible so I'm saying
just for my content for these produced
hateful idiots but you know these terror
groups with white supremacists terror
cells they get propaganda online and I
want the best get these guys we have a
problem now I mean I'm a full bro
mama first you know you're super into
the role they go little Timmy you
mentally unstable at twenty but you
can't keep doing that anymore and just
you've just scratched the surface now
Sam you see these guys at all kind of
surprised everybody like the southern
spring shooter it ties to Adam often the
Parkman shooter you know saying you know
he was a young guy whatever understand
but you know she was in a Facebook group
called America great again we use for
anything about I need to kill the
n-words in the kill all I mean these
guys are coming from a common source and
I'm not every single one even guys like
elliot rodger remember the santa
barbara's UC santa barbara tutors you
know cuz he's mad cuz all the white
girls were throwing out the black guys i
mean we we as a nation assassinated a US
citizen in I think it was in Yemen who
was the ostensibly because he was
supposedly there was some type of
operational ties he had but primarily
because he was you know
American and mom I guess they called him
on well walkie and we assassinated him
and and the biggest complaint we had was
that he was radicalizing people online
and I mean so my point in raising that
is just like the level in which as a
government we will take that seriously
versus the radicalization that happens
online now obviously look you're dealing
with similar profiles you know people
who are aimless and who have perhaps you
know various emotional or mental issues
that are susceptible to these things you
know and obviously very rarely does this
occur but we have 300 billion people in
the country and so you know when you're
talking about you know particularly
young white males in this case because
that's who these people are I mean well
I agree with what you're saying but my
my main beef with the coverage of this
you know kind of thoughts and prayers
and the mental issues is that the ties
to the white supremacists are never
brought up you're saying of course
because of course we can mitigate to
other things like you know the economics
you know the failing school systems I
mean that stuff is clearly there but
nobody wants to mention that these guys
are going online of course you know yeah
that's my point
then all the other societal ills exist
and so you know the the radicalization
online is a problem and we've had
attempts in the past the DOJ is they
attempted to you know formalize the
investigations into this stuff and there
was too much pushback by the Republicans
frankly and Donald Trump is already
disassembled the team at the Department
of Justice that dealt with this stuff so
I mean yeah we're gonna get more of this
and we've got to wait until we get a
different administration and there who's
gonna take this threat seriously I I
would just like to add like I mean let
me just be a little bit flippant for a
second like I'd like to see
the the response to the problems that
emanate from groups that identify as
Muslim to start be treated in that more
you know economic and you know life
purpose sense that something like Scott
at Hren writes about so I think like I
agree with you when they say like Oh
little Timmy's disturbed whatever is a
way to minimize the connection you know
premise II but I'd like to see like
little Akbar is too sir disturbed and to
start actually treating these things in
a real systemic humane way across the
board yeah I don't want to see more
people labeled as terrorists right I
would like to see fewer people labor
labeled as terrorists and I would also
caution against leaning too heavily on
the police and the carceral state to
prosecute crimes of white supremacist
violence because the if you look at the
history of the police in the carceral
state it's deeply intertwined with white
supremacist violence and you really
can't trust them no no absolutely
Jamie's point by the way because uh um
but again really good book with Kathleen
blue you know between the fourth Smith
trials the green Beryl massacres you
know even even the Timothy McVeigh these
guys always seem to lose the courtroom
mode over some when when some white
supremacist trash is on file sometimes
even get sympathy from the jurors yes it
has to be dinner strategy to this
because clearly I'm precisely neglect
you know collect on your prosecuting
these guys anytime you get them in the
courtroom
you know even that Coast Guard I just
got let off yeah oh you know that's
insane that's ridiculous on even the
valley you know that I would put which
is that I basically think like unless
somebody is a clear and present danger
I'm not a big prison person okay so the
guy who I think this was in February I
think we're on break which is why we
didn't cover it he had a hit list and
was attempting to set off Armageddon I
mean but this guy had a stockpile he was
a Coast Guard guy he's someone who as I
say I think could potentially be an
active threat now as far as I understand
those charges so this isn't even about
retribution this is about keeping people
safe in the present moment he was let
out on bail that is unbelievable
I appreciate the comment I get I'm sorry
I get a jump I got only ten minutes left
I gotta go
but yeah points well-taken appreciate it
all right I got time for one more call
and then we're gonna take some IMS and
get going come from a 202 area code
who's this where he come from hi I'm
calling from Washington DC yeah who's
this
Pal Claxton Flaxton what's on your mind
um well actually I wanted to talk about
Sudan and what's going on there and like
how the movement that's leading the
revolution that's ongoing there starts
out in professional unions lawyers
veterinarians pharmacists and I really
had questions more for you guys about
the practice of that kind of
mobilization and just to give a little
background if you're not familiar with
the Union that is the Professionals
Association that is kind of like the
central kind of coordination group this
started out as a shadow Union because
the unions had been corrupted by the
regime and in terms of providing support
for the doctors and the whatever the
profession in the field and so the
workers started these professional
started working together in sort of
setting up things like a gamaya which is
a way for people to save money together
and things like that and out of this
over the 30 years of this current regime
they mobilized and became political into
such a degree now that they are and
pushing a very radical agenda I'm not
sure if you're familiar but they're
suggesting for the transition and we
period four years of Legislative Council
made up of 40% women I mean I would like
to see that number higher personally but
that is big and taking out all religious
discrimination out of it and no
political parties for the four-year
transition in government so and they're
getting the you know so far as
hamdulillah it's going well but so what
can we learn from that here in the
United States as far as organizing
and now see and earlier to the to the
point the corner earlier about the trans
issues and I am also very disappointed
that there is a mass Pacific policy
around it and I don't see how
medicare-for-all cannot be something
that can incorporate trans right because
in Washington DC we have an insane
murder and suicide rate for trans people
because transition is so expensive they
end up on the streets and and that's
where they get murdered and all this
stuff but like if in the UK if we cover
transitioning through our health care
system and we have such a massive
central health care system these costs
are negligible to us we would I feel I
mean I'm not an extra I know nothing but
I feel like that would alleviate a lot
of the problems that trans people have
yeah would alleviate so many ways and
and I agree with you we're talking about
the amount of money that we're talking
about is is miniscule and and it should
be you know we need to see these things
incorporated into into policy and you
know but I also I don't want to be naive
about this I think you know there
there's a lot of fear amongst these
politicians and it's and and at one
point it really has to be that from a
societal perspective we need to demand
of our politicians that like look you
know you you you have to be inclusive
you have to have a broader perspective
on this and and that requires you know
us to practice solidarity exactly salmon
also for Bernie I was very disappointed
when he went to the the Weiser women
with with a change I'm not familiar an
organization of predominantly yeah
people away the people I think arise yes
and you could lead with Medicare for all
because in the black community how you
know they suffer the worst consequences
of the lack of a medical system and
there's a built-in discrimination
against black women and black men via
treatment and you know I mean people
lead with that and not like oh hi walked
with Martin Luther and I was friends
with Jesse Jackson you know
like I don't understand he could I can
make a better argument than he's making
you know it doesn't make sense well as
appealing to minorities and and people
who are suffering you know in vulnerable
communities I mean I think III think
there's I mean I think there's some
truth to that I will also say that he is
sort of like he's he's a little bit
damned if he does damned if he doesn't
because hit that was what you just
described was his argument in 2016 was
that these these economic proposals that
I am proposing will necessarily have a
greater and targeted impact on
communities of color and communities
that have been left behind just broadly
speaking and he was considered you know
he got a rapid of not understanding that
these issues are not economic and so I
mean I think he's he's still working I
think on how to express that but I but I
get your point yeah he doesn't always do
the best job connecting the dots I think
a lot of the time people have to do it
themselves but I think he is getting
better at it on all of these things and
and specifically like he's he's been
portrayed as a bit of a class
reductionist I I think he definitely
cares about all of these issues he cares
about patriarchy cares about white
supremacy he doesn't always do the best
job connecting those things to class in
the economic realm but I do think he's
getting better
Flaxton I appreciate the phone call oh
and any chance was Sudan anything about
the Sudan especially like to thank Jamie
Michael is going to cover some of that
tonight yeah I need to great learn more
about it before I can comment in an
educated way maybe I'll watch the
Michael Burke show later appreciate the
call all right let's take some AIIMS
folks I'm sorry we were out of time for
phone calls calling from Nebraska Jamie
I finally listened to the anti Fattah
this past Friday
enjoyed it I listen to the gay luxury
space communism episode with will manic
er have to say my brain is still in
recovery mode I think you leave say the
farther I go down this progressive road
the more I realize that everything about
my country is a complete lie for my own
sanity and well-being I have to believe
that we can change otherwise what's the
point thanks mr crew for all you do read
Thomas Paine read Thomas Paine a square
welcome back mr Wow that background
music on the Reubens drop mat was a nice
touch I must admit I tuned out a bit on
the news while you were away I feel like
an endless loop of bad news and the
lawlessness of the mad baby king in his
court last week girl down interview was
great Thank You Dawson from Minneapolis
Sam say Intifada now say auntie fan tell
yeah no I said auntie Fatih this morning
Scott from Montana quick point about the
guano island act it wasn't the US
government claiming these islands it was
private US citizens who had their claims
backed by the president privatized the
empire building interesting brave o
matic
/ BBC indonesia is moving its capital
from jakarta due to traffic congestion
and climate change researchers say the
large parts of mega city could be
entirely submerged by 2050 yeah I heard
that
Chris lopaka any thoughts about Jacob
wall land his daddy getting busted for
trying to frame mayor Pete for sexual
assault yeah we got a we'll talk about
that tomorrow I got that story but yeah
it's not think he'll ever get locked up
for these type of shenanigans that was
the one thing we were saying right
before the show is like what's it take
to get sent to jail for you know like
constantly trying to do these public
smears I mean he tried to do it for the
special prosecutor for God's sakes like
or get a ticket if you can go out Muller
let's know I feel bold after going after
Muller and nothing happens you can just
keep doing this and like what where is
like what why isn't Twitter like Banias
feat like anybody associated like all
he's doing is putting out lies I don't
get it Jack Dorsey is not our friend
read the Jack Dorsey Irvine New Yorker
dude Gregory from Oklahoma I just got
fired from my part-time job at
McDonald's today in the
you didn't give me a reason why I'm
starting to think it might be because I
tweeted one too many articles about how
badly McDonald's handles sexual
harassment with their workplace honestly
I have no idea why
Gregory really sorry to hear that I hope
you find another job soon Nick from
Manitoba hey Sam great show today that's
far I wanted to make a moment to enquire
how's your tuchus I see you working hard
four to five days a week sitting in that
chair bringing down the facts and logic
hammer and I'm worried that sitting is
taking a toll on your tushy I hope
you're taking measures like exercise and
stretching to avoid getting those Oh
hemorrhoids yeah thank you I appreciate
that Nick that's very sweet uh yes of
course
I can use can you stretch away
hemorrhoids that's the way it works
USA Today opinion published by Bernie
Sanders everyone deserves to vote even
felons like Paul Manafort and Michael
Cohen amara look at Elizabeth Warren
responses to chase the awful tweet it
was great Pat MD called in yes I talked
about Bernie's appearance that she the
people but after listening more closely
and seeing Zerlina Maxwell basically lie
about it on Bill Maher I'm not worried
that worried about it anymore the
so-called woke crowd can't help but
bring out the most petty and hacky
arguments and I think your average
Democratic primary voter will see
through that pajama boy so I've donated
the Bernie Warren and unfortunately
Buddha judge I feel like there was one
episode of while back where you guys
talked nicely about him and I threw some
money in retrospect I'm mad that I did
that but I dream that you guys were kind
to him prior to finding more about it we
just said that he was better than beta
O'Rourke but my god don't give yeah no
vaguely praised yeah exactly if there's
any just if it's not Sanders giving
lotto more money yeah I've said most
I've said is he signals correctly but we
just said if you were looking for that
wow dude in their forties Buddha jag is
slightly more interesting than or Oracle
though now I like O'Rourke better bill
pilgrim Obama could have used a recess
appointment to put garland on the
Supreme Court between sessions at
Congress people were calling for him to
do it at the time there was a lot of
debate as to whether he could I mean I
know I've and I know that
day in ahead that my there was one move
that he could have used I can't remember
what it was but I will I will look back
into that wu-tang clan I just finished
my junior year as a computer science
student at WPI I took our required
course on the social implications at
computing this return which was a great
idea but it was taught by a libertarian
from Raytheon not good I spent a lot of
time on Highland Street Boyton Pizza
Sam snuffs - both Fox and CNN are
currently citing Biden's lead in a SSRS
poll that had n/a respondents between
the age of 18 to 49 yeah I heard some
weird thing about that all right three
more of these things we'll get to that
other clips tomorrow because I want to
do that that now the the one that Matt
out did about the agenda - Sean Sam
gender equality will destabilize the
family in it because then women want
every reason to stay barefoot and
pregnant in the kitchen Colleen from
Connecticut if I remember correctly it
was flake not Cruz on that flight I
think you might be right
Michael's butthole okay thought on the
Zizek Peterson debate and dunk on
Shapiro more often please didn't see
that debate I watched it I thought it
was worthwhile watching because it's
very funny how these ixora less and less
politely tells Jordan Peterson that he
doesn't know what I saw is ejected an
amazing job I thought it was
entertaining she check his some really
trash opinions about trans people and
immigrants that I've heard of expressed
but in the context of that debate I
think he got maybe some of the lobster
boys to move from the alt-right to
realizing that Peterson is a total idiot
and that you know this Marxism stuff
might be kind of cool yeah and the final
I am of the day
word up today yeah
JJ cool who needs medicare-for-all when
you can go beg wealthy people for
financial assistance much like yelp I'm
sure Dave Rubin would recommend GoFundMe
as a market solution see you tomorrow
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
take it
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
