yesterday we play the clip of Donald
Trump freaking out at Jim Acosta Donald
Trump is usually pretty good at these
things cuz he's a decent lounge comic
but yesterday clearly was having sort of
rage xiety would you call it on one hand
saying he was looking forward to work
with the Democrats and with Nancy and oh
be so great to be bipartisan but on the
other hand being like yo do not look
into my finances I mean one can imagine
two hoaxes it's a total hoax I mean
could you imagine even even if somehow
it came up that there was nothing to the
Russia story and there's something to it
I don't doubt although obviously it's
been overinflated by resistance types
but there's something to it but just the
idea that you have a team of financial
crimes investigators combing through
Donald Trump's businesses I mean the
amount of criminal activity that they're
probably running across from like you
know petty scams to connections with
like organized crime figures from
everywhere Real Estate's are very clean
just enough right real estate casinos
and Trump know crimes they're no crimes
no crimes no fake news make justice
folks fake justice fake crimes
no fake crimes no peace so he's freaking
out and things came to a head with Jim
Acosta and they've revoked Jim Acosta's
press credentials and let's watch this
they're saying it's because Jim Acosta
assaulted physically attacked a White
House intern who attempt to retrieve his
microphone from him we're gonna watch
this exchange and this this at least
from this angle this reminds me of the
infamous Maxine Waters assaulted me
incident but let's take a look are you
worried that's enough that's a resident
that says and asked one of the other
folks that said now pardon me ma'am I'm
miss Resnick that's enough this
president I had one of these
ask on on the rock okay so basically it
looks like she's uh you know she the
intern the interns actually a pretty
aggressively moving to take his mic yeah
the internet escort well and the
authoritarian the yelling orders thing
cuz I just want to point one thing just
look at the way she looks at Trump
you're like can you make him give me the
microphone it I mean it just looks very
creepy and very survived that said ask
one of the other folks that said now
pardon me ma'am that's enough this
president that is so creepy
that is so creepy and also even shows
that she even has some sense of fear
like she's just didn't she know she's
doing something wrong she know she's
doing something wrong but she also knows
that he might blow up and freak out on
her even and you know so she's put I
mean no sympathy from her but I don't
really have any I mean but she's in an
impossible situation I mean the
president united states is asking an
intern to actively suppress the press
you know what I would do I would not
consider that an impossible situation I
would consider that a meal ticket and I
would write I would say right exactly no
mr. president I will not be a brown
shirt for you and then she would get
booked on every single talk show on the
planet and probably could actually write
a pretty funny White House memoir I'm
sure even interns have endless numbers
of anecdotes about the stupidity
grotesqueness and nonsense of this
administration now we make a lot about
the racism of the Republican Party but
there are two people that if we're being
intellectually honest who are
african-american they're women in fact
and they have a strong influence on
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
that is of course the crucial political
analysts the duo known as diamond and
silk they're not only political analysts
they're also recording artists they're
there they're respected rappers and
contributors regularly on all Fox
properties and they had some thoughts
for Lou Dobbs which of course was I'm
sure getting funneled directly back to
the White House wall Donald Trump
anxiously slurped a milkshake sorry for
the disgusting image it could have been
worse well yeah it's time
acosta for his press credentials to be
removed yeah it's very sad that he don't
understand as a journalist he is
supposed to report news not make the
news and not be the news and yes he is
the enemy of the people not only that
but the enemy of the truth he's very
disrespectful very disparaging and you
know what why is he even in there he
don't even need to go to the White House
anymore and report anything because we
don't even want to hear it anymore Wow
so 13 13 minutes after that aired Acosta
was notified that his credentials in 13
minutes after the word came down from
the diamond and silk High Command Jim
Acosta spreche corn enchiladas both of
hilarious and ridiculous comedy and also
an objective authoritarian attack on the
Free Press right around the time and I
guess this was the time this was
announced Sarris Huckabee Sanders who
every single journalist right now should
be embarrassed if they defended her from
some jokes a couple of months ago show
yeah unfair justice old smoky eye
herself Sarah Huckabee Sanders tweeted
out this video of Trump Acosta and the
intern now we played you the original
video but is there something we missed
here because look obviously if Jim
Acosta hit an intern we would be the
first ones to say yeah you actually
can't do that so let's check out this
video and I is this either still the
Maxine Waters incident is this Gian
Forte or Maxine Waters well we have a
second video let's check it out it's up
on screen now and I mean it doesn't look
a whole lot different but it doesn't
look a whole lot different but it looks
like isolated the karate chop here the
isolate so what they've done is they've
slowed this down and it what they should
have done is they should have put like a
Bruce Lee sound effect over it and he
would have look okay and so to make it
look because basically what really
happened you could see is he she's
actually going after him and trying to
rip his Mike out of his hand which if
we're being you know pedantic here that
is where you know the actual assault or
whatever takes place so obviously there
was no assault or really did the
physical part of this is nothing the
part of this is the president and intern
trying to literally rip a mic out of
reporters hands because the president's
have an authoritarian to microphone
these are electronic things these analog
device this is true the microphone can
be muted so but what they've done
raphael shem univ yeah on twitter posted
this video where he overlaid the
original c-span clip with the one that
was tweeted out by sarah huckabee
sanders the press secretary of the
united states of america and turns out
that there was some clever
fast-forwarding and slow mowing very
subtle to make it look like the chop was
more ugly he was kind of hitting her
aggressively like hey get out of my face
yeah so here it is you i'll just scrub
over this and you can kind of see that
the the there's a transparent overlay so
they're red you can see the difference
between the two clips there can you guys
see that so and the real one it's just
sort of like a natural motion he's
actually pointing his finger at Trump
you have to say something and their arms
brushed together and then they
fast-forward it to look like he was
actually chopping down on her arm which
actually it's funny it's he wasn't even
doing that minorly no no that just
literally wasn't he was make maybe
reacting to the fact that like an arm
was reaching across where he was
gesturing right right and and then
immediately after in the original clip
he's like pardon me man I'm trying to
ask a question that he wasn't karate
chopping it wasn't Bruce Lee he was not
Bruce Lee an intern so where did this
sped up fake video by the way very
subtle and well done where did this
video come from that Sarah Sanders old
smoky eye herself tweeted out oh my god
SOI phobic health expert Paul Joseph
Watson the depressed beleaguered British
arm of Alex Jones's Infowars
in my shop well imagine my shop imagine
my shock imagine my shock well imagine
my shock well imagine my shock well
imagine my shock imagine my shock
well Paul Joseph Watson has spoken
multiple times for all of us this
morning imagine our shock so just to
make this very clear and put a button on
it
the president had a tantrum over a
question an intern attempted to rip a
mic out of a reporter's hand the
president continued his tantrum then a
pair of internet personalities went on
internet grifters one on fox business
and said this journalist should have his
credentials pulled 13 minutes later the
White House press secretary announced
that his credentials would be pool
pulled and tweeted out a fake video by a
doctored video by a
alt-right extremist news outlet that had
been bent by Twitter that had been bad
apartheid banned by YouTube pot and
iTunes and several other platforms so
yeah aces where we're at this is great
this is where we're at and in a couple
of minutes I'm gonna talk with Joseph
Cirincione about how this same
administration might be working to
dismantle the entire arms control
infrastructure of the globe which has
managed to keep us from essentially
limit eliminating the viability of life
on planet Earth since the beginning of
the Cold War so great stuff everybody
have a drink
