a little bit more about the border and
then we'll move on to some other stuff
here the the ProPublica piece that came
out and I'll tell you what's also
disturbing about this now
apparently the customs Border Protection
Service and I'm not exactly sure if it's
DHS or just the Inspector General for
ice or whomever it is I started an
investigation into this but man their
controls are pretty lacks you've got a
twenty thousand person force
you've got supervisors involved in this
this is twenty thousand person force
there are ninety five hundred people on
the group yeah I guess it's conceivable
there's only like a dozen actual border
agents there and the rest of them are
just sort of civilians who just happened
to stumble into the group and it's been
going on for twenty since 2016 and
nobody nobody caught wind of this I mean
I don't know how public this is if you
need to be invited to this group it was
a secret group so but I mean nine
thousand members start to lose some
secrecy there yeah one would imagine
unless you are all part of an
organization or part of like you know
going to the same picnics
you know if unless you had a little more
controls in real life now I don't know
we don't know because obviously
ProPublica didn't get access into it but
the idea that three years later the
agency is only starting investigation
only because ProPublica let them know
about it that indicates to me that there
might be a problem that in you know this
is not a group of 50 people out of a
20,000 person agency we don't know how
many of those 9500 are part of the
20,000 that are there but this is this's
has
if there's a significant portion if you
have 5% which would be a thousand people
members of your agency in this group
that is like I assume it's not a Star
Chamber situation it's just a place
where they go around and say like hey
good thing that guy died that's a real
problem so in one exchange Courtney
ProPublica group members responded with
indifference in wisecracks to the post
of a news story about a 16 year old
Guatemalan migrant who died in May while
in custody a Border Patrol station in
Texas the group is called 1015
I'm 1015 in boast nine nine ninety five
hundred members from across country ten
fifteen is Border Patrol code for aliens
in custody the group described itself in
an online introduction as a forum for
funny and serious discussion about work
with the Patrol quote remember you are
never alone in this family uh they found
some like I say they were able to
identify maybe half a dozen people there
is a screenshot from the Facebook group
that has a picture of Donald Trump
presumably forcing aoc to service him
with the text that's right the
masses have spoken and today democracy
one I've returned to everyone who knows
the the real me and had my back I say
thank you to everyone else this is what
I have to say so there's somebody who's
sounds like somebody got banned and
maybe has returned to the group I'm not
quite as yeah um you don't think that
somebody got to testify anywhere to you
I don't know it sounds like something
though right
it absolutely today democracy one made
they maybe they were I don't know
investigated for something you'll recall
according to Pro Publica and 2018
federal investigators found a raft of
disturbing and racist text messages sent
by Border Patrol agents in southern
Arizona after searching the phone of an
agent charged with running down a
Guatemalan migrant with an f-150 pickup
truck the texts which were revealed in
court filed in federal court in Tucson
Arizona described migrants as graz
wild-ass shitbags and subhuman
messages included repeated discussions
about burning the migrants up one member
in this group Facebook encouraged Border
Patrol agents to hurl a burrito at these
 speaking of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus that was headed down for
this tour that took place yesterday
another by a guy who was apparently a
patrol supervisor wrote the hoes
there should be no photo ops for these
scum buckets posted a third member there
was also a post including a photo
illustration of Ocasio Cortez engage in
oral sex at an immigrant detention
center the accompanying image reads
lucky a legal immigrant
special starring AOC all this stuff and
one saying that the floaters this one's
also the picture of the 25 year old man
and her his 23 month old daughter dead
floating in the river
hey y'all ever seen floaters this clean
I'm not trying to be an ass but I have
never seen floaters like these before
could this be another edited photo we've
all seen the Dems and liberal parties do
some pretty
SiC things so this is the whole I mean
from the grotesqueness and the misogyny
to the conspiracy theory stuff I mean
this I mean this to me like is where the
whole conversation around like fascism
actually needs to go right like this
stuff really matters I mean this is to
me this is also parallel with the case
of the black lives matter activists who
had spent time in prison in part due to
law enforcement officers following up an
Alex Jones segment yeah I mean this is
the intersection that is profoundly
threat right and you know that again
mentioned this before we went into the
fun half but as per the the guests we
had today that there may be some type of
pre-existing psychological bias that we
all have that these that many of these
people posting in this Facebook group
have but when the president ID states
basically gives you a license to
articulate this stuff you start to
articulate it when others give you more
encouragement maybe perhaps you run
somebody over with your f-150 because
you continually dehumanize these people
that's right AOC went down there she she
said consumer the CBP excuse me the
customs Border Patrol made us check our
phones but one woman slipped me this
packet to take with me it says shampoo
she told me that this is all they give
the women to wash their entire body
nothing else some woman's hair was
falling out others had gone 15 days
without taking a shower here is another
image that she put out
she writes meanwhile one refrain we've
heard is that people are overcrowded in
the custom Border Patrol concentration
camps because the shelters which are
humane places where families can stay
together are full
so we went to a shelter they said that
wasn't true at all only a hundred and
fifty or fifty-five hundred spots were
filled weird CBB line well that's the
point they are trying to make a crisis
they are using these human beings these
children to create a crisis one to
ostensibly to scare I guess people from
coming up here but I'm also not
convinced at this point the theory is
it's a twofer or a three-fer all of
which boils down to what Donald Trump
thinks he's going to run on in 2020
because he ran on it in 2016 and it's
the one thing that this administration
to the extent that they've had a
coherent policy about anything it has
been to demonize immigrants it's the one
promises kept it's the one one promise
he's kept it's the one coherent sort of
policy apparatus that they have had it
is it's the one attributable even Miller
but whatever it is this is the one that
the Laura engrams and the Tucker
Carlson's and they all and the sean
hannity they all agree on this they come
to dig and differ on whether we should
attack iran they can differ whether we
should be putting random tariffs on
different places the one thing they all
agree on is that you demonize the brown
immigrants period end of story and they
have done that and they've done it in a
myriad of different ways they
continually do it they do it for
political gain they do it for policy
gain from their perspective and that's
what's happening here is AOC on the
ground touring this facility
I was not sick from the officers do you
have any comment about what was posted
about you and the alleged Facebook group
[Applause]
so she went in there and apparently it
wasn't just the the postings of these
people but the there were guards there
who were being aggressive towards her
and but I think she's right I mean look
you know you've all heard the the saying
one bad apple does not spoil the whole
bunch well the fact the battery is one
bad apple does in fact boil spoiled the
whole bunch methylene you have a rotting
apple in a bunch of other apples that's
why you should not keep them in tight
plastic bags folks in your refrigerator
let them breathe because if you have one
Apple that has gone bad the ethylene
that is emitted from a rotting apple
will seek out other apples this bacteria
will look for healthy apples so the fact
is one bad apple does in fact spoil the
whole bunch and we have clearly
multitude of bad apples in this
organization it needs to be essentially
taken down dispersed recreated to
function in a different way with
different personnel and a different
culture here's here she is again this
one this is this is CBP on their best
behavior telling people to drink out of
the toilet what's your response to that
sir as I said earlier we don't treat
people that way we provide fresh water
we provide food we provide sanitary in
sanitary items as well as items for
bathing and personal hygiene and that's
anything that she's lying
I'm telling you what we do and we've
been open and honest we've had these
tours quite frequently and those are the
things we provide we have fresh water
available at all times in our facilities
he's definitely not saying she's lying
why would these people be lying I mean
what possibly could be gained by if you
are kept as a prisoner in one of these
outfits you know what what value could
you possibly have in line here is what
is this clip of right there
this is a clip posted by Joaquin Castro
okay so I had one of the here's Joaquin
Castro he was able maybe he smuggled in
his phone cuz my understanding is they
took their phones which is a really
weird thing to do if things are going
well in there right yes
and she doesn't
[Music]
they said every big change for medicine
so I updated medicine for a patient down
but the update message I just look
everywhere
[Music]
there's a woman here
so basically you have so basically you
have all of these women who are in this
windowless cell telling the Congress
people there I need my medication
I need a biopsy and their person walking
them around going oh actually no she's
not due for her medicine and yeah we're
gonna get that biopsy that's gonna
happen some of these women have been
held for 50 days in this cell they have
been denied showers for up to 15 days
and some of them are separated from
their children it's just disgusting
it's absolutely disgusting and I just
want to say like again I think it's
really important to keep reinforcing
this point we talk about destroying ice
which it absolutely needs to be
destroyed and all of the contractors and
everything part of this system needs to
be completely uprooted we're talking
about something that was created in 2002
as part of the Homeland Security
Department as part of you know first an
agency that set its sights as the
National Security zation focus of every
single Muslim in this country and then
has been weaponized obviously against I
mean people from Latin America but also
Haitian people Allah you know a lot of
people in this situation and getting rid
of it completely has nothing to do with
saying that there isn't a border and
there isn't passport checks or I you
know I just think it's quite important
to actually make sure to be clear and
unequivocal that that organization can
be completely destroyed
and jettisoned in a way that is
absolutely fundamentally necessary and
UMaine and actually does not have the
broader stakes and debates about like
whether or not we have a border which
a lot of people seem to want to have and
maybe that's fine we can't have it at
some point but this is urgent and needs
to happen as soon as possible and is a
new thing the ice is a modern creation
it hasn't always been this militarized
come from a
