[Music]
let's um we get into dessert now yes
we're gonna start with dessert now Matt
got into a little exchange with a man on
Twitter or a woman I don't know we don't
know you know Twitter's semi-anonymous
always I guess I don't know and replying
to Matt this individual on Twitter said
Sam cedar challenge steven crowder fans
to find the truth but you fail to
validate your claims for irrational
political vengeance I'm not sure I get
what what what was the first part of
this what this is just this is just us
wanting him demanding a debate oh I see
yeah if you have some sort of evidence
then put it on the table otherwise what
can be asserted without evidence can be
dismissed without evidence fair enough
this was in November of of 2018 and I
waited part of the reason why I waited
because I had a feeling I'd get another
piece and that happened back in May and
I've waited because I was also hoping
for another opportunity but it's not
coming so what do we start with should
we do this chronologically or do we do
do we do we go reverse chronology I may
be a reverse cremone yes I think we'll
save the more media-friendly for a
second so back in May early early May I
got an email
oh no this must have been the first one
must have come actually I think in April
from a guy named Jim and he wrote hello
Sam cedar team my name is Jim and I work
for free speech TV this is a new network
being launched on June 1st we're
wondering if Sam would accept our invite
to be on the show the show is a panel
discussion that will have a conservative
and a liberal on every show to discuss
current events and politics for around
an hour the show is called free speech
and will be hosted by Gavin McGinnis we
can pay Sam's for Sam's travel and stay
plus pay him
five thousand dollars to be on the show
you should go in a hotel in midtown bro
we have a lot of big names on both sides
of the aisle is Ellie that have agreed
to be on we're hoping Sam can to see oh
we will be filming two episodes a month
for 12 months so we can work around scam
Sam scheduled gym now I have to say when
I get an email like this I am suspicious
because one Gavin mcginnises wants me on
his TV show okay
he's going to pay me $5,000 I don't get
$5,000 for anything I don't I don't know
if all the appearances I've made on
MSNBC over the past year I will get
$5,000 into aggregate for probably not
actually so I got very suspicious on
this now whenever I get suspicious what
I do is I send it off I say I'm not
gonna answer this I'm gonna have Patrick
answer it Patrick who works
you never hear me reference him because
he works in the basement here at the
jury port we just bring him out to just
look at it so so Patrick responds and
says oh yeah Samsa you know could be
interested tell us more you might SPAC
what nights and this may 21st what
nights in June okay so we talked and
this and that and at one point he says
oh yeah here he goes okay hello Patrick
thank you for getting back to us the
show is being filmed in a professional
studio downtown Manhattan there will be
makeup because Patrick was very
concerned that I needed makeup Patrick's
throws a lot of shade at you yeah
Patrick is know Patrick was like would
Sam wants to know if there's gonna be
makeup I mean I was just curious like
what the heck is going on here and and
so there will be makeup about 30 guest
is in the audience this
we'll be shown on free speech TV but we
putting up some interesting parts of the
show on YouTube show is all about having
conservative and liberal ideals being
represented in long-form hour-long
discussion I saw Sam's interview with
Glenn Greenwald the other day that was
awesome this is kind of the same idea
the guests maybe not agree on some of
the current political topics discussed
but we do it in a fun and respectable
manner where both perspectives are
shared on any given topic
yes l-like they keep using the wrong
word for things well I don't know but I
have a feeling that Jim is not really
Jim you guys lay off Jim Jim used to
work at voice I think Jim has a drinking
problem now we want the viewers from
right to left to be able to do both
sides and not feel like they're watching
another Fox News or MSNBC echo-chamber
Gavin would be the host of the show and
the two guests will be a liberal and
conservative show we are shooting two
episodes a month for a year so we can
work around Sam schedule is there a well
there yeah boy oh boy is there a
particular conservative guests Sam would
like to be on the panel with we could
make it work steven crowder might be a
good pairing for instance and he is
willing to do the show well I have
noticed a lot of sands fans want Sam to
debate Stephen this could be perfect
forum for that we're getting a great
response blah blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah the
psychos number but but but pop-up we
could do a conference call with Gavin if
you guys wanted to now here's where I
stink like oh this is real and I'm not
gonna go do a show where Gavin gets to
pretend he's Dick Cavett I'm not gonna
go do a show where Gavin pretends that
he is like some type of just neutral
host because Gavin is clearly trying to
resuscitate his career now I would go on
with Gavin on his show if it was live or
I could record my version of it and I
would have Gavin on my show if we were
gonna debate about something and I would
do it for free the only way that I would
agree to help revive Gavin's career is
for a minimum of two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars
but I would pay my way I would get there
on my own and you wouldn't have to put
me out but that's uh that's not the
point
so then Jim writes don't go to this yet
on May 21st what nights in June will
work for Sam we ideally are gonna shoot
the city around a p.m. Friday it's it
allows us to do bah-bah-bah thank you
greatly Jim Patrick responds hi Jim
Sam says whatever night Crowder is there
works for him
P Patrick and Jim responds I've made
21st at 3:21 p.m. awesome thank you
we'll be back soon with dates then I'm
May 30th we haven't heard anything I say
to Patrick Patrick what's the deal and
he writes on May 30th hey Jim Sam Matt
just asked what's up do we have a date
yet and then I'm a xxx 11:32 a.m. thanks
for following up I'm sorry it's taking
so long
I'm working hard on it and we are in
dialogue over it with Crowder I will
know more in coming days I will get back
to you for sure thanks again I think
it'll be awesome when it happens I think
Sam is hilarious thanks Jim Patrick you
tell Jim that I said thank you but then
June 3rd comes around and Patrick I
almost said me hey Patrick writes hey
Jim any word question mark and Jim
writes back on June 3rd yep
made some progress over the weekend hope
to have an answer for you guys at the
end of the week thanks so much I just
want this as just as bad as you slash
Sam want it and then on June 9th Jim
writes we tried hard man but he just
won't do it
with Sam very disappointing is there
anyone else that Sam might want to be on
the show with just a couple ideas and
Coulter lined up on the 26th we could
offer stammering also what about Jimmy
Boyd or we've been talking to him thank
you Jim oh my god KITT where is the
Trump and so Patrick
writes back oof I'll ask him about the
others
what happened with Crowder he won't do
your show or won't do it with Sam did he
give a reason why Sam's gonna be cranky
with me
which is true I was really cranky when
Patrick told me this and and then
Patrick III didn't get a response and I
was like Patrick what's the deal and so
he writes to Jim on June 12th hey Jim
so now Sam thinks I messed up somehow on
the Crowder thing and that's why it's
not happening he didn't really react
when I mentioned to any of the other
names I can press him again though I'm
sorry Patrick
I was so cranky and wanted globish ah
risk well I thought that I said to
Patrick I said hey man did you screw
this up because I wanted to debate
Crowder and he's like no I didn't and I
said are you sure and he's like no and
so that's why he wrote Jim that way then
you threw a chair at him and then Jim
wrote back all right man I know you guys
are gonna be pissed but here it is what
we got out of Crowder Crowder said he
has 4 million YouTube followers and Sam
has 500k followers we already up to now
650,000 grown fast-fashion crota Wow and
he didn't want Sam trying to ride in on
his coattails of hard work blood sweat
and death threats just to lend his node
notoriety to Sam which would help Sam
gain some of his followers and Crowder
hates Sam for some reason so he doesn't
want to help so I believe that for I do
too now the funny part is of course like
wait a second Crowder's willing to lend
his brand out to unknown college kids
well capitalize on I happen to know for
a fact that there's never been a single
college kid that steven crowder has
debated that has even close to 4 million
YouTube followers in fact I will bet
that I have more YouTube followers than
any college student that he has ever
debated and I would also argue that he
probably anybody that he was going to go
on with on Gavin show and I don't know
has he appeared on Gavin show
why don't we look that up don't have
much more followers than I do
maybe bike I don't know 10% 30 you know
20% but not 400% anyways
Crowder was supposed to be on our show
last week so this had nothing to do with
Gavin it's just Sam unpopularity with
Stephen so it's SIPP here's the crowd I
wouldn't even go it's show up huh the
show what's that he was on what whoa
this is interesting I don't know the
causation correlation tried so hard
multiple times he tried so hard that now
Crowder is mad at Gavin for pushing so
hard for it to happen I thought if
anyone could make this happen it was
Gavin but he could not convince him
after multiple attempts to do it we were
 pissed we think it's stupid for
him not to do it and that it would go
viral I think with Crowder getting
demonetized did not help things either
I'm not gonna give up but I figured for
now it's not going anywhere I would not
be surprised in the near future if we
get him to rethink it we told him he is
just as bad of the 19 out of 20 liberals
that say no to Gavin when we ask them to
beyond hard to have a dialogue when no
one wants to talk to each other
so hard yeah
taught to have a dialogue with that
said we would still like to have Sam on
with someone maybe if Stephen sees that
episode of Sam with some other
conservative then maybe he could open up
the dialogue for a future date we have
Candice Ellen's on September 6th and
blah blah blah we could done the
conservative side we could use some help
getting eerie liberals if you have any
idea the show is about having both sides
and etc etc I'm sorry I didn't happen
we're gonna try and get Sam and Steve
and I personally love Sam and watch a
show every day it's a very thing a sweet
thing to say
Jim weird that you would need to put me
up when you know that the show is done
every day from Brooklyn and this show
tapes in New York but maybe it's true
I'm glad he does no hard feelings Jim
and then I just wrote back
excuse me Patrick wrote back because I
want to see I asked Patrick how much
money are they willing to pay before we
say we because that before we go public
with this and and then it turned out
just five grand was about as far as they
were gonna go so then we were like okay
now it's time to go public oh definitely
a new movies Sam and Gavin anonymous pen
pals so now look they hated each other
one time there's not evidence of
anything and some of you will say that
just happened once but no ladies and
gentlemen this was a pattern this
happened in the spring of 2019 but back
in the summer early fall of 2018 there
was an event that I was thinking about
attending but it was contingent upon me
being able to have a debate with someone
who I thought was influencing the
younger generation on YouTube I mean
that was basically my idea and if it's
someone who I think is a you know is is
doing that I don't care how many well
the fact that he has you know with three
or four million YouTube views or
subscribers is indicative of how many
people he's reaching and why I think
that's problematic
you know Roger stone I don't know how
many YouTube subscribers he has he's a
fairly big name but I don't think any I
don't think me frankly young people
follow Roger stone or care what he says
and so he's less relevant to me so here
is a recording that was made that
captures
a phone call that took place between
myself and a Booker recorded in New York
which is a one-party state he of altered
the voices just slightly and no names
are involved here I mean of the other
party I don't normally do this to be
honest with you in terms of recording
calls like this but there was radio
silence I was supposed to debate steven
crowder and i was very very much looking
forward to it
do you remember Brendon I was supposed
to debate him at an event that took
place in California and this year it's
taking place at a different place in the
country I think it's Tennessee and and I
was very excited about this but then all
of a sudden I didn't hear anything and
so when the person said can we get on
the phone I was like okay but that's
weird and I'm in a one-party state so
because I had anticipated that something
was going to go sideways and here is
that exchange things and things are
moving along I was literally just
building your proposed special panel oh
great
I know it's very exciting stuff so
you'll have all of that students I did
want to talk to you about the debate
today so it seems that steven crowder
has maybe gotten some cold feet okay and
feeling a little intimidated so I don't
think he's coming he's not even to come
right why is that pause it now I want
people to understand that this is just
this ladies and you know assessment
she's not she's not inside Steven
Crowder's head the fact that he got cold
feet cuz he felt a little intimidated
that's just her assessment I want to be
fair here it's just her
you know it's a great question I would
love to ask it to him myself
he's not even answering anymore
really mm-hmm well okay that's too bad
but I have two other options for you
that I think might be interesting okay
and if they're not we to the drawing
board or we're happy to do that so we
have Candace Owens coming from Turning
Point USA are you familiar with her
Kanye Kanye is a big fan sure
and the other one we have which actually
I think would be my preference I think
it could be very interesting I think
it's a very interesting dynamic is um
Dan bond G know who is Dan Bound Gina
the unfunny you know you know he he
eluded me at the beginning because I
didn't quite understand who he was he is
hot he's had insane growth on YouTube
and Facebook lied and things of that
nature he was former Secret Service and
now it's just a big CRO Trumper I'd love
to send you some info and background on
him and kind of what our idea is behind
it okay but if Candice it's neither
option is favorable I can absolutely go
back to the drawing board I have not a
single problem doing that I will I want
to make sure this is a great experience
number one for you and and something
that's interesting and toots them for
you to get into also yeah I mean I'm I'm
familiar with Candice Owens and that
might work it but send me information
about that other guy I just have never
heard of him
and yeah that's a real shame I think
you're bad you're bigger yeah I don't
know what his team is doing around him
and that's you know just for me to
speculate at this point posit want to
make sure that we understand this is
speculation I imagine it's informed
speculation also let me just say I
didn't mean any offense to
banjee no I just hadn't had never heard
of who he was I didn't know who he was
and so well you know but let's uh let's
hear the speculation it's speculation
folks just go back just a little bit
because as you can see I was really
interested in getting more information
about steven crowder it work but send me
information about that other guy I just
have never heard of him
and yeah that's a real shame I think
you're bigger yeah I don't know what his
team is doing around him and that's you
know just for me to speculate at this
point he I don't know he has a team he
has a whole team and he won't do it he
could bring the team I believe it his
father but I can't confirm or deny that
okay all right I want to make it clear
she says here this is just her inference
so she doesn't know she's no she knows
no I mean it's just it would be a weird
thing to just sort of randomly say I
think it's his parent his mom his mom
didn't want him to or his dad didn't
want us out of nowhere to come out of
nowhere to come up with that but that's
that's the inference and then and we
pull it back just a 10-15 seconds then I
mean you have to put yourself in my mind
like I this is the first I ever heard of
that and I'm like wait a second
Crowder's not a teenager right like does
his folks know he's doing this that's a
real shame I think you're bigger yeah I
don't know what his team is doing around
him and that's you know just for me to
speculate at this point he I don't know
he has a team he has a whole team and he
won't do it
he could bring the team I believe it's
his father but I can't confirm or deny
that okay
I'm not that was just my infrared I
understand well I mean he's young isn't
he he's not that young because he you
young guy he's these new 20th okay
alright well send me that what about
[Laughter]
three eight-year-old boys in a trench
coat the phone call proves it well
that's why you gotta have dad now now
look I understand Steven Steven is
Steven doesn't have the confidence
necessarily to back up his you know
change my mind but let me get let me let
me put this way steven crowder is not
capable of defending his positions with
an adult who has spent a little time
reading up about these things and is
somewhat knowledgeable about this stuff
oh he's 32 years old Wow all right well
it to be fair just maybe 31 at the time
when this conversation happened he was
probably 31 and I know that you know my
daddy made sure that I wasn't gonna get
into a situation where I would feel
embarrassed well into my late 30s so at
one point well he be with Sarah Jessica
Parker at this same at one point steven
crowder has has got a man up and
actually have a debate with people who
are aware that they're going to have a
debate that aren't going to you know in
between psych classes or you know and
run into a booth and then go sit down
with him that's you know I'd be like me
going to I don't know you know an
elementary school and saying like who's
gonna play one-on-one basketball with me
right now
so you know just did this because I know
a lot of Crowder fans out there feel and
not wait a second I don't want to laugh
about this because this is not easy for
folks a lot of people out there who
think that steven crowder is some kind
of champion of theirs and the fact is is
that if he actually felt confident about
what he espouses he would be open to
having a real exchange with people who
know what they're talking about she's
not to say that college students don't
but like I say you know I mean there's
I've seen some kids who do quite well
with with Crowder but I mean to be
walking down the you know the quad and
just seeing a booth you're not prepared
for you don't know who you're dealing
with you don't know what the topic is
but sometimes they do pretty well anyway
that's true it's true and and look
Crowder is largely most of the things
I've seen trying to argue the really in
many respects the indefensible and he
does well with some of these students
not so well with others and we're only
looking at the video that he wants to
release too so well if you want someone
more age-appropriate to debate him the
rest of the Mr Crew is available yeah
there you go
I have to check with my mom but Steven
you can come on this program you can
record it you can we'll do it live I am
willing to go on your program do it live
we can do it in another venue if you
want but you can hide behind the fact
that you have more YouTube subscribers
than I do but it really sort of breaks
down when you're willing to debate
college students who don't even have
YouTube channels if you
what when we have this debate I will not
monetize it I will not put ads on that
day I will demonetized it on YouTube you
don't want me to gain any of that if
you're worried about losing your
followers or your supporters that is
fair because if I was you I would be
worried about that in fact that's the
whole point of this the whole point of
this is to say to people who think that
steven crowder knows what he's talking
about begin to understand that if he
really knew what he was talking about he
wouldn't be afraid to defend it so
that's why we're doing this and if you
are a fan of Steven Crowder's you should
reach out to him and say hey man there's
two examples of you ducking Sam cedar in
an embarrassing way and look how many
times - two examples
you get documentary and audio evidence
of something like that right never this
is somebody who's super super nervous
about it
fragile super fragile hopefully the
algorithm will get it in front of some
of those people's eyeballs yeah we'll
see but folks feel free to go into any
of steven Crowder's it's chat rooms help
link hash tag code feat Crowder cold
feet a lot of people are saying he's
cold feet Crowder I thought it was
disgraceful and the fact that his friend
Gavin worked so hard for him pretending
to be Jim and he left him out in the
cold like that I mean I just thought it
was very cowardly and very sad maybe you
should ask his father you know the
baby's father should debate this there
is a theory about people who lift that
many weights that in some ways that they
are trying to like literally you know
wrap them like protect themselves from
something that they're really worried
about inside
and I suspect that maybe there's
something inside of Stephen that he is
having a tough time with and it can come
out in a lot of different weird ways
lots of things so many lifting some
books next time well I think until
Stephen can look at himself in the
mirror and feel proud about all the
things about him not have to worry about
maybe dad not accepting things about
Stephen like his limitations or is
perspective on things I don't know I
don't know I'm sure there's a sadness
there
