[Music]
so so bernie is from from all accounts
feeling great from what I understand
they do have like 24/7 media out in
front of his house capturing images of
his like Ford Fiesta as he pulls away
every day is it a Ford Fiesta or
whatever it is III personally think that
that something efficient it has a pretty
bumper such a dream Lee helpful swag for
people to see a presidential candidate
driving a like a subcompact Ford and an
R for what it's worth I mean his his
house it it the man lives a very he's a
good modest lifestyle people who think
he should be walking everywhere so but
here is a message that he delivered
which i think is really powerful I think
it's one of the best videos in some
level that he's put out and let's
there's two clips of it let's start the
first one is that two minutes right yeah
you know permeated my mind and I want
all of you to understand that the day is
gonna come when twenty years from now 30
years now you're gonna be talking to
your kids even positive for one second
I'm sorry go back this is when he's
talked about how in the course of his
having a heart attack he appreciated the
fact that he has health insurance and
the idea of where would you be without
health insurance as you know millions of
Americans are where would you be with
health even with health insurance the
looking at tens of thousands of dollars
of bills and so he's basically saying
this is why we need to make Medicare for
happen and for all happened and then he
has this to say about that so what
happens if somebody had no health
insurance who felt the pain in his or
her chest who felt really sick and said
to themselves do I really want to go to
the doctor or the hospital
because I don't have tens of thousand
dollars to pay for the medical bills and
I'm gonna incur how many people are in
that position how many people have died
because they don't get to the doctor the
hospital when they should and it made me
feel even more lonely the need for us to
continue our efforts to end this
dysfunctional and cruel healthcare
system which leaves so many people
uninsured underinsured causes bankruptcy
lowers credit scores for people who owe
medical debt it is an insane wasteful
bureaucratic system based on the greed
of the healthcare industry so I got to
tell you but even as I guess sat like
down in that hospital bed in Las Vegas
this issue of the struggle that we are
engaged in just you know permeated my
mind and I want all of you to understand
that the day is gonna come when twenty
years about 30 years now you're gonna be
talking to your kids even if you're
talking to your grandchildren and
looking back and say you know what I was
involved in that struggle that finally
brought health care to all Americans as
a human right that's what we're trying
to do so be proud of the efforts that
we're making understand
the enormous opposition that we're
facing from the drug companies to the
insurance companies but we are gonna win
this struggle history is on our side
all right and then and play the the
second clip - yes the most on message
person has ever lived he just called a
heart attack and he's talking about
giving health care to everyone
beautiful he's committed he's real our
job is despite all of that is to stay
focused on the real issues that impact
the American people and I know it's not
easy this this particular campaign we're
taking on everybody
we're not only taking on Trump in the
Republican establishment we're not only
taking on the Democratic establishment
not only taking on Wall Street the
insurance companies and the drug
companies fossil fuel industry
military-industrial complex prison
industrial complex
the corporate media that so often
refuses to deal with the real issues
facing this country that's what we're
taking on but at the end of the day if
you're gonna look yourself in the mirror
and you're gonna say look I go around
once I one life to live what role do I
want to play and that role goes far
deeper than just defeating Donald Trump
of course we have to do that it speaks
to the need to create the kind of
country that we can become where people
are working hard to serve each other to
understand each other that is the
country we can become we really can't
but we have to have the courage to take
on some enormously powerful special
interests I mean I mean that's spoken
like a guy who I think you know that age
you have a heart attack contemplate your
own mortality and you think like you
know what what am I going to spend the
rest of the time and you know that we I
we have on on this earth doing in terms
of you know dedicating your life to it
and I think that's pretty impressive and
you know next week we're gonna see him
at the debate who knows what else we
will see in store for us next week um I
would just Majesty add I mean I'll
always add the stop effing around this
is a totally unique opportunity to elect
Bernie Sanders part but cardi B has just
said it's a little tricky now that he's
had a heart attack because people have
been trying to paint bernie is like this
little scrawny old man which is crazy
when I met him he's actually pretty
strong and tall he's 6 1 Wow
I don't feel like because he's had a
heart attack it's a problem I have
asthma if I have an asthma attack as my
career over I don't like that there you
go comrade cardi B here
