it's a pleasure I believe to welcome
back to the program
Eric Loomis he is a associate professor
of history at the University of Rhode
Island blogs at lawyers guns and money
and author of his latest a history of
America in 10 strikes Eric welcome to
the program thanks for having me on all
right so you you you weave a story
through out of ten strikes that tell the
story of the of the US union movement
and there are two basic I think a broad
strokes about your book that it that it
shows us the first is that unions must I
guess synthesize and and engage in a
struggle against racism and sexual
equality as well and without that
engagement they are doomed to fail what
which of those strikes those 10 that you
go through exhibit that the most yeah I
mean I think that you know if you look
through American labor history that one
of the one of the things that we really
see unfortunately you know when we asked
about why do you know people often ask
on the Left why does the work in class
vote against their interests but but you
know and they mean that in terms of
voting for say Republican politicians
like Donald Trump who are not going to
help them and yet you see you know you
see large flaws of the white
working-class as well as you know white
people generally voting for Republican
candidates and and you know the reason
is is that they they are voting for
their interests they're voting for their
white interests over their class
interests and so I think that I think
that in terms of thinking about
especially you know impose 2016 what you
know what what are the issues that we
face this is one of them right that that
the working class divides itself over
race and and oftentimes when it succeeds
it does so by overcoming that I mean I
think one one great example of how it
does overcome that is in the last
chapter where I talk about justice for
janitors where the you know there's
these incredible strikes in Los Angeles
and in the early 1990s
expand across the country of janitors
where you know the Service Employees
International Union really creates a
multiracial movement that unites workers
of all races who were working as
janitors white african-american and
Latino and using these really incredible
innovative actions that force the force
to build big building companies to agree
to new janitorial contracts that vastly
improve the conditions for these workers
and I think that that's that's a
counterpoint to too often in the past
where you know you see for instance you
know the as I often that point out the
first law that the United States
Congress passes that really comes out of
the labor movement that's a major law in
American history is the Chinese
Exclusion Act which came out of the
California labor movement by white
workers who wanted to keep their keep
California white and so I think that we
see this over and over again that the
union movement is going to be successful
in this country again I think a critical
component of that is that fights for
racial justice and doesn't allow a class
to be divided by race you know it just
brings to mind we interviewed the author
I think his name was Robin Kelly of
hammer and hoe which was about
communists in Alabama in I think it was
in the 1920s and the the big roadblock
to organizing just broadly unions at
that time was was race and that's also
you write explains why we have no unions
in the south so it is more or less I
mean to the just touch on that yeah it's
still a critical issue today I mean 1946
the CIO the Congress of Industrial
Organizations which would organize the
big factories of the north they realized
that the only way they're going to be
able to survive long term is if they can
organize the South because they know
that companies will close those northern
plants and move to the south which of
course is exactly what happens but the
organizing effort fails on the issue of
race that in white communities in the
south white working-class communities
unions get associated with civil rights
they get associated with Judit with
being Jewish
they get associated with socialism and
this becomes a powerful tool that the
elite classes were able to use to make
white worker suspicious of a
organization that will potentially
attack their a beloved white supremacy
and the operation dixie organizing
attempts in the late 40s largely fail
black workers are far more interested in
organizing than white workers but in
order to try to counter this this this
fear that that unions equal civil rights
the CIO actually plays down it's it's
it's racial democracy turning off those
African American workers and still not
attracting the white workers and you
know you see it again in 2014 in that
effort to organize the Volkswagen
chatter plan in Chattanooga Tennessee
where even the Volkswagen International
actually wanted the Union to get the
German unions off their backs vote the
workers of that of that Chattanooga
plant voted down the opportunity to
organize with the United Auto Workers
after a large-scale outside campaign by
conservatives to taint the Union as
something that had ruined Detroit using
all of this racially charged imagery of
a black Detroit to say this is what was
going to happen to Chattanooga if they
voted in the Union as if the UAW was
responsible for the decline of Detroit
which is absolutely not true
but it's still very very powerful in
America today well I so was so what is
the I mean in that regard like what is
the answer there I mean yeah there's no
easy answer but the only potential way
forward is to be is for unions to be
full throated in favor of equality of
all of all of all kinds because you know
especially given the demographic reality
of the United States today and who
really makes up the working-class that
the United States african-americans as
Latinos it Asians
its native people as well as as well as
working-class whites but in large parts
of the country working-class whites are
not a majority and and I think that you
know fighting racism is a heck of a
thing I think that what you have to do
is you know there's no evidence that
trying to create a white working-class
strategy by playing down civil rights is
going to be successful
there's plenty of evidence that it's not
going to be successful and I think what
you have to do as a labor movement is
give will give white workers reasons to
you know to counter that identity that
they have in favor of white supremacy
it's not going to attract all of them I
mean you're not going to get the entire
white working class to suddenly you know
come over and support racial democracy
but you only need a relatively small
number of them to make that switch to
have a huge political change in America
as well as to organize a lot of
factories and a lot of a lot of other
workplaces and so anybody who's saying
there's an easy answer to this is it's
full of it because there's not but
there's really no other choice other
than to fight for racial democracy
because racial democracy and workplace
democracy are really in many ways the
same thing in a nation that is moving
away from being majority white right and
I get I mean I guess you know obviously
racism's fairly durable it seems to have
lasted quite a while but I guess the the
bottom line is you you you simply you
can't run from those issues because you
it's just it's a fool's errand is is is
basically the that's that's the starting
point yes exactly I mean it just
wouldn't work I mean fundamentally it
wouldn't work you turn off the reality
of who the working class actually is in
the United States today which is
primarily people of color well not
actually attracting too many members of
the white working-class if they already
believe that Union equals racial
democracy and they are never going to
support that then you're not going to
really appeal to them but I think that
if unions do work hard and we as
everyday citizens demand widespread
economic justice in this nation as well
as widespread racial justice that you
are going to you are going to have a
good potential of creating a movement
that is going to attract some of these
people I mean we have to remember there
were many you know white working-class
people who voted for Donald Trump but
then we'll also voted for Barack Obama
you know they're not lost to to us
forever
and I think that they're you know this
is part of a broader I think discussion
about what kind of agenda can the Left
create that provides enough incentive
for white people to you know to turn
away from racism in
to realize that you know maybe they are
you know maybe they do believe in white
supremacy on some form or another but
they also believe in a bigger paycheck
and they actually believe that these
institutions whether it's unions or the
Democratic Party or whatever are going
to actually provide that for them
