we should get to this we missed it
yesterday people are talking about this
did some research found out that it's
real it's not a fake ad it's not a party
it's not the yes-man we're playing it
because it's nice to have a laugh and
and and look here's the thing if there's
somebody out there who wants to invest
in a possible business where we would
try and target the audience that buys
this thing I think we should really
think about it I mean it would be pretty
easy to do I think now you have to
explain to me why this is so queuing on
a grounded of the storm right okay now
here it is it starts off with the words
I am the storm the storm is coming
and it's sort of a non sequitur with the
rest of the thing but but if you know
the language it speaks to you it speaks
to you if you are the storm that means
that you are part of the coming
quasi-religious semi apocalyptic event
that will be brought about when all is
revealed when it turns out muller has
actually been working on behalf of
Donald Trump
Marla go gate and will indict finally
Hillary Clinton for the server or
something like that or Vince Foster I'm
not quite up on it but here is the ad
all of this sounds very foreboding but
it ends up being super cuddly storm is
coming you cannot defeat the storm
I am the storm the great American
grizzly introducing the original Trumpy
bear just find the secret zipper and
pull out the American flag themed
blanket then wrap yourself in the red
white and blue for comfort and warmth
it's just horrible stop and think about
this how insane it already
yes you have your a storm it's
represented by a bear we've moved from a
ferocious bear to a cuddly bear
with a disgusting toupee on it but
that's not all the bear is not just a
something you cuddle with it also is a
receptacle for an American flag bedsheet
that you then pop into and cuddle with
the bear I mean just tell me what's the
problem is how high are we right it is
possible that this is a joke reverse it
just go back a little bit I just wanted
to just sort of ground everybody where
we are and if you and if you can't see
what we're talking about it is as insane
as it sounds and bull out the American
flag themed blanket then wrap yourself
in the red white and blue for comfort
and warmth show your patriotism and
proudly displayed from beyond any
American holiday god Bless America and
God bless Trumpy beer Trumpy bear loves
to cruise with his brother I'm a former
Marine and I'm proud to have Trumpy Bear
ride by my side when I ride with Trumpy
Bear he makes my golf game great again
Thank You Trumpy back simply style his
trademark hair and place it in his
favorite chair even the toughest guys
will love Trumpy bear ordered the super
plush Trumpy bear for only two payments
of 1995 and receive a special
certificate of authenticity order now to
order your Trumpy bear call one eight
hundred five zero three eight one zero
six that's one eight hundred five zero
three eight one zero six or you can go
online at the Trumpy bear comm order net
there you go and you get the certificate
of authenticity in that cuz that's what
you're paying for that's right because
you won't want to get a knockoff version
of that obviously I'm gonna sell
knockoff versions of Trumpy bear and
then donate the money to like RO Java or
something I just saw someone sent a
screen shot though a certificate knocked
off what it's not from that ad but it's
from the same product so
there might be an outside chance that
this is a joke real I don't know who's
coming well it's a grift at least it's
not only a grift but if you look at this
still look at the name of that guy
corporal Frank war holic yeah I don't
think that's a real name
oh it's a different one it's a different
I think what it clearly is is they found
a bunch of teddy bears with that
compartment and then they just found a
bunch of those fake toupees and so Daman
and now we can sell a bunch of bears but
all occur IFFT
but you already saw it on a far on fox
news it was on fox news advertising
that's that is the kind of joke that's
always having a laugh it's like a john
benjamin joke well do you think you can
actually go do that i got it yeah isn't
that is i just spent like just joke that
no one was funded joke that's I'm saying
that is like a classic John Benjamin
joke I mean you could do it as a joke
but if I mean you can can you get one of
these things I guess is the question I
have no clue if you can then it's not a
joke you really should we order it and
then do something horrible to it on
camera probably not if it's a teddy bear
no I'll do it that makes that makes me
sad I want to do something in Prospect
Park yeah yeah oh you mean like a little
I don't like some Prospect Park activity
like we're gonna like like centering
like some stance it's not a thing I will
do it if it is part of a Santorini thing
for to getting to 5,000 patrons I will
do it I will do an Isis style beheading
video if there's bear how about that
stop trying to get on Kathy Griffin's
Lane
