[Music]
um so back on the Donald Trump has gone
bat-crap crazy over the past 24 us now I
can come up with a I mean look there's
there's two answers to all of this right
he's completely crazy
cuz I can understand why he's attacking
Ilhan Omar and receded to live because
bigotry against people of color bigotry
against women bigotry against Muslims
that is an actual currency within the
Republican Party that it's not to say
that that doesn't exist outside the
Republican Party but within the context
of the Republican Party it is the
primary motivating factor upon which
Republicans vote that's just simply
that's just undeniable the statistics
are there it used to be including uh
homophobia up until you know 2004 was
the last major presidential election
where a hatred of gay people and a
disdain for the idea that there could be
marriage equality drove people but now
the Republicans are just relying on on
race and on anti-muslim bigotry and
transphobia is in play as well
transphobia is in play that's true it
doesn't you know Donald Trump is not
he's just actually he doesn't use him he
doesn't get rhetorical as much about it
as as probably would satisfy them but
he's certainly done plenty to to hurt
their protections and you know in terms
of the military and whatnot but yes I
would say transphobia those four things
cover easily eighty percent of the
Republican voter you know voting base in
terms of like you want to motivate them
out I mean I think that's
I I think there's you know it's not hard
to find the statistics on that abortion
would be in there two abortions in there
as well
rich people yeah I think that's true but
I think that I think that those that
doesn't necessarily motivate them to
vote in the same way I mean if you look
at times where there has been depressed
Republican turnout the thing that really
motivates them and so I understand why
is tacking to Lib and Omar I think I can
come up with a plausible explanation as
to why he would say this about Jews
because he wants to make it about Israel
and he wants to motivate evangelicals
that may be wrong and may be just crazy
and he takes her voting personally to
write but this in a million years I
could never understand as you know I
don't even know if we covered it because
it was so silly Donald Trump supposedly
was asking his advisers about buying
Greenland we covered in the context of
Kudlow right okay but it was like it was
just like a side story like it Oh Donald
Trump tweeted out this last night
Denmark is a very special country with
incredible people but based on Prime
Minister met day Ferguson's comments
that she would have no interest in
discussing the purchase of Greenland I
will be postponing our meeting scheduled
in two weeks for another time the Prime
Minister was able to save a great deal
of expense and effort for both for both
the United States and Denmark by being
so direct I thank her for that and look
forward to rescheduling some time in the
future he is trying to punish the prime
minister of Denmark for deigning to take
his desire to buy Greenland seriously
and then saying yeah not for sale that's
how you make a deal i I guess he thinks
there is a constituency in the United
States
that is saying like the Greenlanders
wanna see him tough would the prime
minister of Denmark I mean I this is
just bat-crap crazy
unless he's just like didn't want to go
or something or who's having a bad hair
week or something like that I'm not sure
I'm not being facetious this is it's
almost inexplicable I feel I read it as
he just doesn't want to go and is
looking for an excuse that that's what
it could be Celes French Antigua here's
now Danish Prime Minister if you want to
see her response yeah here's her
response to this now isn't she like
anti-immigrant a little bit yeah I think
she's dreamlike oh yeah and so you would
think natural allies but I want
Greenland it is with regret and surprise
that I received the news that President
Trump has cancelled his state visit to
Denmark err on the second and third the
September I had been looking forward to
the visit our preparations were well
underway it was an opportunity I think
to celebrate
Denmark's close relationship to to us
and who remains one of Denmark's closest
allies I was looking forward to having a
dialogue on the many shared interests
the mikesh has with the u.s. furthermore
the developments in the Arctic region
called for further cooperation between
the u.s. and Greenland Faroe Islands and
Denmark and therefore I would like to
underline our invitation for stronger
cooperation on Arctic FS still stands
what a bad accent I was just gonna say
you know if there's no honor among fish
cystic bigots that's the problem you
know it's just that's the thing is that
there used to be a time back in the old
days where you would stick together you
wouldn't do this over a piece of land
you would never do that over a piece of
land just
you're surprised
