Tucker Carlson how should we I guess
I'll do this in the road that you gave
me starts the night this is last night
by talking about by going into
dog-whistle territory and this is
actually exactly what you just talked
about Matt the header here is the left's
obsession with race actually I could
even think of few people on the left
outside of people who are literally area
specialists who talk about race nearly
as much as Tucker Carlson talks about
race he has race on the brain
Burke's former Bush campaign strategist
an ABC News political analyst Matthew
dad went further than that he published
an op-ed demanding that quote white male
Christians vacate their positions of
power for other people he's not doing
that himself but he did not notably
advocate for genocide a Georgetown
professor called Christine fair did do
that she recently tweeted this quote
look at this chorus of entitled white
men justifying a serial rapists
irrigated entitlement all of them
deserve miserable deaths while feminists
laugh as they take their last gasps
bonus we castrate their corpses and feed
them to swine yes
Georgetown has issued a statement
defending fair of course they have so
basically what Tucker is done is
truncated a Matthew Dowd piece who I
don't know what I mean Matthew Dowd has
been since 2004 trying to get the stench
of working on george w bush's reelection
and helping propagandize the invasion of
iraq off of him and he likes to do these
public displays of conscience so he
wrote some type of reflection on
increasing the range of who has power
and access in the society which should
be the goal of everybody and of course
he's talking about it from the
perspective of equalizing and leveling
up not leveling down
Tucker didn't deal with any of those
arguments and then was hysterical enough
to actually connect that with the word
apartheid coming off at the heels of
spreading the Nazi inspired white
genocide lie about South Africa a couple
weeks ago and then he took some college
professors
I don't know lame twitter humor and
there's a segment there's a spasm of
anxiety for the coming mass murder of
straight right male Christians and this
is a leading intellectual light of the
Trump era this is exactly how it starts
that's what it works it's an inclination
of miss Reid a conspiracy theory any
comical overreaction actually in exactly
the same type of like hysterical
snowflake variety that these people were
always banging on about I mean I thought
the tweet was you know kind of dumb and
pointless you know she tried she tried
to do but I'm glad you cares nothing
funny I'm glad Georgetown stood by her
yeah is that well I'm glad that
Georgetown didn't get a professor in
trouble because a snowflake objected to
a failed attempt at humor yeah I
maintain my pro3 speech in humorous
stance in the face of Tucker Carlson's
uptight control freak wary as always
whether the joke you find tasteless or
whether it fails or not I maintain the
right for the attempt for everyone
unlike snowflake anti-free speech
control freaks like Tucker Carlson who
elevate their emotional fragility over
comedy and open society
yes gusting everything they say is
projection and like I don't think I need
to explain this for any of our listeners
but like nobody's saying that white men
are inherently evil
well maybe Nation of Islam Obama but
you're all are nobody nobody's saying
that I think though you think they're
woman Jakub czar exempt please
well we're we're saying that when one
specific group of people gets treated
better than everybody else for a really
long time again
to do whatever they want and never has
any consequences for their actions yeah
they're corrupted by that power just
like any group of people could be so we
just want to treat everybody the same
so in a way in a way it's genocide well
I mean and that's the other thing people
forget when people say white genocide is
because we don't accept that white is a
race it's a construct that's been used
to unfairly distribute resources right
oh yeah that guy Tucker Carlson got so
confused when that professor was like
races in genetic either he was like what
shape it's like yeah and then he said
well I'm pretty sure you couldn't change
your race in your DNA yeah but you could
change how you classify those change hey
biological information let's literally
how race has always been classified now
chucker carlson is on the couch with the
dummies at Fox & Friends and he's going
to talk about how Republicans are not
defending their own and again I would
really watch this not only to see him as
sort of the master propagandist of our
time but this is gonna be this is Trump
from 2018 to 2020 if you want a preview
of how this guy is gonna run as reelect
and how this guy is gonna preside over
things look it and listen to everything
that tucker carlson is putting forward
here know what they're not doing and
this is what troubles me and this is
what my book is about they're not
protecting their own voters Democrats
wake up and they're like we're
representing people who voted for us
because they want something specific in
this in their case power Republicans are
representing people who are reviled by
almost everyone who actually has power
they're hated the middle class is hated
and they're not standing up for and
defending okay just yeah go ahead well
the middle class is hated that's not the
class we're talking about that's not the
class we're talking about at all but is
it still go on keep going
or hate it the middle class is hated and
they're not standing up for and
defending their own people
what is that and Bible by the way I'm
talking about a socio-economic class and
I'm talking about an ethnic group or
immigrants versus non immigrants any of
that identity politics garbage I'm
talking about people in the center of
our economy
and those people are hated by everyone
in Hollywood and everyone in finance and
the Republicans should be their
protectors and they're not he just went
to cultural identity politics to
identify what he's talking about
nobody just hates the middle class per
se in Hollywood or finance they are
systemically exploited in the economy
along every along the scale of everybody
who is an ultra affluent because of how
we practice capitalism in this country
and of course the Republicans don't look
out for the middle class because they
support a whole range of policies that
are damaging to the middle class from
corporate trade to upward and tax
redistribution to the oligarchy so what
he's doing there is he's trying to make
it say make it sound like look I'm
actually making an economic populist
argument about what Republicans should
do for their voters and this isn't about
identity it's not about people's skin
color it's about an earning capacity but
then he flips to they have contempt for
those people those people in Hollywood
hate them which of course he obviously
is going back to the classic like Oh
people in Hollywood hate people who
drink domestic beer or whatever which is
really what this is all about the only
thing he wants to talk about because
besides occasionally attacking Jeff
Bezos which also scores some points with
Trump because of Trump's personal hatred
and resentment of Bezos Tucker Carlson
has never come out with any full robust
plant none of them have Steve Bannon
makes a whole point of spinning and
being like are opposed top and tax rate
cuts in the GOP tax bill but the tax
bill still mostly worked for the
working-class and middle-class people
even though it of course was the sort of
next wave of just awe-inspiring
structural inequality injected into the
economy none of these guys some of their
counterparts in Europe actually do have
a xenophobic and bigoted but one but
within their ethno state economically
populist plan none of these people do
and tucker carlson can frame it all day
but watch the way he sneaks there
secondly democrats will look out for who
elects them what planet
has he been on for decades when the
Democratic Party has gobbled up money
from Wall Street and Silicon Valley
and done everything to undermine labor
not deal with inequality and presided
over recovery where a vast majority of
the money that was generated went to
less than 1% of the population while
they attempted desperately to make deals
with Republicans including back in 2011
on cutting Medicare and Social Security
it's a fantasy it's a historical
nonsense this goes back to the beginning
of fascism right like I know it's
hyperbolic to say that things are
fascist but this is an essential
characteristic substituting in a
cultural populism for an economic
populism and channeling the populist
energy that might be going to the left
in that way
I just want to dwell on combining it so
combining it with obviously economic
reactionary politics I just want to
repeat his is sort of he realizes he
goes into full-on not even dog-whistle
and then denies it here I just want to
go over this one more time
Tainted and they're not standing up for
and defending their own people by the
way I'm talking about a socio-economic
class and I'm talking about an ethnic
group or immigrants versus non immigrant
you that's exactly what I'm talking
about
Tucker talks about immigrants and
non-immigrants every goddamn show he
does right that's all he talks about the
guy even has done anti gypsy comment
commentary for Christ's sake he's on the
gypsy beat he's on the gypsy beat and
now the sudden that's race what he's
talking about fascist stab Steve Bannon
does the same yeah but he doesn't
like immigration because of litter
remember right uh this is another
example this is just the kind of this is
just kill me be in the wild-card kill me
being the wild-card Carson being
crotchety and just shows you how touchy
they all are all that matters is that
the average person in the country feels
like he's vested in the system or she or
I just using the grammatically correct
pronunciation but yeah I mean of course
he's a standard but the point is he or
she feels like my life is getting better
my effort is paying off and my kids have
a shot at a better life than I do the
average 22 year old knows he or she is
not gonna make what his or her parents
made like that's it that's a disaster
you have to fix that not to be pedantic
but he did use the correct pronunciation
I think he was looking for the term
usage right indeed owned in
idiot Tucker
