lastly crossed the Atlantic ladies and
gentlemen Jeremy Corbyn who has now
signed on to a quick election snap it is
let's do this
it's Labor decision time ladies and
gentlemen this is this is sort of like
sudden-death right I mean this is like a
several week election cycle I mean they
don't they don't mess around like we do
rip the band-aid off and here's Jeremy
Corbyn basically laying out a laundry
list of Boris Johnson's
list of or I should say yeah list of
lies mr. speaker this is a prime
minister who cannot be trusted
[Applause]
having
having illegally having illegally
prorogued Parliament for five weeks for
his Queen speech he now abandons that
Queen speech he got his deals through a
second reading then abandoned it he he
promised us a budget on the six of
November and then he abandoned that too
he said that he would never ask for an
extension and he said he'd rather die in
a ditch another broken promise Minister
makes he abandons he said he said he
would take us out of the European Union
by the 31st order let's have some
measure of decorum in the debate the
leader of the Opposition mr. speaker he
said he would take us out of the
European Union by the 31st of October
do-or-die Pete no he spent 100 million
pounds mr. speaker 100 million pounds on
an advertising campaign to leave on the
31st of October but fail to deliver
there you go so the election they said
an election date I have no idea how they
do these things it has to do with how
many buttons the opposition leader is
wearing on his coat on a Thursday these
are the Prime Minister's meeting with
the Queen after you know debating on the
previous they're debating it now Iona
will be set for the baby show that
semeth when the last snap election
happened I chose that as the topic of my
presentation for my Spanish class yeah
which was like probably a little
ambitious because it's I can barely
understand it in English well I I don't
understand any of it it doesn't make any
sense to me I I was just having a
conversation with someone who was
English and and was like I don't
understand
is going on there and they go yeah well
it's there's a couple of things there's
I mean yes no it's weird
all right one more phone call then we're
getting
