[Music]
you know there's a theme coming up I
I've been I've been digging into Civil
War lately and and I am calling this
John Brown I am I am I'm quite convinced
that you know more and more that maybe
the Union Army shouldn't have been so
hesitant at the end this not enough salt
we keep me looking generation if you
listen you know if you if you go back
and you and you I'm listening to a yell
professors basically his year-long
lecture on on the Civil War and he did
this back in two thousand six and seven
which makes it even that much more
poignant because the way they describe
the Confederacy in terms of before they
were actually the Confederacy when
they're talking about slavery and the
way they get like all defensive like
like we're the victims here and this is
about freedom our free ability to
maintain slaves against these sort of
like oh you're so great North it sounds
exactly like conservatives you look bad
and here's the thing lowdown on back in
two thousand four and five Andrew
Sullivan would we talk about how George
Bush is not conservative that what's
going on is not conservatism yeah you
know it's not in the Burkean tradition
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah and at the time
at the time I remember saying like this
guy is the conservatism he's talking
about is like it's like Latin it exists
people people talk people use it in the
Academy or perhaps in chapels
but it doesn't exist in the real world
anymore it is it is a dead ideology they
use the name it still exists but it's
not you know whatever conservatism was
it's not that what it is in the context
of of today is largely a little bit of
greed or a significant amount of greed I
don't know if you were to tell you like
actually measured in terms of like being
held by people but it's a certain amount
of greed but it's also just ultimately
race resentment on some level and
there's uh you know something in the
water down there
um call me Hebrew John Brown anything
I'll go I want to recommend though it's
it's not an amazing movie but I'm
fascinated by the history the free state
of Jones which is a Matthew McConaughey
movie but it's it's real oh that I think
yeah is fascinating it was about um
basically a soldier for the Confederacy
who essentially is like you know the the
class dimension of it like I don't own
any land even to begin with I don't want
to be cannon fodder for landowners here
and basically they created a small they
called it the free state of Jones it was
escaped slaves and Confederate soldiers
that left the army and essentially just
wanted to write like farming
cooperatives it was temporarily I think
protected when there was a northern
occupation and then after that you know
a lot of the folks were murdered and so
on but it there's this other history to
it which is fascinating one quick note
on the study that came out earlier elite
resiliency bolstered southern
aristocracy after the Civil War
basically said they all recovered
financially by 1880 right right but the
reason why I raise this is because for
some reason this talking point is now
going around on the right that if there
is a move
to Reeb an assault rifles like the ar-15
and you'll recall they were they were
banned from what 98 I think it was until
2004 94 to 2004 in the wake of Ronald
Reagan I think being shot no one had
assault rifles but then the ban ended
and they got pushed out the door now one
of the most popular things in rock is
you pop pop pop pop pop pop pop and you
can you can not not only can you shoot
that deer you can just keep shooting him
and shoot him and shooting him until his
face is totally blown off you cook him
with bullets yep and you can like Ted
Cruz you can fry a piece of bacon on the
end so here is well who should we go
with first let's go with Tucker Carlson
this guy's still around who was his
guest Michael Tracy no I don't think so
here he is
bateau obviously better o'rourke dealing
with now multiple mass shootings murders
in his state one that was specifically
from his hometown has a heightened
sensitivity to guns and here's Tucker
Carlson who is really concerned about
his ability to shoot deer I guess we'll
have to sell them to the government they
will have to sell them to the government
now you will hear propagandists and you
often do hear propagandists describe
that as a gun buyback but that's
nonsense of course Americans didn't buy
their guns from the government in the
first place they're not buying them back
this is gun confiscation it's nothing
but that it's an attempt to eliminate a
constitutional right that a ruling class
finds inconvenient it won't reduce gun
violence in fact sending armed
authorities door-to-door to seize
people's lawfully owned weapons is
itself a surefire recipe for causing
violence so if you care to
America and the people who live here you
would not suggest that actually you
could suggest at the very least a
voluntary gun buyback and then one that
is uh does not involve you going
door-to-door to grab people's guns but
rather you say you have a certain amount
of time to bring your gun in or if we
see you with it in public or if you see
we're going to confiscate it but here's
the point and first of all I know all
these elites out there there's no elites
at the top of these these uh gun
manufacturing those guys are just salt
of the earth yeah Wayne LaPierre is a
spending habits in the NRA we are told
we are told that you don't want to take
guns away from law-abiding citizens
right these are good people these are
not the people you want to take guns
from but yet we're also told in the same
breath that if the authorities pass a
law that says you've got to give up your
gun that what they're going to shoot
them now these good people well are they
good law-abiding citizens or not if
they're law-abiding they're gonna give
their guns up if that's the law abiding
then they're criminals and I thought the
whole point was the only law-abiding
people should have guns well if the law
is passed that there's a gun buyback
then guess what you're not law-abiding
if you don't if you don't sell your gun
to the government
