[Music]
since we're talking about hearings this
was pretty impressive from yesterday
Katie Porter I think this was yesterday
Katie Porter at that on the House
Financial Services Committee you'll
recall Katie Porter from California she
was I think the first Democrat to
represent this this this this district
in Ages in California a disciple I guess
if you you I think you could say of
Elizabeth Warren's she was one of the
bright stars in dealing with mortgage
fraud in California
she studied under Elizabeth Warren at
Harvard in law school I think she was a
law professor herself she was at the
House Financial Services Committee
yesterday and the CEO of Equifax
you'll recall that Equifax had a major
data breach I guess about a year year
and a half ago I've been through this
because I try and rent and I you know I
froze my credit and you have to unfreeze
it you thought about but here she is in
basically she's not just basically
holding the CEO to account I think she
has had a material impact on an ongoing
court case it seems to me but here is
that exchange my question for you is
whether you would be willing to share
today your Social Security your
birthdate and your address at this
public hearing I would be a bit
uncomfortable doing that congresswoman
if you'd so oblige me I'd prefer not to
well that's sensitive information
I think it's sensitive information that
I like to protect and I think consumers
should protect there's some information
were provided at this public hearing
what what are you concerned about could
happen I think like every American
congressman congresswoman my apologies
congresswoman
you know I'd be concerned about identity
theft I'm actually a victim of identity
theft it happened three times in the
last ten years to me twice with my tax
returns and once you know as a consumer
of someone opening up fraudulent credit
accounts in my name somehow they got my
social security number my date of birth
and my address and then changed the
address and open up the account so I
think like all Americans were concerned
about that okay so my question then is
if you agree that exposing this kind of
information information like that that
you have in your credit reports creates
harm
therefore you are willing to share it
why are your lawyers arguing in federal
court that there was no injury and no
harm created by your data breach
congresswoman it's really hard for me to
comment on what our lawyers are doing
excuse me but you do employ those
lawyers and you you they do operate at
your direction they're your counsel and
they are making these arguments in court
arguing on the record I have the
pleadings here from the court case they
are arguing on the record that there was
no that this case should be dismissed
because there is no injury and no harm
created by the disclosure of people's
personal credit information yet I
understand you as I would to believe
that that information that the exposure
of that information I asked you if you
would give it to the committee and you
understandably said no would in fact
create a harm so I guess I would ask you
to please look carefully at what your
lawyers are doing yeah there you go so
this is an ongoing court excellence
where you basically have some tort
lawyers who are taking Equifax to court
and suing them because of this data
breach and they're one of the things the
court the lawyers are arguing is there's
no harm and they I would imagine that's
going to be submitted I don't think so I
would imagine that's a very tough to
maintain if you're
own CEO disagrees
