so Heather this week we have a lot to
talk about
of course the the UN is having a massive
meeting or had I should say this week
about that was focused largely on
climate change highlighted by a protest
that took place at the beginning of the
week that were inspired by Greta
Thornburg the sixteen-year-old girl from
Sweden and who basically took a boat
across the Atlantic to to draw attention
to the inaction by the world leaders on
a catastrophe that we are all facing as
a species in many respects the the UAW
strike continues it is now in you know
almost a week old at this point a little
more and 48-thousand auto workers on
strike
it's a massive strike we may be seeing
one from the Chicago Teachers shortly as
well obviously we've got some polling in
the 2020 race things seem to be on the
move there as people start to tune in to
the Democratic primary but the big news
of course this week is that the dynamic
has turned on the question of
impeachment and I think by any major
measure we have now crossed the Rubicon
Nancy Pelosi came out earlier in the
week announced formal impeachment
inquiry proceedings beginning we're
still looking at maybe some of the what
the structure is going to be but this is
this is really a a new era for the trump
presidency isn't it yeah I think so and
you know frankly it's overdue I think
that the new era I think a lot of us
thought that new era began in January
when the Democrats took over the house
and that it wouldn't take you know it
wouldn't take much for it s to have
gotten here at least when the Muller
report was released last spring so the
fact that it's taken taken while you
know is unfortunate but nonetheless we
are here and it appears from what you
can see sent just since Monday is a
number of Democrats that were in favor
of impeachment investigation an official
impeachment investigation went from a
hundred and thirty four to at last count
as far as I know was you know well over
two hundred perhaps over two hundred and
ten with some of the holdouts by the way
being left-wing Russians a left-wing but
being you know people you clearly are
going to vote for impeachment they're
doing it for strategic reasons to have
some votes to spare their if you know if
and when it gets to the point where
they're voting on impeachment these
people can come in and do be the last
holdout so that some of the the swing
voters are the ones that are in moderate
districts or whatever trump districts if
they vote for impeachment they won't be
the last ones and I think that that's
just I mean that's just normal kind of
strategizing in terms of votes and
whipping that whipping the caucus so
it's actually probably much closer in
other in other words just to be clear
that it's more than likely there are
enough votes to impeach today
essentially in terms of how it's
committed I mean obviously the Democrats
want to follow a process and part of
that process I would imagine would be
also do like make the American public
fully on board with this and be aware of
it but certainly it where it seems
highly unlikely that we're going to get
to the end of this process and the house
is not going to vote to impeach Donald
Trump that's correct and and I think I
think that that's probably been there
for a while although reporting does
suggest that there were these things you
know what they call frontline you know
freshmen who are you know had been sort
of holding out but over the last couple
of months there's been there's
apparently some rethinking of that this
latest of course this this revelation
that Trump was basically blackmailing
the Ukrainian president into digging up
dirt or manufacturing dirt on Joe Biden
in exchange for military aid which he
was withholding at the time which Trump
was withholding at the time the
revelation of that this whistleblower
that came forward and then the release
of the the memo sort of memorializing
that conversation certainly did you know
change a change of the dynamics to the
point where I think that Democrats
finally realized that there is no
avoiding it I mean I'm not sure I ever
understood why they thought they should
they had some political reasons for that
thinking they'd lose the house or
something but it's been clear to most of
us I think for a long time that there
was no avoiding this and not just
because of this particular thing
although it's amazing that he that he
did this he did it this made this call
to the Ukrainian president the day after
the Muller testimony and even mentioned
the Muller testimony in the call saying
that it was all a witch hunt etc etc
clearly feeling liberated believing he'd
gotten away with it and so essentially
went and did exactly the same thing that
he had been suspected of doing in 2016
Muller which Muller couldn't prove
because he couldn't prove quote
wilfulness meaning that he couldn't
prove they didn't know that they that
they knew what they were doing and in
campaign finance violations which that
apparently would have been at the time
there has to be some sense that they
know what they're doing well there's no
excuse for that now obviously because
Trump is the president he's been through
the full mark he knows very well he
can't do that that's considered
unethical but having been exonerated in
his mind he felt he could just go ahead
and do this that really is a bridge too
far and there's another aspect to this
and that is the fact that he has been he
and his henchmen in the White House
counsel's office and the Department of
Justice have determined that he can also
get away with total obstruction of
Congress and that is also in a future
all offense Richard Nixon one of the
articles of impeachment against him was
obstruction of Congress so between those
two things I think that that finally
pushed the Democrats over the edge and
they realized that they had to take this
step and perhaps even realized that you
know this was not as politically risky
as they thought because at some point or
another you have to recognize that there
were a lot of Democrats out there
seventy percent and growing that wanted
this at some point these people all had
to look over their shoulder and realize
well gee maybe I'm losing more people
that I'm gaining especially in those in
those districts and that is that's a
risky proposition so you know there it
by it finally came to a head and it's
still unfolding and will continue to
unfold for a while I think I don't think
this is going to be resolved immediately
although there has been some discussion
that well let's get this impeachment
thing over with which is ridiculous but
I don't think that can happen there's
too much there's just too much you know
to deal with let's take a break and talk
about how how this should go and also
let's talk about you know how it came
about what we anticipate this is I think
this is an important moment for the
Democrats and it was thrust upon them at
least the the leadership anyways and
they had no choice but we will talk more
about that in a moment
I'm Sam cedar there's wearing a fire
radio be right back with Heather pardon
