[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday April 3rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this the five-time
award-winning majority report we were
broadcasting live steps from in the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
last night's swing states elections a
cautionary tale for the Democrats then
congratulations America we're now
officially bathing in the cruel and
unusual era Chicago elects its first
african-american woman and openly gay
mayor and the left makes big strides on
Chicago's City Council meanwhile the
house votes to subpoena the Mullah
report and chief White House personnel
security director corruption probes
crisscross North Carolina's Republican
Party and Wisconsin allowed to pull out
of the Obamacare lawsuit
it appears the Ecuadorean or I should
say the Ecuadorian government is on the
verge of booting Julian Assange
and Trump punts the fake health care for
a plan to 2021 meanwhile the Trump
administration okay's dangerous baby
strollers yes seriously
turns out Bernie is the Trump of the
left danville big is such an idiot I
guess that means I win I guess good
those for me
meanwhile 70% of the country is
unaffordable to the average American
home buyer and lastly Dems blow it on
the defense budget all this and more on
today's program
ladies and gentlemen yes it is Wednesday
and Matt is out brendan is very
diligently and confidently operating the
board today flying this water boat just
right you're doing very well on that
let's start and we will be mean we're
gonna have to play the thing where a
Donald Rome can't say the word origins
but just because it's too funny but
before we get to that let's get to the
part that's that's not so funny
here is a Donald Trump calling for the
abolishing of immigration judges I don't
know exactly how this would work but
there has to be some process for
adjudicating the asylum claims of people
unless we essentially roll back the
asylum laws and say that there cannot be
any asylum in this country that we will
reject any folks who are subject to the
myriad of reasons why we might offer
them asylum in this country of course
narrowed the opportunities first
for largely people from Latin and
Central America in terms of domestic
abuse or fear from gangs but here's
Donald Trump
here's another solution to this just get
rid of the judges so that there's no way
to adjudicate these I guess I mean it's
gobbly but let's listen and what we
have to do is Congress has to meet
quickly and make a deal I could do it in
45 minutes we need to get rid of chain
migration we need to get rid of catch
and release and Visa Lottery and we have
to do something about asylum and to be
honest with you I have to get rid of
judges every time and you won't even
believe this mr. secretary-general you
catch somebody that's coming illegally
into your country and they bring them to
a court and they bring him to a court
can you and the secretary-general of
nato's like yes this is crazy
oh my I mean whoever heard of such a
thing you have courts we don't do that
in the eurozone no we have large tubs of
water we just throw them in and if they
float they might be getting close to
that yeah there is it possible just for
the record the number of people who are
granted asylum by judges right now is
fairly low oh it's I don't think it's
it's certainly not higher than 30% of
the cases that go in I think it's
somewhere between 20 and 30% is my
understanding but it slows the process
down that they have to contemplate
whether I mean this is just you know
absurd and it's not a legitimate
proposal of course none of it is it's
all absurd and it really Donald Trump is
running on his strength he's returning
and reverting to the mean which is we're
going to attack I mean this is what he
rode down that escalator the one thing
that really resonated from his opening
speech
in 2016 was that they're sending over
their worst rapists and whatnot I'm sure
some of them are good people
it's his light motif indeed and speaking
of that motif here is Kris Kobach the
possible pick for Trump's immigration
czar recall that Kris Kobach was laughed
out of multiple courts on his attempt to
disenfranchise voters and this guy
really really has it in for non for for
non-white people and their ability to
vote he was a charlatan going around to
various counties I think across the
country getting them to dump people from
their roles and and then offering his
legal services to represent them and the
court cases that preceded and then lost
the cases here is uh here is Kris Kobach
on with Lou Dobbs
and this one is deploy immediately
dozens of immigration judges as well as
a fleet of passenger planes and the
thousands of empty mobile-home trailers
that the United States owns right now
and is attempting to sell at bargain
prices on the internet instead of
selling them deploy them to border
cities and create processing towns that
are confined and so when someone comes
in and falsely claims asylum we don't
release them for six months onto the
streets the United States we process
them right there in that camp where they
have their three square meals they're
living in a nice mobile home and then as
soon as they're done as soon as the
claim is rejected they're on the next
plane back home and then the people back
home suddenly realized hey he just left
here two weeks ago and yet he's back
maybe going in these caravans isn't such
a great deal any all right so so the
theory is that what we're going to do is
build areas that are obviously we're
going to have to put fences around them
and what it will do is it will sort of
concentrate them in these camps that's
what we're we're looking to do we're
going to try and concentrate in these
crossing towns
concentrate them in these camps and
they'll have nice little trailers to
live in and we'll give them three square
a day what could possibly go wrong
yeah indeed and maybe we'll give them
some work to do this whole theory that
work is the real freedom this whole
theory that they're gonna get sent home
two weeks later and tell all their
friends like don't bother going again
either is purposefully ignorant or we're
just completely uncaring as to the
situation that forced them out of the
country in the first place the reason
why you get people who get booted from
this country and then they come back
again an attempt to come in is because
their living conditions their situation
in which they are returned to is
untenable so even the travelling itself
becomes a way of escaping that and so
the bottom line is we've seen the
benefits of actually providing aid to
these countries there's there's plenty
of data to show that as we provide more
aid to these countries they have the
ability at least to protect some of
their own citizens and but it just goes
to show that there's a lot of
disingenuous nasir I mean none of this
is vast reason is not genuine it's
fascism they're basically doing what he
said already like a small number of
people get out on parole
most people are kept in what they call
Helena's or ice boxes which they keep
very very cold on purpose so the people
will give up and go back and and that's
why we also have now something at least
15,000 children that were warehousing
because they've also scared the
relatives of those kids from coming to
pick them up so that's all been
mission accomplished ladies and
gentlemen
just a reminder even if we kale salads
and drink green smoothies were most
likely not getting all the essential
nutrients we need on a daily basis enter
ritual the obsessively researched
vitamin for women in two easy to take
capsules ritual provides nine nutrients
you need to support a strong foundation
for your health all in their clean
absorbable forms I of course as you know
am NOT a woman I have not been taking
this but we have farmed out the the
process of taking these vitamins and I
can tell you we've gotten very good
recommendations there apparently the big
thing is is that they source the
vitamins that are in ritual so you can
tell where your omega-3 is coming from
your vitamin b12 your iron your vitamin
d3 you boron apparently that's really
good for bones my understanding but I
don't know I'm not a doctor
and one of the best things I've been
told about ritual is that it reminds you
to continue to take them after you've
finished them so in other words you
finish a bottle
the next bottle is there that has always
been my problem with taking vitamins
like yeah supposed to be taking those uh
vitamin DS I forget and then when they
run out I forget to get a new a new
thing all of rituals vegan friendly
sugar-free non-gmo gluten-free in an
allergen free ingredients all their
sources are out there and for the world
to see it's only a dollar a day to have
all the essential nutrients your body
needs delivered every month no strings
attached better health doesn't happen
overnight folks and right now ritual is
offering my listeners ten percent off
during your first three months fill in
the gaps in your diet with essential for
women a small step that helps support a
healthy foundation for your body visit
ritual
calm / majority to start your ritual
today that's ten percent off during your
first three months at ritual dot-com /
majority also the majority report is
being supported in part today by simple
habit simple habit mobile app provides a
massive and diverse library of
five-minute guided meditations and the
majority report audience can try simple
habit totally free for an entire week
when you go to simple habit calm /
majority there is a lots of research out
there plethora of research I I put
Michael on and even with his research
skills found immediately stress what I
did was I was just like I was like let's
see what Wikipedia say about this looks
like a lot stress it helps you with
stress it helps you with depression
depression sleeping anxiety sleeping
sharpens your mind a lot of people say
meditating makes them more productive
simple habit oh is over mm guided
meditations especially designed for
different parts of your day and just
about anything you might be dealing with
in life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression for when you're having
trouble falling asleep for when you're
wanting to overcome procrastination or
when you have something important going
on at work meditations designed for
parents I feel like I could have that on
a like I should just have that blaring
in my house anytime I get home with the
kids
I wanted flaring in here I'm not going
to say which child did this but I can
tell you that one of my children last
night threw a very big fit I let them
watch one of them watch a 24 minute
television program and I said he asked
me if he could at the end of the day can
I watch one so I got dinner prepared and
I was like yes and they said oh but wait
we're gonna take a bath first 30 minutes
of calling me a liar and telling me that
he had well I mean frankly you should be
a little bit more clear in your words I
should have that's exactly what he said
yeah I think he's got a point there they
have
Jason's made specifically for when
you're waking up or your lunch break
when you got home from work when you're
going to bed different people are trying
to accomplish different things with
meditation and simple habit is able to
cater to just about anyone regardless of
what their goals are with meditation or
how much past experience you've had with
meditation the variety of guided
meditations on simple habit is what sets
it apart simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app it's available for iOS Android web
browser and the majority report audience
can try it for free for a week by going
a simple habit calm slash majority
simple habit calm / majority and if
you're watching or listening to this
program we've put it in the descriptions
below so check it out hey Rach other
house ritual walking for you I know you
did did you I got sharpened acuity
because of your female supplements oh
you got me all right so let's let's talk
about what took place last night I
wanted there's really two think two big
things I want to get to one is this
ruling in the Supreme Court and and this
is really I mean let's start with the
Supreme Court so I guess this was two
days ago now Supreme Court was looking
at a case a buck Lou versus presseth I
don't know purses probably somebody
associated with the prison or you know
and it was a case involving a guy who
was on the on death row this guy Russell
buck Lou he committed a brutal murder in
1996 he was sentenced to die and the guy
has what is known as cavernous homogeny
ax
it's a disease which causes basically
tumors to grow around your head and your
neck and your throat and this guy buck
Lu was going to be killed by the state
of Missouri and they wanted to give him
a shot of lethal dose of barbiturate
pent or Robin I don't know what the name
and however buck Lou is afraid that the
drug is going to cause him to
essentially choke on his own tumors
causing him extreme pain and suffering
in the last minutes before he dies and
most of the stuff as I'm reading from
Ian's Milhiser who writes for I think
this think progress is legal he's the
legal editor over there and so the idea
is that you know the Eighth Amendment to
the Constitution says that you could not
have punishment that involves cruel and
unusual punishment and this guy buck Lou
is arguing that well it is cruel in
particular to kill me in such a way that
I'm going to suffer dramatically at my
death and for literally decades the way
that the Supreme Court has has viewed
the idea of cruel and unusual is that
cruel obviously there should say unusual
implies that a particular punishment has
become less and less common right and as
it becomes less and less common because
people just become repulsed by it it
actually becomes its constitutional
foundations become weaker so there is
this concept as justice earl warren
explained in 1958 that the Eighth
Amendment prohibits punishments that
defy quote evolving standards of decency
that marked the progress of a maturing
society so back in the day right like
1500 you were gonna kill somebody you
know one of the ways they would do it is
they will cut your stomach open they you
know tie you down cut your stomach open
let your entrails come out and that was
just the way that we kill people and
then maybe we chop their head off an eye
for an eye over time however we found
that kind of punishment to be grotesque
and overly cruel and apparently this is
this standard has been tossed by gorsek
in favor of a standard that the unusual
measure is pegged to the time of the
framing of the Constitution
so gorsek was talking about punishments
that would have been forbidden at the
time of the framing quote these included
such disgusting practices as dragging
the prisoner to the place of the
execution disembowelling quartering
public dissection burning alive
all of which Blackstone he's referring
to another judge savored of torture or
cruelty he adds but by the time the
founding these methods had long fallen
out of use and so had become unusual so
unusual is not an evolving standard it
is one that is pay
- basically 200 so my incredibly
fraudulent Dalton
you gonna put him up a little bit I
can't that's that's are you talking into
the mic you absolutely that's original
okay yeah there that's originalism as a
structural problem I mean that's their
standard for everything yes and so he
defines the word unusual to mean
punishments that had long fallen out of
use at the time of the founding not
punishments that are uncommon today so
this evolving standards of decency in
the context of the Eighth Amendment has
been thrown out and the definition of
cruelty for this guy has also changed
under a case in 2015 called the Glossop
V grouse case because that case
determined that the death penalty enjoys
some form according to Ian Milhiser of
super legal status that protects it even
from private citizens who refuse to be
complicit in executions Glossop and I
think people might remember this is when
there were drug manufacturers who
decided that the drugs that they were
selling which weren't developed
necessarily to kill people refused to
sell those drugs to states that wanted
to use them to kill people and so what
happened is that some states turned to
other drugs painkillers of questionable
reliability which according to Elena
Kagan writes Milhiser left death row
inmates with the feeling of being burned
alive and that that and that because
that was the case that that was a
torturous death and amounted to being
cruel
at the time the conservative majority
sam alito who wrote the Glossop opinion
dismissed the drug company's refusal
refusal to be complicit in executions as
a guerilla war against the death penalty
and he held that because it is settled
that the capital planet the capital
punishment is constitutional it
necessarily means that the way of
executed that that the idea of executing
people there must be a constitutional
way in which to do it in other words the
if it's constitutional to kill people
the means in which you kill people must
also be constitutional or at least one
must exist and so if there's only one
option to kill people and even if it
happens to be super painful that is not
enough to present to prevent the
execution so the idea is and in this
instance the burden at that point falls
upon if you can believe this the
prisoner and their lawyer to come up
with another way in which they can be
killed and there's even a greater burden
because this guy in buck Lu said okay
well I have another idea you can you can
fixate me with nitrogen gas put me in a
room
pour some nitrogen gas in there I'll die
according to gorsek that's not enough
you got to come up with a plan that
describes how we can protect the the
people who administer it that we can
protect the game like they gonna come up
the whole thing so like redesign the
prison all right
death row inmates must not only tell the
courts how they wish to be killed they
must offer a proposal that is quote
sufficiently detailed to permit a
finding that the state could carry it
out relatively easy and relatively
quickly so he's just a sadist well but
here's the thing oh yeah I know he's
serious so that is basically the a
slight sideshow it does not give
prisoners a much easy a very easy way
essentially to come up with an
alternative that's not going to be super
painful so the bar in which you can
suggest some other way has been raised
to where you can't just suggest another
way that you want to be killed
you got to suggest another way to be
killed that will make it easy for the
state and safe for the state and you
need to have that proposal really drawn
out so in the absence of that you can be
killed in a way that is extremely
painful because a the definition of
unusual really only pertains to things
that were unusual 200 years ago 250 or
and the definition of cruel now is not
something that is cruel de-facto cruel
it'll cause you a ton of pain yes but
that's not the legal standard for what
is cruel according to the Supreme Court
now the legal standard for cruel is if
the intent is to cause you a lot of pain
yes and the intent will be as ever
undeterminable well and even if we had
brain imaging software to prove
somebody's intent we couldn't use it
because that wasn't accounted for 200
years ago no here is there is no no how
would you do that
how would you this is how the court
would determine that the intent is to
make you to be cruel if somebody wrote
it if you as a someone on death row
wrote out with your lawyer an extremely
detailed plan with schematics and how
this you are going to be killed by using
some type of night
gasps that was going to make it
perfectly safe for everybody and would
involve no risk would be super easy not
too prohibitively expensive and then the
state said ah no we're not going to do
that we're just gonna do the one that's
gonna cause you a tremendous amount of
it was all Specht out that really that
early of you that's how you would prove
that intent could you not argue that
having a prisoner right the sort of
specific details and logistics of how
they're gonna be killed as a form of
torture and of itself you could argue
that but not you would not have a
hearing at this at the Supreme Court
circular logic is that to say that cruel
and unusual punishment is constitutional
because killing people is constitutional
well that is the that's the way that
they work does it make any sense
although I guess you know killing people
in and of itself is cruel and unusual so
in that sense they might be right they
have now found that that that that the
actual act of of capital punishment is
cruel and unusual then they're just
assessing the the means in which he do
it
so understand though what this means
aside from it meaning and there have
been less and less executions as we
evolved mostly in non red states a
couple of blue states I think still have
it but as we evolve as a species and
decide that the state should not be
permitted to execute people in cold
blood and I'm happy to have this debate
about capital punishment but that's that
that's aside the I the import of this is
not only that we can do this in a what
any normal human being would consider
cruel and unusual in terms of the of
killing people but that this group on
the Supreme Court as is constituted now
these five have no problem
overturning fifty years of precedent
sixty really and they're not terribly
explicit about it in other words they're
not saying we're overturning this
precedent because we found it to be X Y
or Z they are just reinterpreting
reinterpreting things like unusual
reinterpreting things like cruel well
this position allows you to be the
ultimate judicial activist because of
everything that is post like written at
the time of the founding is essentially
illegitimate then actually it gives you
an incredible amount of room to hack
away at a couple hundred years of legal
work
I mean without any intellectual
coherence or rigor and this whole thing
like people really should look at even
you know as distinct from like the PR
and the communications aspects but like
the origins of things like the
federalist society is like these agust
academic projects are just another arm
of PR machinery it's it's like it's fake
law fake law to not only against like
evolving standards liberal law but
against even common law lucky that
there's an amendment abolishing slavery
except as a punishment or they would
probably try to bring that back - right
well it's still there for for prisoners
still do it according to the Thirteenth
Amendment all right and the reason why I
started with that one is because in
Wisconsin and obviously a state court
doesn't necessarily deal with what
doesn't deal with the u.s.
constitutional issues but it has but the
import of our courts completely
understated I think by far too many on
the on the Left we're starting to see
people discuss it now in the context of
some of the proposals that Bernie and
Elizabeth Warren are proposing insofar
as do you think the courts are going to
let you do
that now that's battle that I think we
should have and make it more explicit
but it's a real shame that it's going to
take another 15-20 years before people
have go through the process of realizing
how important the courts are and then
actually starting acting upon it
maybe AOC will be able to implement
those policies that sander proposes in
2021 ten years later after she adds two
more people to the court but we'll see
but last night there was uh elections
across the country well not a cross
country but I guess sort of spanning the
country there was an important one in
Pennsylvania there was some obviously
some important local races in in Chicago
and there was a hugely important one in
Wisconsin last April 2018 there was a
statewide race for the state Supreme
Court where I don't know if they
actually register as partisan Democrat
or Republican but the Democrats
supported one candidate Republicans
supported and other Democrats crushed
them and I think if you'll recall that's
when a Scott Walker said you know was
that ring the alarm bells there's a real
problem here we're gonna have a real
problem in the midterms in 2018 and he
was right there was a huge win for
Democrats in the fall now of course
Wisconsin is famous for having where
Democrats can win 54% of the vote and
only get 36% or literally 36 seats out
of a hundred in the state Senate
the problem is redistricting and
gerrymandering and really the only way
to deal with that now that the Supreme
Court is all but said like yeah
we don't care and not only have they
said they're on the verge of saying we
don't care they're also on the verge of
saying and these independent
Commission's that you set up these
nonpartisan that this vehicle you have
to make sure that there's somewhat fair
so that you don't have a situation where
54% of the people vote for a specific
party and only 36 out of a hundred of
their representatives win those
independent Commission's those may not
be constitutional either because the
role the authority to to draw these
districts is given specifically to the
state legislatures and they cannot
outsource that even to an independent
commission so winning the supreme court
in Wisconsin in a state specifically not
just like Wisconsin but specifically
Wisconsin is huge because once you own
the state legislature you also then can
start to disenfranchise a lot of voters
this is the way it works and that's what
they've done a million people voted last
night one point one actually million
people more 1.2 million I think and the
Democratic backed candidate trails the
Republican backed candidate by more than
five thousand votes so you're going to
see a recount but 5,000 votes hard to
imagine where that's going to be made up
unclear if it's going to head to a
runoff or a recount but apparently there
just was not the kind of turnout from
the Milwaukee area that we hope now I
don't know if there's a failure of not
enough money being poured into that race
whether it's an institutional failure
institutions and the big money don't
appreciate the importance of this or
frankly your average voter 7/8 of your
1/8 of your average voter just does not
appreciate the importance of this stuff
this was a democratic leaning a liberal
however you want to describe it a
liberal vote on the court she had to
step down because she has cancer so this
is now the Democrats the Liberals
however you want to call it are they
were I think it's like 4-3 and now it's
gonna be five two so the idea was they
wanted a 4-3 and then they wanted the
presidential election where voters come
out in a lot bigger numbers to carry the
day and then take the the state Supreme
Court Milwaukee County not performing as
well for the liberal side as it did in
2018 2018 liberal candidate one by forty
one thousand votes thirty one point five
points this time 97% precincts in margin
is thirty thousand votes and twenty four
points so you just have a you know ten
eleven twelve thousand people again that
that number sounds familiar to you when
it comes to Wisconsin it should
cuz that's 2016 just sitting it out and
I get the I get the argument you need to
have better candidates but I'm sorry out
of that 1 million to 1.2 million people
who voted if there are ten thousand
people in there who can articulate the
difference between a left-leaning judge
and a right-leaning judge in any
sophisticated way in terms of the state
Supreme Court and I would include myself
as being not part of that percentage
that could then I'd be shocked this is
basically broadly speaking because
people don't have the time to dig in to
the intro
of state law and determine the voting
patterns or the decisions and read the
decisions of potential state Supreme
Court candidates this is good guy bad
guy this is not a persuasion situation
it is a mobilization and part of that
mobilization has to be to make people
understand the stakes of a state Supreme
Court and of a federal Supreme Court
well it's kind of a catch-22 right
because I want everyone to vote for
progressives in every election and
progressives can't do anything if
they're not in office I also understand
that a lot of people have heard it all
before and they don't make a connection
with how this is going to help their
lives so it's a little column a a little
column B the problem is like these
people will come out to vote in 2020 but
it's gonna be too late in 2020 to save
the state Supreme Court the you know
like I don't know who's in charge of
making people understand the relevance
of the state Supreme Court it's a
failure of our civics the failure of our
education it's a failure of of
left-leaning groups
frankly to articulate the importance of
these seats to the voters
and you know it's there I don't even
think they're affiliated with the party
per se and I don't think you can be
partisan to sit on there and but
certainly the Democratic Party had a
vested interest in getting people out to
vote it's just they've got to figure it
out they've got to figure it out
meanwhile in in Pennsylvania in a
suburban seat and this I think is
indicative of you know when we talk
about the the surge in voting right that
we saw in 2018 we talk about the
resistance as it were I know
bad word and it's associated with with
you know bad people but whatever you
want to call it a Navy veteran who
served in george w bush's Department of
Veteran Affairs won a special election
to fill a state Senate seat in suburban
Pittsburgh this is a district president
Trump won in 2016
Pam Iovino will represent the state
Senate District that covers parts of
Allegheny and Washington counties after
she beat out D Raja businessman who
chairs the Allegheny County Republican
Party he took 51 percent of the vote in
that suburban district the fact is is
that white suburban women many respects
her driving a lot of the the the pick
ups that we saw in in 20 I mean you know
we talked about that leading up to the
election there's a lot of data to
support that but this is more here it is
this is Democrats fit a flip this
Pennsylvania Senate District SD 37 was
last up in 2016 when then-senator guy
Russians Vettel are won by 22% as Trump
carried it by 6% that is a big flip big
foot so earlier this year though
Republicans won a democratic held seats
in Minnesota Connecticut in Kentucky so
this is the first seat of the year
flipped from Republican control to
democratic hands so there's been some
demobilization in specific areas of the
Democratic coalition and so people got
to get to work still going on in the
suburbs apparently though which is
interesting well can I
offer a potential counterpoint not
necessarily counterpoint but something
that we need to worry about it might be
slightly out of keeping what to blame
the electorate theme well what is that
so and I do think of Malaika jabal II
stuff on probably nobody knows more
about african-american voters in
Milwaukee than her right and so you know
sure all of the things you said are true
people in general need to know about the
importance of these races I'm also
curious about how did races get
scheduled like this timewise to begin
with you know like an obscure off
election in April is obviously not
favorable 1.2 million people yes and
that's true that's true but I mean it
should but regardless it's cancer it's
right okay fair enough
that's true but it's it should always be
a pivot point to talk about Universal
registration and things like that which
I know you agree with but I think a
difference though in mobilization
between you know people in the suburbs
and people in a place like Milwaukee is
that if you are in the suburbs you can
and you're very comfortable financially
your politics can be an expression
primarily of just cultural disgust with
a certain party as contrasted with a
group of people that have felt correctly
that a party has steadily not delivered
for them now again I'm not mitigating
the importance of the vote so I don't
want to get down that rabbit hole but I
do think it does attest to some bigger
problems and structural challenges they
need to take on how do you account for
the drop off between 2018 and now well
how do you account for the drop-off
between 2012 and 2016
Oh I mean I think I think I think that
explanation goes goes and goes well I
think there was a sense that and I think
there was I mean I think there's
multiple things I think it was multiple
people thought there wasn't that
important people thought that there what
the the maybe the differences weren't so
dramatic and maybe people some people
thought Trump was going to lose but when
you talk about the difference of like
six or seven months it to me it just
resonates that they just don't see the
important
so the state Supreme Court and so I
think there has to be a there has to be
an attempt to educate people to the
importance of such things I agree with
that and I I think I would imagine to
you know that coming out in okay
convince persuade yeah I mean I think
still sounds a little condescending I
agree I have that same sort of concern
well I think frankly there's a lot of
people who don't have don't don't have
any sense of the importance of the
courts you want to say tell them but as
opposed to educate but I mean I don't
think there's I think people that's I
mean it people need to be educated on it
and you know do it is a difference
between a state Senate seat and and you
know in the suburbs because it's a you
know more localized race not not nearly
as many people voted I'm sure in that
Pittsburgh race and there's also an
argument I think that without the same
amount of media attention you get from a
you know federal election people just
don't think it's as important so they
don't take work off that day or they
can't take work off that day or they
don't take their one day off that they
can or their one time then they go in
late I mean I understand there's a lot
of different factors here but in terms
of Paulette electoral politics in
general if we want to talk about 2016 as
well or if we want to talk about people
in the UK even I'm still thinking about
those people in the black barber shop in
Milwaukee that the New York Times
interviewed around the time of the 2016
election who didn't vote and did not
believe that it was going to make any
measurable any measurable impact on
their lives who the president was and I
saw in the UK anavar media ash sucker
spoke to some non-white teens
working-class teens and about
about labor and about Jeremy Corbyn and
they're like Jeremy Corbyn could suck my
dick like we've heard it all before
and nobody ever does anything for us
labour hasn't done anything for working
people for a really long time so it's
been hard on jeremy corbyn's knees
indeed
so so it's really it's a it's a catch-22
like I said like yes but I'm just I'm
comparing it from 2018 to six months
later and saying like in a what accounts
for that like why if there was that
failure in 2016 to communicate to people
the stakes of it why did it work in 2018
two years later well at 7:48 four months
like 2018 just the pure like you're not
gonna be able to run a campaign for a
local for a state judgeship with the
mobilization effects if I want to just
cast a vote against Donald Trump I mean
that's a pretty clear difference there's
still a million and one hundred million
people voted that's a pretty obvious
reason there in terms of why people
should I mean even if you go to like
where I go I have never seen so so the
argument was I actually saw more people
I actually saw more people in 2018 for a
midterm than I did in 2016 and it was
purely to register in opposition to
Trump that was the overarching message
of the midterms for sure and that's much
harder to leverage that for a judge
judges race in April I mean all right
well I mean I think who arguing that the
2018 election is driven that much by
just by Donald Trump which i think is
true I think also that may hold till
2020 yes that if I said otherwise
oh I'm never if you're I don't even know
what you're sort of intimating but I've
no I've no one who said from the
beginning that I think basically any
Democrat could beat him so I don't know
if you're trying to get some no I just
think that that is I mean that runs a
little bit contrary to the idea that
there has to be a reason for better can
for that to bring people out though wait
like you it's too linear like there's
definitely an atmospheric and broader
dissatisfaction that again please read
the I don't know if you've read the her
articles and intercept or current
affairs or near time I read whew okay so
then you should then you understand that
yeah and so there's that as an important
variable it's an overdetermined thing
and then there's also the fact that I
have no doubt even using myself as a you
know obviously an outlier in a very
different case study but like I felt the
motivation to go out in 2018 and
register something against Trump even
though I have plenty of problems with
most Democrats and almost no votes I was
casting had anything to do with Trump so
you know not again especially for normal
voters they're not thinking in these
super narrow kind of nerdy ways they're
taking in different impressions and
different impulses and there's no
contradiction between a broader
dissatisfaction and anger and also
wanting to give Trump the finger I mean
of course not
yes and and when I talk about how
decades have failed neoliberal policy
help get us Trump I am not really
talking about the people who might have
voted for Trump out of economic anxiety
I am much more talking about poor people
and oppressed people who don't vote for
Democrats because they don't think it's
going to do anything they just don't
vote they just don't vote meanwhile in
Chicago however and I don't really know
much about Lori Lightfoot politics it's
really mixed things about who's the
progressive in this race but it is at
least notable that Chicago elected its
first african-american woman who is also
an openly gay person to be their mayor
but the more I think ideological perhaps
a story is that 50 out of the 50 seats
on the City Council at least five are
gonna be held by DSA members
that's not even enough yeah and it could
be six the sixth race or I should say I
think that was already one but the there
was another race as of last night my old
friend TWU emails me at 9:35 that
candidate was down by 47 votes so good
thing to go out and vote folks but I
mean I would be very surprised to find
out if 10% of the electorate or 11% of
the electorate was members of the DSA
shock in Chicago know that so that is a
pretty pretty cool now know that is a
pretty big number and it just shows you
know what what a sig what what energy
can do and it really just shows on some
level like you know cynicism is it's a
waste of energy and as you turn that
religion it benefits the Republicans yes
and the idea that you can have 10 maybe
I can't do the math 11 12 percent of the
City Council of of Chicago be members of
the DSA that's nuts
that is just nuts and it's a plant so
nuts it just might work
yeah with it New York it's embarrassing
all right folks we got plans don't worry
just a reminder and I enjoyed this last
night calming comfort my calming comfort
blanket by sharper image it's the
luxurious way to blanket that's designed
with high density comfort fill to
promote a sense of calmness for a
restful night's sleep the calming
comfort weighted blanket comes with a
90-day anxiety free best night's sleep
of your life guarantee from sharper
image right now our listeners can go to
calming comfort blanket calm
use the promo code of majority a check
out to receive $15 off the displayed
price again that's calming comfort
blanket dot-com promo code majority
because you cannot put a price on a
great night's sleep all right quick
break
heading to the fun half 6-4 6-2 57:39 20
is the number just a reminder this
program relies on your support when you
become a member of the majority report
not only are you supporting this daily
show sometimes we do news like we did
today walk through a couple of issues
that I don't feel will get any attention
on the news other days we do in-depth
interviews then what we do is we go to
the fun half and we make fun of people
for a long time for the most part
sometimes there sometimes we have people
call in who've made fun of us on Twitter
and then I yell at them that can all
happen that's fun in its own way I did
get do we have failed I did get into a
little and I get a montage of those Sam
drops right there yeah yeah well you
can't he's talking underneath me so we
were talking about but on the plan is I
should say on Friday we're going to
pre-record
a discussion with a Glenn Greenwald and
I which will probably run following
Tuesday
it's the idea right now anyways you can
become a member and support this program
by going to join the majority report
calm when you do not only you're
supporting the program now you're
getting the extra fun half if you want
it you don't have to have it you can
just you can just listen to that you
don't have to listen to the other half
it's up to you but you also get a
commercial free so there's a three
bonuses and I know every now and then I
get an email
why don't you your you've got it
backwards fun half should be the free
show the interviews should be the non
free show but we have a guest on a lot
of the guests don't have the opportunity
to go on many shows don't get much
tension
I think they have great ideas and the
the whole point is to amplify those
ideas and if we put it behind a kazoo
bad ideas we get a clip of David I don't
think he knows what ideas are yeah
that's more interested in ideas I'm just
interested in things they can't really
be in any way or I could say things and
they can't be disproved or critiqued so
I go to join the majority report calm as
always if you cannot afford a membership
send us an email
majority reporters at gmail.com then
wait wait and wait and wait and wait
until I get through the emails and we'll
get back to you and hook you up
apologies for that and also oh just
coffee co-op fair trade coffee tier
chocolate this is the month to try out
those coffees you've always been
wondering to try out 30% off you don't
even need to use the coupon code
majority but you might as well plug it
in there anyways alright folks uh
Michael last night was Tuesday it was an
excellent show Kim Ives the English
language editor of Haiti liberté talked
about the uprisings in Haiti and this
mercenary operation which may or may not
have connections everywhere from an
apartment building by the BAM in
downtown Brooklyn to the Trump
administration and basically an
attempted bank heist that the malaika
Jubilee on the Y of how Hillary lost
Wisconsin and how we can win it the
internal diversity of the
african-american vote and how that
should affect political analysis and we
made fun of beta O'Rourke for quite some
time and the ANC going into the 28:19
South African elections patreon.com
slash T MBS patreon.com slash T NBS
Michael Brooks show on YouTube for clips
cami this week on the anti Fattah we too
made fun of beta over work with a little
rendition a little update of Fugazi if
you will
we've been kind of falling off of doing
our songs but for those of you who don't
know we are also a musical podcast
sometimes we also had on
alarm er to talk about the jewel age own
uprisings in France which are still
ongoing we spoke about her recent
article in commune magazine the yellow
vest Diaries and I think it was a it was
a good conversation so check it out
Brendon this week on literary hangover
lady Barbarina by Henry James story
about rich and beautiful American girls
heading to England to find themselves
through marriage good for you alright
see you in the fun half alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
and the alpha males are back just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
alpha males are back
I am a total can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple of you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's Hawkinson and the
alpha males psyche
Oh
on the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expand to foil the
alpha males of companies to pay the
price request way around here I am a
total
all right let's go to the phones it's
the fun half ladies and gentlemen called
from a 6 for 7 where you call him from
who's this hey sama Sebastopol kala
Sebastian from Canada oh now wait a
second did I hear you was are you the
guy who called in to Jesse Lee Peterson
show yeah you know I finally could have
just asked me to go on his show but I
decided a better way of getting it done
with and well I heard the we meant to
play that clip didn't we or something I
don't know I saw I think maybe I was
watching on progressive voices the the
the that you called in to his show and
he didn't remember who I was three days
after the our interview you don't know
who anybody whoa well that's true that's
true but that was pretty funny
I enjoyed that quite a bit and so he's
going to moderate a debate between
Crowder and I is that right yeah I know
I just thought since they're in contact
with each other to see one more way to
you know give steven crowder a nightmare
yeah I I don't think it's gonna happen
the give away from me is when he said
who's Sam Crowder that was they let me
believe that maybe maybe Jesse's not
exactly the most reliable person to
count on for a setting up a debate no I
think it's handle that and I just wanted
to get like imagining that yeah they
would be pretty funny so what's on your
mind today but anyway yeah I wanted to
talk about the the dodgy Imam the
dresser that guy Muhammad SAW he be too
dodgy Imam yeah Michael talked about him
on pmdf he's this guy who's from
Australia he claims to be the Imam of
peace and I kind of agree with Michael
at first I thought this guy was like his
end
was to just be to check to cash in on
the right-wing kind of us I'm the Muslim
who tells the real truth about things
right but I think I think that's well
that is true I think that that might
only be hid named to a further end I
gotta be honest
Sebastian I gotta be honest with you
like I don't I don't know anything about
the dodgy Imam and I don't really he's
funny
we make fun of them on TMDs yeah but
let's save this call 40 mb/s not unless
you're a patron oh are you serious
yeah dude you crazy
well I'm sorry I didn't realize that I
don't do all this I'm sorry did I call
you Pakman I'm sorry hey I respect the
hustle well I don't know what to tell
you Sebastian but I don't pay to play
apparently unless I had no idea hey to
play I had no idea I mean I'm not trying
to make myself heard I just wanted to
offer a suggestion for Michael to dig I
don't think I mean I actually are all
kidding aside I mean I will a little bit
but I do think he's I mean the only
purpose of someone like him is someone
who's so obviously ludicrous being in
like when Dave Rubin has him on it's
funny it's two idiots whatever but when
sam harris goes it's refreshing
that's funny in terms of Harris's
credibility but I don't think that
requires more than a few segments and a
couple of jokes appreciate the calls
though probably if Trump gets reelected
that guy will end up being like the head
of some type of counterterrorism program
I didn't realize you didn't you couldn't
call in if you weren't him how does Liam
calls actually yeah
 yeah dude I had no idea about Apple
ism seriously call him from a six one
zero area code who's this where he come
from hello Sam it's like from
Pennsylvania hello Mike I'll shut the
 up I'm sorry I'm sorry if I sound a
distant I was just immediately started
thinking about like maybe I gotta charge
more for the phone service yeah maybe
you should maybe you should maybe all of
a sudden Mike got some ideas let me
guess he's gonna use my numbers but
without any of my inside alright go
ahead Mike know what I was
talking about Mike what's on your mind
oh well we had a special election here
in Pennsylvania I'm sure everyone's
excited to hear about Pennsylvania State
Senate but did you not hear me talk
about it yeah I know I did it I did but
um what happened because I heard a lot
of blame the electorate language for the
results in Wisconsin which are super
disappointing obviously it's gonna be a
disaster for decades to come but that's
what happens yeah
but the truth is like you know in this
special election this is an r8 seat it's
a romney trump district that was flipped
you know pretty right-wing actually and
it happened with 65,000 voters now in
2016 about 150,000 people vote right so
the truth I mean it's much much smaller
electorate than voted in the
presidential election and that's not
surprising because it's a random day in
April right you know and traditionally
this advantages the Republicans you know
typically Democrats are lower income you
know people of color younger just people
who don't have time to randomly show up
on some weekday now what we describe
this district for me though because my
understand is it's it's its suburbs is
it not
what's the nature of the suburbs so I
think this is the it has some of the
suburbs Pittsburgh and some of the
exurban areas as well and it is it has
like a higher income or educated area
very white I want to say it's like I
think the district is like 90 some
percent like let's just pull it up here
yeah it's 97% white the district that we
just flipped and so where she were the
the places that she performed very well
is the wealthier suburbs high very
educated areas close to the city of
Pittsburgh interesting so they I mean
that's like the that is the I mean that
is the that is like almost like Mindy
right yeah I would say it's got some of
the mindy areas for sure of the suburbs
yeah you know one of the things that
interesting is I think Pennsylvania is
starting to you know knock on wood and
anything to change but I think it
started to pull closer politically to
the Northeast in a way from the Midwest
where I think Wisconsin has seemed to go
the other direction it's pulling a
little bit more right
same thing with Ohio if you look at the
elections like last year Pennsylvania
the Democrats absolutely crushed you
know all of the big races like the
governor's race and the Senate and many
of these congressional seats they lost a
fight won but they were all like in the
reach districts right with you whereas
in you know Ohio they lost the the
governor's race they had sherrod Brown
but he was the exception in Wisconsin
Scott Walker about like 0.8 percent
right it was very very close so you know
it's it's not a surprise that in a very
little turn election
that you're one like this I'm sorry but
not a surprise that what it's not a
surprise that in a very little turnout
election in Wisconsin that the
Republicans could could steal one they
would ever win this election and the
presidential yes in the presidential
year right I mean it wasn't I mean is
1.2 million that low of a of a turnout
for I mean I guess it is relative to the
presidential year but I mean relative to
like a Supreme Court special election
yeah it's not for the Supreme Court
special election but that is a very I
mean like it's sort of like who votes in
special elections tend to be very old
white people who have the free time
right I mean it technically I don't
think it was considered a special little
entity types of election third but you
know from the from the point of view of
increasing turnout like there's two
theories of it the first is you browbeat
the electorate you try to shame people
and you say like hey it's your fault
that you didn't turn out and that is
somewhat effective but the other and
more a much more effective way is to
make loading as simple and as painless
as possible
I owed alia great the problem we have in
Wisconsin is the mechanism to do that
has been completely foreclosed because
you have all these gerrymandered
districts and now you have a Supreme
Court that's out of reach and so you
can't there's no there's no there's no
path right like they won 54 percent of
the vote in 2018 and they only have 36
36 out of 100 seats it's right it's
totally rigged and there's only one way
there's only one way this is for reals
rigged ladies and gentlemen there's only
one way all right that they're gonna get
out of this and that's if you know and I
don't understand you know I don't
understand why you know someone like Tom
Steyer I do understand but it's just
it's a damn shame to me that Tom Styer
going around spending ads on impeachment
or whatever it is take some of your cash
and dump it into Milwaukee for god-size
like I've tried to tell them that before
and I'm sure but like every like they
have consultants come around them who
and what a bias on television they're
not interested in you know like the
Republican Party has read maps and
they've had it for like two decades they
also were very highly successful in
gerrymandering after the 2000 election
which people don't realize so we've had
gerrymandered districts and you know
this is something I've ranted about on
the show for like 20 years right and
after 2010 is when they really that's
basically where you just had the
computing power really to you and in
sort of the the data collection so that
where you could take facebook
information you could take you
cross-reference it with you know the
difference between the data available on
voters between 2000 and 2010 it's huge
huge gigantic Haven since then and now
so right other round of gerrymandering I
mean Jesus the other thing is like you
mentioned it was possible in
Pennsylvania Democrats got 56% of the
vote got 45% of the themes and because I
just explained this to people because it
was the congressional districts that the
state supreme court said you've you've
gerrymandered in an unfair way and so
we're gonna change those I don't I still
don't get and I ask you this like a
couple of our conversations ago why
someone hasn't brought the same case
with the state districts it's the what's
going on
I don't I've talked to people about it
and when you talk to people are you
talking to like just the guy who works
at the the Piggly Wiggly or are you
talking to anybody in Paula
I got political director of their
districts PA or whatever like and so
what is that and the the idea is you
know right now in Pennsylvania is gonna
be okay because the way our districting
works for state legislative districts is
the majority leader gets a purse there's
a five
person committee and the majority leader
gets a person a minority leader gets the
person of each house and then the fifth
person is appointed by the Chief Justice
of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court now
Pennsylvania we now because we cared
about our Supreme Court elections we now
have a 5-2 Democratic majority and so
we're gonna have a Supreme Court justice
appoint someone who is just a fair right
and and so there's no concern from what
I understand that there may be a problem
in in 2010 the Republican Supreme Court
okay so I hear the process is going to
allow based upon the personnel in there
now the process can allow in 2020 for
these districts to probably revert
without the the need for a a court case
and there's concern that politically it
looks like they don't want to put too
much political strain on the Supreme
Court you know what I mean because last
time around home the Republicans scream
that it was subverting democracy there
was a huge I don't know if you remember
this and they were gonna impeach all the
Supreme Court judges and they weren't
even talking about like this the the US
Supreme Court coming in there I
understand all right
it makes Sam John from San Antonio can I
get a word in edgewise with this
long-winded for a second I
just like to make following two points
first of all listening to Mike from PA
talk about numbers I've often analogized
to both a blind person playing tennis
and you parenting and I say that for the
following reasons his predictions have
proven to totally be wrong but
fundamentally flawed their premises I
would like to offer him a bet on my
version of how much Bernie wins by in
the Pennsylvanian Northeast versus his
guesses and my proposal is that if I win
I smack him across the face and that if
I win I smack him across the face
because I say with mathematical
certainty I will win he's a
charlatan not just wondering if you have
any thoughts on that
John I didn't think you were so able it
either that's a Miss all right Mike
appreciate the call
Gilly thanks buddy yeah jumpy right come
from a four seven eight area code who's
this where you calling from all right
this is a coding on the chief look uh uh
chief smut good Jeff from Georgia all
the goodies got innards really what's
going on Jeff
hey Maynard not much don't worry it's
call is not about any vocabulary
enthusiasts may have appeared in the
program on Friday no this is a joke
baton baton that guy's not cool everyone
wanna bring up some I hadn't heard
talked about on show a little bit back
in 2008 when Obama before he flicked his
running mate after he was gonna meet
when they floated out Joe Biden's name
everybody in the media and the Obama
campaign okay the same reason right and
then what they said was coupons foreign
policy experience you guys remember this
yes Joe Biden was on the Foreign
Relations Committee big and the city
reputation is no one will talk about
global affairs it's going to help this
rookie you know ex state senator right
from the Illinois you know really
understand how it works but what I
always took that ass especially in
hindsight is that what I really meant by
that it's Lou and talking about Israel
in the news these days it's pretty
Porter's I think more and more people
are waking up to the downright shameful
apartheid stay there they're running in
that area of the world and Joe Biden is
a among other problems that he's not
going to help the problem made worse is
this rule in that whole situation he's
never been a friend to the Palestinian
people he does not want to see the
Palestinians free and he's got no
interest in robbery as real as for
excessive and and that's part of the
reason I'm extremely worried that uh
that between the rates between Bernie
and not birdie which is basically house
shaking out he's the strongest not
burden
and this does not really seem to be
hurting him at least not with the
Democratic primary
well the Israel thing is changing a
little bit
step by step but yeah Joe Biden is the
quintessential AIPAC Democrat whose
husband do you think that he's
dramatically different than like Kamala
Harris would be no no I don't think so I
think the only I think I think Kamala
Harris but I think Kamal Harris's awful
right I mean I think I think I think the
most I think generationally though I
think that you know some I think that
maybe like when bado says Netanyahu is
racist that sends a signal amongst the
younger people whereas Biden has like
right no reference point for even having
a discussion on the issue but I don't
think no I think that in fact the only
mainstream like prominent Democrat that
I think even marginally defected on this
at all was Obama until Bernie but Obama
and the second half of the second term
started to get a little bit fed up but
Hillary Clinton Bill Clinton Joe Biden
Kamala Harris you know mostly Elizabeth
Warren it's all the same garbage with
that stuff appreciate the the call Jeff
[Music]
let's go over some of the clips that we
have for today
look I don't wanna make too much of this
but I do think it's funny some reason
President United States cannot pronounce
the word origin or maybe he cannot
remember the word origin I mispronounce
things all the time all the time I
mispronounce names quite a bit I stutter
I I have all sorts of verbal tics but
this is pretty funny and he doesn't he
says it upfront and then this is a long
clip right
he says that it comes back around that's
the funniest part and he knows that he
can't say it which is also funny like a
lot of people are saying like oh this is
signs of dementia or obviously you know
whenever you see something like this the
first things you think if you're in you
know on YouTube is Parkinson's of course
or some other problem I have no idea
syphilis
untreated syphilis untreated syphilis
affect people's speech patterns I don't
know I have no idea just like addicted
to I don't know see like diet pills is
something as an example just the thought
this could just be that he just can't
access the word and I certainly go
through that but I can tell you that
when I can't access words at least for
me it's because I haven't slept and
that's usually because my kids wake me
up now of course Donald Trump probably
has not been even near his kids at any
time at night at least hear is talking
and attempting to say the word origins
hope they now go and take a look at the
oranges or the oranges of the
investigation the beginnings of that
investigate not the origin of the
investigation where it started how it
started who started it whether it's
mckay Porco me or a lot of them where
does it go how high up in the White
House did it go you will all get
Pulitzer Prizes okay you're gonna all
get Pulitzer Prizes you should have
looked at it a long time ago and that's
the only thing that's disappointing to
me about the Muller report the Muller
report
I wish covered the oranges how it
started the beginnings of the
investigation how it started it didn't
cover that and for some ways on its day
none of that was discussed the oranges
the oranges he knows he's not saying it
right because he says the beginnings oh
yeah no he knows he can't say it's a
tough one I'm going in one more time got
oranges God duh the starting the
beginning you know actually I heard from
in again that origins is that's the
mispronunciation it's supposed to be our
engines orange and then it was ruined in
the common people say I don't know how
to say that word but I don't I don't
like it it's not a good word oranges
cyrene ago she arranges oranges just
good self around it to make kids or
losers who try to be my criminal
conspirators that's like why that's my
girlfriend and I don't know what the
other one is his spray tan has seeped
into his brain all he sees is orange I
don't know what why should we play the
German thing - that's like where he
keeps getting where his dad was born
wrong well that's because I don't
believe a word about where his dad was
born frankly where do you want to sign a
new you're a lot more documentation
about that I don't know where - I don't
know I'm just asking questions we need
to see birthday yes
let's turn to something that's a little
bit more disturbing coming out of the
White House and that is this guy Hogan
gay Gidley right and if I remember this
guy Hogan Gidley he was an obvious Rick
Santorum you see worked for somebody
else in the primary I can't remember who
it was and I'm quite sure it worked for
Santorum at least in one primary house
he was in 2012 he was the main Santorum
talking points guy and here he is on Z
on MSNBC and part of the reason why I
think the White House does not feel
obligated in any way to provide support
for Puerto Rico part of it is that
Donald Trump doesn't like the mayor part
of it is that cousin feel they vote from
and part of it is they just don't
consider them America
they just the it just runs contrary to
their perspective of who should be
Americans and who should not be
Americans and it is not just Donald
Trump who feels this it they it infuses
the I'm convinced the entire White House
they all share this this that's how they
all have that's why this guy's been
there since day one he's still their
common bonds they have a common bond a
common perspective on who is a real
American and who's not a real American
and Hogan Gidley just just if you don't
focus on this stuff sometimes some of
the the truth seeps out more money than
any state or territory in history for
rebuild that's not true a hundred
percent there is no where that's not
true have not come to 91 billion dollars
with all we've done in that country they
have had a systemic mismanage I'm sorry
all we've done in what can we go back a
little bit not come to 91 billion
dollars with all we've done in that
country they have had a systemic
mismanagement of the goods and services
we've sent to them you've seen food just
rotting in the ports their governor has
done a horrible job he's trying to be
critical that country well I agree so
it's time to immediately decolonize them
leave the occupation and allow them to
govern their own economy I mean you know
it's so depressing and sickening about
it is that were taco is a literal colony
obviously and if the United States
actually stopped colonizing them we
would still financially colonize and
terrorize them the way we do the rest of
the Caribbean in Latin America so it's
two orders of colonization but it is
incredible to actually go to a place
that it's like like is Haiti essentially
a colony of the United States and Canada
yes but if I'm really strong functioning
it is it's is still mind-blowing to
actually in a place which is like no
that just is it's a Crichton we're not
even
don't we're not saying that it's
functionally we're not we're not just
here to be exploited
we're actually literally like we just
that's what we do and if you're lucky
we'll stop testing weapons on one of
your islands and and accidentally
killing people and yeah I mean could
bring economic activity there right I
mean they need to look I think you know
ideologically I support Puerto Rican
independence but at the very bare
minimum every single Democrat for even
very crass reasons needs to campaign on
giving them full states absolutely
absolutely
also he said that they gave 91 billion
dollars in aid to Puerto Rico and that
is not true
I am shocked that they would lie about
something like that
well org it was actually 11 well both
ends with one he's probably like he's
also probably like putting in some
likely yes probably like yes loans yes
we have we have you know yes they would
probably forgive in private debt some
boring it would be interesting to figure
out what that number is because it's
probably grotesque they get that so your
work so the president is threatening to
shut down the southern border as you
know and no one I think thinks that he's
going to do it because of course the the
problems involved in shutting down the
border would be in some instances
catastrophic for a lot of like border
towns I think in the United States and
you know catastrophic may be a little
bit extreme but but for also for other
industries in this country and here is
the Federalist Molly Hemingway on Fox
News I can't help but to think that like
maybe they're just they're not really
gonna do this but I do feel like there
is a little bit of a test balloon to
just get a sense
like what's the appetite for something
like this it's also part of their I
think their agenda to try and make it
less seem like there's such a crisis
that's going on at the border right now
such a crisis that maybe we need to do
something like this like I mean this is
this is akin to Joe Biden's people
floating Stacey Abrams right it's like
because they didn't ask Mexico if they
could do it no the idea being that like
you're just planting you're you're you
proposing things to give people a
different perspective on what you who
you are what you're what you're willing
to do or how bad and so this whole idea
about shutting the southern border is
just a way of trying to enhance the
characterization of their crisis but
here is but then the problem is is that
you get sent out because you're a shell
and you've got to come up with a
rationale for it and that's where it
starts getting a little bit trickier and
here's a Molly Hemingway's best shot at
this ports are showing that almost half
of our veggies and about 40% of our
fruit does come from Mexico but I
understand the president's issue too and
his stance on this do you think that he
should shut down the border I'm not even
sure about that but the idea behind
shutting down the border there would be
two issues there one there are so many
people flowing over the border there are
so many people flowing across the parts
of the border that are not currently
guarded that they need to shut down the
ports of entry to monitor those areas
and also the flow of drugs there the
other issue is that sometimes you want
to have a little bit of hurt so that
people are incentivized to do something
about the situation that's true not just
in this country but in other countries
and facing economic consequences for not
taking this problem seriously or not
doing enough to stop it is one of the
ways that you can make people care more
about it in this country though where we
should be most concerned there are
things that our legislators should be
doing closing loopholes we have laws
that incentivize trafficking children
either having children come as
unaccompanied minors or knowing that if
they if people come with children they
kind of get a free entry into the
country these are things that our
lawmakers should be worried about right
now these guys
we actually have laws that actually make
it seem like we don't want children to
suffer well hell yeah let's have a u.s.
pregs it and see how that goes the
problem is of course that they're only
shutting down the border for people
capital is still free to flow freely and
exploit people wherever it wants to I
you know what let's I would like to see
them shut down the border for a day and
we can measure if we can order a turf or
we can measure exactly that's why they'd
never do it we can measure what
constitutes a crisis like Oh nobody's
getting you know a an avocado cost $17
now but at least we don't have people
screaming over the border avocado cost
$17 but at least there is in Mexican
food
one less reggaeton party at a Prospect
Park this weekend that's gonna hit
home let's go to the phones come from a
six for six
area code who's this where we come from
hello hello six for six where you come
from just meet with George from New York
George from New York what's on your mind
hey Ben Shapiro is going to be on Joe
Rogan today and I just wanted to ask
like these guys he's all right guys
yes so much funding and they end up
getting flat getting a lot more views on
YouTube and I just I literally every
time I opened up my podcast app on my
phone I get an ad for Ben Shapiro and
I'm just wondering you know what we can
do to combat ideology when it's clearly
getting a lot more I mean I don't know
tell people about our shows you know I
mean like honestly you know this has
been an ongoing issue and
I don't think the left institutionally
again the money on the left
I think waste their money in a lot of
ways you could have spent a couple
million bucks on that state Supreme
Court race in Wisconsin made a big
difference there's all sorts of
different things that people could do
you know with money to support the
growth of shows like ours doesn't even
mean direct funding I mean there's all
sorts of like ancillary support things
that could be could be done but there's
just not an appreciation for that stuff
funding on the left is very difficult
it's very difficult because part of it
is a function of very often you're
railing against the people who have that
kind of money even if it's not them
specifically the idea of people having
that kind of money is problematic and
then I think there's also just a quality
to people on the Left who have who fund
things they because of the nature of
people on the Left I think the idea
there's always I think a lot of those
people want to use their money as a
mechanism in which to be creative that's
a good point
thank you and and and so more often than
not you don't get sort of the banal the
funding for the banal more operating
expenses type of things it always has to
be the the Sam cedar project or the you
know the you know specific specific
projects are funded on the Left more
than like the operating expenses of
stuff and that's that's problematic I
mean you you and David Pakman have the
same amazing set from idea but you look
at a Ben Shapiro and Dave Rubin and
they've got like it's no fancy studio
and then people eat that up
yeah yeah maybe I get upgrades a little
bit but yeah no it's true
appreciate the call thanks for the
thanks for the upper right yeah bro yeah
that was great Wes you guys have more
people uh miss cuz bench P Rose got
better furniture piece look at that Ben
Shapiro a studio can top it
knock it off come from a to10 area code
look out
Brendan's got did like the he's running
not in my cells Rendon Brendan got into
the liquor cabinet come from a to10 area
cut who's just where he come from
Haley this is mo from DC mo from DC
what's on your mind I just want the
toughy all about what you always talked
about earlier with uh like Hillary
Clinton
I mean 2016 election 2018 election and
like the amount of people who voted you
know how the votes went up how many
people voted in 2018 compare and 2016
things you know and I want to simply
talk about in the black community about
the way you know I want to generalize
for a second though I know it's not that
great of a thing you do right just to
talk a little bit about what I think a
lot of like white liberals would get
mixed up about like the black community
because I hear you all talk a lot about
like the barber shop and the people who
put the New York Times article right I
mean interview with the flag guys in the
barber shop yeah that article doesn't I
just work but go ahead I just think that
I think that people think that if you
went back to that barber shop there
would be like this there's a Great
Awakening of like hey the people will be
in the bar so I would be like yeah I
can't believe how you know horrible
Donald Trump is and yeah we need to do
something about it but I just don't I
mean just from my experiences I just
don't see that happening because and
I'll do it for you read I mean I'll tell
you a few reasons at least and I could
start off with like
huh go ahead and I mean I was solving
like uh
- in 2016 with Hillary Clinton running I
would say that me as a millennial I was
born in 1987 the first president that I
can remember in my life
is Bill Clinton you know I didn't pay
attention when when George HW Bush was
the president anything you know I didn't
I didn't know anything about that and
right my father was obviously a Democrat
so I knew Bill Clinton that's the
president my very first president and
the only things that the 90s represented
to me as a black man in the United
States that the Clintons represented to
me was a system of like persecution of I
mean I I don't want to use that word
lightly since you know was like globally
and it's as much worse things happening
but but I remember the 90s as like a
like a system of persecution with with
what was going on in welfare system and
the crime bill and how many black men
were being put in jail and and just you
know growing up I had on my mother's
side I have two uncles who get over 20
years in prison I have a older cousin
who did over 20 years in prison I have
two on teens who were addicted to crack
cocaine and heroin for over 20 years so
I mean I think that a lot of people miss
the emotional like representation that
the Clintons brought when they were
running when Hillary Clinton was running
because it it was uh I don't know it was
it was I just think that em credit card
needs to do a lot more with the
emotional appeal to black people in
general because the policies I mean
everybody's not like a political junkie
and really knows a lot of things that
are going on correct policies and I
think a lot of liberals miss understand
that a lot of black people vote for
Democrats totally because they're the
party of seeing it's like not racist you
know in comparing comparison that's like
right like because of us cuz I think a
lot of black folks have
conservative views even when you're
talking about things like the Supreme
Court in the things that we might lose
like abortion rights or equality for the
LGBTQ community or gun rights I think
there are way more black folks in this
country who believe in those ideas why
do you think making abortion illegal
making gun making gun making letting you
have any gun you want you know I think
there are more black people who believe
those suits than people say I I think
there definitely I mean I don't know
what the the date is but I think there's
definitely more than the people think it
tracks with the data that we've had on
this show before of the general
population that shows that there is not
a constituency for fiscally conservative
socially liberal out there I think I
just want to say the reason I mean I'm
think malaika's pieces are really
important but I think you know the
reason the the Wisconsin piece does some
work is I think it sort of speaks to
some of the things you're talking about
and it doesn't I mean I'll say Tim for
me anecdotally amongst a lot of
conversations with just sort of more
normal less politically obsessive people
generally yeah there's a huge amount of
hatred of Trump but not necessarily the
same sense of total disc juncture
between what's happening now and what
came before and the same level of
personalized freakout about Trump that
you get and more sort of you know
whatever liberal educated circles that's
totally true that tracks completely and
I also think you know yeah I I mean it
would probably be helpful to if people
got a little bit more serious about
understanding the specifics of different
electorates and the diversity and
differences inside them versus these
sort of big broad strokes yeah so let me
ask you this so I mean that being the
case that there is a portion of the
African American community that it has a
a an earned cynicism about the about any
you know political party being able to
being you know delivering on whatever
that promise should be and even with an
awareness of you know the Democratic
Party is at least not actively you know
almost like promoting its racism what
what is how do you break through that I
mean if there is a if there is a sense
of like you know and we go back to that
barber shop and people are like yeah
whatever
he's not doing anything that we didn't
anticipate him doing and he's not you
know we're not surprised
I mean what I mean I I just believe that
that all goes into this like what change
they said it's more about the general
public and I think black people suffer
from the same things that the general
public does it like it's a myth you know
it's a misinformation it's a it's just
not understanding the policies in the
legislation because it's like the
argument that we're having with Bernie
Sanders in comparison to the other
candidates when it comes to reparation
like the you know the facts are that
Bernie Sanders has been progressively
pushing for her you know black rights
and justice and equality his entire you
know his almost his entire life but when
it comes down to the emotional appeal
that he has to the black community I
feel like that's where people think he's
lacking because he and and I think it
might just be a Bernie thing you know
he's not he's not that I mean he's not
as charismatic as people are so it's a
it's a little hard to get that emotional
appeal but late like I said I think it's
just more of the educating the system I
mean educating people about the system
and I think why the Clintons were so
like polarizing to black people cuz that
was like more than a few times there
we could just see it on a daily basis
you know just just it was just like you
know you you remember when you're when
your aunt's boyfriend was hiding in the
closet because he couldn't live in the
house which I'd see and you remember you
know as a 10 year old being connived out
of five six dollars but you remember
these things so it creates this
emotional oh well I mean I understand
that horse on the Clinton my my my
question is how do you well how do you
do the opposite like what is that
emotional I mean because I think frankly
you know if you call in and you are you
know telling me that you're a 55 year
old woman living in the suburbs the
emotional I think a strategy to to get
you to vote would be to talk about you
know the sort of the more discussing
elements of Donald Trump the moral
repugnance yeah and so my question to
you mo is what what is what what do you
think if it could be boiled down to
reach that subsection of people what is
the the emotional appeal that you think
would be effective well I mean I would
say something that that I think could be
done that I don't that I think Barack
Obama did a bad job at doing is when
there are these opportunities to to play
politics basically like like doing when
we were having this this college
national conversation about policing and
you know black man and young black men
being side without guns and things when
though even though he had a Republican
Congress that he could have done things
for the emotional appeal by like
advocating for national investigation
into the institution of police in this
country and and these things probably
wouldn't never happen but every but
I think those I think constantly pushing
or idea that you know black justice use
the bully pulpit out there over and over
again that you are constantly thinking
about it because I think that's where
the emotional the like the unsettling
comes from is like I think black people
a lot of times feel forgotten especially
I mean is it it's a it's like the site
how you always tell my husband zero so
I'm getting at some points like when
Barack Obama passes a marriage equality
it's like thank you it's like we I love
you know I love it and lot of people
love it when he passed right so I mean
when he's talking so much about women's
equality and work and he's talking about
you know these different things that
they're solely effect like a certain
marginalized community but at the same
time you never push things that was
solely affect the black community so
thank you yeah well those those types of
things lead to the emotions being you
know lead to the emotional stress well
as you're not you know you're not being
heard at all and I mean I think you know
Obama's defenders would argue and in
fact I think we had I can't remember his
name
professor from girls Kennedy yes Kennedy
from from Harvard came on and I think it
well I cannot remember the name of his
book now but oranges but it was the his
argument was and I think there is
something to this at least as far as it
goes his argument was that Obama was
very afraid to to talk about the black
experience in this country because he
was afraid of of you know he felt hemmed
in and that he couldn't govern in that
way because he would be pegged as you
know being there just to help black
people I think sadly
the lot of the population the white
population on some level came to that
conclusion we're going to help lack
people you know that's I think a lot of
impatient yeah a lot of the data that we
have seen you know we had the sides on
to talk about that book identity crisis
which i think is just sort of him
amazing you know where Barack Obama's
winning the presidency for 50 percent of
uneducated whites was the first time
that they realized that Democrats were
to the left of Republicans on race it
was a tough deal and and so you know he
was inhibited or at least felt like he
was inhibited or supposedly felt like he
was inhibited I think there was some of
that and for everything we got from him
in terms of the black community was all
respectability politics was all you got
to be your brother's keeper and you know
it's basically you know we you know the
same argument that Bill Cosby would have
given essentially watch yourself double
and and so then the irony is of course
that Hillary Clinton had to talk a lot
more about race because in part of of
the the history you're talking about in
in some respect and in part because she
needed to make that back that cell and I
think that cut against her with some of
those white voters but I think you know
eventually hopefully we can get to the
point where where a politician will feel
confident and there'll be a electorate
that has been fashioned that will where
we're talking in addressing those
concerns not just in the course of a
candidacy but in the course of a
presidency will be of net political
value or at least they'll perceive it to
be the case but appreciate the call
because yeah I mean I I see that I see
that on I mean you know you actually
realize that every day in live would you
know you when someone
and you you know you don't press them
because you don't want the rest of it
officer you don't want to be that guy to
the rest of the office you know how many
so things like I understand that
perspective that he had and I mean I
would expect somebody like a bunny sense
or some definitely be able to make more
progress with african-american justice
and equality than Barack Obama could
have ever done so I mean I understand
that point it was just I think that he
did a big disservice in the emotional
appeal to the black folks for them for
the future Democrats not just you know
not just about for himself it was more
about Democrats to come right and I
think I don't think I want to ask you
all a quick question that uh that was
not related I mean it's kind of related
but not really oh do you all think that
Barack Obama will campaign for Bernie
Sanders if you want to climb it that's a
good question let you go and we'll
answer it appreciate the call if Barack
Obama will campaign I imagine that he
wouldn't if you will if he's the general
I I think Obama is going to campaign for
whoever wins the but I thought Obama's
been sending I not to you know Obama
just undermined the New Deal the other
day we know Obama's politics but that
being said he has gone out of his way on
multiple occasions to express personal
appreciation and like of Bernie Sanders
so I I think he you know he's not he's a
smart guy he wants to be the elder
statesman I gonna get pain with
whoever's the nominee I have nothing to
base it basis on but I would say that he
is going to always be gracious in public
and to the extent that he's involved in
any projects they involve politics it is
how do we not have Bernie Sanders be the
the candidate in general oh yeah no I
think of course his role in the primary
is a totally different way yeah the
convention is another question
Sanders get we should keep a very close
eye on Obama but if he's the nominee I
think Obama will go Barlett you
I think he'll do it sort of
unenthusiastically and maybe less than
he would for a different candidate but
he'll do it yeah I don't know I think
he's smart because the lot the worst
place you want to be in is to have that
candidate win and not have it appear to
that candidate that you haven't done
everything he's also you know he's he's
a trend watcher he understands where
things are going where the appetites are
he will criticize the policies and not
the person that's for sure he'll go and
he'll talk about the green new deal
being impossible and they'll say I don't
think the country is ready for
medicare-for-all or that type of thing
or private and we'll hear about that
might even I actually he might be the
ultimate like Bernie's great so what
yeah but but he'll take I think Bernie's
great but the country's not ready for
getting rid of private insurance folks
who rule unsubtle so we'll see
Dragonslayer dragonslayers sam sad to
see promoting vitamins as well as bras
didn't think you would resort to Alex
Jones level just because Hayes is the
feminist ideal man Lindsey Graham's
secret cabana boy
Virginia heaven into work Wilson we're
on a slate podcast and they were both
saying Glenn Greenwald was a Russian
asset who wanted to destroy America and
that appearing on Tucker means you
support Tucker not a fan of some of his
thinking but I thought that was
incredibly shitty to say yes it is I am
I am NOT I the Tucker stuff I think is
more problematic but I do not think that
Glenn Greenwald is a Russian asset who
wants to destroy America I also want to
say that Glenn Greenwald you know
because of his appearances on Fox was
able to at least somewhat disrupt the
pageantry around Boston are oh and he
did it on Laura Ingraham show and Laura
seemed very uncomfortable I was highly
appreciated in the Brazilian left
so Michael Tracey's glass jaw Michael
Tracy is able to see the big picture by
playing into right-wing bigotry
stereotypes and prejudices gives him the
ability to sneak into their cult then
it's sometime in the distant future he
will be able to surprise these cultists
with progressive ideas
that point I'm sure they'll be open to
voting Alon Omar into the presidency
it's called the long game
Canadian curling is the only neighbor of
the United States that is not a Mexican
country and vision of your feminized
future might be important to pay a bit
of attention to the incra C's of our
provincial and local politics good day
sir
yeah dis a.j be cruel and unusual
punishment is either one of these not
both it cannot be permitted and the fact
that only a few countries in the world
have capital punishment makes it unusual
Chris lapacho is it okay to out a
closeted gay Republican I see some
resistance wine moms on Twitter saying
that because Joe Biden sniffs someone's
hair we should investigate Lindsey
Graham and Mitch McConnell I never knew
Mitch McConnell got kicked out of the
military for allegedly being gay why
wouldn't that be important unless they
were sniffing everyone's hair and
touching them inappropriately that's
true I don't know if that's true Wow
well Paco has a future in Apple research
I feel ya if you're actively working
against the rights of gay people I'm
sorry your personal life is on the table
geek wonk have you discussed the details
of yang's you bi yet it's exactly as you
feared I'd like to explain if you
haven't gone over it yet I think we'll
deal with that later you know I'm to a
large extent like there are some things
that come up that it's hard for two
really hard to ignore but I'm trying to
push a little bit of the primary till at
least like May so that you know cuz
we're gonna have the first debates in
June and so you know but the the long
and short of it is yes the long and
short of it is one of my concerns about
a UB I was always a political concern
not so much from a policy standpoint was
that it is an excuse to get rid of other
forms of of automatic economic
stabilizers and of welfare support and
that's what I'm concerned about the
bi is that it's gonna be in it I don't
think it's gonna be and that's that's
that's the big problem with it Colin
from Nebraska Rogan is an alt right
conduit but I encourage all left is to
reach out to Rogen because if you say
smoke weed and have done DMT you might
be able to sway him on important issues
Ben Shapiro's body-pillow please help
then a nightly dry okay Nick from
Manitoba Sam you come across as a big
man on the show with your big brain
takes in whatever that's fine but have
you ever taken a puck in the nuts lastly
can we get Brendan on the sound board
more often he's got talent and finesse
first of all I have back in the day when
I was a kid growing up in Worcester we
played quite a bit of hockey
I played the fence so there were times
but you wore a cup yeah the kids were
small out at seven so it wasn't like
anybody had like a slap shot that was
really gonna debilitate you brother from
Brooklyn the resistance people screwed
up by making nevertrump pers comfortable
in the Democratic Party I've never seen
an article comparing Bernie and Trump
and Rick Wilson Navarro demanding Dems
nominate someone that will be cool with
I'm not sure I fully understand Laura
Navarro yes you should nominate someone
that everybody called like who's classy
Chad Diaz Stephens as a TPMS patron but
also an anti-capitalist I must report
there is no intrinsic barrier preventing
non patrons from calling TMDs what does
that mean oh because they just called
the number after after the show I don't
know I mean that's what I would do
that's cool that's what you would do
whether that works Bader O'Rourke
announced Wednesday he raised nine point
four million in the first quarter
eighteen days I am so excited I have so
many platitudes 218,000 total donations
a majority of the donors are new ok that
makes sense
98% of the donations coming
at under $200
now remember Bernie had 520,000
somewhere around there unique donors
900,000 donations just to put this in
perspective so if you tell me that you
had 220,000 total donations assuming
there's you know it's hard to assume
this because you know with Bernie the
idea of $27 a donation was a big deal to
him so there might be a little bit more
incentive for donors to donate twice
let's say at a smaller amount than maybe
bad O's but assuming even if a half the
the rate of Bernie you're talking about
a hundred and fifty thousand donors not
bad but anyone could run it's the free
country anybody who would see Bernie
said that's what he said when they were
like what do you think about bado
getting it I don't know it's a free
country it's probably annoying listening
to me you nonsense on stage but
whatever God just another burden that I
have to deal with we didn't era uh I
don't know I fully believe in the
untreated syphilis explanation not only
does it explain the dementia his skin
tone his inability to drink water his
fear of stairs and his weird breathing
due to syphilis syphilitic poor Ivanka
he's starting to sound like a zombie
come from an area code who's this we got
from Mission Kansas
Scott what's on your minds I was
wondering if you guys had seen me a
debate between a cow kolinsky and a
microphone a widow from the humanist
report you know a platform
I I watched a little bit of it but not
too much it was like for me it was like
one of those debates where like you
agree with like I personally agree with
like point both people were making and I
hmm
I sort of like got where each of them
was coming from I don't necessarily
agree that Joe Rogan is necessarily part
of the problem but I do think there's
like problematic with the way he brings
on people from the right more often than
he does the left but at the same time
he's not in the same camp as a dave
rubin well I think the problem is this
right he's not in the same camp as dave
rubin but the are you caught are you
familiar with the concept of a funnel
sails and basically what it is is you
get in and the idea is that you keep you
you pull people deeper deeper into your
your pitch until you ultimately close
now I'm not saying that I'm not saying
that Joe Rogan is conscious of what role
he plays in this I don't know that he
would think oh I don't think he's
conscious either yeah I don't think you
would think about ID making those terms
either and the question I think is like
I don't even know if the question is to
assess who is you know who is worse or
what not but at one point in that funnel
right there are parts of that funnel
that are easier to knock off
theoretically but I I think it's just as
problematic because you know when Reuben
comes on there he is getting a certain
amount of credibility and unless hmm you
know I mean look frankly look I was rude
and certainly got angrier than I
probably should have with Michael Tracy
with Michael Tracy yeah but I heard I
heard that on Spotify but I also
but I also was not going to let him come
on
and say that stuff in a way that anybody
could interpret it that I thought any of
it was alright he was smearing Marcy
wheeler he was downplaying and this is
what really really upset me was
downplaying not just the role of the
press but everything that happened in
the run-up to the war in Iraq and in my
mind you know one of the things that I
find really grotesque about this period
we're living in now is the Reformation
project of folks like George W Bush and
people like from and people like Bill
Kristol and though critical yeah and
exactly and and so I have a real issue
with that and frankly when people come
and say this is just like a weapons of
mass destruction except for that without
the deaths that's like that's like
saying you know this this is like wine
except for without the alcohol and the
the grapes like I'm so yeah so I mean
you know the weapons of mass destruction
to me it's like a false equivalency I
mean it was an investigation into the
President and you know people I saw
people like they were just trying to
assess what they knew and so when I hear
like people compare it to weapons of
mass destruction I'm like not
necessarily because there's no like
ultimate goal for like a war with Russia
at least not yet well I think I think
there are people who believe that that
was what the ultimate goal is but
frankly if someone was to think that the
ultimate goal was a war with Russia and
they're using weapons of mass
destruction very hard for them to make
the case to me that there was hyperbole
and that there was hyperbole in the
selling of this investigation I happen
to believe that there was and that it
was hyped and exploited
you know for ratings and for other you
know and I'm sure everybody there was a
bunch of people who felt it be political
advantageous to them in a myriad of
different ways but very hard to accept
the the critique basically using the
same excess but I appreciate the the
call and so you know that's that's why I
wasn't gonna let this guy on without it
being super super clear where I stood on
this and so that you know there was no
one who likes this show who was going to
walk away thinking that I thought his
take on this was even appropriate like
you know I'm gonna be talking to
Greenwald on Friday and Glenn is gonna
be making I would imagine some of the
same cases in a much more nuanced and
smart away and we're gonna have I think
what will be a civil discussion you know
argument in the most sort of benign
sense of the word and you know people
can assess on their merits but I wasn't
gonna let somebody hey try and you know
leverage me to smear Marcy wheeler on
Twitter and I wasn't gonna let him do
that on my show and if you know you do
that on Twitter and I invite you on
my show guess what I'm doing it cuz I
want to mess with you I mean I'm sorry
that's that's the way it works so I
haven't watched kyle and mike yet but I
will
I'm interested in that debate I think I
might be more on Kyle side but I will
check it out about what boy I had a deal
with Rogan oh I don't know if it was
about Rogan specifically I think it was
I don't know what I don't know I
John Sam about those processing towns
what's the Spanish translation of our
Beck macht frei raba cuck Congrats am
not only did you take down Michael Tracy
in that epic debate but you unknowingly
robbed him of something
he's been working towards in years an
interview on the Rubin report Rubin is
so scared to debate you he won't even
have anyone tangentially connected to
you on his show oh if that's the truth
that it would be pretty awesome Gregory
from Oklahoma miscalculation and last
week at the Oklahoma Democratic Party oh
do we have that Dave Rubin clip yeah
play I got a go in a minute can we play
this before I leave please
is this the one with Tim Poole is it oh
no I don't even know which one is this
one which one's the Tim Poole one I will
read and I am in the meantime Gregory
from Oklahoma last week the Oklahoma
Democratic Party has state headquarters
which was tagged with racist and
anti-semitic graffiti and last night the
Cleveland County Democratic Party
headquarters about 40 minutes away South
was tagged with racist graffiti it's
really awful jeez I'm sorry about that
Gregory horrible oh wait this is a full
Prague what is this this is what Candace
Owens dinner key Oh who's put that that
video what that clip of hey dave rubin
debate Sam cedar I believed anarchy oh
that's funny okay DJ dinner look right
now it's very look Candace we do we do
college gigs together who do we get
invited by we get invited by
conservatives and libertarians I never
get invited by any lefty group or
progressive group or anything like that
would I would I go if I got invited of
course I would posit what do we do with
these it posit we literally got a phone
call last week from the University of
Alabama the Huntsville the someone
associated with the college Democrats
who invited Dave Rubin who invited Dave
Rubin not interested not interested in
going did wait what was it you wanted
$10,000 is that what it wasn't it was at
least 10 G's I thought it was more
so literally if anybody pays me king's
ransom I will go that we do I always I
do this not just when I'm with you I
always go up there and I say I'll ask if
you disagree with me come up first right
I always go out of my way to do that
let's go to the phones calling from a
two five six area code is this where you
calling from
my name is Jacob I'm from Alabama Jacob
from Alabama what's on your mind I'm in
the leadership of the college Democrats
that at my college and I've been trying
for the past like two years I've been
trying to reach out to is dave rubin you
know IDW type folks and i I cannot for
the life of me give them to come to
campus I've tried to get them to come to
talk to Nathan Robinson of current
affairs and Nathan has every time that I
tried to set something up Nathan's like
yeah just cover my travel expenses and
Dave Rubin wouldn't he you know I I was
able to get in touch with today well
that's it I mean people go check that
out
dan Archie posted that video I was
thinking about I can't remember what it
was now the other clip that we had
looked at this morning where we heard
Rubin talking I can't remember now I
want ideas where do we go
I mean in terms of like platforming look
at this here's a Derek black with the
Van Jones I guess this is must be Van
Jones's show on CNN and Derek black
ironically enough is a white nationalist
a reformed boring net former former
former former white nationalist and here
is when we talk about the idea of
platforming and whatnot it has
implications well here played
it's clip first you know it's very
alarming to me to see the the highest
levels even you know anchors at Fox
speaking that way does it does alarm you
yeah it's really really alarming that my
family watches Tucker Carlson show once
and then watches it on the replay
because they feel that he is making the
white nationalist talking points better
than they have and they're trying to get
some tips on how to how to advance it so
what changed you alright
and people can tune in that to find out
what changed him but that's a that's
quite a that's quite an indictment and
so if that's the case going on that show
maybe it cuts both ways but I can tell
you that the I have got into Twitter
fights with a bunch of different people
and there is a different character to
the people who come at you depending on
who it is and I don't spend a lot of
time and it's not scientific but I can
tell you that the people who come after
me when I say something about you know
Hillary it very different from the
people who come after me when I say
something about Michael Tracy not so
different from the people who come after
me when I talk about Mike Tsarevich or I
mean and I don't know if you're
responsible for who follows you I don't
think that you have a direct direct
culpability but at one point you got to
make some assessments and ma I don't I
don't know people's intent but it's
awful strange it's awful strange and if
you're not aware of who your audience is
then what you're doing you're not doing
it very well
and if you're benefiting from being
intentionally vague then and have some
consciousness of that then I think
you're not a very good person when you
put it that way and there's a lot of
people who play that game word a lot of
people play that game a lot of people
play that game you know who you are then
they might they might there they might
delude themselves in some way oh let's
go do these vice people they're not on
the thing right oh this is pretty
amazing I don't have them on Oh 13 14
okay yeah okay good
yeah all right let's play this there's
two things here there that are these two
clips
they're both disturbing in their own way
here is a woman who describes voting for
Bernie this is a vice roundtable a woman
who describes voting for Bernie in the
in the primary and then listen to how
she voted in the general and the looks
on the faces of the women around her are
pretty stunning terrible by a show of
hands who here voted for Trump
I don't publicize my votes actually so
does anyone have questions for the women
here that voted for Trump the reason why
I voted for Trump is because I actually
was a fellow for the Democratic Party
and so I just really did not like
Hillary Clinton you know I actually also
did a lot of community work for Bernie
Sanders as well and I don't know I was
in this I literally sat in the voting
booths for like well it was a long time
and I don't know I just like check the
box honestly I thought it was I honestly
didn't even think he was gonna win so
part of it was a kind of a joke but but
again I again I don't know but relay
before speak to the privilege
that that holds for that election to be
a joke for you
right it wasn't really a joke I was like
you know I said it well I mean let me
ring let me recant when I met by a joke
you know I didn't like either party you
know I think it was like I if Bernie
Sanders was on the ticket I would have
voted for Bernie Sanders's I really did
at the time really loved what he said
what he stood for because you know he
really did a lot of grassroots and I
related to him as a Jewish American I
thought that socialism was the answer
and then you know but then was Hillary
what happened with Hillary Clinton when
she stole the election from him you know
I just couldn't vote for for her just
she was a woman so I did vote for Trump
why I didn't because that's not that's
wasting a vote but it was a joke but it
was a joke okay I mean let me just start
with saying like kudos for her for
having the courage to say that but the
the thing that really disturbs me out of
all that and and and and to be clear
that the percentage of people who voted
for for Bernie and then ultimately voted
for Trump was was lower than at least it
was in the last the last comparable
election but with that said Bernie never
made the claim that Hillary Clinton
stole the primary from him so I don't
know where that comes from
but I do know where that comes from and
you know what people ask me like what
was problematic with people like that
first of all completely untrue
completely untrue is it the case that
the DNC has a an organization that had
very little influence on the outcome of
the election favored Clinton over Bernie
without a doubt were the debates set up
in a way that the DNC thought it would
help who
we Clinton by putting him on the
weekends absolutely did it turn out to
help Hillary Clinton I don't think so
but regardless that's it
they had no ability to influence
anything else
there was no stolen election that's just
the fact the system is rigged but not
the system is no election was not
literally rigged like like that is not
true either well certainly when you have
to sign up a year beforehand to vote in
a primary that is in favor of
establishment candidates don't you think
that may be in favor establishing
candidates and maybe not
I mean it's may be in favor of people
who just I mean the idea that a
political party is gonna require like
look I think yes but the rules were the
rules I mean you could say rigged does
not mean that you could say that there
are structural forces that make it
easier for longtime Democrats if you
appeal to longtime Democrats that you
will get elected but that's not the same
as being rigged it wasn't rigged prior
to 1970 when there were no primaries
where it was just picked at the
convention it was okay well I mean then
if you have an extremely man yes except
for semantics means something because
when that woman hears the word they're
stolen the election is stolen from
Bernie Sanders that makes her go in and
say f it I'm gonna spend a lot of time
in this ballot box and an ethic and so
it makes a big difference because rigged
has a definition and it's not there's no
structural advantage for candidates that
appeal to members of the Democratic
Party that's true that's true
that doesn't mean it's rigged in favor
of Hillary Clinton that's not true that
means it perhaps not frighten Hillary
Clinton if there was another Democrat
after you if there was a another
longtime Democratic candidate in there
but it's not slanted in it is there is a
structural advantage to people who have
been long time members of the Democratic
Party now is that gonna hurt Bernie this
time around I don't think so do you
think it's gonna hurt him as much as it
did the first time around certainly not
as much as it did the first time around
why because he's more popular now and
because he's running earlier and people
now have the opportunity he's running to
win but I do think there are plenty of
people who will intend to vote for
Bernie and then realize when they show
up to vote oops I didn't register as a
Democrats a long enough time ago yes and
the dent and in the Bernie Sanders
campaign better be out there trying to
reach those people and let them know
what the rules are and they get in I
agree it should be much easier to vote
for people in primaries I would like to
see same-day registration in all of
these primaries but there's a different
critique than saying the the election
was stolen or that there was some force
that was rigging the election in a way
that Bernie wouldn't win because they
didn't nobody contemplated Bernie
running nobody I can assure you Bernie
figured out that he could win probably
around the same time that other people
figured out that he could win and it was
late in the game for any of it
and so there was nobody who's
contemplating but yes that does a
political party set themselves up in
such a way that they will favor the
there there there partisans of course I
mean I happen to think that we should
have same-day registration on primaries
as well as general election but it's
it's sort of hard to you know make the
argument that there was some nefarious
plan other than long time structural
bias towards having people who are
declared members of your party vote in
the primary some people would call that
rigged not in the literal sense like
stuffing ballot boxes some people will
call it a structural advantage and they
have an issue with that which they have
every right to but we go back to that
for a second it reminds me of the onion
article ironic porn purchase leads to an
ironic ejaculation right I like that I
it's pretty stunning I gotta say it's
pretty stunning I would really like to
hear from the woman in purple sitting
next to her who doesn't publicize their
vote I wouldn't sit on this channel but
I don't want to talk about my my
political action yeah exactly
I want to be on TV but and then and then
to be fair here is an example of I think
someone who's probably more of an
outlier maybe but maybe not but I think
yes statistically speaking more of an
outlier another woman on the panel
they're all young women seems to me I
mean maybe everybody's young to me but a
young african-american woman who had
this to say is to her vote for Donald
Trump well me I support Trump simply
because he a businessman and I come from
a business family I was raised my dad
was a single day he owned his own
business so you know he's an entire
being there just because his dad gave
him a million dollars out the words what
does that mean you have to keep up with
that how you deal from that one mil not
personally I mean he got that 1 million
he went all the way like into that
almost into like what a billion dollar
debt came up out of that and have been
successful every sense and I mean me I'm
not a person that just sit there and
watches one news channel I'll go out and
I'll go to the women's March I go and I
talk to everybody both sides I'm not a
one-sided person I would never be that
because once you were one-sided person
then they can easily eat you alive
well I guess it's nice that a small
percentage of black people has enough
money that they don't have to care about
this stuff I mean we can vote their
class interests I think there are I mean
I don't know I don't know what her her I
don't know that she's necessarily has
money I mean her dad's a small
businessman may that could mean any
number of things but the idea that
certainly been ingrained in certain
segments of our society that that that
the accumulation of money has has
attributes that are associated with in
our society that aren't necessarily
aren't necessarily the case right I mean
Donald Trump has a lot of money even if
he was to have earned that money himself
which I think it's very hard to say
based upon how much money he was left by
his dad and how much money he was given
by his dad and how much of his business
deals were co-signed literally
guaranteed by his dad just this idea
that is out there I mean look the
Republican Party had been cultivating
this for a long time George Bush was the
CEO president Romney I mean this is an
attitude that is out there that somehow
that that that business is running a
business is in some way analogous or an
indication of how you will be in the
context of public service is I think
we've seen that you know when you run a
business your business man you get in
there and you still see it as business
he's still running it like a business
but for him for his benefit yeah if I
cut out these judges my path to my ends
is much clearer much clearer and small
business owners did vote for Trump a lot
I will say Republican party there's a
lot of those small business people not
this one
all right folks that's it for
we have on calls I apologize we're gonna
take five im's and get out of here
bold prog right-wing media online gets
so many views because the audience is
obsessed with the easily digestible and
repeatable content wouldn't rule out
multiple counts bought networks check
out smarter every day's video on
manipulating YouTube's algorithm ah I
certainly will I will definitely do that
do some of that that manipulating the
algorithm definitely let's see
rude Sam cedar Howard Schultz is having
a Town Hall on Fox tomorrow is that
right tomorrow night this is check chief
O'Brien
could the Trump administration be
cutting aid to three Mexican countries
in an effort to worsen conditions create
more sound seekers and fuel a right wing
for your engine heading in 2020 yes
J tingle lady Barbarino by Henry James
thanks Brenda now I own the rights
pajama boy forgot this capitalism vs.
socialism debate bring back feudalism
Jamie Peck 2020 I'll forget this oh my
god snowflake yesterday's interview
Social Democratic Labour Party's have
been most successful in the Scandinavian
countries in terms of winning elections
and implementing their policies there
are many reasons and historical factors
that make this possible but a dig big
difference from the US UK and Germany is
that they have electoral systems that
encourages high turnout and highly
proportional representation is there any
hope for a major electoral reform in the
US that could lead to these outcomes not
in the near term jerem oh five what are
the chance you will not see Fox News and
bars work and dinner places in Wisconsin
what's the percentage of people that
read a newspaper every day in the US I I
contend that two or three low-powered AM
radio stations doing liberal talk in
Wisconsin would have made the difference
in 2016 when is that Howard Schultz
thing do you know tomorrow and there's
going this just came through the wire
that Bernie will be having a Fox Town
Hall on the 15th
that's a Monday
on which 15 April 15th enemy territory
April 15th
darn it are we on um no oh we're not on
leaving for Vegas the next day oh okay
oh shoot so Tuesday darn it
alright darn it darn it
Jeremiah 5 well the Theo Dillon yo is
there a set of drill bits on your desk
is that a set of drill bits right here I
don't think so I do have a set of drill
bits though but in the office and the
final I am of the day Bernie won all 55
counties in West Virginia primaries yet
lost by one delegate vote how is that
not a stolen election see you tomorrow
in that state
to get to where I want
I'm
[Music]
take it
[Music]
I could see where the choice is made so
the option where you tell get paid
there's food
[Music]
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
