this week we heard the the fundraising
numbers from the some of the the top
candidates Bernie Sanders released his
numbers I think it was 500 thousand or
so unique doneita donors nine hundred
thousand or so unique donations 18
million dollars if my memory serves Beto
and Kamala Harris came out with numbers
that were I know in some instances half
that Kamal Harris I think raised twelve
million dollars though but not about
half the amount of of donors unique
donors Beto did not release how many
donors just how many donations he got
what's your take on all this I mean I
I'm of two minds I there was nothing
worse for me when it became sort of
standard for people to talk about the
box office numbers of movies like that
seemed to be irrelevant but politics is
a little bit different and particularly
when you have a race this big the amount
of money that's being raised right now
is a signal to other big donors and/or
it's a signal to the rest of us as to
how much durability these candidacies
have going forward because in many
respects this is going to be a war of
attrition isn't it well it is I mean I
think it's pretty clear that you know
obviously Bernie Sanders is going to
have enough money to go forward you know
there's no sign at all that his
fundraising is in any way going to be
impeded over time by money I mean that
much is clear the rest of them you know
I just I feel like you know first
quarter of the year before the election
win a big feels like this it's less
salient than it would have been and then
it would be a year from now say if
they're they're fundraising is is you
know it totally dried up and obviously
they can't continue if that happens so
the thing that bothers me about this the
box office side of it is that it is so
early and what that says to me and it
bothers me a lot that the press sort of
puts this is the invisible primary right
just what they call the invisible
primary and I I feel as if the press is
always putting its you know the media is
always kind of kind of putting its thumb
on the scales with the way that it
covers people then there's certain
narratives that build up that are really
hard for these candidates to overcome I
get it it's part of politics it's the
way our modern political system works
but I kind of hate it because I think
that you know it's unfair as people are
out there trying to find their feet on
the on the trail they're trying to
connect with voters in a more personal
way before the thing gets really big and
it's all just one big televised event
and I feel like it's unfair to all of
them and you know my my feelings on this
are obviously colored by the fact that
Elizabeth Warren who is you know the
person I think is out there presenting
the biggest ideas and the one who's kind
of you know more than anybody else sort
of offering up an agenda with a lot of
detailed plans that I think all the any
of the other candidates are going to be
grappling with whether she's in the race
or not and I feel like it's kind of kind
of unfair to sort of grade her on the
money you know on the box office when
she's really playing a very different
game than everybody else is and she took
some heat this past week because it
turned out that her financial adviser
her campaign finance adviser quit
because she was refusing to take money
from from big donors and she didn't want
to do those phone calls and do all that
hustling for for money with the rich
people as they do and you know it's
probably hurt her fundraising to do that
and it also though it sort of feeds into
this media narrative that you know she's
failing because she you know doesn't
have the money etc etc and I think it's
kind of unfair this early because I
think that all of these candidates
they're out there you know at these
small events talking to people and
trying to get a sense of what the people
want and also trying to trying out their
ideas it's like a comedian right going
on doing open mic night or going on the
road and playing in small clubs to try
and hone their their act and for
everybody to be you know complaining
because you know some of the comedians
aren't getting lines around the block
for their open act I just think it's
kind of
so yeah that's where I fit in granted my
view on this is kind of colored by
what's happening to Warren and it makes
me you know feel a little bit bad
because I think that you know she's kind
of getting this short short end of the
stick on this invisible primary so far
yeah I mean I I had wished to a certain
extent that she had used that a little
bit more and I think she tried that you
know there's a lot of folks out there I
think who would be very pleased to hear
that she uh you know that her campaign
finance chair wanted to walk away cuz
she won't go for big donors in that way
I think that's much to her credit i I
agree that there's this but the the
thing is that theoretically this should
not impact her because she's not going
for those big donors like these numbers
it seems to me they function for Bernie
because they basically say like we're
gonna be competitive throughout this
entire race this is not going away we
have broad-based support already come in
as the the frontrunner for Beto and for
Kamala Harris
these numbers are part of that silent
primary where they're trying to convince
big donors you can invest in me because
I will be the anti Bernie candidate
basically right uh and and for Elizabeth
Warren she's not gonna take that big
money anyways so the real question is
just how long can she stay in the race
how do you know you know how can she run
a campaign and part of it is gonna be a
function of how well she does in Iowa
and how well she does in New Hampshire
and I I got a bet that for some of those
Iowans and some of those New Hampshire
ins hampshirites that the idea of her
finance chair walking away cuz she's not
gonna take big money that's gonna be
worth more votes than the idea that
she's raised to twelve million dollars
or whatever it is in a quarter IIIi
think that's going to be the case so
it's interesting that the money means
something different to all of them in
many respects and and and I will say
this too you know that's why I'm
surprised that Joe Biden's not in this
race
because theoretically he cannot start
raising money he he has no apparatus to
push back on some of the the issues that
are coming up for him and you know I can
see waiting till the end of the quarter
so you jump in at the beginning of the
quarter you start to raise you money so
you have more time to raise that money
but we shall see I mean it's a it's
gonna be a rather long year and a half
and then it could very well be another
very very long period of time no rest
for the weary Digby and I really
appreciate your you're walking me
through this stuff my pleasure thanks
Sam
we didn't even get a chance to talk
about how the president can't say the
word origins but maybe we will pick up
on that next week
hi there have a great one
