[Music]
conversation later in the program in the
meantime it has been one week now that
the the report was handed in by Robert
Muller
there have been reports that the
investigation that the the full report
is 300 pages my understanding is that if
it were 300 pages including all of the
actual elements of evidence that would
be rather small just from you know
casual conversations I've had with
people who have been involved in these
type of investigations but so we don't
really know and after a week there does
not seem to be a plan as to what
Congress will be able to see within a
couple of days I think the deadlines for
both the Senate or particularly the
house
Jerrold Nadler of the judicial Judiciary
Committee has demanded it I suspect that
they will be going to court and within a
week or so to attempt to force the
Attorney General to give that report to
members of Congress I think we went
through exactly the same thing with
Watergate wasn't there it wasn't that
the case that the the Nixon
administration was forced to hand over
the report I seem to remember after
arguing the executive privilege yeah
yeah and so you know we've been down
this road before again the the White
House could be just refusing to release
the report because they want to maintain
some type of executive privilege as to
protect the institution of the
presidency it could be you know for
future presidents it could be because
they also think politically it makes the
Democrats stick their neck out a little
bit I guess if there's you know nothing
in the report that it's complete
sculpt Ettore for Donald Trump or it
could be that there are certain things
in there that they think might be
problematic to the narrative that
they're building we don't know and like
I say we'll probably see court cases
coming in the future however with all
this said about the report this is I
think Fox and Friends comes up with the
most interesting take as to why we might
not want to see the report and by the
way the headlines really are so negative
on a positive story for the president
they can't handle it because 300 pages
are coming out soon here it is the
Huffington Post the model report is
hundreds of pages long which raises the
question how accurate can afford page
summary be you never heard of
summarizing New York Times says model
report exceeds 300 pages raising
questions about the four page summary
like what questions they stopped for 300
pages and Muller's report on Russia and
Trump is more than 300 pages long
that's what we like you said the summary
thing everyone is probably thankful we
don't have to read 300 pages we all will
probably but you would have a confession
I never read The Odyssey I only read
them on earth no very good passing yeah
passing I love her said she says we will
probably I am willing to back that no
one on that couch will read the three I
need some nerds I just don't think
that's gonna I don't even know who had
bet on no I would bet on the couch for
having a better a chance of reading that
I read on a tomboy because he's a
friggin historian oh is that right his
books yes I did not know densive Leon is
the barber is part often as a co-writer
but often has a code never hurts
alright well listen we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back Ben Dixon
from the Benjamin Dixon will be joining
us as Benjamin Dixon
