[Music]
so Stuart Varney was on Fox & Friends
and he was singing the praises of Bernie
Sanders initiative to force Amazon to
pay a $15 minimum wage oh wait a second
if I got that wrong oh no wait a second
that's not it
he's going after AOC for pointing out
that Amazon only recently did well there
you've got a OC ramping up her fight
against Amazon accusing Jeff Bezos of
becoming the world's richest man by
paying his workers starvation wages as
she said he reacts to Advani hosts of
Varney a company on the Fox Business
Network you want my reaction oh I just
did a little research okay okay Amazon
pays $15 an hour to all full-time
part-time temporary and seasonal workers
all has it full-time
how long has that been the case do we
know has it been three months six months
it was shortly after Bernie Sanders
basically threatened to bring up
legislation October 2018 now I would
imagine Jeff Bezos has made an extra
billion dollars between October of 2018
and now it's conceivable but he was the
world's richest man at that point and it
may be correct that ALC is being a
little bit limited he also made his
became the world's richest man by
skirting around state taxes for many
many years having a competitive edge in
that he didn't pay he skirted taxes and
didn't pay people living wages and
forced people to stay locked in
warehouses without taking pee breaks
boots drop the Postal Service yep here
we go let's hear what Stuart Varney
though but you
is Varney gonna give credit where
credit's due for those raises that the
Amazon workers got hmm I don't think so
all full-time workers get medical
coverage a 401k company paid life
insurance short-term and long-term
disability insurance
maternity and parental leave I hardly
think that is starvation wages well
that's nonsense
they detailed a lot of that stuff they
said they say that our Staten Island
facilities people there earn between
1730 an hour and 23 dollars an hour yeah
and the company that they when Amazon
wanted to come to New York City at AOC
said no a.m. 25,000 jobs 25,000 jobs
would do which paid an average of
$100,000 a year that's not starvation
wages what what a OC is doing here is
trying to go up against Trump's
prosperity the Democrats are trying to
run against Trump's successful economy
so they have to criticize it and say
okay it's it's just not fair
you got billionaires we don't have
billions you got it
I want it we're gonna take it that's
what they're saying it's jealousy
they're running on emotion not fact
they're stealing from people who have
really worked hard Jeff Bezos worked
really hard to start this company a
company that we all depend on now and
they wanted to move here to New York and
this is the this is the congresswoman
who said no look it's classic socialist
propaganda cause it was nothing like can
we do the math on this can we do the
math how many billions times more did
Jeff Bezos work harder than the rest of
us right I mean if he's how many
billions does he have do we know many is
it is he hundreds but is he so he's
worked I don't even have 154 billion
okay so I don't I don't want to talk
about is like half a billion dollar I
expect Jeff Bezos to fund the lifestyle
and just because remotely less ways him
as much Jeff Bezos is is what has worked
a hundred billion time
harder than me yeah yeah he works like
50 hour week and and a junior and a
junior huh Junior congresswoman who
still is more power than him that's how
it works he came to New York and there
wasn't a massive grassroots uprising
against the corporate giveaway to Amazon
she just was like I'm sorry no no I'm
tweeting it this is you're not coming so
no thank you
that's why billionaires always talk
about how they work like 80 hour work
weeks and what they really mean is they
check email in the uber right Bezos is
like checking it and like like on his
helipad while he like tries to like cut
his wife know like divorce settlement
those tax breaks were stolen from him by
us okay he earned those tax breaks by
working a hundred billion times harder
than the rest of oh my gosh he's such a
cook and actually buying into this I
want it we're gonna take it that's what
they say it's true they're running on
emotion not fact yeah I heard someone
say it's stealing they're stealing from
people who have really worked really
hard to start this company a company
that we all depend on now and they
wanted to move here to New York and this
is the this is the congresswoman who
said no look it's classic socialist
propaganda drumming up an emotional
response to prosperity but what is she
I'm gonna take a self-care day so I
don't really even have time for this but
I just want to say up top first of all
Jeff Bezos no no I don't feel good
finally the Democrats are running on
what the American people want is which
is to be against prosperity and to be
against gamers that's right that's the
American people are just crying out for
an opposition to luxury it probably all
rely on Jeff Bezos now and the idea that
he might just stop it if we take some of
his billions of dollars he could just
stop and then where would we be they
really can't decide how they feel about
Jeff Bezos because I feel like a few
months ago he was being smeared as a
liberal right hey easy on the Bezos
defense now they have to defend him
against the newly elected
socialist dictator queen of New York
Trump Trump's tweeting no I stopped the
deal I stopped it because it was very
unfair that's actually the good
instincts that Trump has that's what's
dead sin well is that he would recognize
that actually you want to be on the
right side of lying about that what's
going on with Fox by the way what's
going on there
