[Music]
this story about Donald Trump's taxes
now to be clear it's being reported as
if his taxes have been acquired by the
New York Times it's not his taxes what
they have they've only gotten the
essentially the top sheets of his taxes
which are the 1040 forms from 1985 to
1994 however and so it doesn't really
quite show the mechanisms of this
happening but the the big stories are
that Donald Trump apparently and again
it's hard to really even determine this
I think from the top sheet because
businesses individuals can make it look
like they've lost a lot of money for
eight of those ten years he did not pay
any federal taxes and they wealthy
people have mechanisms that are legal
sometimes not legal
sometimes shouldn't be legal but are
legal to make it look like they have
less money or less income and therefore
pay less taxes you think Trump might be
involved in something like that I would
be shocked but yes I do it also appears
in multiple years he appears to have
lost more money than nearly any other
single individual taxpayer in the
country what matters is me I'm the only
one that matters good why do we even
bother to pay our taxes Jesus Christ
there was also some type of weird spike
in his income in 1989 that nobody can
account for of 52 million dollars
everyone knows that
and it almost wouldn't even have to be
sick yeah there you go
but the interesting about this is that
what this does is it furthers the
argument
of the now there is statutory language
that says a congressional committee can
get anybody's taxes for any reason you
do not need to have a compelling
government interest but minuchin was
arguing that there needs to be a
compelling government interest well the
statute was written in response to a
scandal where the taxes were required to
determine if there was a scandal
somebody was paying taxes and so when
you have this now in the public record
even minuchin x' fake assertion that you
need to have a compelling interest now
seems to be fairly satisfied we have
someone who was the largest money loser
in the country like literally that guy
maybe him and one other guy and I'm sure
it's a guy and he paid no taxes from 8
to 10 years yet he's a billionaire that
seems like a compelling interest from a
policy standpoint never mind
from any other from a policy standpoint
we don't we should not have billionaires
who build their billionaire now maybe
he's not really a billionaire but he
certainly has claims he is so we should
not have billionaires in this country
well I would put a period after that but
for the sake of this argument let's have
it a comma we should not have
billionaires in this country who have
built that financial empire without
having paid taxes along the way we need
to change the policy in this country and
so let's have a committee look at his
taxes there's your there's your
compelling interest well I don't know
maybe that was what's going on maybe
that's a coincidence
maybe it's not I don't know where they
got those taxes from we were trying to
figure out maybe it was one of his
ex-wives now he was married to Ivana
during that entire period except
the last two years they divorced in 92
now it's not inconceivable according to
a perhaps some type of divorce
settlement that Ivana would not have
gotten hold of any number of 1040 the
top sheets of these forms for the next
two years five years
that seems conceivable certainly in the
context of my proceedings we're gonna
check in with incomes in terms of
determining child support neither one of
us is a billionaire and neither one of
us but it's conceivable so it could have
come from her
which would be the least problematic in
some way but you know look people leak
things I don't know I hope it's not from
the government but my money's on Tiffany
she's the wild card in all this she
clearly hates him Tiffany's pretty cool
hey Dad oh what's that out there I'm the
thing and she's photocopying 1040s years
ago now the only other thing that's
interesting here too is that we know
there are ongoing investigations into
the taxes of the Trump family and we
know this in part because Donald Trump's
sister resigned to avoid at least one of
these investigations his older sister
Mary Ann Trump Barry was a federal
appellate judge up until less than a
month ago three weeks ago she resigned
there was a court inquiry now this is a
court inquiry that came from complaints
that were filed last October after the
investigation by the New York Times
which reported that the Trump family
generationally
had engaged in dubious tax schemes
during the 1990s including instances of
outright fraud that greatly increased
the inherited value the wealth of mr.
Trump and his siblings what judge Barry
not only benefited financially from most
of those tax schemes The Times found
this is also in the times she was also
in a position to influence the actions
taken by her family so in other words
she wasn't just along for the ride she
had to sign off on things so in a letter
of February first a court official
notified the four officials who had
filed complaints that the investigation
was receiving the full attention of a
Judicial Conduct Council and then ten
days later judge Barry filed her
retirement papers here is what happens
to such investigations when someone
retires from the court they end seems
like a good time just to move down two
mile ago the investigation becomes moot
since retired judges are not subject to
the conduct rules and the people who
filed complaints were notified in
mid-april that the matter or early April
had been dropped without finding on the
merits of allegations that seems like a
poor system just irrespective of Trump
that you stopped investigating judges
it's like they can keep doing and
corrupt stuff until they're about to get
caught and then they retire well this is
this is different because it's
conceivable that what The Times found
the statute of limitations would have
expired however so from a criminal
conduct standpoint you would be you
would not be liable but as a sitting
judge and this is awkward there's
actually a higher standard that is
applied to you so that you don't get
away with like as the statute of
limitations yeah it was a scumbag 20
years ago but now I'm a judge you look
at me totally unfair to my sister I
change so she could have lost her job
and what would have happened when you
lose your job in that
Manor you lose your annual pension as a
judge which in her case ranges from one
hundred and eighty four thousand dollars
a year to two hundred and seventeen
thousand dollars a year how would you
like that for a pension man I will tell
you this right now
so we wants to offer me that as a
pension guess what early retirement
actually that also I wonder if that
isn't a good recipe for someone to go
after to go after Clarence Thomas
anyways so we have this report that
Donald Trump was has over the course of
ten years from eighty five to ninety
four thing was lost a billion dollars
the single biggest loser of money in the
country so much so they didn't have to
pay taxes for eight out of ten years
Howard's friends at Fox and Friends
taking the news my guess is this is good
for Trump it is an interesting look
though at how New York City real estate
developers work in the 80s and the night
anything you read this and you're like
wow it's pretty impressive all the
things that he's done in his life and
what most of us could ever I don't know
that there's any suggestion that he
broke the law yeah I think the
suggestion is simply that he used the
tax laws to his benefit I think most of
us could not lose I agree most of us
were not given if that kind of money not
even through various fraudulent schemes
and we didn't have the capacity to lose
in all sorts of ghastly narcissistic
delusional business venture that's right
and say just kid impressed by the
glamour of it uh
you're getting a billion from your dad
you're losing a billion you're
defrauding the government dad's helping
you with the casino it's just a big
heady mix of glamour now I like how they
say New York Times leaks a decade of
Trump tax returns now of course the New
York Times is not leaking it they didn't
have it the leak was to them or someone
gave it to them and they are publishing
it but the New York Times is Trump's
accountant that's why they hide the
taxes yeah yeah because they like Jewish
guys loving my money this so this big
businessman which is chronicled here
there's nothing about this article that
should surprise anybody they got The
Daily News in New York Post throughout
the the last ten years this give details
here's an example
he said pass-through income so for
example there might be an incentive to
go buy that building to buy that casino
because I'll take a loss this year in
order on my tax returns because I want
to buy for a rainy day I have the
resources because there was a time that
he was actually building his empire the
information information focused year by
year at a time of gathering loss he
bought his partners out at Trump Tower
the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino he
bought an apartment building in West
Palm Beach for 43 million and business
losses for sixty eight point seven
million for us or at least for me I
can't imagine having that much money
spending that much money and being in
debt for him it makes sense he's buying
now building it up because he had
confidence he knows who the properties
would be worth more the properties began
to build in 86 he bought in Indy and
excuse me in the 87 he spent 29 million
on a yacht the market crashed the next
day so no problem he held on to it he
bought a shuttle operation it didn't do
too well but he held on to it but when
Hassan is this way the yacht is a
business expense is that where we're
supposed to yes
that's where you have underage what
excuse me what I didn't mean any media
meetings it to me tits you have a lot of
media conference yacht conference yacht
operation it didn't do too well but he
held on to it but when he sell it he
takes the loss on his taxes so for you
or I may be buying a summer home is a
big move or maybe even a trailer but for
Donnell
Trump he says I got some money but I
want to really expand my empire I want
to take chances positive so if you sell
your city or your second home at a loss
that's a business expense
I don't like it yeah I mean that's the
thing that's that's a little bit fishy
here the things that are constituting
business losses are a very odd and one
wonders where you know if he's heavily
and dad dad owed off the limo ride to
come buy chips where's the yeah exactly
I mean so and look I'm not gonna pretend
to understand any of this stuff I have
an account and do my taxes I don't
understand any of it
however it seems like this is a perfect
predicate for Congress to look at these
taxes I mean this would be a great
learning experience maybe they can get
Brian Kilmeade up there to work with the
committee to explain to the country
after he takes a look at all the taxes
like why this is just exactly what you
would expect from a successful
businessman it's also like the way
kilmeade says Trump decided he wanted to
take risks it's like the government's
insulating him from any sort of downside
on these risks right it doesn't seem
like there's much risks he lost a
billion dollars and he still has
billions of dollars
