we are gonna start with a little bit of
sound do you remember a woman named Gena
Loudon
I sure do know that math does well I
actually hadn't and then Brendon
reminded me of this previous clip and it
all it all it all fell back in place so
we have to consume so much of this
garbage that basically you you have your
core villains your core players your
Hannity's your Alex Jones is your Sam
Harris's Tucker Carlson Tucker Carlson
certainly been pretty prominent you're
Bill O'Reilly and then there's this sort
of cluster of people who occasionally
making it you know do a fox hit sort of
replacement level talent replacement
level talent was she the TV shrink who
refused to shrink for a poly couple on
some television show correct
nice Jamie she was also the person who
wrote a book about Donald Trump's
superior mental health and said this a
couple of months ago on Sean Hannity
yeah drunk derangement syndrome I mean
Sean that's what most people have called
it to this point but my book actually
uses science in real data and true
psychological theory to explain why it
is quite possible that this president is
the most sound minded person to ever
occupy the White House you're just you
literally liberals hands are gonna
explode it what you say is just watching
them go crazy over the fact that he's
really pretty unfazed by them and I
believe that and I know and that's what
drives him nuts and that's what drives
them I concur so spoken like a true
mental health professional the most fun
part is watching them go crazy there was
a piece that came out in New York
Magazine yesterday where Olivia nun Z
who's a reporter got basically got
called into it's not oh it's fake that's
a real story it's okay I was gonna say I
thought maybe she was writing satire
Sarah Huckabee sander
had her come into the resolute room and
Donald Trump sat across from her for
like over an hour and had a revolving
cast of characters come in just to
convince this one reporter that he's not
firing secretary Kelly and that he's a
great guy and everything's great and
things are great another great example
of just water off a duck's back this guy
totally doesn't think about certainly
what any liberal media outlet thinks of
him now she also didn't mention things
like true scientific theory which I have
to be honest I didn't study in college
true psychological and also true excuse
me true psychological theory which I did
wasn't a psych major so I never took any
courses in true psychological theory and
I don't recall the other sheet there was
some other very serious and ominous
sounding methods that she used for her
book but just yesterday and by the way
this very rude interview with blue Dobbs
maybe she had had to swat away a grazing
hand from this old bastard because he's
kind of rude to her she actually gave us
a little bit more of a sense of what
true psychological theory might mean in
the Jeana Loudon method what star Gina
with this having to subpoena Rosenstein
the stonewalling of the of the Congress
the president is you know says he's not
going to fire Rosenstein Congress has
really had a bellyful well you know the
president Lou to say I just I'm just
saying that I think whenever the
president is doing something and it's
not making complete sense to me I've
learned to sort of just wait because the
things that tend to come from that are
really good like if we look back at what
happened you know for example with the
tariffs yeah I don't know I trust the
president implicitly explicitly that's
not really the my question my question
is why has Congress taken so long to act
in what will be the result of
subpoenaing Rosenstein himself perhaps I
should have phrased it a little more
elegantly
in the same way that I trust the
president I sort of don't trust Congress
in like the exact same way Calabasas
yeah the flip side of that I'm used to
Congress not acting when they should be
acting and I'm used to not understanding
why Congress doesn't use the power that
the people who elected them have given
them and it's still they seem to refuse
to use it when it makes the most sense
so Lew I'll be the last person that
could ever explain what Congress is
doing true psychological theory in
action you decide there's a person I
trust there's a group of people I don't
and then whatever the one I trust does
even if it seemed absolutely unhinged
and makes no sense I know it's true the
group of people no matter what they do I
can never explain it and that is the
Loudoun method of true psychological
theory also when you're dealing with
some nasty old prick with the most
bizarre hair dye job seen this side of
like Palm Beach in 1980 you go ha ha ha
ha that was awkward I wonder if she's
gonna be on that show again they didn't
have a nice flow together what so uh I
said wife swap oh she did Weiss well
apparently she was not uh she was not
the therapist on wife swap she was one
of the wives and she was the first wife
ever to walk off the set because they
tried to make her swap with a poly and
bisexual family and and just for it
clearly don't know like you don't have
to you don't have sex with the other
person's husband on wife swap not
usually not that we know of anyway so I
would love to find that footage Jeana
you're gonna have to go Jesus I'm the
one you trust right I know it makes no
sense so you're gonna go have to live
I'm gonna have to live with the poly
family it makes no sense but you trust
me
it's to true psychological theory
but bigger news you don't have to have
sex on wife swap that sounds like
defeating the whole purpose it's very
similar to watch that show that would be
a pretty remarkable show just come here
techniques probably be some selection
bias and the type of people that would
consent to be on that
