[Music]
here is Sebastian Gorka with Matt's
favorite did you know this Matt I didn't
even recognize him this is somebody go
this is Matt do you want to explain who
this gentleman is this very fit looking
guy in a blue shirt this is a man who
has achieved a modicum of success his
name is Boris Epstein
Boris must run Epstein of sinclair media
the guy who does short packages saying
mr. Trump is doing his best and people
are giving him enough credit Boris
no Donald Trump does moves that are
provoked
however proof will pudding and that is
Iran thank you and about 15 people 45
people watch them a video on YouTube and
apparently as I always say look if your
what do you mean as an example which is
a very talented australian youtuber that
we plug if you are a grassroots youtuber
you have no networks you're reaching out
you're building you have ten people
watching your video awesome you have 50
people watching your video very good you
have a hundred people it's an
accomplishment but if you are part of a
national cable network and you got like
45 people watching your videos sad very
bad performance here's Sebastian burka
and Boris Epstein but what about the
latest thing now we have this whole
thing for the last 10 hours about they
don't have toothbrushes that show this
is you know we have somebody on Fox and
we're talking about him in a second
saying this this is equivalent to
transgressing the Geneva Conventions
buddy if you don't want children not to
have toothbrushes how about the children
that are dying in the desert three of
them with their mother because there is
no wall and because a coyote promised to
smuggle into America how about not
having anybody make that trip not be
raped not be abused or die in the desert
it's the priorities are just upside down
are they Boris
not they Boris I'm a big believer in the
Geneva Conventions I learned it from dad
um I mean obviously goes without saying
stop terrorizing Central America so all
we have right wing governments yeah
causing this is just or the lack of a
wall it kidnapping children and they're
dying in custody that's not stopping it
and people are saying don't go to the
border don't go to the point designated
points because they will put you in
cages and and that's why there's
and that's a new business opportunity
for the coyote and a little bit behind I
don't know if it's because he's not a
politically commissioned officer anymore
but Gorkhas behind the talking points
cuz Trump is saying they need to change
asylum laws and things like that so I
don't it's not really about the wall
Gorka it's indeed it's always about the
wall well let's uh let's actually play
that this is Donald Trump saying that
the ability of conditions were worse
into Obama and actually tipping his hand
here like matt said about what's really
about and they're much better than they
were under President Obama by far and
we're trying to get the Democrats to
agree to really give us some
humanitarian aid humanitarian money and
that is a very fair question and I
appreciate that question but I'm very
concerned it's in much better shape than
it ever was a lot of these young
children come from places that you don't
even want to know about the way they've
lived the way they've been the way that
the poverty that they grew up in but
with sounds like they're refugees that
we should allow the country I was gonna
say I totally share your empathy Donald
and I think I do want to these are
people we can actually help very ease
the poverty that they grew up in but
with that if we can get this bill signed
we'll be able to do it we can
you know the Democrats don't want to
sign anything and now I think they're
going to probably sign this from what I
understand it's I call it humanitarian
aid yes the border was terrible under
Obama of course it's worse under Trump
who could say this by the evident fact
that multiple children have died under
Trump this is the main I mean this is
what he's got in 2020 this is the play
he's gonna do fake economics populism
for sure particularly if it's somebody
he can do that against but the bottom
line is is that he ran on a combination
of distally dishonest totally non
systemic but at times totally correct
critique of things like trade agreements
in oligarchy and xenophobia and racism
and he's got xenophobia and racism
because his economic agenda is the
Republican economic agenda which is Oleg
ARCIC and I know we repeat this every
single time and I've I've said this so
many things I said this going back to
playing clips of Paul Ryan in the summer
of 2016 or Paul Ryan literally was like
don't worry about what that dude says
when this idiot is president we're gonna
feed through deregulation and tax cuts
and we're gonna have more pollution in
the water we're gonna give more money to
rich people we're gonna destroy people's
healthcare we're gonna make this country
poorer sicker and dumber that's our core
brand proposition this guy has a
hypnotic relationship with a large part
of the Republican base because this is
the reason that they're Republicans and
therefore refugees children people
fleeing situations whose origins aren't
things like the drug war aren't things
like supporting coos and power
militaries in these countries aren't
things like sweatshops and in balance
trade agreements that's the origin and
context of why somebody's fleeing
conditions that are so bad that they
would still go to deal with this regime
in the United States and those people
need to be terrorized because that is
the path to salvaging 2020 that's it and
anybody who says otherwise tries to make
it more complicated
is dumb full of or that's basically
no there's you know or delusional that's
one of my favorite words as we all know
delusional
