from my perspective Chuck Schumer did
not blow it Nancy Pelosi did a little
better than that and but the what we
really saw here I mean and and I
remember it was a Friday morning last
week and there were reports that there
had been a shutdown at LaGuardia Airport
there were reports that there had been a
shutdown in Miami Airport that there was
one in Philadelphia we saw you know
flights were suspended for a period of
time and that was air traffic
controllers basically saying we're
short-staffed we saw on that same day
the the flight attendants Union come out
and get right in the face of Mitch
McConnell we're not going to tolerate
flying on flights that we don't think
are safe started hearing stuff at the
TSA of people and I think it was
essentially the grumblings if you will
the nascent beginnings of a full-on work
action by essentially workers around
Airlines that was the last straw that
was the big difference between Friday
and any other day up to that point and
it just goes to show that and I think
this was an underplayed story in the
media frankly for a lot of reasons I
think there is a lot of concern that if
labor you know that labor if it starts
to understand its power in our society
again that it's going to cause a lot of
problems for politicians and for moneyed
interests and but but I think that was
the that was the determining factor i I
mean I credit Schumer and Pelosi with
not messing it up and was standing
strong but essentially it was they may
have been the brick wall but the it was
it was labor that ended up being the
hard place right or the rock and and
coming down hard on them I I agree and I
I do think that that shows that you know
where the where the power relies
on the part of the Democratic coalition
if they you know learn from that and
learn to leverage that power which is
you know people you know their
constituency actually you know taking
action I mean you don't want it to be
forced by something as painful as that
30-day shut 35 days shutdown but
nonetheless the fact that that you know
workers flex their muscle and said you
know we're not doing this I mean they
obviously reach that and we knew that
the Republicans were were concerned
about this early on you remember you and
I talked about it that there was there
were people saying on the sly sort of
you know Jesus is going to take an
airline you know shut down for for this
to stop because Trump just wasn't
listening to anybody and I will go a
little further and giving Pelosi credit
because I think that I read a number of
stories that there was a lot of rumbling
happening within the within the caucus
about ending it earlier and she really
did hold the line and explain to them
which i think is one of the things that
experience is useful for in these sort
of situations that you know they'd been
down this road before and they
understood and she said over and over
again to them look the only way that
this have the only way that we can end
this is to hold out and they will break
because that's what they do and you know
her I think that her experience in that
situation and her ability to kind of
explain the dynamics of this because if
you recall and I think we talked about
this too
Republicans are always blamed for the
shutdown because it's always their fault
I mean this goes back to the 90s when
Newt was shutting down two things
they're always the ones and they're
always standing up there pounding their
chest about what they want and they're
gonna they're not going to give in and
they're not going to you know they're
they're going to force the Democrats to
their knees and all this stuff I mean
it's their own fault
but you know Pelosi having been around a
while I think she understood that and
was able to you know convey that to her
caucus and it's not easy to do that it
really isn't so I'm gonna give her a
little bit more credit there for having
done that but you're at they're not
right I think that's right and I will
say you know and you're not being glib
when you say it's always their fault and
part of the reason
I part of the reason why it is is
because of the way that they have
trained their electorate to be hostile
to government so they can never be seen
they can never be in a position of even
claiming that it's really the Democrats
fault right they can say the Democrats
are being obstructionists or they're
they're you know they're they're asking
for too much but they can't they can't
really complain about the government
being shut down because it's sort of
outside of their narrative right it
begins to cut into a narrative that
they've created for their constituency
which is governments not relevant
anyways government's not a force for
good and and so it's almost as if that
they should be saying good and you look
all you need to do is listen to
right-wing talk radio a good government
shutdown good we're saving money as
Trump thinks that that happens and of
course that doesn't but I mean I will I
will I will give you that that we
certainly read about here and there
about different centrist Democrats
saying maybe we should negotiate and
then it just sort of disappeared as if
basically Pelosi called up the phone and
said stop it stop it right now we're
gonna win this and and then what we had
at the beginning of the week was a Mick
Mulvaney coming out on Monday trying to
pretend like Donald Trump is willing to
close the government down again in three
weeks if he doesn't get the wall and
literally by Wednesday that was done
that was completely done the you started
seeing the stories about you know no one
in the Republican Party wants to go even
near a shutdown again not gonna happen
not gonna be a wall and and I will say
this too you know early on I had said I
would take a deal for a dacha or and
Appa and the TPS folks to protect these
immigrants who have come over here by no
choice of their own with their parents
as kids or immigrants who have come here
because they are fleeing either a
political upheaval or a natural disaster
in their homeland and those two groups
are are protected for the
anyways because of court cases and I
think Nancy Pelosi did the right thing
because this is basically sending a
message to Republicans you never want to
do this again because if you do you will
you will feel pain and you've just found
out that we're not gonna buckle under
any circumstance and so I think we may
look back on this you know knock on wood
this could be the last government
shutdown that we see for a long time or
at least certainly I don't know if we'll
see one that even remotely as close to
as long as this
all right well listen the other thing
that happened this week and and I we
need to take a break here but when we
come back and want to talk about it we
talked about Howard Schultz at the
beginning of the program this former CEO
of Starbucks who has come out there and
blessed us by telling us that he's
contemplating running for president and
he's a billionaire so we should all be
excited that's right maybe we will get a
chance to line the streets and touch the
back of his robe in some fashion but the
interesting thing was he immediately
launched into attacks against Democrats
it was almost as if it was a for granted
that Donald Trump was a horrible human
being but he really attacked a series of
democratic proposals running from
Medicare for all to wealth tax that
Elizabeth Warren proposed when we come
back let's talk about some of the
Democrats who have announced their
candidacy and how they are doing we're
gonna have to do this a lot because I
have a feeling there's gonna be a lot of
them we'll take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back with
the great Heather Parton or you may know
her as Digby right back on ring of fire
radio
