who's this where you come from it's me
yes it is you
hello this is uh with the Mike Mike from
Worcester Massachusetts so wait what's
up with the Mike yeah how you doing
who's the first-time caller
fairly long time list in a couple years
now sexually I just wanted to talk about
your I guess it was last week somebody
called in and actually I think you were
off Sam but somebody called in and said
I can't remember exactly her argument
was essentially that the rest of the
crew there sort of adds distractions to
the to the leftist agenda of the order
of the program I don't know if those
guys remember it but I think she got
into it a little bit with Jamie over no
need to talk about capitalism so much
because everybody's on the same page did
this happen well um but anyway it was I
did Thursday okay yeah last Thursday so
anyway the reason why I was calling was
um a couple years ago I started getting
into alternative media and I only listen
to right-wingers and the reason was I'm
Park or left have been for years now and
I was like I gotta understand their
arguments I got to see where they're
coming from but what I realize is that
they don't really have any arguments and
what they have is a bunch of talking
points that are just really straw man
they think themselves if you will and so
I just wanted to kind of give props out
to Jamie because I think it's great that
she brings in a much harder left
perspective but I also want to give a
shout out to all you guys because I've
learned more about our side of the
arguments and the conversations from
your show then I ever did so I'm trying
to listen to both sides to see well and
so with this I hope steven crowder calls
you up and though he's not going
but I hope he does because I'd love to
see you wipe the floor with him just
like you did with Charlie Kirk and I
guess that's all I got to say so thanks
man keep up the good work man
congratulations on the whoa socks I
don't call them the whoo sacks I call
them the whoa socks yes and I know
you're going home in a couple of weeks
so I actually have my live in Nebraska
right now so I live in flyover country
I'm ready to go out and vote for Carly
Sam and I glad you guys are given or
some some voice out there to do I don't
hear much about her on the national
media so yeah I think it's the the polls
aren't looking great but it you know
what you also don't hear about is the
amount of money that's been dumped into
her to the Republican side in that race
I mean and it is amazing they're making
that she's making them spend that kind
of money there but hopefully she'll get
another bite at the Apple but I
appreciate the call Mike well here's a
question for you here's a quick question
for you why does everyone think Nancy
Pelosi on the right I can understand why
we didn't like her all that much well
why does everyone think she's so evil on
the right I mean all the ads against
Karen Eastman it's literally like this
lurking Nancy Pelosi in the background
it's like she's like the Grim Reaper's
anybody well there it's really weird
it's been a long time well first off
Nancy Pelosi started years ago she was
more progressive than she is today
right she was a member of the
Progressive Caucus but you got to
remember the legacy here is that she's
from San Francisco and ten years ago 10
10 12 years ago the president knighted
States wanted to got on national
television said I want to propose an
amendment to change the Constitution so
that gay people can't get married I mean
we are not that far out it sort of fell
off a cliff on some level but 10 15
years ago you know they couldn't stop
talking about San Francisco politics and
that was code for gay people and so
there was a legacy built there
me on some level it's really just like
there's still vestiges of that you know
they did it with Obama it didn't work
very well like they could talk about
chicago-style politics nobody knows what
that means honestly they you know and
it's just it's a much older cohort that
had any sense of it anyways urban right
well it does but not necessarily I don't
think I not know more so than any other
city I mean I think Chicago style
politics were supposed to be like old
democratic mafia mafia and okay and
control but no I think it was supposed
to be more like daily daily Capone but
it's just organized crime in people's
minds corrupt corrupt pollak well then
it became the gun violence thing maybe I
was even much little racial dog
whistling going on there - possibly well
there always is because there's the
connection of crime with I mean that's
what that's DeSantis is closing argument
against Andrew Gilliam is that he's an
organized crime figure and it isn't just
because of the FBI investigation they
always try to make black politicians
criminalized that's the game anyways
Mike that's what I think it is with
Pelosi they're also these people hear
words in their brains like don't
underestimate that the kind of mush
brained baby boomer who watches fox news
and follows cue and on and will tag
Nancy Pelosi the DNC and me in the same
tweet is probably not firing on all
cylinders that's a really good point
absolutely Thanks so yeah it's crazy
they are always talking in codes I mean
it's everything is like this coded
language and strawman attacks and they
don't actually ever even come up come up
with any information or any they don't
get back it up with anything it's always
just some coded thing of trying to get
people to react I guess it's kind of
like advertising I guess hey thanks guys
for everything you guys do I love
listening to you guys I'm really glad I
got to get through on the call it's rare
for me to even be able to
to call into the show so I really
appreciate it left as best I appreciate
the call yeah
