so David this week we and there wasn't a
tremendous amount of fanfare and of
course the Democrats who are in the
Senate are not in a position to pass
legislation but this is very much where
we start to we start to see where where
people are situated what kind of
positions we can see coming down the
pike as it were and senator Elizabeth
Warren came out with a fascinating
proposal which I think might be one of
the most radical proposals we've seen
from a top senator you know like a
prominent senator in a long time in this
country am I right about that assessment
well I mean if if you describe socialism
as ownership of the means of production
then this is a deeply socialist proposal
to have the government step in where
there's a market failure in the generic
drug market and actually manufacture
generic drugs at an affordable price so
people can access them that's that's
pretty radical I mean it occurs to me
that you know the the Democratic
socialists that we have who you know ran
in the last election may rounding this
1/2 of Bernie Sanders of whom I am a
great admirer I don't I don't know that
he has offered any proposal that is to
the left of that I mean and and frankly
I mean we'll go through the details but
I mean I just want to characterize it
this is a you know and it's not one that
I think people associate necessarily
with Elizabeth Warren I don't I don't
receive I don't think she brands herself
as a as a socialist or a democratic so
if I say wrong way
she is she has said I'm a capitalist to
my toes or kind of capital was my bones
she sees it as clearly a situation where
a market is failing and and needs to be
fixed and here's a way to fix it I
should say that the same sort of
coalition partners that help put
together and and and you know nurture
this proposal from Senator Warren also
were involved in the proposal just last
month from Bernie Sanders that also
deals with prescription drugs in a
different sense that dill says that
anytime prices are excessive relative to
what people pay for drugs throughout the
world in industrialized countries that
the government can essentially seize the
patent and allow other entities to
manufacture it so this is this is the
prescription drug price Relief Act right
is that what we're talking about or
resisted Loeb okay so that's great and
that would that that's pretty radical
and then of itself because without a
doubt set up this system where patents
would be the way that pharmaceutical
companies can recoup their R&D costs and
Sanders saying this doesn't work so
we're going to just take the patents and
make sure that people can get their
drugs affordably the the problem with
that is that the generic drug market in
many cases does not work in terms of
giving people more affordable drugs and
so this is a complement to that with
Warren Singh okay in situations where it
does not work we're going to just have
government make these drugs which you
know drugs are very cheap to make that's
kind of the the hidden secret here right
is that to mass manufacture prescription
drugs is not a big deal
the money goes into sort of the Rd and
then of course in the marketing and
overhead and paying off doctors to
prescribe and and and that's where the
money goes in prescription drugs and
that's what drugs are so high absent the
price controls that you see everywhere
else in the world
and and and also of course much of it
goes into the Treasuries of these
companies because profit margins and the
drug industry are higher than any
practically other industry that we see
okay now now part of the reason why I
was I wanted to start this so
inflammatory Lee is because if if
Elizabeth Warren ends up running for
president that's you know that's the way
the the approach is going to be but as
we start to break down the proposal
right we start to see like this notion
of of the the government you know being
in the business of making these drugs is
really not that big of a deal and is a
very common-sense response to a
significant ongoing problem that is both
obvious in terms of it being problematic
but also you know severe in so far as
the implications for individuals now I
will say there only I guess about a
month or two ago the VA or maybe excuse
me back in April the VA announced that
they were going to be making some
generic drugs the reasons why they would
in what instances it has more to do with
like supply than anything else but so
the idea of the government actually the
Trump administration is doing this right
that's right and you can say the same
thing for Sanders is Bill about you know
an international index of prices and
that they're too high the government
steps in and licenses them the Trump
administration has that proposal right
now for a very small class of drugs that
are administered at hospitals they're
they're called Medicare Part B drugs so
they're only for Medicare and they're
only ones that are administered within
the hospital but they say prices are too
high internationally we're going to
force the payment on those to be at the
same level as what what other countries
in the world are paying in other words
there
is bipartisan agreement on this that
there are solutions to the high cost of
prescription drugs and though they will
be painted as radical both parties
including the Trump administration have
used these solution yeah this is really
I mean I think the key to assessing all
of these proposals like that is this is
not a question of are these radical
solutions this is not a question of are
these problems real it's simply a
question of determining when do we
choose to exercise these solutions how
urgent it is and and what's radical
right is the fact that we have these
drugs that their patent is done the
exclusivity period is over and yet
40% of all generic drug markets have
only one player in them the entire point
of this system was that after the
exclusivity period other companies will
rush in and create competition to drive
down the cost of these but increasingly
what we see is that one company goes in
and dominates the generic market there's
actually an active investigation going
on right now into collusion among
generic drug manufacturers who are
divvying up markets and you know sort of
making non-compete agreements to not
move in on to somebody else's turf and
we're talking about 300 drugs among 16
companies and this is a federal
antitrust investigation for price-fixing
that's going on right now so this market
is broken and Senator Warren has come up
with a way that you could potentially
fix it okay all right so now that we've
gotten all this sort of like the
ideological assessments of it I want to
come back I want to take a break I want
to walk through this very carefully so
that so that people understand what is
the nature of the problem and what is
the nature of the proposed solution
and where where will this take us and
and and how this is going to play into
the presidential election because if you
look at the Senate now and just on the
issue of drugs alone right there are the
names of people we have the cure high
drug prices Act we have the low drug
prices Act we have the drug price relief
act we also now have the affordable drug
manufacturing act these are all proposed
legislation put forth by Democratic
senators and I think all of them are
people who if you made a list today
who's gonna run for president all of
them would be on it we will talk more
about this and what it's going to mean
in actual practice after the break
