[Music]
Canadian elections yeah that eminent
here is a and you know what like this
it's like a third clip I've seen of
Canadians having some type of like
racist run-in with seek candidates
lawmakers in Canada over the past like
three or four months now to be fair I
don't know how many seek candidates we
have in this country and I don't know
that they would be like polite enough
you know racists to come up and actually
get it just on camera like this but this
is I mean it's well this exchange speaks
for itself this is NDP leader Jimmy to
Singh who's in Ag I guess in Montreal
Quebec let me see how are you good to
see you so you okay yes pleasure to meet
you know you should cut your turban off
and you put the legal look like a
Canadian I think he needs look like all
sorts of people that's the beauty of
Canada yeah I don't agree but this is
Canada you can do like whatever you like
I mean do you think that he was I mean
what like I don't know I I mean I think
he was like I've got a tip for you this
is like a candidates tip blend in more
[Laughter]
in terms of the stereotypes that we have
of Canadians I would say that the what's
his name the Sikh NDP leader was much
more Canadian than the man coming up to
him in the street yeah like okay that's
that's just your opinion have a nice day
you know uh you know how pollsters will
ask would your neighbor vote for a black
candidate instead of asking you directly
when they ask would you vote for a black
and most people say yes when they say
will you what
your neighbor vote for one they're less
likely to say yes right seems a little
like that the way that's couch right if
it's for the other Canadians to accept
you
you should cut off your turban I also
get the sense that that guy was watching
sing from like across the way for about
like a half hour just really building
himself up to go do that and so he knows
he needs to approach him calmly
otherwise the security's gonna move in
but then he the way he leans in there
just for you that leads me to believe
that I don't know that you have a
microphone on that's what that was
