[Music]
here's a clip former guests on the
program Marissa baradaran I guess she
was on what like two years ago two or
three years ago has been on a T MVS more
recently and here she's on MSNBC talking
about the wealth inequality and and in
racial wealth inequality in particular I
mean if you recall the biggest the
biggest source source of wealth building
is real estate and on this program very
easy to find interviews with people who
outline how the US government
systemically as recently as the 50s
prevented black people from building
wealth intergenerational wealth through
real estate the government actively
promoted this subsequent to that you had
redlining you had more but they weren't
necessarily official government policy
certainly in the context of the 2008
financial crisis many low income people
were were basically defrauded by given
loans by banks and I will remind you
there's a reason why they call them loan
officers because they have a fiduciary
duty they are there to assess whether or
not someone can repay a loan and a lot
of people lost their homes here she is
on MSNBC with Ali Velshi basically
saying you know the limits of capitalism
in terms of fixing this
widening racial inequality in terms of
economics these programs fail because
the benefits of capitalism always accrue
to the owners of the capital not to the
people living in enterprise zones or
promise zones using capitalism to fix
the racial wealth gap will work only if
there's a means to transfer capital
assets wealth or housing what's the
practical application of that how does
that actually apply to policies that
we're developing now yes so I mean what
we've done for you know 30 or 40 years
when we're talking about these formerly
red line areas but again I want to
repeat were created by federal mortgage
policy and all that we've done is give
tax cuts and incentives so from the
Clinton era through Obama and now
Trump's Opportunity Zones program where
we're saying okay big investors private
equity firms we will give you a tax cut
if you come invest in this formally red
line area what we call an opportunity
zone and so what it means is if you're
going to be an investor and then you can
you know make the neighborhood better
revitalize it or whatever you're gonna
get the equity right the best-case
scenario is that the people that live
there maybe get jobs and things like
that but we're talking about the racial
wealth gap we need equity so you need a
neighborhood that's gentrifying for the
people who live in that neighborhood to
get a cut of that increased equity right
this is awesome that doesn't happen
right often it they're they're either
renters or there's no way to monetize
the benefits of gentrification because
your house there you have it
let's go to the
