[Music]
thing I wanted to talk about on the free
show and that we got to go is Iran has
basically announced that it will stop
complying with parts parts of the
nuclear deal they have they are still in
compliance as of yesterday and they are
in the nuclear deal remember this is an
international Accord this is not just
the United States which is why the
United States is not the ability to
refreeze assets internationally or to
you know impose an international embargo
however the United States can make it
very hard and has been punishing
European and foreign entities that have
been doing business with Iran and so
Iran has been starved of some resources
rouhani
basically has told folks like the
Chinese and Europeans you need to
compensate us for the cost of the
European of the American sanctions in
some measure and starting Wednesday Iran
is now going to build up its stockpiles
of low enriched uranium in heavy water
used in nuclear reactors including a
reactor that could give Iran's source of
bomb-grade plutonium so basically what
they're doing is we're basically
starting up the factory for our nuclear
program but one of them is a dual use
program we're not going to make the you
the bomb-grade plutonium but we're
starting up the machine that could and
under this announcement europeans now
have two months to figure out a way for
iran to basically sell their oil and to
get some of their banking done and if
that doesn't happen then they're going
to start to develop uranium that
exceeds the grade level of industrial
use and they're gonna start to enrich
uranium enough to make it bomb grade so
this is this has been this is the plan
right I mean this is john bolton putting
a brick tying it to the accelerator and
attempting to see what happens next with
the car as it goes careening down the
road well i mean and they've been so you
know making things up and distorting
intelligence and i mean this could be it
i mean this could be the thing they were
triggering even as they've been
basically engaging in psychological and
economic terrorism the past year and
using it i mean they're using it in
trade negotiations with China as an
example like this is an area that the
Chinese can can pitch elate to them on
in exchange for other things that are
more important to China but I I think
it's also just really worth noting that
going back to the beginning it has never
been documented conclusively ever that
the Iranian government is lying about
its program so I'm not to say to take
them at face value but there have never
been clear intelligence estimates that
they were developing a weapon and they
you know restarted they basically shut
down the Shahs program in the 80s and
the only reason at the time they
restarted it was because the United
States and other world powers like
France and Germany were selling Saddam
Hussein weapons when he used chemical
weapons against Iran and Iranian
leadership was like well if all members
of the Security Council are gonna sell a
guy who's using chemical weapons against
us maybe we'll you know weaponry maybe
we'll set things up for ourselves but
even this move just to be very very
clear is in no way you know an
indication or a promise that they want
to weaponize it could even just be I
mean they're losing energy radically be
basically this could be performative
it's the only leverage they have yes and
so it's not unlike you know any other
you know if you don't you know it's the
only leverage they have and the rouhani
even said I mean rouhani said in the
speech
he that this deal was a good thing it
was working the European still want it
we've been terrorizing the Europeans as
well I mean and of course the other
thing is it's amazing that rouhani and
Zarif are still in position because when
the Supreme Leader said three years ago
he gave them public permissions and
Newton do these negotiations and said
and never trust the United States and I
expect that this will be a disaster so
well played yeah all right we gotta take
