[Music]
speaking of twelve-year-old w/e WWE fans
let's check in on Michael Nels
you remember him he was the the he's a I
guess he's a right-wing talker now but
he started as an actor attended Yale the
BA according to Wikipedia he
participated in two web series never do
business with friends and survived and
then he was brought on as a as a as a
guest and then I guess maybe has his own
show on The Daily wire is that right
that's correct and here is basically
trying to take my look in a way but here
he is talking about about you know the
classic complaint that America will
become less european ish in its culture
and a lot of la raza marches and
protests and a lot of immigration
protests and a lot of illegal in one
second there's a guy he's an actor he's
trained it's done many web series does
he not know what's going on with the
camera here I don't understand what's
going on I think a daily wire house
style is just that they like that
off-center camera yeah I understand well
no I know that that that style shooting
is bad but the idea is he's supposed to
be looking forward but he's new but
watch him in a he's not sure like he's
anticipating some type of cut I maybe
they're cutting this live I don't
understand but watch protests and a lot
of immigration protests and a lot of
illegal immigration protests okay I have
personally witnessed from sea to shining
sea from Washington DC to Southern
California you will see people waving
the Mexican flag you will see illegal
aliens waving the Mexican flag if you
want to live under the Mexican flag
go back to Mexico problem solved
good we agree people who oppose illegal
immigration want you to go back to
Mexico you yourself just say you want to
go back to Mexico go back to Mexico why
are you here now they don't really mean
it
nope they don't want to go live in
Mexico they fled these places they don't
want to live in Somalia they fled those
places they want to come to the United
States because it's much much nicer to
live in the United States and II yet
when they're here and it's not just
their fault by the way this is being
encouraged by the popular culture it is
being encouraged by the left not to
assimilate it's being encouraged by a
leftist culture in America that hates
itself that hates the West that hates
our traditions that hates our system of
self-government that rewrites and lies
about our history that says we are the
worst place on earth and everyone should
we shouldn't support us all so these
talking points are so old and stale
you know I don't know where it's it's
may the memory of what took place in
March in this city and in other cities
in Massachusetts where I grew up it was
just disgusting where you would see
these guys going around with this Irish
flag it's like if look if you want to go
back I'll do respect Brendan
if you want to go back to your country
okay because you're waving around your
Irish flag go back of course they don't
want to they like it here this is just
like a nonsensical what's this there's a
Isis oh wait not Isis the this is the
Hjemkomst historical and cultural
society for Norwegian heritage in Fargo
oh my god that's disconnects at how
discuss it is if you want to live in
Norway just go back to Norway
celebrating you're waving a Mexican flag
what honestly like who is he talking to
with this stuff this guy you're put him
back up let's see what the rest where
he's going this going anywhere like even
remotely interesting with this this is
just like sort of like really this is
dime-store old timey pick pat this is
like even making patrick buchanan sort
of blush a little bit it's like uh buddy
i did this 40 years ago come on step it
up about our history that says we are
the worst place on earth and everyone
should we shouldn't support immigration
to be nice to the people living in
squalor and living under threat of death
we shouldn't support immigration to give
them a better life we should support
immigration so that they can come here
and erase our own culture and bring over
their obviously superior culture from
Honduras and El Salvador and Somalia
that's that's the argument when you boil
it down mmm cultural erasure I mean
isn't that like um what is that saying
we will not be replaced what would they
would they chanting in charlottesville
those variations yes the Jews will not
replace us
you will not replace us huh
now I'm not saying that Knowles is a
white supremacist or not going to give
you that indication I'm just saying it's
really uh-huh coincidental that he has
the same theory of why immigration is
wrong yeah
