[Music]
Matt Taibbi had a piece in the rolling
stone which I agreed with a lot of I
denied disagree with a bit of it and
some that I I just couldn't determine
frankly but his broader point that there
is a history of the bipartisan and
corporate and intelligence service utter
destruction of whistleblowers whether
we're talking about Thomas Drake or
Edward Snowden or Chelsea Manning people
who have come forward and revealed the
structural wrongdoing of the NSA of the
Pentagon the CIA John Kuroko as an
example whether we're talking about the
torture program whether we're talking
about killing civilians overseas whether
we're talking about a mass global spying
and surveillance program these people
have had their lives destroyed and he
also points to people you know in wall
street as well now and he has a problem
with the framing of the person who has
revealed what's going on with Trump
which is you know clearly part of a
political operation as a whistleblower
now fair fair criticism I still support
and teaching Trump and I still support
bringing everything can against Trump
even as I entirely agree with that
criticism and I actually think that we
there needs to be a infinitely more
serious discourse on the left of how you
balance removing Trump or politically
muscling up against Trump with not
empowering the intelligence complex I'm
sorry that is actually a serious issue
the national security Democrats are not
going away and they're empowering a vast
apparatus of institutions which are
fundamentally antithetical to a
democratic way of life and that and and
you know there's a discourse that does
not take that seriously now you could
argue maybe there's another discourse
that doesn't take Trump seriously we
need to synthesize both of these things
and Trump's announcement yesterday that
the White House is simply not going to
cooperate with an impeachment inquiry is
precisely the type of thing I understood
what Brad Miller was saying about some
of the dangers in the interview but I
don't see any other way than besides
what Sam is saying I don't know I think
it seems fine right
people need to be held in contempt of
Congress people need to be I mean all of
these things have to be acted upon
simultaneously and what the Trump White
House is asserting with bill bar is is
in fact an AA and you can check the
record I don't throw this language
around it is dictatorial it is an
objectively dictatorial action that
synchronizes and you know Fox News clips
you know whatever in my opinion I mean
in a lot of senses especially in this
the sophisticated audience we know what
Fox's but this really did stand out to
me and you know it's it's regular for
Fox but check this out this is Jo Dee
Jed no G Jana vote Genovia Geneva
digenova um who I believe is a former
prosecutor or certainly an attorney
check out what he's saying sitting and
by the way saying the craziest things in
a clip with Rudy Giuliani and Laura
Ingraham that's that's quite a bit show
digenova the houses failure to provide
this from Cipollone e's letter provide
co-equals subpoena power in this case
ensures that any inquiry will be nothing
more than a one-sided effort by House
Democrats to gather information
favorable to their reviews and to
selectively release it only as they
determine you warned about this the drip
drip drip of the leaks coming out of the
Democrat offices they're conspiring with
of course the whistleblower we'll get
into that in a moment but what about
this well what you're seeing is regicide
this is regicide by another name fake
impeachment the the Democrats in the
house want to destroy the president they
don't want to preserve the Republic
there's nothing honorable about what is
happening this is a despicable abuse of
constitutional power if they had on the
floor a vote to establish an impeachment
inquiry that would give the Republicans
subpoena power but the Democrats aren't
doing that they want to deny them
subpoena power so what do we get we get
first one anonymous informant then a
second anonymous
I refuse to call I have to pull the Sam
here no we don't just have that we have
transcripts showing what precisely the
case is then you can argue whether you
want to take it seriously or not but
this is not something based off of the
conjecture based off of informants these
are literal transcripts and by the way
this is what they're moving on you know
if I had my druthers I mean I I think
the report that Donald Trump was telling
people at the boy you know pushing for
border policies to shoot people in the
legs and put alligators and moats that
would be my we better impeach this guy
right now you know where it's crying
he's he's indicted you know he's
children are dying as a result of this
policy people are being kidnapped I mean
there's any number of things but this is
the move they're going off of and part
of the reason is the move they're going
off of is because it's in writing so
that's fundamentally disingenuous and
dishonest obviously that a second
anonymous informant I refuse to call
them whistleblowers these two non
entities are suicide bombers that the
Democrats have unleashed on the
democratic process they actually think
that the American people are going to
accept having people testify secretly
without anyone knowing who they are
where they worked what their party
affiliation was who they conspired with
it's pretty obvious that this first
suicide bomber who sent that complaint
to the Inspector General was a paid
Democratic operative of the Democratic
Party clinical suicide bomber obviously
yes we start getting me know I mean look
yeah she did a little clean up there
that's incitement language no doubt I
don't see how you could argue otherwise
it's obviously in my view incitement
language really evocative imagery there
but none of this stuff matter
I mean look and here's my other point
from a political perspective yes is the
maja end Taibbi point that this is not a
whistleblower in the sense of somebody
like Couric ow or somebody who's exposed
systemic wrongdoing in an intelligence
or military apparatus and then being
gutted as a result that these are people
that are on the side of a particular
part of a turf war
and that needs to be recognized as such
fine you know if a Democratic president
did this the Republicans will be trying
to send them to Guantanamo Bay let alone
impeaching them and that's another part
here the idea that this endless double
standard that Republicans can do
absolutely anything and then oh no no no
don't do that don't impeach look we need
to walk and chew gum at the same time
huge problems inside the intelligence
military and Democratic apparatus also
at the same time he's making I mean I
accept a little point that ie B's making
but we have no idea these these people
could absolutely be people who were
appalled and mortified by what they saw
and in this case have institutional
backing because there is division that's
fine that's politics all of these things
can be true once in fact they are true
at once and we need to move aggressively
on this guy I'm heartened to hear that
the Democrats aren't giving the
Republicans co-equal subpoena power even
though they don't share co-equal power
over the house right good right
crazy yeah I mean that's that's
Republicans when they ran the house they
would the Democrats had to do hearings
and in dingy route like you should have
read about the stuff they did to not
only limit Democrats power but to just
systemically humiliate them I mean I
it's insane if any democrat that gives
Republicans any kind of power that they
aren't explicitly given by the rules and
frankly even then like it should be
voted out of office a primary period
full stop they're vampires this is I
mean and this is this to me look this is
the convergence between a hard left
perspective that's highly critical of
the Democratic Party that still
recognizes that there's political
warfare that is taking place against a
absolutely grotesque
administration that is assuring in the
complete collapse yes
it was already happening if you read a
chilla bimbe the age of humanism is
ending that was during 2016 and he was
talking about the neoliberal policy set
but he was also projecting into the
future the Trump's the ball Sanaa rose
and so on and that has to be responded
to all simultaneously Bernie Sanders
quite clear about that by the way
