[Music]
if Sean Hannity does not have what
sounds to most people like a rational
idea for a gun control perhaps ben
shapiro has a more rational idea after
all he is the intellectual wonderkid of
the of the right perhaps he has a more
rational proposal to end gun violence
that's nonsense
that's simply nonsense hey those are
guns in common use the ar-15 is the most
commonly owned rifle in the United
States a semi-automatic rifle is just a
rifle that fires one bullet every time
you pull the trigger there are a hundred
million of those in circulation in the
United States
there is no magic gun that is only used
by mass deposit hold on for one second
now people are saying ban assault
weapons and it is true a gun like an
ar-15 one squeeze one bullet of course
they keep loading in there and so it's
every time you and you don't have to
stop until they shoot you and you've
killed nine people and 2426 injured his
number that there are a hundred million
now as you know there are like it's only
350 I 380 million guns I think in the
United States far fewer gun owners they
just own a lot of guns but according to
a 2015 report by the National Shooting
Sports Foundation American gun makers
produced and imported 8.5 million rifles
these are these what they call the
modern sporting rifle the ar-15 between
1990 and 2012 that's eight point five
million and about one to two million
annually every year it's been
seven years that would be 14 million
maybe a little bit less one to two so
we're talking about 20 million maybe 25
million so it's not a hundred million
although 25 million is far too many
anyways but whatever Ben is talking
about Brett Kavanaugh is ruling that you
can or I should say the Supreme Court's
ruling in hell are that you can ban guns
that are not in common use and now he's
arguing that they're in common use which
is of course something that's fairly
recent since we had the ban on
semi-automatic weapons rescinded by the
Bush administration but nevertheless
this is what it's coming down to there
in common use so you can't ban them but
go there is no magic gun that is only
used by mass shooters we've seen
handguns used we've seen rifles used
I mean Helen in different countries
we've seen knives used so that this is
the socket yes I just want to I don't
want to get too pedantic but mass
shooters do not use knives unless they
have a special knife gun knife which
shoots like it's like it's like a
Gatling gun but it shoots nice tiny
boo-boo-boo-boo right and that is you
know the the the only advantage to that
from from a potential victims
perspective is how hard it is to reload
yeah but butchered Lobby really loves
those butcher lobby loves us not to
suggest that there aren't gun
regulations that would be appropriate I
just suggested one the gun violence
restraining orders but we're not gonna
settle on those instead we're gonna have
a dumb political fight over something
that's not going to get done because
it's not actually gonna prevent the
problem you know this whole argument and
that very similar to the caller that we
got the other day which is like let's do
something that is extremely narrowly
tailored and is focused actually on the
people not the guns let's let's focus on
a subset of people that we think that we
can now we know two-thirds of gun deaths
are
suicide and I would imagine very few of
those are done with ar-15s so we have
multiple problems that we're dealing
with here it is a shame that we don't
spend more time on the suicides because
there is no doubt if you look at the
data and there is enormous amounts of
data and research into the circumstances
in which people attempt to kill
themselves how many attempts after the
first attempt most people commit and the
efficacy of trying to commit suicide
with a gun which is like 95% whereas
everything else is much much lower and
more far more often than not after the
first attempt at suicide by some other
means besides a gun people don't attempt
to sue commit suicide again so we know
that you could ban tens you could
eliminate tens of thousands maybe two
maybe to tens of thousands let's just
lazy cut down 2/3 of those like the
other 10,000 who commit suicide with
with a 95 percent efficacy rate we'll
find some other means even though those
rates aren't even remotely close but
you're talking about twenty thousand
people a year whose lives you could save
by either banning guns outright or
creating some mechanism that makes the
bar to getting a gun so much more
difficult and so much not in the moment
that you would keep those people from
killing themselves and give them an
opportunity to live their lives and not
just end their life but destroy and
severely impact the lives of those
around them
but shapiro is just being a flak there
because I mean how voice sephorus Lee do
you hear these people in the path like
this is not gonna do anything well
what's the downside what's the downside
of universal background checks like
cutting into the profitability of these
death meat machine makers what if you
want to give your dad a gun Sam like
what's the downside here you you're not
gonna be able to kill as many you're not
gonna have as many toddlers dead well at
the end of a year if you know this like
even if it saves one toddlers live is it
not worth it well I just have a little
bit of a problem with that when you use
the phrase common sense it makes you
feel bad well that's just to me it's
common sense is not so common
