[Music]
let's talk a little bit about what's
happening in Ecuador um so there are
ongoing demonstrations there that have
been met with an extremely brutal
response by the Lenin Moreno government
these protests are led by indigenous
people but they also have a
representation and labour in ecology and
women's rights and all sorts of areas
that you would expect of a broad-based
organic left uprising we have some
footage that Camilla from Telus or
posted I follow her account and other
tell us or accounts for this sort of
thing Lenin Moreno was the successor of
Rafael Correa and he was elected on the
center-left
Democratic Socialist center-left
Democratic Socialist platform in 2017
and has immediately reversed coerced an
extreme way upon taking government he's
actually actively trying to jail his
predecessor Rafael Correa who governed
Ecuador at the heart of the pink tide
there's rumors that he's taken direct
bribes from you know United States we
don't know really why but his politics
after winning on a center-left successor
ticket have taken a sharp extreme right
turn this is why he kicked Julian
Assange out of the Ecuadorian Embassy as
an example this is why he's reconfigured
the geostrategic relationship in the
United States into a much more
subservient one and in the last couple
of days he's unveiled a slew of IMF
backed austerity measures including
scrapping a fuel subsidy which would of
course as all of these IMF plans do be
enormous ly damaging to Ecuador's
underclass now Rafael Correa lifted a
lot of people out of poverty and was
incredibly brave in facing us hegemony
and was another one of these dynamic
leaders in the pink tide era
however his record on indigenous rights
was actually really quite bad in some
very key ways and he sided consistently
with mining interests over them there
was some change at points in his
administration and there's complexity to
this but there was real problems there
and so it's significant that this is an
indigenous led movement and Lenin Moreno
and typical right-wing paranoid fashion
is blaming Maduro and Korea or fomenting
a revolution even as the people that are
actually leading it are consistently
saying that they are not an instrument
of Korea and in fact sort of there's
pushback from his own political faction
you know sort of harnessing the movement
so we'll keep falling what's happening
in Ecuador and this is a lot closer to
us than Hong Kong and much more
implicated by US policy and US companies
like Chevron and u.s. mining companies
have caused an enormous amount of damage
in Ecuador why does this get so little
attention
