I agree with you I'm I'm not a supporter
of common law Harris but that is just
for the simple reason that I have
politics that she doesn't have this is
some level it's crystal clear stuff I
want radical prison reform I want
Medicare for all I want the United
States stop backing cooze I don't want
to support Israeli Apartheid
oh god the Israel stuff is insane but
it's terrible it's terrible it's total
but she's worse than Israel than the
average Democrat I don't know I don't
agree with that I think she's totally
representative no she's not
there's what daylight does she have from
any other standard-issue Democrat if you
look at what Elizabeth Warren was saying
about the Israeli bombardment of Gaza in
2014 it's essentially the same thing and
that's actually a good example I would
say of being very careful because I
think that her record and what she said
about Israel Palestine is abominable
I think it's depressingly barely not
even distinguishable from pretty much
any other major frontline politician
besides Bernie Sanders and maybe if
Warren is pivoting and an in the third
point which is like there's a context
here the context is Kamala Harris when
she was getting her start a cynical
pragmatic move to being a national
political figure as both someone who's
going to be called liberal not to
mention a woman of color is to appear
quote-unquote tough on crime that's the
calculation and everybody has made the
calculation that it is so safer from a
media donor and voting base to say well
you know maybe I have a little bit of
concern about you know Netanyahu you
know demanding that all you know I mean
I'm not even analogy I thought it was
actually kind of an theis emetic but I
won't say that but you know they will
defend anything Israel does anytime
anywhere any place and that's been
typical of the Democratic Party until
some symbolic gestures that Obama made
like in the last year he was in office
so I don't I wouldn't say I mean I think
she's abominable but I don't think she's
exceptional look of Christian Gillibrand
record Chuck Schumer says that part of
his mandate for being in the Senate is
protects is Hashem has sent a message to
Israel I mean this is not normal
yeah I guess I was kind of measuring her
against Obama and I will admit that I
only recently really began paying
attention to his real stuff Obama is was
obviously on the whole supported Israel
anytime anywhere any place but Obama
slightly was willing to at the very
least as you talk to any Israeli policy
person who's on even the center-left
they would say could you at least like
in the same way that like theoretically
Democrats support like the Labor Party
over the Conservative Party in Britain
could you like at least support us in
like the vague center left in Israel
versus any fascist government and
fascist politician in Israel and Obama
was slightly willing to do that
partially compounded by the fact I think
that you know he genuinely opposed
racism and also the fact that he had to
deal with Netanyahu for several years
and after sitting I just I mean in a
certain point you could just play dude
 you he's a profoundly unlikable
person but no I don't know I think yeah
I mean we're gonna play Kamala Harris is
Israel clip and I think at some point
the Democratic Party as a whole is gonna
have to reconcile the tension between
you know embracing a very particular
type of narrow multiculturalism which is
clearly obviously preferable the white
supremacy should go without saying I
don't know how that fits well there's
actually one way that that fits for
blind support with Israel which is
actually another manifestation of the
toxicity of a certain type of identity
politics frankly and one of the reasons
that I have a real allergy to
essentialist arguments and identity over
all else is growing up partially in the
Jewish community and being like I know
my having a certain part of my identity
be Jewish doesn't mean that I support
dropping white phosphorous on children
and not allowing people have freedom
movement because of an identity code or
even the fact that of course Jewish
people historically are one of the most
oppressed abused and genocided people on
the planet so you know maybe some people
will reconcile it by just sort of you
know the same kind of shallow identity
plays of any other move but if you're
really fundamentally running on
overcoming supremacy race harga Crees
race hierarchies and structural racism
you're gonna support a la cude
government in Israel yeah that doesn't
work and for what it's worth I think
Obama who had some at least in I think
on that front some very genuine
commitments actually he at least
intellectually recognized the tension
most of these other people are just
getting the script Hillary Clinton's
just getting the script Joe Biden is my
god just getting the script oh my god
bado
O'Rourke slightly deviated once when
there was the bombardment I think in
2014 and then was you know cattle prod
it back into line so you know what we're
gonna actually a little play this calmly
thanks for the call Josh let's play this
commonly harris clip now but again i
mean this is terrible and this should be
making the rounds and i think that there
should be a clip and by the way look
bernie is getting better on this you
could I'm sure you can find some clips
of Bernie saying stuff not as bad as
this but some pretty bad stuff and
defense of Israeli actions but this is
horrible but it's emblematic of a you
know well I I would in my estimation I
don't think Carla Harris is much of a
progressive but this is you know
progressive except Palestine is what
they used to call it so here is Kamala
Harris in the midst of uncertainty and
turmoil America's support for Israel's
security must be rock-solid
[Applause]
and as Iran continues to launch
ballistic missiles while it arms and
funds its terrorist proxy Hezbollah we
must stand with Israel as Hamas
maintains its control of Gaza and fires
rockets across Israel's southern border
border we must stand with Israel and as
Isis and civil war in Syria destabilized
the region displacing millions in
threatening shared security interests we
must support all those affected by
ongoing violence and terror and we must
stand with Israel our defense
relationship is critical to both nations
which is why I support the United States
commitment to provide Israel with 38
billion dollars in military assistance
over the next decade
it is why I support full funding for
Israel including for the arrow david
sling and the Iron Dome missile defense
systems which save lives and that's why
I am fully committing to maintaining
Israel's qualitative military edge so
this is the usual pablum and we're gonna
get to another candidate in a second but
I just want to be really clear about
this I mean look this is the rhetoric
even in Israeli context that is just
delusional and and of such an extreme
far-right position this isn't 2017 by
the way we're already there's been a
touch of a crack at just like basic
incoherence of blindly supporting this
Israeli government and professing any
type of commitment to
anti-discrimination or not
indiscriminately killing civilians so
you've had 2009 you know 2014 both of
those massacres in Gaza that were both
recognized internationally as such in
Israel though a who'd all murd as an
example
former Israeli prime minister look him
up definitely committed atrocities in
Lebanon and Gaza also put the only
legitimate two-state solution plan on
the table and is an interesting figure
just got out of jail for corruption but
we all know how I feel about corruption
I don't care
and but he said really it's like look
Israel needs to understand that we are
not under threat
we're not they have nuclear weapons they
have complete military supremacy over
any of their neighbors and their primary
military responsibilities are policing a
Jim Crow situation in the West Bank and
having a siege on Gaza like you can talk
to Israeli intelligence and military
people they'll say you know it's very
bad for us that the main workout
that our soldiers get are harassing
Palestinian civilians terrorism was a
very real issue at one point and there's
atrocities definitely in the early
aughts of like Hamas blowing up pizza
parlors and examples like this first of
all you could put a security barrier
inside 67 borders the fact that they put
it wael well into the expansion of
settlements says a lot and then
furthermore because they've never
stopped constructing settlements and the
demographic realities two states is out
the window as a matter of practicality
and if you have any type of democratic
commitment you would support the joint
list Arab parties which is a coalition
of secularists and communists both
Jewish Arab as well as some Muslim who
are advocating for and across the board
democracy that's it
so uh that being said you know in a
moment like this
I'd really like a leftist progressive
uncompromising crusader for the rights
of all to step forward and man we just
found a great Tulsi Gabbard clip talking
about Palestinian human rights just in
the nick of time this is from a Sunday
so this is fresh this is really exciting
oh wait no this from 2016 okay this is
from 2016 well whatever
December 2018 okay so this is this
alright well all right all right we'll
figure it out but anyways this is Tulsi
Gabbard laying it down for the rights of
all
that is a complex question that requires
piece being able to have those
conversations to build a path towards
peace and the short answer really is
unfortunately with the current
leadership in place we are getting they
are getting farther and farther away
from the possibility or the path
building that pathway towards peace and
towards that that two-state solution
recognizing the respect they quality the
humanity of all the people who are
living within that region
pablum when was this
December 2018 in New Hampshire yeah so
this doesn't mean a thing and
again I love that map pointed out right
the the see the prevarication is who
which leadership of course because that
can be signaled to anybody what she's
signaling the audience is obviously
Netanyahu and the far-right in Israel
because it's a pro Palestinian human
rights question but anybody else could
say oh well obviously of course she's
talking about Hamas which controls Gaza
now of course there's only one faction
the Palestinian Authority in the West
Bank are the only formation there that
still is doing anything to support a
two-state solution everybody else has
moved on except actually Hamas is kind
of prevaricated on that but that is not
like by the by 2016 Bernie Sanders was
willing to come out and give a speech
where he spoke at least frankly about
the humanitarian toll on Palestinians
yes this is she did nothing he turned
down his invitation to AIPAC which is
huge in the context of American politics
and like you know people want to
criticize Bernie from the left and I
have plenty of left criticisms of him
myself but on this particular issue like
he is by far the best that we are going
to do as of now with a viable
presidential candidate and like he
actually has a chance
so definitely let's not mess that up
also he's very well-positioned to combat
charges of anti-semitism because the man
is undeniably Jewish whether or not he's
Jewish in the way that these people want
him to be and like honestly that's I
don't have a pole in front of me but
that's a lot of Jews in America you know
we don't all support the things that
Israel does we know particularly younger
Jewish people are definitely pivoting on
that issue also her answer she says you
know we basically have to the
Palestinians have to be peaceful before
we try to work towards peace she says
everybody and I just and by the way
that's a hundred percent right and just
to really put a fine point on this okay
so and I agree that you have to reject
of course things like suicide bombing in
any tactic that focuses on civilians
period you have to have full stops on
things right I'm not drawing an
equivalency but there's certain thing
certain things you have to reject if you
want to have a position of getting to
adjust place and killing Israeli
civilians of suicide bombings is totally
unacceptable obviously now there's other
tactics and guerilla war that I'm not
gonna comment on and I'll just say
they're a lot more complicated but
anything that targets civilians we can
discard including of course Israeli
indiscriminate killing of civilians and
every side here has blood on its hands
it's just one there's a total asymmetry
of power so you can't draw a false
equivalency but generically every side
has blood on its hands but what's
amazing about this talking point and I
don't know where Tulsi stands on the
attempt to criminalize BDS movement the
boycott divestment and sanctions of
Israel which has been happening across
the United States it's an actual
real-life First Amendment issue the one
the Palestinians have been lectured by a
government that runs an apartheid state
on them and a superpower that supplies
that apartheid state with weapons and
money and exports people from Brooklyn
to build settlements there while they do
that they've had the temerity to lecture
Palestinians on how they should conduct
their struggle and you know the same
people upholding an occupation or like
well you know where's the pose too gaudy
we're supposed to need Mandela
well actually interestingly enough
Mandela said that South Africa wasn't
fully free
till Palestine was free just a little
point of reference so excusing that just
monumental grotesque hypocrisy than
anybody that has any role in the
oppression of Palestinians has anything
to say about how they conduct themselves
they did generate a mass global
nonviolent movement modeled on the South
Africa model it's called boycott
divestment and sanctions of which you're
criminalizing and acquainting to
terrorism so you know I mean just the
complete fusion of immorality delusion
paranoia and racism and that people
bring to that discussion is just
awe-inspiring Lee discussion disgusting
and actually yes a good early preview of
gist yes the profound dead end of
nationalism the profound that end of a
certain type of reductionist identity
politics
