[Music]
the editor of a Jacobin magazine author
of the socialist manifesto the case for
radical politics in an era of extreme
inequality Bosch Garson Cara welcome to
the back to the program yes it's been a
while thank you for having me on and
then I hope everything's going well on
your end
things are going fairly well here all
things considered and it's I appreciate
it
sorry we couldn't get you into studio I
have a feeling you're probably calling
from around the corner but yeah no I
mean I'm actually in DC today so it
makes sense but I'm normally I'm
normally either in my apartment or my
office in New York which is the only two
places where people can find me all
right well I understand that dynamic
very much actually but so next time but
all right let's get into this this is it
it's it's it's it's a good time to get
into it because right now we're looking
at what appears to be a three-way race
in the Democratic Party one of those
candidates I would contend is leaking
oil as they say and you know that is
always a problem but there are two other
candidates in there that I think in may
in some to some extent well I guess let
me let me put it this way who represent
two options for the left but there is a
distinction and we will get to that but
let's start with this the difference
between a Democratic Socialist and a
social democrat well what are the
difference between those two things so
okay well I think I'm going to preempt a
question somewhat by I think by saying
that I don't think that Elizabeth Warren
though she is a progressive is
necessarily either but in my definition
a social democrat or least what social
moxie has become is about trying to
implement doses of socialism within
capitalism it's about creating certain
bedrock social safety net programs for
people it's about in other words making
life
captive to the tyranny of the market so
you have universal health care you have
child care you of all these other
demands I think Democratic socialists
believe in all those things will you
want to go a little bit further we also
want our question be inequity and power
that we think stem from the workplace
and from the fact that capitalist run
workplace like dictatorships and this
power and this this well so they
accumulate in these workplaces bleeds
over into our social and political
spheres as well so if I was to do a very
forced very awkward sports analogy since
its beginning of football season I know
it's good progressives you know we we
don't really like the the NFL but you
know social democracy is getting the
ball to within field goal range
you know democratic socialism is scoring
touchdown it's figuring out how can we
actually create a society in which we're
not dependent on capitalist to create
the goods and services that we then will
tax to profit so we then with tax to
fund our welfare state so the if I
understand you the the the problem with
allowing capitalists broadly speaking to
remain intact is that there is a
tendency that they will there they will
turn that capital we will go from a
Pluto plutonomy into a plutocracy in
some respects yes essentially what it
means is that even if they'll greet our
demands today if we have a large
movement we have a mass strike waiver
all these other things going on what
happens twenty years thirty years down
the road as smoothly opportunity strikes
capitals are going to find ways to roll
back key parts of the welfare state we
saw this in Sweden you know we've seen
this time and time again that we when we
try to administer these reforms but we
don't challenge this control and this
power the capital has they'll find ways
to roll back the the welfare state so I
think for now we should all be United
those of us Alaska Center in fighting
for the really important demands that
will help people day to day
care for all decent jobs for all
childcare making sure our children of
excess nutrition housing all these
things are things we can we can agree on
but I think fundamentally the way we go
about fighting for these things is
either going to be in a way that's
confrontational that recognizes that
even though in the short term we're
going to have to make compromises we
ultimately are going up against an enemy
that that doesn't want to compromise
with us and as soon as they got the
upper hand though undermine us or what
we'll do it in a kind of technocratic
piecemeal mode that doesn't really
recognize that that we're in you know
battle to the death as far as our
enemies are concerned so it's Bernie
sometimes likes to put it you know there
has been class war for the last 3040
years in this country and a really
vicious vicious way the only thing it's
been a one-sided class war what we're
proposing is that working people have
distinct interests from the interests of
our bosses and we need to figure out a
way to organize and fight for things
together I mean to assert it does I mean
you you you cite Sweden in the book as
an example of sort of these reversals
and and go through the history of
different I guess you call socialist
projects would you say that that turn
that that did take place and then maybe
let's call it just peg it to the 70s in
this country after you know what people
call the great compression was in part a
good illustration of of what happens
when you don't fundamentally undermine
capitalism or capitalists within society
in terms of like maintaining the you
know to the extent that it was not
necessarily shared broadly because huge
sectors of our society we're denied this
but to the extent that it existed that
the the sort of the worker benefits in
middle class what they enjoyed was was
then basically slowly taken away yeah I
think a lot of what we got in their 40s
50s 60s this is just the result of an
involved
in which there was a kind of a growth
liberalism so the economy's growing so
fast but capital didn't want any
disruptions so they could break off
pieces of the pie to labor but as soon
as they entered any sort of economic
difficulties like they did in the 70s
and early 80s then they basically were
like well this arrangement that was
working when our profit rates were we're
this high is no longer working for us
anymore
so sometimes when we think about
neoliberalism let's say we think of it
in two ideological terms like the
neoliberalism is just this idea that was
conjured up in some room by Milton
Friedman a bunch of other odious guys in
the Chicago school but in fact what
neoliberalism is what the era that we've
been living in for the last twenty
thirty years
it's just capitalism getting its groove
back it's just you know the the
reassertion of capital saying we need to
be flexible enough to restructure and
deregulate and not have to deal with
union interference but this so-called
interference is the only thing that was
making sure that some of this growth and
some of this tremendous wealth in our
society was in fact trickling down to to
working people so in the short term a
lot of what we need to do is not just
support one presidential candidate or
not to support one issue demand like
Medicare for all in isolation but to
connect these things with a broader
struggle to reap alit asides or civil
society to get to the point where you
could talk to your your friends your
neighbors or family about politics get
to the point where we have the Union
drives in this country get to the point
where we have civic assemblies you know
things like occupy but more permanent
where we could really think of ourselves
as not just passive consumers but
producers and political agents and
citizens and I think in a small part
this is some of the promise of the
Sanders campaign you know not all that
is realized but at least it gets people
to thinking about politics and thinking
that you know all these things happening
in my life that I think of as individual
failings that I think of as just kind of
calamities I'm suffering from an
isolation on factor related to social
problems and these social problems have
collective solutions beyond just
individual grit
pulling yourself up by your boot chat I
want to I want to just to stay a for a
moment in terms of like you know we're
we're Social Democrats I sort of like
we're Democratic socialists and in
Social Democrats where they sort of I
guess it's not so much that they part
ways on a on a highway if you use that
metaphor but one goes further when do
you cross that threshold like it like to
what extent okay what point D you know
and I know this is pretty theoretical
stuff that we're talking about but at
what point does is capital undermined
enough so that they don't have the
ability to reverse gains that have been
made
so let's look historically I think it's
a really really good question but let's
look historically it at our kind of
archetype for social democracy the
country where was most successful in
Sweden the Social Democrats emerged as a
force in the early nineteen hundred and
initially in the early decades they're
fighting for political democracy because
Sweden was quite vicious oligarchical
anti-democratic country and once they
win political suffrage and rights for
this mass of working people that they're
representing then they begin the
construction of social democracy and
they rule virtually uninterrupted from
the 1930s until the mid to late 1970s
of 1976 and you see that in the first
40s in the 1940s in the 1950s this is
kinds of consolidation of you know
Swedish capital growing but a lot of
this wealth coming down to workers you
see the beginnings of the construction
of a welfare state to the point that
least ur core necessities of life you
were no longer dependent on the market
even though it's fundamentally driven by
a capitalist market economy and these
social goods were depend on taxation
from capital and what people in the far
left what reminisce thought looking at
social the mosque
was that well obviously they could see
some of the good in it they can see that
people's lives are getting better but
one of their main criticisms was well
essentially you're buying off workers
you are taking workers you're making
them you know live a cushy or life but
you're telling them real close to the
success of their firms and also to the
state and they thought this would be
conservatism but in fact what we
discovered in the history of social
democracy or every some Swedish case was
it winning more demands didn't make
people more complacent it caused them to
demand more and you know simple
illustration this is just the fact let's
say both me and us EMA are unemployed
and I'm unemployed in an area with 20%
local unemployment you're unemployed an
area with virtually full employment
you know 2 3 % unemployment who's going
to be sorry sir let's say you're
employed in that environment who's going
to be more apt to go to their boss and
to demand a raise or to potentially get
together with your colleagues and risk
going on strike obviously it's going to
be the person in the environment with a
lower unemployment in the same way in
Sweden workers have gotten so much
rights they've gotten so much security
from this welfare state that by the late
60s by 1967 1968 you seem a strike waves
across Sweden but strikes that are
demanding not just that a rages and
conditions but strikes they're demanding
industrial democracy they start in other
words to question the right of
management to manage and this is really
kind of a fundamental step in the
direction of democratic socialism in
questioning not just redistributed
outcomes for questioning the very game
itself and throughout the 1970s at
Swedish capital descends into crisis
because a variety of reasons this
worldwide slump that happened on a lot
of Western countries Swedish capitalist
who before in the 1950s and 60s could
say well listen I'm getting less money
I'm highly taxed more and regulated more
I have to deal with powerful unions
compared to my life
capitalist and say France or Britain but
unlike them I have industrial peace you
know the workers are happy enough that
they're not going on strikes at least
whatever returns I'm getting is
predictable returns now we're saying
well I have to deal with a restless
workforce and my profitability is down
and I have to deal with all these
international stuff going on with the
globalization of the economy like the
OPEC shock and so on
and then they say well this arrangement
is working for us is no longer working
and they have this ability to withhold
investment so sometimes when we think
about the power of capital we think it
really dramatic terms we think about the
coup of Ind in Chile in 1973 we think
about even capital flight you know cat
capital is just leaving hole locations
but the way the capital is more often
than not exert their power on even
center-left governments even their good
progress government is by saying we are
no longer going to invest unless you
make the so-called business environment
more favorable which means in other
words and let unless you do let us do
what we want to do and fundamentally
there was a few different responses to
this on the right-wing of social
democracy the third way Social Democrats
as a later became call called people
like Schroeder and Gordon Brown and you
know he was always worse than the rest
of them but Tony Blair he got on this
this you know group of people to their
gambit was we're going to let capital do
what it wants we're going to let capital
deregulate we're going to weaken the
unions weaken our very social base it
gets to selected but in return in this
environment of renewed growth we're
going to task this renewed growth and
we're going to use this taxation money
to fund the key parts of our welfare
state we're going to keep the NHS we're
going to keep you know all these other
kind of key parts of the welfare state
provisioning that was a gamble of a
third way social democracy we're going
to retreat you know down you know maybe
50 steps but we're going to make sure
that we don't treat retreat all the way
to the bottom and that's the only way
we'll preserve some some gains we have
made in the past on the left wing of
social democracy though we said well
maybe there's a way instead of
retreating down those 50 steps where we
can charge up
to the to the roof of the system and the
charge was was done you know proposed in
its most ambitious form by something
called a minder plan which would have
slowly over time transferred ownership
of Swedish companies to the people who
work there to the workers because
workers don't flee there's no capital
flight from their own community if your
job and your ownership is tied with your
Community Work worker controlled or in
this case of workplace controlled by by
his collective funds wouldn't just
refuse to to invest you know they would
have a very different set of incentives
well they're there literally and wife
already invested in that community I
mean the bye-bye / - exactly that they
they don't have the ability they don't
have access to the means of which you
know to find another one essentially
yeah exactly and the by the way and this
kind of firm your mentality would also
completely change - because your goal is
not to maximize your total profits but
your rather
maximize your profit for workers so some
of the imperatives of capitalism the
imperative of of having to you know
constantly expand scale in the same way
just to accumulate this vast amount of
profits it's not reinvested into
communities rather hoarded by a few
people
you know these dynamics change I mean in
my vision of a socialist society there's
still a market economy in a certain
sphere and firms still compete and you
know inefficient firms go away but
there's also a difference between you
know have being an inefficient firm
that's out competed and landing on a
cushy welfare state and getting
retrained and going to another sector
than what happens today which is you
know you get laid off of your job and
you have unemployment benefits for a few
weeks and then make you feel degraded
they make you feel terrible and you're
taking it and you know then your
unemployment benefits and your cobras up
and your you don't have a look right so
in other words so with social democracy
there were alternatives the right wing
kind of so
solution to the Chrysler social
democracy was perceived was pursued but
in my view there was always a left-wing
alternatives and you saw it being
attempted in fits and starts but our
premises is we go to what we know works
we know that social democracy works from
there we have an inkling about some of
the pressures some of the contradictions
with social democracy they've all run
into other than from that we need to go
beyond social democracy but day to day
this is kind of in the future but day to
day the main deficit in a social
democrat and democratic socialist is to
some degree
how do you want to fight for these these
things we both agree that we need in our
society do we fight for universal health
care by sitting down at the table and
making a compromise with key business
leaders and the health insurance
companies and we're not do we fight
through class struggle through a march
on Washington to all these other kind of
methods and to me even though someone
like Bernie Sanders and Jeremy Corbyn is
did even say has a program a set of
demands fundamentally social democratic
they're going about fighting for these
demands through a class struggle and
that's a key distinction for me you know
I don't care what you call yourself
you call yourself progressives call
yourself a Democratic Socialist a social
democrat or whatever if you're willing
to struggle with working people and take
on the powerful interests that are
keeping us down then then you know I'm
with you that's the most important thing
and and so ok and so as we the the the
idea is that that mode of operation is
going to set you up to diminish
capital's power so that they don't have
the ability in leaner times to
essentially take it out of to
externalize those costs onto workers
essentially and to rest in society
and well so i mean so do you have a
sense I mean as you go forward in you
know if that other path had been taken
let's say and and and presumably that
that other path was not pursued because
of the political power of capital that
that they they have as a function of
having the capital and so do you have a
sense and in May again I guess it was
still like at what point how much gets
you to a point of equilibrium because I
guess when I contemplate I mean I I
guess I am of just sort of
philosophically speaking sort of
convinced that that that a certain
amount of tension is always necessary
right to just maintain some measure of
of tension and is there a a concern that
like you I mean is there an idea even a
theoretical concept of like if forty
percent of of businesses or certain
industries are essentially worker owned
then you know you've you've achieved a
you've crossed a threshold where capital
simply doesn't yeah yeah what you're
saying is they're kind of a tipping
point here yes where we are in a
different sort of society well I would
say that the kind of changes that we
need to implement would be gradual but
sectoral so in other words alright let's
talk about at the beginning it'll be d
commodifying key parts of the economy so
we could imagine indeed you know we both
are kind of fighting for in the next
five years d commodifying the healthcare
sector so in this case it's a gradual
reform in the context of the whole
economy though within the sector of the
health insurance businesses it's quite
drastic of course they'll be a just
transition for the working people that
are in this sector trying to support
their themselves and their families but
but it'll be kind of a big change in
that second we can imagine that applying
to other these key sectors that we don't
think should be depending on the ability
to pay that we don't think the market
has a big role should have a role in
there's a certain you know things that
that are in any even a you know a
capitalist economist would admit these
are natural monopolies there's no need
for for competition inside the state
should just as well you know take it
over so you know I think that's that's a
key what are the sector like I mean if
you were to like check them off I mean I
imagine that you have your your secret
list of sectors that you're going to
going to take over one at a time what
what I think that things like having our
our transport sector like when it comes
to our national rail lines and things
like that being actually run by the
government you know right now you have a
little bit of government ownership and
some of the Northeast us via kind of a
kind a complicated relationship with it
with Amtrak is a very confusing
organization but you have some level
state direction and control and
investment in execution and you know
other other parts of country you
absolutely do not if anyone's ever been
on the west coast sitting and waiting
behind a fracking truck book and sitting
in an Amtrak which which has to sit for
like two hours while I like you know
cargo passes by you know you would you
would know what I mean other sectors
like obviously health care is one that I
mentioned telecommunications you know
there's certain sectors like that that I
think the state can probably do a better
job at then even worker owned firms when
it comes to other worker owned firms the
way this legislation I think should be
implemented would be saying and there's
proposals in this direction they're not
as ambitious in the UK right now that
firms over a certain size to begin with
let's say firms employing 50 or more
people must give kind of buybacks of
equity every single year to collect a
fund owned by that firms employees and
over time for instance and 10 20 30
years a majority of the controlling
interest and therefore majority of these
boards would be run by by workers so you
know some capitals will go along with it
to say well
I'm still making playing money is
essential I'm being bought out by my
employees there's others at all
you know resist like like hell but but
that's that's what I imagine the the
situation being I don't think that we
could just keep the existing structure
of society without legislation and just
create coops and kind of fees of
capitalism I think we needs to be pushed
by by legislation and by a strong labor
movement and in some ways out you know
but let's consider what we were talking
about a horizon and a vision of a
society without class without this
distinction between management and
employee and an ownership that I think
as a socialist I believe I'm normally
normatively opposed to you know I
believe that if we have an alternative
to these extreme forms of hierarchy that
we should pursue these alternatives and
pursuing this alternative has the added
benefit of securing the welfare state
but I believe already in a majority of
Americans think is you know they're
right as human beings the right to a
decent job the right to health care the
right to roof over their their head so
but as we're fighting for these things I
think we need to make clear that we're
not just trying to convince people of a
good vision or good argument we are
running up against people who have a
vested interest in the status quo
because there's a lot of people getting
rich due to the fact that there's no
rent controls and there's no we're not
building public housing stock to to
decrease the house of the you know
prices a private housing stock there's a
lot of people getting rich off real
estate speculation there's a hell of a
lot of people getting rich off the way
that our health insurance system is is
run and for the longest time in the
Democratic Party as best candidates have
been talking in technocratic terms about
how to help you know middle-class and
families is as they put it but they
haven't been talking about the vested
interests and the power structure
against us and it's not something that
we could just wish away so so I think
that's a real utility in being
democratic
today it's not necessarily advocating a
different set of return reforms in the
short term it's advocating a different
means of going about achieving these
things right so first order are these
material benefits but the second order
is making sure that they're sustainable
and that requires a structural change
yeah they're connected yeah if you can't
just get a medicare-for-all then you're
not gonna be able to get you're not
gonna have the power to demand something
like more employee control of their
workplaces you know they're they're
they're very much connected winning
begets winning many people I think have
theorized that's basically what happened
in the late 60s and 70s at one point
like there was at least within the
context of you know white society people
felt confident enough in their economic
futures that they started to you know I
guess demand more political power and
that became somewhat problematic for the
powers that be and all right so and let
me just a two to channel Jamie here
Jamie I suspect would would have issue
with the idea of of markets continuing
in that you know workers competing in in
their firms against each other could
lead to their their own exploitation and
sort of like more you know we've got
them we've got to hit these numbers
everybody were you know and the the
workers council has voted that we're all
gonna be here and we're gonna be doing
ten hours a day because we got to hit
these numbers I mean what what what's
your response would the way you you
solve that problem is through you know
fair and just state regulations towards
setting maximum workdays towards setting
certain standards and certain that at
workplaces must operate within to create
a competitive into environment I think
that's that's incredibly you know
necessary but you
fundamental I just cannot imagine if we
agree that we're still in a condition of
relative scarcity which might change in
the future you know I can't imagine a
society producing efficiently without
having some degree of firm failure
without pushing ourselves to innovate
and to be a little bit different in fact
if you have a centrally planned system
if you have a system that's less
efficient what you might end up with is
workers producing less efficiently in
more labor-intensive ways why wouldn't
we want a firm that is so inefficient
they're not making the right
technological investments that they're
forced to work 1213 hours in order to
stay competitive with firms that are
that are doing things in different ways
why would we want that latter firm to
stick around if the penalties for losing
and the penalties for the people at that
firm is once again bouncing off this
cushy kind of safety net of a welfare
state so so what's given to me is that
socialism must represent both voice and
exit for working people so voice within
your workplace but also the ability to
leave work and so enough Society has to
be outside the market but you know in
order to actually keep that dica
modified sector of the society well
funded it humming I do think you need
some sort of productive sphere but but
for me markets have existed before
capitalism and they'll probably exist
for a long time after after capitalism
my problem is not necessarily the
markets themselves my problem is how the
firm's that are competing within the
market are structured which is in as
tyrannous tyrannical kind of firms under
capitalism and also what the penalties
for failure is was right now it's
destitution and and that's not a
reasonable penalty but for consumer
goods you know I see no reason why there
should be a state monopoly off oh you
know on the production of you know forks
and knives I think that'll bring back a
lot of bad memories for people of the
inefficiency and failures of plant
economies in the 20th century I'm
satisfied with that you can go on to the
anti fada and maybe continue there but
so let me I would love to have you so
okay but let me
so all right so let's pivot a little bit
to the sort of the the the the the
current day political pitch on some
level and like what do you do in terms
of is is the project right now from your
perspective to raise cotton I should say
that you know I I you know I'm I'm I'm
very comfortable going down this road
and I'm quite convinced that I'm not I'm
gonna be leaving this planet before it
gets anywhere where I don't feel
comfortable where it is so I'm happy to
travel down that road as far as as far
as I still have the capacity to walk so
but but in the context of your project
like what is the challenge now in terms
of raising awareness and so like to what
extent I mean because theoretically
right I mean on some level Bernie
Sanders should be polling higher on some
level if this is if or why isn't he
let's put it that way well I think
there's a variety of reasons one of
which is that most Democrats like all
the Democratic nominees you know people
like me and you have very strong
favorites right you know we we you know
feel very strongly about the tent that's
a lot of people are just well they
really hate Trump and a lot of the
candidates are probably saying the right
things about about social goods and you
know loyal Democrat just want Trump out
of there well I think you know that
explains why it's kind of a dead heat
for these top three candidates and
Biden's the most familiar the most
connected with the very popular Obama so
you know he's he's a little bit ahead
but but I think we could explain that
pretty easily I think the broader
problem the broader question of what's
happening on the Left what's happening
with with do democratic socialism is
that were resuscitating right now but
we're coming alive as largely a media
phenomenon don't get me wrong there's
tens of thousands of working people that
are democratic socialists now they're
doing great work organizing their
communities but we don't yet have the
based on millions we need to change this
country and that's they challenge how do
we get more implanted and more rooted in
working communities a lot of people are
Democratic socialists today are you know
college educated people a lot of them
are d-class professionals that you know
from parents were accountants and
lawyers and now we're working working
class jobs for sure but we're definitely
drawn for a particular milieu and and in
order to become a broader or more
diverse more more rooted movement we
really need to win over layers of
working people and the way to do that is
obviously just patient and slow
organizing there's great work being done
right now in Brooklyn by DSA connected
to the Crown Heights attendants Union
connected with these flights in New York
around rent controls there's great work
being done around the country in these
congressional races which is a reason to
for people just to knock on doors and
talk about your ideas and talk about
politics so there's a lot of really
exciting things going on and we just
need to keep double Downing on these
efforts I think we do need to be
connected to Bernie 2020 and to just
some of them looping around Bernie
Sanders and the fight for Medicare for
all and so on and all these campaigns
are away just to deepen our base but we
can't be content with just being a high
profile you know group because our
strength needs to come from being really
deeply rooted in the communities that
can really disrupt and threaten capital
and can forced the reforms that we
desperately need in this country III
tend to think that like you know it's
very possible to get this sort of -
clever about the sort of strategizing
certain things but but as you lay out
your your vision right like there are
basically getting some type of
universality and D commodifying
Healthcare begins to give you the power
to decommodification
you know it sort of snowballs and then
you're able to sort of move into
democratizing some of these other
sectors and-and-and firms as you say so
there is like a sequencing is are you
concerned at all
that the sequence is not quite there yet
to support a political victory by
someone who will attempt to do a lot of
these things in other words like is
there a you know in you know when I wake
up at 3:00 in the morning and which
happens far too often and can't get back
to sleep like the idea of like okay
Bernie wins the economy goes south
because it's been juiced and there is a
massive push back because Democrats
obviously Republicans would even a
significant number of Democrats don't
want to see these type of reforms they
did there's still too much entrenched
power and it it it begins to cut away at
the progress that's just made in terms
of society because Bernie ends up being
you know sort of like stranded on some
level because there's not quite the the
support for amongst the population that
needs to be there to actually enact
these type of reforms yeah I mean I
think that what we need to do right away
is if we have a presidency of someone
like Bernie Sanders and we use the bully
pulpit of the presidency we use
executive orders to show people that
were fighting for them and then
certainly there'll be other parts of a
legislative agenda that we want to push
through and we're unable to because of
Congress and because the markets are
getting riled up and whatever else we
needed place the blame word where it
should be blamed you know we need to say
that you know we're in a fight against
these interest and these interests are
trying to undermine our program you know
if you in a weird way I think that you
know those lessons from the Trump
administration Trump has not delivered
to his supporters most of what his
supporters wanted them and thank God for
that but he has been able to do certain
things to use a bully pulpit of the
presidency to support this really nasty
right-wing populist movement that's
getting up and and I think we need to
use the bully pulpit of executive office
to support the real activism on the
streets that will give us more space
more leverage to demand certain things
and probably the best historical example
I could give is the example of the 1930s
in France so we own bloom the first
president Beckham Prime Minister back
tonight prime ministers of France who is
a socialist was also a Jew and he was
beaten up about one two months before he
took office and dropped from a car
beaten up by an anti-semitic gang he
knew how dangerous the threat of fascism
was but when he took power he didn't
think he could actually administer do
much to advance the vision of socialism
what he thought he was doing was in his
words occupying power and the act of
occupying power for him was just I'm
going to sit in the seat to the right
cannot sit in the seat the right sits in
the seat they're going to make it harder
to advance our agenda and get the things
I want two three you know for you know
years or decades down the road but
instead what we ended up with was a
situation where workers themselves
started going on strike started doing
all this disruption to the point that
capital is forced to to compromise and
Leon Blum was able to get things enacted
that some are like to start a summer
holidays and all these other demands I
think that's example we have to look for
it's not just what the power of capital
is how can we summon a countervailing
force on the street
to what extent I mean where does race
fit into all this because you know one
of the things that mode and my
catchphrases around here now is it's
been for a while the that you know to a
certain extent there is a zero-sum
there's a there is a zero-sum reality in
terms of of white people white males
losing some of their status within
society not just economic although
that's certainly part of it but when we
look at like you know your your average
Trump voter they're not particularly I
mean they're not particularly suffering
economically you know obviously the vote
to folks who voted against Trump
you know on average making less money
struggling just as much but there is a
real sense of loss by white males that
they are no longer centered in our
society how do you how does that fit in
with your perspective so actually do you
have to go on about five minutes I'm
just gonna say no today I completely
have no idea GC geography and apparently
I'm way further from Union Station that
I thought but I think the key thing is
to stress the people that that we are in
fact demanding a program that will help
everyone but will particularly help
those who are most oppressed will
particularly help women will
particularly help help people color will
particularly help in this country black
Americans who suffer the most from not
having a decent welfare state from being
deprived opportunities and jobs and and
so on but that this game doesn't come at
your expense so we need to stress the
idea that any privilege that a
working-class person has say a white
male working-class person has over other
working people is a relative and not an
absolute privilege and that's that's
really key to stress and we need to
create an environment where we're not
just telling people to compare and wear
their privileges were saying listen we
all need to go together and we need to
fight together and we didn't make
advances together I hope that works but
I also I also hope you make your train
to a Bosch Carson car we will we will do
this again thanks so much I appreciate
that
