[Music]
michael cohen has plea as has copped a
plea specifically this is actually
separate from the whole stormy Daniels
thing which is apparently which is I
think our has been our main exposure to
Michael Cohen and Trump's legal troubles
in the last couple of months but this is
specifically around lying to Congress
around the timing of a trump possible
joint venture for a hotel in Russia the
lie was was that the talks of this deal
had concluded the project never went
forward and Cohen was lying to Congress
saying that these talks stopped before
the Iowa caucuses turns out they
continued after the Iowa caucuses so you
know this is just kind of regardless of
any bigger kind of Russia stuff here
this is just the sort of like this were
in on monuments why can't I say that
we're in the gist you know using the
campaign using the office emoluments a
monuments we're in that territory here I
don't know why I can't say that today
it's bizarre but Donald Trump he's on
his way to Argentina for the g20 summit
it's sure to be a there's gonna be a lot
of action there there's actually a
citizen's effort and attorneys effort to
apprehend MBS there and Buenos Aires as
well so hopefully the left will be out
in strong force protesting in Argentina
Donald Trump's on his way there and he
of course had a very succinct very clear
answer to the Michael Cohen question
that got shouted to him this morning on
the White House lawn this is really when
Trump is sort of lying and all over the
place like this but still in a very
obvious way hedging his language mm-hmm
this is when you know that he's quite
aware and quite tense about his
potential jeopardy he's in yeah he likes
to like explore different ways of
framing and length and putting things
into language
exactly and it's super subtle nobody
could sell Cohen has made many
statements to the house as I understand
it and the Senate he put out a statement
talking about a project which was
essentially I guess more or less of an
option that we were looking at in Moscow
everybody knew about it it was written
about in newspapers there was a
well-known project it was during the
early part of 16 and I guess even before
that it lasted a short period of time I
didn't do the project I decided not to
do the project so I didn't do it so
we're not talking about her doing a
project we're talking about not doing a
project Michael Kohn what he's doing is
he was convicted I guess you'll have to
put it into legal terms but he was
convicted with a fairly long term
sentence on things totally unrelated to
the Trump Organization having to do with
mortgages and having to do with cheating
the IRS perhaps a lot of different
things I don't know exactly but he was
convicted of various things unrelated to
us he was given a fairly long jail
sentence and he's a weak person and my
being unlike other people that you watch
he's a weak person and what he's trying
to do is get a reduced sentence so he's
lying about a project that everybody
knew about I mean we were very open with
it we were thinking about building a
building I guess we had in a forum it
was an option I don't know what you'd
call it
we decided I decided ultimately not to
do it there would have been nothing
wrong if I did do it if I did do it
there would have been nothing wrong
that's my business it's beautiful so
well I'm sure there are a variety of
legal troubles that Michael Cohen's
involved in definitely his plea bargains
have definitely all had to do with the
Trump Organization because that was his
prime employer and who he was primarily
lying on behalf of the person he's
talking about who might have more
character than Michael Cohen is clearly
Paul Manafort who is a calculating
career criminal who's still hoping for a
pardon that Donald Trump is dangling in
front of him that
said and that's what I said that's
obviously what the our position is
exactly Paul and so and just to add to
the you know comedy of Lies here we now
have you know you have one son who is
clearly the product of neglect and
whatever ultra bizarre emotional and
psychic issues are going on in that
house and he's the one who trumped wool
I don't know maybe follow back on
Twitter or something of course I'm
talking about Don jr. then you have the
other son who there's just a lot of
basic misfortune with this guy and he's
the true embarrassment and this clip did
not is not helping every time there's an
international incident they say wow the
president's too nice to Vladimir Putin
that's because he has so many
investments in Russia they said he's too
opening this investigation play out
that's busy as investments in Saudi
Arabia you're running the Trump
Organization what's the reality there's
zero investments in Russia there's zero
investments in Saudi we have absolutely
nothing to do with those countries and
by the way my father's been tougher on
Russia than probably any human being in
the world that's what happens when you
give offensive weapons to Ukraine right
Obama never did that so what happens
when you promote you know American
energy you take away their largest
financial you know stream which is oil I
mean that's what built oil and gases
wouldn't build Russia and all of a
sudden we're saying hey you know once
you buy American oil we've got a lot of
great oil workers we've got a lot of
great energy in the u.s. how about this
will supply you all the energy you could
ever possibly need don't buy it from
Russia talk to your dad about ok ok so
obviously we'll start he's lying
there's relationships with Russia we
know this then Saudi well maybe look to
Jared Kushner on that relationship then
there's ok yes this actually is
important to bear in mind for the
resistance types and I'm not somebody I
think that people needed a much smarter
and more nuanced perspective about what
happened in Ukraine several years ago
there was obviously a fascistic
far-right that opposed a Russian
presence there but there was also a Left
oriented democracy movement and it's
complicated and I'm not interested in
excusing you know Russian Monro policy
any more than I'm interested in excusing
us Mon roll policy in terms of
controlling its neighbors that being
said it was great that Barack Obama
didn't fuel that conflict by giving
offensive weapons to Ukraine and there's
a lot of neoliberal Hawk idiots and that
was a subtle but usually important
difference between Obama and Hillary
Clinton because she did want to ramp up
the the weapons capacity of what sent to
Ukraine so if this becomes another thing
where you're pushing Trump to cover up
these bizarre connections which really
are gonna amount to questions of
oligarchy and corruption with the
Russian regime to fuel an ultra hawkish
NATO expansionist policy along with what
he's already doing with arms control
that would be well just be polite very
short-sighted and the third point is is
I don't think any oil-producing country
that is blocking the transition to a
post fossil fuel world is going to be
extremely happy with the Trump
administration's approach to energy
including Russia yeah you know anybody
going through an FBI investigation
there's sort of an unfairness
I guess we'll sort of discover in the
interview coming up right that it's sort
of like running hurdles in a pitch-dark
gymnasium but with but with the mole
investigation the reason like I'm not so
concerned about the unfairness is that
it's like making the worst people in the
world to run through that hurdle yeah
they're the worst people on earth and
there's gonna be things there I mean
that's the thing that's so fun right
it's like if there's nothing to the
Russia thing and I think it's proven at
this point there's definitely something
to it but even if there was nothing to
it if you put a team of forensic
investigators on the truth stations
financed exactly I mean are you kidding
me it's gonna be hard for them to not
write something like if you didn't find
multiple global crimes I would be
shocked like genuinely I still think
that they're going to get out of it
how who everybody I mean not everybody
okay not everybody but like Trump and
his top guys I mean I don't think
metaphor it's gonna matter for it's not
a metaphor it's there but anyway I mean
whatever even a regardless so bleed him
out for 20/20 there whatever way you
spin it it's not good politically for
him to have to be on the lawn talking
this nonsense that's not a good look
