I also think the other thing is one way
of circling the square between this
whole like identity versus economics
debate which doesn't offer any
short-term electoral lessons because
it's a long-term project is there's no
doubt that there are some people because
because I by the way I really think if
you look at the industry industrial
Midwest I think that the voters who were
in serious economic straits who were
portrayed by Democrats and disgusted by
the trade deals and by neoliberal
policies and fell for the Trump scam at
of out of desperation and I think and
you're talking about like tens of
thousands I mean geographically vitally
placed but very few people overall in
the electorate I think they're already
done like I actually think the worry
might be if you nominate the wrong
person that they'll sit home but I think
that those people already the ones that
were really in on that were really taken
in by the scam I think they're already
leaving and it was very few people to
begin with that weren't voting for Trump
out of white identity politics but those
that weren't I think are already
starting to tap out and conversely there
is a group of people that I mean they're
obviously they're not as privileged as
Megan McCain but I think that part of
what you see in the alt-right in
Charlottesville and and you know Steve
ban and complaining about Asian software
engineers in Silicon Valley is a correct
perception that because of global
competition and because of the stage of
capitalism that were at unless you are
literally like you know if you're Megan
McCain if you're a multi if you are part
of massive intergenerational power and
wealth yes it doesn't matter what talent
and capacity you have you will inherit
and be given things for sure but the
same people that in the 1970s or 80s
could have gone to like you know a
decent state school graduated tuition
you know without being in any debt and
then made a good amount of money and
basically just been moved forward is
like a middle-class white guy that is
actually gone
and some of these people disgustingly
are absolutely gonna look and say like
well how do I restore that apartheid and
I think that is part of you know they're
there they're reading the economic
picture correctly in some ways and
they're drawing the disgusting but
unfortunately historically consistent
conclusion with America which is not I
need to band together with other people
who don't look like me but who I share
more actual interests with they're
saying oh wait a second that maybe
in the midst of all of this market
brutality we can literally reinstate the
traditional privileges that I thought
was my birthright and I think in the
long term you can undermine some of that
through addressing capitalism I do but I
don't think you can in an electoral
cycle basis right because that's sort of
where it came from in the first book
exactly colonialism and capitalist
employees are four hundred five hundred
year long process these are these are
precisely and even if we take a more
macro view it's like yes I think that
there's no doubt that Jimmy Carter
starting to neoliberal eyes the
Democratic Party you can draw a line
between that and the ascent of Donald
Trump no doubt at the same time that
should influence our twenty thirty year
plan I don't think it has much to do for
the next two years
and that's why people on our side of it
needs to get much more about we need
single-payer health care we need to
break up banks we need to probe me D
Utley sees oil companies right like even
these really bold radical aggressive
left policies and common-sense ones free
college and so on because they're the
right thing to do and I guess I do think
overall writ large they're thus more
smartest electoral strategy for engaging
people but a fetishizing of getting into
the white identity base through those
issues is a fool's errand in the short
term it might pay dividends along with
other efforts in the long long a long
term equalizing like
Tyrael resources will cultivate a more
democratic and less racist republic like
we're inheriting one where wells has
been seriously concentrated and that has
that affects how people view race as
it's been constructed exactly and that's
a hundred percent right now let's go to
the other extreme because I also hear
people who you know have taken the
absurd conclusion from that and tried to
cheapen it following the Hillary Clinton
campaign to say that we shouldn't have a
mass reclaiming of resources and
redistribution of wealth in this country
which would be good for all and
necessary for all and in fact
disproportionately benefit
african-americans Native Americans and
women and so on because they have
disproportionately been affected by the
crimes of wealth theft in this country
as an example and also when you say that
as an example America can't have a
social democracy or solidarity because
we're not we're not a homogeneous
society well you're doing three things
one there's historical examples for
every historical example of and there's
no doubt that a progressive coalition in
this country the thing that has always
blown it up is race and racism and white
supremacy and division there's no
question about it but there's also
examples like Wilmington North Carolina
and post reconstruction which before a
white supremacist back coup was in fact
a multiracial black and white run
progressive experiment there's the Free
State of Jones which people should look
up these are real historical examples go
back in and I would strongly encourage
listening to the Tea MBS that listed
history on this we're going to do a lot
more of that coverage so there are
countervailing historical examples but
you know you're also just playing into
the arms of the of both the corporate
sector that might occasionally be okay
with greater representation but we'll
never do anything about structural
inequities of any kind and white racists
who are totally on board with that and
part of actually some of their
strategies moving forward are precisely
going to be calling for ethnos
with universal programs they've already
started test driving it and that's why
those talking points have filtered down
to the dumbest man on youtube check out
Dave Rubin and I know that this has had
to have been fed to him because there's
no way he could have formulated this
thought process on his own the left
often will say oh look at the Nordic
countries look at these socialist Nordic
countries and it's like you know these
countries are pretty much all white and
I know you don't like that and they have
a shared culture and they have a shared
history and that actually isn't what
America is we are the great melting pot
and there is a difference when you have
people that all come from one area and
all have a shared history and a shared
culture that just is that has nothing to
do with race it so that isn't just is
actually and in fact we need to also not
feed this argument because we need to
have solidarity with those fighting to
protect the social safety net and
against bigotry in Scandinavia
incidentally in Scandinavia to be clear
the political parties that are aligned
with protecting those social safety
systems are also the ones opposing
xenophobia and racism so don't let that
get confused and there is examples of
course in the United States of programs
and initiatives and cross racial
coalition's that have achieved
everything from Medicaid to civil rights
to in today's world black lives matter
the Bernie Sanders campaign and all
sorts of pushes happening Occupy Wall
Street pushes happening across the
country for vital progress so it's one
thing on our side to skip the reality
that what is undermined the radical
projects of America is absolutely things
like whites white supremacy and racism
and we need to deal with them and we
need to deal with them as questions of
democracy not just fundamentally as
democracy don't worry about the word
identity as far as I'm concerned it's
about democracy and it's about full
justice rights for all period no
 and as obviously this is a
Confederate in apartheid country so
been contradicted by that if we don't
address that we're not gonna win now
conversely when people trot out those
arguments in Liberal circles to
undermine Universal programs in
solidarity you are the handmaidens of
the corporate state and the fascists
because the fascists are gonna seize on
that and say you know what you're right
and incidentally we do actually want a
more just society and incidentally we do
want to capitalize on the youth
enthusiasm for Bernie Sanders and the
youth disillusionment with inequality in
the economy and we're gonna tie it to
our toxic disgusting ideology which has
always been historically the case and
why they also will benefit the corporate
sector and the Koch brothers in
undermining a true actual broad front to
achieve what we need to in this country
so weird how he insists we're a melting
pot but yet we don't have a shared
history right like to take black people
and white people for instance the idea
that black and white people in America
don't have a shared history isn't a
fraud isn't about history it's about how
history has been written exactly it's
exactly his project to make sure those
histories are never reconciled with each
other that's precisely and all of these
guys share a fundamental a historical
view that's the dots and it's not the
way they frame it in their cheap tactics
is it's just like oh the left just wants
you to review history to feel guilty or
hear you know different stories of human
wrongs but today we're in our world and
we know that those stuff doesn't matter
it's no that's the type that's the way
people are illiterate and clueless to
understanding where we are now you study
history to understand the currents that
shape our world and where we are today
not to just sort of list previous wrongs
which by the way there's nothing wrong
with that but and it's and it shows the
sort of moral sickness that they're
riding on but they they focus on
discounting the moral case which they're
wrong about and we can respond to that
but we could also be confident in saying
you guys are literally working in a
concerted effort
make sure that we don't understand the
world which is in fact anti-scientific
anti rational anti empirical and anti
intellectual like you can you can say
like let's say domestic white servants
that helped build America early on too
they were pushed out because of the
enclosing of the Commons right right all
these things are integrated and can be
reconciled but when you start from the
the approach that we do not have shared
cultures here that's because you're
racist Dave Rubin precisely we have
plenty of shared culture in this country
exactly the same I mean that's the pre
the presupposition is right like we're
all the same and we never had any
conflicts and that's shared culture it's
like okay and Thanksgiving right
yeah and Thanksgiving that was another
great part of our shared culture again I
mean look I I don't know how to do this
because on one hand I mean obviously I
think Dave Rubin is probably never gonna
debate samurai
but I will say no Dave room is a
idiot like he's not good I can't even
joke yeah he's stupid and he's also a
coward he's he knows where his bread is
buttered
yes he knows where his face is bleached
