Oh folks Oh big news now I hate to do
another entire episode of this program
dedicated to Brandon Straka but he he
put some of his hundreds of thousands of
dollars that he's earned through his
highly unsuccessful walk away campaign
and now to be fair I think he did get a
couple hundred maybe millions of videos
sent to him saying they were walking
away but they must have been all lying
because we know in the last election
after the first full year of operations
would walk away we know that the
Democrats got more votes than they ever
have in the history of a midterm and
they won in terms of votes granted I
know Brandon didn't work on on on
gerrymandering or redistricting that was
not his he wanted to just get single
bodies individuals to walk away from the
Democratic Party and not vote for them I
think he wanted him just to walk into
the wilderness but apparently they
didn't they walked back to the voting
booth because Democrats got more votes
relative to the Republicans who also I
think had a very good turnout means the
Democrats must have done that much
better than in any midterm election
since forever so based on that in the
wake of that success he was voted to
CPAC he was uh he was sometime after
diamond and silk right he came up after
diamond and silk and he brought the
really hilarious comedic relief
[Applause]
good morning Patriots
good morning rebels deposit waiting
where is that coming from it's him I've
been so hoping you guys would pick up on
that does he know that this was getting
picked up on microphone mm-hmm
rebels good Mort
oh my getting Patriots good morning
rebels did you ever dream that you'd see
the day that it would be an act of
rebellion because you want to make
America great again because you want to
keep America great you know what's
amazing right now is God is picking
rebels and putting them in positions of
power right now we have the greatest
rebel in the world running this country
right now it's such a rebel I think
since the day I could talk I've always
been a rebel from as far back as I can
remember I've always felt a great
compulsion to defend the underdog to
befriend the outcasts do not worry my
head too much about the need to fit in I
didn't know then how these qualities
would end up one day informing my
decision to start what has now become a
cultural and political phenomenon posit
yeah the cultural and political
phenomena that has swept the country and
actually created even more votes for
Democrats than at any time in the
history of midterm elections mmm behind
every great rebel is a mind that sees
the world not just for what it is but
for what it could and should be to never
accept the status quo certainly not
because it's the easy thing to do it's
the driving passion for change that
tells the rebel posit undreds of
thousands of dollars incidentally this
guy is earned
I'm just imagine a disembodied mind
floating behind there's a disembodied my
this is going ching ching ching ching
this guy raised something like $300,000
and he said it went towards a gala thing
that they charged like a hundred and
fifty dollars per plate or something I
mean he's just rolling in the dough took
a crepes at the Bill Burton school of
phraseology rather political movement
exactly
shouldn't for change that tells the
rebel to disrupt the establishment and
to never ever take no for an answer
it is the need to always be true to
one's core values and oneself to always
think independently growing up gay in
the 80s and 90s in a Catholic Nebraska
farm community being an independent
thinker wasn't even really a choice I
was just one lonely outspoken advocate
for the gay community and I suffered the
repercussions of being that weird guy as
a result positive you know what the
beauty of this is is that all of the
people sitting in that room if they're
over the age of like 25 we're actively
responsible for making sure that he felt
like that outcast at that time like to a
person they were in some way advocating
or promoting to make sure that that kid
living in you know in in the 80s and 90s
felt like an outcast and was literally
on the receiving end of peer pressure
and bullying to conform so he should at
least thank them for crew making him
such an independent thinker weird guy as
a result after high school I ran as fast
as I could to New York and I quickly
fell in with a very liberal crowd I mean
after all these were gay people in New
York City so it was kind of like
shooting liberal fish and a Democrat
barrel posit what does that mean I guess
shooting liberal fish in a democratic
bow means like there was a lot of gay
people in New York and they felt a
certain way about politics
for whatever reason maybe you know right
parties trying maybe because they had
just left their hometowns where they
were ostracized and New York and
liberals where there was was the only
place that was hospitable to a lot of
these folks but can but let's continue
this now this is of course our 35th
episode that we have dedicated to
Brandis rah-rah-rah
because he is the the mind behind the
most important political and social
movement of our time of course I'm
talking about the walkaway movement this
is the movement that encouraged more
voters to vote for Democrats in the
midterm election than in any time in
history and it's brilliant the way he's
done this because he's framed it as if
he's trying to get people to not vote
for Democrats but by doing everything
he's doing it's actually driven people
to Democrats I mean that's his argument
anyways isn't it is that what it is I'm
doing a walkaway campaign to get people
to vote for Democrats not just the
campaign right it's a movement this is
how he wraps up the speech here and so
now the table has been set and it's time
for walk away to launch our strategic
plan to stop the Democratic Party dead
in its tracks before 2020 we now have
the walk away foundation our educational
nonprofit organization which will be
supporting our nationwide Roadshow
speaking tour our college campus tours
our walk away video series dedicated to
debunking liberal media lies and myths
and addressing the issues that affect
our society we will continue to use
creative mediums to communicate with and
effect change in minority communities it
is time for all minorities in America to
walk away
there you go oh it's time for all the my
doggies American a walk away I'm not
sure from where or to what but just get
out of the way you all you minorities at
CPAC walk away yes I would love the
camera to turn it around and to see like
who he's talking to
incidentally the way this racket ones is
you make yourself a non-profit then you
can take huge donations and it can be
completely opaque as to who's giving you
the money and then of course he doesn't
derive any money maybe from the
nonprofit although maybe he does I could
nonprofits gonna need a director right
and that's the salary could pay so it's
it's a non-profit and what they do with
all the funds they pay the executive
director Brandon Straka and then of
course they've got a they're not going
to Brandon's gonna charge the schools
and the locations directly and the
nonprofit will pay for him to get there
and there'll be some hinky dinky thing
like this this dude's gonna make a ton
of cash and I mean frankly CPAC is the
perfect place for him because it really
is just a series of grifters who are all
launching their product lines
essentially it's sort of like it's like
the NAB you know or the net you know
where they start to like show like
here's our technology and we're hope to
sell this we're gonna bring this to
market in the next month that's what the
CPAC is it's just for grifting for
political grifting and so kudos to
Brandon he was able to do that is that
all the footage we have him because
we're running out we need to do another
episode is there any more
and we are going to connect with the
youth of America and we are going to
shift the youth vote to the right it is
time now for every conservative American
to be a rebel because the most
rebellious thing one can do today is to
stand up boldly and proudly and say I am
a proud and patriotic American and I
will not surrender my country to the
party of hate wait what I know we were
the party of hate wait no this is I mean
this is like literally I want to say
it's textbook but it's like if you read
the reactionary mind by Corey Robert I
mean this is exactly what like
reactionary what what it means to be a
reactionary that is to rebrand bringing
back the old and existing power
structure as if what you're doing is
rebellious in some way we his conception
of how to liberate minorities he calls
himself the unsilent minority is to stop
the Democrats dead in their tracks
that's all we need to do really throw at
minorities we're gonna bring it back to
a time where listen we're gonna be
rebels by making sure that there is a
patriarchy and making sure that we
maintain white supremacy because the
there's nothing that's but that no we
don't have that we're gonna bring it
back I love not bring it back we've got
to just invent it for the first time I
love to characterize myself as a
defender of underdogs and then talk
about how great Trump is right exactly
what
