lastly before we go into the fun half
there's still a couple of days left I
don't know the specific day I think
there's at least like a week left let's
play this clip of know me constant
because this is captures some of the
reason why I think she's a good choice
for Public Advocate in New York City and
you know the fact is is that she is the
one candidate in the race who I think is
the most alien ated from the political
establishment in New York I don't think
she's particularly liked by a lot of
those players and that's why I actually
think it's she's perfect for this role
she's the only one who's not taking any
real estate developer money anybody
knows New York City politics knows that
it is real estate money that is the most
corrupting force and problematic force
within within New York City and here she
is this was at a candidate forum I
believe making that case it's not enough
to be progressive on 90% of the issues
it's that 10% of the issues that
determines whether somebody has been
illegally evicted from the neighborhood
that they grew up in it determines
whether or not a council member sides
with rezoning their neighborhood it
determines whether or not these
oligarchs who are buying up our
apartments around the city are paying
taxes or not why is it we're able to
give them tax breaks but we don't have
the money to build affordable housing we
are in crisis we need to take this
seriously and it's Public Advocate I am
not only not taking any form of
developer money whether through
loopholes or not but I am taking them on
directly investigating them and I'm
investigating city agencies or like the
MTA where we have a real estate
developer sitting on the MTA or nice
that's having closed-door meetings
because they're owned by developers we
have to start understanding that these
to work hand in hand the developers in
the city are making our city inequitable
and they're driving out oh oh from
middle-class higher middle class to low
income in this city making it completely
unaffordable all right and look if
you're a New York City resident every
dollar you give will be matched by eight
dollars by New York City because of
their matching funds if anomie gets
raises I think there's another ten to
fifteen thousand dollars she has to
cross in terms of the threshold it's not
a lot of money unless you start
contemplating the idea that it's it's
not a lot of money for a political race
but at a hundred dollars or fifty
dollars or twenty five dollars or ten
dollars a click it it's going to take a
little bit of an effort
so no pitch for the the show membership
today we're going to put a link to know
Mickey's act blue head over there if
you're a New York City resident and that
is I mean you could donate money to her
and that's great but a New York City
resident you donate ten you're giving
her eighty you donate two hundred and
fifty you're giving her I can't even do
the math on that what is that like two
thousand so and it's only up to 250 that
gets matched so head over there help her
out today we have a link at majority dot
F M what is it just you go to act blue
to write I'm sure and look up no Mickey
Kant's kon st and we'll put that on
there on the website just coffee co-op
