[Music]
lastly let's play this clip there is
reportedly a agreement I think between
Hong Kong and China either in the works
or even completed for extradition to
mainland China and this is set off a
bunch of protests over there and here is
a clip apparently of of police going at
it on one of these protesters
[Music]
[Applause]
they just decided to make an example out
of that guy right it's unbelievable I
mean how Universal the what happens to
the mentality of some people once they
put those riot gear clothes on maybe
it's it's before they even get it on but
no it's also some of the I mean the
directions they get right that's a big
you know like the idea just in a really
brief thumbnail right was going back to
1997 there was one two systems one
country and so that's been gradually
eroded and that's a big reason why
there's so much protesting in Hong Kong
all right folks
