[Music]
one other thing I want to say before I
jump um
the talk of reparations has come up a
lot yeah and um and uh and I feel you
know nobody well let me say this I think
Bernie I think Bernie ALC and Liz Warren
you know the other guys who did it even
matter you know saying irrelevant but um
they really see the Dodge around the
topic especially when when it was about
the America descendants of slaves and I
was like you're painting on that and one
more thing before I jump by the way also
you should have Abram X candy on the guy
you made you wrote an excellent book
called are right here yeah I'm sorry
John the point it calls stamp from the
beginning in the beginning the defender
of history of racist ideas in America
it's a really good book you should have
that also on you know it's a really good
look at oh boy yeah we had him on pseudo
poison a podcast then yeah he should be
in the listener
alright appreciate the call well let me
I'll answer the question about the
reparations I mean it's from my
perspective I I think the the term
itself is obviously a little bit loaded
in the context of of American politics
and I can understand why people in the
Democratic primary want to avoid using
that term I think that's why you know
Bernie doesn't want to use I don't know
to what extent any of the other
candidates want to use it I I do think
that there are specific proposals though
that I think you could support and talk
about them I mean I guess you know I
don't know it's a good question because
I think on some level you could have
proposals that would address the need
for reparations there's also perhaps
maybe a a more sort of like I don't want
to say psychological but sociological
need to indicate that we are that that
that reparations are due but certainly
at the end of the day I am more you know
sort of I think the idea of specific
proposals that address things like
wealth disparity and let's face it these
are there are reparations for slavery
but there should also be reparations for
things like redlining I mean any wallet
also yeah and frankly maybe the Native
American genocide as well well yeah yeah
but yet I'm right my point being my
point being is that we're not just
talking about things that happened 250
years ago or a hundred and fifty years
ago we're talking about things that
happened fifty years ago 30 years ago I
mean these are we've had a systemic
disenfranchising of political power in
this country particularly of black
Americans and obviously a Native
Americans but also an economic one and
and not not just a function of
discrimination as we experience as
socially but in terms of just plain old
finances home ownership is the primary
driver of wealth in this country and
time and time again the ability of
African Americans to develop wealth
through their homes has been limited
actively limited not just by by the
private sector but by by by government
by the government I think I just can I
just I agree with everything I just want
to throw a few other important things
about this and really quickly so one
everybody basically like Bernie can and
should improve his answer but he's
actually being relatively honest about
this people like Castro and Harris and
Warren are just lying they don't like
reparations politically means I think
it's HR 40 which tulsi gabbard is a
co-sponsor of and it's a specific piece
of legislation
in the house to establish a commission
and a process by which that can happen
so there's one candidate that supports
that everybody else is being totally
disingenuous or outright dishonest and I
think the really big problem too is that
like if you go back to Barack Obama in
like 2015 he dismissed reparations like
totally outright right and then he
pivoted to well but if you deal with
these systems problems they'll have a
disproportionate effect on race which is
actually what Bernie said in 2016 which
was insufficient and an insufficient now
but the incredible thing is that that's
literally what Harris and Warren and
Castro are doing is they say they're
getting the exact same answer that Obama
gave but then saying they support
reparations so my actual real irritation
here in addition to the disingenuous
nosov the politics towards bernie is i
think you're undermining both arguments
because you do not want to create a
frame around programs like medicare for
all that they're a form of reparations
because they are not they are universal
programs period and then on the other
hand you don't want to undermine a very
specific case about historical injustice
of african-americans as a universal
program so that's a and the last thing
I'll add is I think David Brooks coming
out and supporting reparations as a form
of collective psychological acceptance
is an indication of how D materialized
these conversations can get that we
should be aware of
