[Music]
here's Mike Pompeo on ABC news
I mean clearly what happened is with
this with the whole Taliban thing I mean
aside from the fact that like it's
bizarre timing we should have been
talking to the Taliban
we should have been talking to the
Taliban 15 years ago
frankly I probably would have gotten bin
Laden at that time but they didn't want
to get bin Laden
of course because had the Bush
administration successfully captured bin
Laden then there wouldn't have been the
same urgency required to invade Iraq I
mean I think that's just the case I just
don't think there was a sense of urgency
about that a lot of people you know have
this opinion not a lot of people I don't
know some people have this opinion that
we should have been talking to the
Taliban much earlier people forget we
were talking to the Taliban in the
spring in the early spring and in the
summer of 2001 Dick Cheney's energy tax
force was over there you can go back and
Google this there were reports at the
time some former envoys I think we're in
these meetings and oil executives where
the Taliban was told we can try to think
of what the quote was we can carpet your
country with riches or with bombs well
it never I don't know how mainstream
that were those reports got at the time
but I remember tracking down
contemporaneous like maybe in no 405
interviews with people who were who were
attributed as saying that and they would
not deny
that they said it at the time in those
meetings and I've always postulated it's
quite possible that the Taliban came
back from that meeting there was a sense
of like the Americans are coming for us
and that's what created the timing for
bin Laden I'm gonna strike before they
strike us don't know but clearly what
happened here is Donald Trump wanted to
get a political win and not too
dissimilar from what Bill Clinton did at
the end of his term I think in rushing
peace between the Israelis and
Palestinians Donald Trump tried to do
that here it is backfired hopefully it
doesn't ruin the deal that that on by
boys have been working on for months if
not years to extricate us from the
longest war we've ever participated in
but here's Mike Pompeo going out and
basically willing to flush all that down
the toilet so that the Mad King doesn't
put him in the doghouse it's and we've
been making progress we've had a
commitment from the Taliban that said
that they would break with al-qaeda
publicly and permanently we had a
commitment that said that they would
reduce violence so that they would for
the first time George you know this year
an administration that tried to get
Afghans to sit at the table together we
had a commitment that they would meet in
Oslo to begin reconciliation
conversation and then the Taliban
overreached they killed an American in
an effort to gain leverage at the
negotiating table President Trump said
enough but there have been periodic
attacks throughout the talks well I
pulled the plug after this one in the
past when there have been attacks you've
said that was a reason to continue the
talks yeah it's it's true there have
been attacks during tuks attacks from
the Taliban and Americans and enormous
attacks from American forces putting in
real pressure on the Taliban George
we've in just the last 10 days alone
killed over a thousand Taliban we have
been fighting and talking in a way that
America often doesn't do it's what's
driven us to be able to have the success
at the negotiating table that we were
beginning to have but we finally reached
a point where we were close with
real progress and then the Taliban
failed to live up to a series of
commitments that they had made when that
happened president Trump said I'm not
going to take that deal I'm not going to
work with someone that can't deliver on
their commitments because in the end
George you know this a deal an agreement
is just a piece of paper and we have to
actually see that change in behavior and
when we saw this activity when we saw
this action I applause because the the
key point is the lie that he told in the
third place they had no commitment yet
that's the whole point they were
negotiating they had terms but they had
not made the commitment yet which is why
he can he can bust through that and brag
about killing a thousand Taliban this
week and still say the president to say
no what happened was they effed up they
made a deal with the Taliban and they
did not let the Afghan government know
about it so when they were gonna have
this secret meeting the Taliban was
gonna show up but the Afghan government
wasn't because they weren't involved in
it because they don't know what they're
doing and so they screwed it up and so
the Donald Trump needs to protect his
fragile ego I mean I think it's this
reductive it's not like this was
headline news it's not like they report
every time an American soldier gets
killed in Afghanistan nobody pays
attention to this stuff anymore
we could have probably and we probably
have killed hundreds of civilians over
the the months that they've been no it's
been documents that there's record
levels of civilian deaths no one here no
one reports it
it's just that John Trump we had it's
Fifi's hurt and he's insane
and so then who knows maybe we get out
of there maybe we don't at this point
longer than world war two oh my god well
longer multiple what three four times I
think though I just want to add two I
mean the relation when he says a
thousand Taliban at this point I don't
even know exactly what that means
because I think at this point Taliban
there's a Taliban in Pakistan which is
connected but separate and it basically
could just mean like any militia group
that wants occupying NATO forces to
leave right which I'm sorry that is an
internationally valid position you can't
have a never-ending occupation of a
occupying forces that it's not Li are
just roulette relentlessly killing
civilians I also want to say and this is
complicated but it is worth mentioning
that during the you know Bush
administration two there were at least
factions of the Taliban that basically
said we will hand over a bin Laden if
you don't strike us oh yeah provide us
with evidence of his direct role in the
attack and that was dismissed out of
hand and reported as like oh this is
part of right you know crazy terrorists
they are but those are not illegitimate
requests don't carpet bomb our country
provide material evidence and we'll give
you the guy you want and probably I mean
at that point he might have already been
gone into Pakistan frankly but you know
that's another context for what what
happened there oh we uh we were offered
yes
bin Laden by the with very low minimal
conditions very early on but no that was
not the agenda they wanted to go to war
I mean that was the bottom line they
wanted the war and they got it and go to
have it yep they still have it
