[Music]
this is this the wind energy there's
number eight let's do this one
Donald Trump is also not the brightest
bulb on the planet and I think he knows
that a lot of his supporters are also
not the brightest bulbs on the planet
why can't we have renewable energy
because the wind that will provide
energy for your TV sometimes doesn't
blow hard that's not if Hillary got in
you wouldn't have that stat I can tell
you right that you'd be doing wind to
windmills being and if it doesn't if it
doesn't blow you can forget about
television for that night
[Applause]
darling I want to watch television I'm
sorry the wind isn't blowing I know a
lot about wind I know a lot about wait
oh my god he does know a lot about wind
being a windbag himself just your
president ladies and gentlemen I've
noticed a lot of I think that's their I
this may be conspiratorial but I feel
like that's a secret movement to try to
prejudice people against the look of
windmills like oh the windmills are fine
but they look so gross they make the
landscape look bad I think yeah I've
heard of that but I think they actually
look cool I hear a lot from North
Dakotans let's put this yeah we don't
want artificial things but oh but put
that cell phone tower up so that we can
get cell phone reception let's do the
him deciding he wants to run against the
green new deal
but I'd rather not talk about it tonight
because I don't want to talk them out of
it
because I love campaigning against we
I want them to make that a big part of
them left
no more airplane no more cows
one car per family one car oh you didn't
love that in Michigan hey how do you
like that you have one car per family
you know I don't think one car per
family in Michigan places - well yogurt
right not do well and it's got to be of
course an electric car even if only goes
160 miles
what do you do it's 160 miles darling
where do I get in charge where do I get
a charge
now we want to have a lot of cars
surveilling we want people to leave a
great life that we want be able to make
those cars and we want all of these
companies coming to Michigan
all of the other great states and
so there it is green new deal I hope
that there aren't Democratic advisors
right now looking at that and trying to
broad to develop big lessons of the fans
who come out to see Donald Trump to his
comedy routine no like I said even the
Trump dads who are building doomsday
bunkers in their yards against marauding
urban gangs would rather not have to use
them we're gonna do reverse psychology
and they're gonna fall for it
immediately don't I want you to make
this a big big part of your campaigns
