[Music]
let's do something silly right now and
as it's silly we should play the
breaking news
[Music]
folks this is coming from reddit this is
coming from reddit this just in
apparently I am being shadow bent I am
being shadow band ladies and gentlemen
on the Dave Rubin YouTube channel
apparently according to an investigative
report by u Yount ev3 no you yontiff
user slash yontiff I'm sorry a user
yontiff
three days ago not you Yount of three
it's you user Yount of three days ago
sorry we're getting to this to you this
late we've been working on trying to get
this more timely it appears that when
people write debate Sam cedar on the
youtube comment board of Dave Rubin that
he must have a it disappears very
quickly it must have a some form of oh I
know you can do this you could write a
filter you can write a filter they use
his name's now I want to make something
clear first off there's there's a
mistake that people are making this user
says thanks and to just further explain
what's happening here it was apparently
Axl's ex Alize de guy or Axl CID guy on
Dave Rubin subreddit who noticed this
and he and he weighed in he said look
just to further explain what's happening
here if it's not immediately apparent
the name Sam cedar he quotes was added
by Dave to a world word filter that
makes it so that your comment
automatically would not be able to be
seen by anybody except for you while
you're logged into the account probably
not that maybe it's probably not
Davidson's not only the full statement
debate Sam cedar either it's literally
only the name Sam cedar it might be
somewhat understandable to prevent spam
if he had done the former with that but
if you even say Sam's name in this
comment section
greater context to a substantive
argument that no one can see your
comment except for you that is the gist
of most of the comments that have your
name in them that is that is true
nevertheless it's still an argument that
people are making now
one thing that I just want to make clear
to these commenters in Dave Reubens
YouTube chat and they probably doesn't
realize this that I have for some time
been a member of a consortium they're
not aware of it because I didn't want to
but it's I'm talking about of course
ASAP Rocky's a set mom the ASAP mob they
said mom right no but this is exactly a
SAP rocky was the one who sweetie he's
in Sweden I'm so yesterday needing
someone new and so I have taken to of
course spelling my name differently it
is no longer s am sed er it is now money
sign am money sign because EES thrive
and prosper because I'm trying to strive
and prosper and so I don't know if that
wants to people want to make a
difference there strive and strive it's
the guys maybe I just want to be clear
to that what will happen eventually is
that money symbol am money symbol II de
R will also end up getting caught into a
filter after a day or two but there's so
many different ways in which to spell my
name be creative
that's right be creative I know Dave is
meeting with a had a high up and with
YouTube so maybe he's gonna complain
about shadow banning so I don't know if
I wonder if it'll come up with their
shadow winning me there I mean like I'm
looks it I know should demand every
channel has control over what comments
are seen it's just that I don't know how
you can make that argument
and then boom own the fact that the
entire operation is doing that like
where's the consistency that's all
listen that's all I care about his ideas
and consistency too I do well you know
that I fear the youtuber that did it but
he went into the Terms of Service for a
lot of these people like Ben Shapiro and
Carter's website and it looks like their
Terms of Service they're allowed to
monitor content on their own their own
website I just think that if listen if
dave is going to monitor his comment
there's four four content which look
like I want to be clear I'm okay with I
just don't see how you can complain so
voice Sybaris Lee the YouTube is doing
it and then also say that you're all
about like intellectual consistency
personally me I'm not a big consistency
guy or intellectual guy or complain
about companies I'm done I do that
assistant and opposed ideas because I
also will complain about companies all
day I will do that yeah see that's what
Dave should do instead of whining and
bitching all the time he should try to
orchestrate YouTube into calling him and
soliciting him on the phone and then
making a job Benjamin jokes out of it
that's why you turn into DC well that's
so all I would say to Dave is that
please Dave
for your own sake because I think this
is a bad look and I'm concerned that
people are going to say you are trying
to suppress free speech and and and and
that is in many ways maybe the greatest
problem with your complaints about your
own free speech being complained is that
people misunderstand what free speech
means and they don't realize that you
have every right to filter out Sam cedar
you can filter out money sign em money
sign eater you can you can you can
filter out family either you can filter
out Koch brothers ein Rand Institute
well you can filter out you can filter
out the Sam theater or Pam Peter or my
lamb reader or mind-blower lamb leader
or Tam Teeter or you could
people could do see II am as a soft see
and like there's so many different ways
that people could write my name that you
could filter out you're really giving
Dave's husband a lot of work there's so
many different ways that you can filter
you you could write my name to filter
people out samuel cedar samuel cedar one
word samuel lincoln cedar I think um
elves readers go to the mattresses
because I'm gonna to history but why
videogames improve cognitive performance
and lesbians don't like them and there's
gonna be a lot of people cedar with two
E's you could do Sam cedar one word and
spell it with two easy ad you're such an
irritant have you heard about the SJW
nonsense maybe we can learn how to spell
alright so that's all I'm Sam dollar
side this is the end of my public
service announcement for Dave Rubin I'm
really actually like it's exhausting
having to do this much work on behalf of
Dave when I feel like it's not
reciprocal and that's what's really
upsetting it's really big of you I mean
I I don't like to look at it that way
but I can understand how people would
plenty time to go after Vox journalists
but not after their majority report
apparently yes
okay the PAC's Bernie Sanders my comedy
that people who do miss so much
