there is a lot there's a lot happening
right now in terms of the attempts to
forestall medicare-for-all and we have
seen just about every candidate in the
race to this point to the extent that
they're supportive of Medicare for all
all back off and provide some wiggle
room we have seen a lot of commentators
you know ostensibly on the left I mean I
got criticized by somebody on Twitter
for talking about that jon favreau clip
from from Favreau the other one I loved
it loved it
from pods all America and somebody
simply criticized me like did you listen
to the whole podcast I'm like no I
listened to the part that they cut and
put on there that they cherry picked
because they were trying to make a point
and I was refuting that point which is
that there is an ideological difference
and there's even more importantly than
an ideological difference because I
personally feel that you can very easily
get too caught up in ideology but there
is a fundamental difference between the
you know how we do medicare-for-all or
the idea of medicare-for-all and simply
providing universal coverage universal
coverage is is certainly one of the
reasons why you would want Medicare for
all that's the point
but the other idea is that you want to
take it off the table
you don't want it to be so Byzantine you
don't want it to be a function of your
employment you want to you want to
reduce the cost of Medicare for all and
the fact is is that we know you cannot
reduce the costs of health insurance if
the vast majority of people are on
private insurance it's simply not
possible unless you're willing to impose
strict cost controls across the board by
the government now if you
to raise that if you want to say we're
going to apply strict mandatory
statutory federal cost controls an
endoscopy can only cause so much a this
type of surgery can only cause so much I
mean
Medicare will do that for all will do
that in terms of reimbursement rates it
will create downward pressure but the
only other way to achieve that if you're
going to have disparate payers of health
care is to impose strict statutory
federal cost controls and then you're
having to create a whole new bureaucracy
that is redundant and and then frankly
he's going to squeeze it's gonna have to
squeeze the insurance companies anyways
yeah and you leave an industry alive
that wants to get rid of the cost
controls it's like the frog and the
scorpion that's also true you are you're
going to I mean I don't think
politically it's doable but in terms of
just like there's only if your agenda is
to to cut the cost of health care and
give it universal there is really no
other way to do it
III think you can maintain a smaller
private insurance like I can say
supplementary but you can't have them
provide health insurance for everyone
it's just not going it's just physically
not gonna work the UK has had Bupa for a
long time but it nobody really I mean
it's just for rich people basically
exactly I mean if if it makes it more
palatable for Howard Schultz to have
Medicare for all and he still has his
private doctor and his paying his
private doctor with his private health
insurance then God bless we'll get to
Howard Schultz's billion a slightly
different way in the meantime this has
come up the intercept reports apparently
someone's leaking is so not everybody on
Team Pelosi is excited with this
initiative but the it appears that the
Democrats are going to focus on drug
prices
and which is all well and good good they
should there's some easier ways to do
that then I think what they're proposing
but broadly speaking the leadership of
the Democratic Party wants to focus on
drug prices and part of the what they're
doing is they're going out to health
insurance industry and basically saying
we will leave you alone if you help us
with drug prices
that's the deal that's going on in other
words they are already negotiating away
the thing that got them not totally but
certainly many many new congressional
members were elected on this is part of
a PowerPoint presentation that was
brought in there and that was shown
against insurance executives by this guy
Wendell Primus he is a he is a top aide
to Nancy Pelosi let's play the video
because he talks about their apparently
like five things here we - let me just
go back to that there are five things
that single payer is difficult they're
trying to say we need to fix the ACA and
improving the ACA is the most cost
effective path to universal coverage
they argue it's slowed growth and
improve quality that's probably true the
growth has slowed but I give I Got News
for you it's very hard to pay your
insurance bill which has gone up 15 20
percent over the number of years and be
comforted by the fact that it's not gone
up 16 to 21 percent that slowed the
growth of that's not that's not enough
and there's absolutely you know no
future guarantees it is they're going to
undo the sabotage and expand ACA the
affordability of health insurance act of
2018 they're all again just laying
band-aids on top of band-aids on top of
band-aids
the problems with the single-payer cost
which we will address when this guy
talks about his video creates winners
and lose
I don't know what the f that means
there's there are no winners and losers
in our current system there are only
there is no let me put this way there is
no such thing that can pass god there's
nothing the government can do that
doesn't create winners and losers that
is what society is always about there is
no there is no win-win-win wind repeated
over 300 million times that doesn't
happen the question is who are the
winners who are the losers stakeholders
are against yes that is without a doubt
there are stakeholders who are against
there are also some stakeholders over
for that is all like the vast majority
the American people
monies are needed for other priorities
that gets to the question of cost and
frankly those priorities you know to to
make sure that everyone is getting
health care are pretty substantial of
priorities there's gonna free up a lot
of money in the economy just in terms of
the sheer productivity of people not
having to spend all the time you know
trying to fill out insurance forms and
implementation challenges yes of course
alright so let's listen to this guy say
it a little bit the other thing I want
to say about universal coverage
improving upon the ACA is clearly the
most cost-effective way or budget
effective way of getting to universal
coverage single-payer is very expensive
the Urban Institute says 30 trillion
dollars it creates winners and losers I
mean you're taking basically everybody
that's getting positive we know about
this thirty trillion dollar figure it is
more or less the same figure that the
Mercatus foundation we're already
incidentally we're already paying half
of that amount anyways okay so the other
half of that amount is going to be a
savings in people's pocket
now he is talking from a sheerly
political standpoint if we offload the
expenses to people after they pay for
their you know as if it was groceries
right then the government is not accused
of spending too much money even though
the individual has a greater financial
burden than they would if the government
was spending the money they can't be
blamed billion dollars
it creates winners and losers I mean
you're taking basically everybody that's
getting employer-provided benefits and
putting them onto the federal budget now
again in that process you're going to
create winners and losers some of the
retail stores that don't offer very good
benefits are gonna be benefited some
others that get very wonderful coverage
to their employers are at risk of losing
some of them posit so in other words
right now there are winners and losers
those of you are working at a retail
store you're a loser those of you who
are in the c-suite
you're a winner and that could change
and that would be bad of that and so the
point here is I do not understand why
all the excitement in California is kind
of ground zero for some of that
excitement about universal coverage the
leader is very aware of the cost of that
it has no chance of happening in the
next several years etc and possible I
would so the leader being Nancy Pelosi
is aware of the cost of that I don't
know what that means and that it has no
chance of happening in the next several
years I think that's also true because
the the Republicans are not going to
sign on to it but you know what else is
also true fixing the ACA is also several
years away ears etc and I would say you
know the Medicare for all Medicare right
now doesn't have an
out of pocket limit it would not be
eligible for going on to the exchange so
where I think the debate has to go is
improving Medicare and Medicaid
Democrats don't have a very good answer
right now in my opinion to block
granting Medicaid I think we've got to
be thinking about taking some of the
long-term care cost off of Medicaid and
putting it on to Medicare or financing
it directly we've got to talk about
slowing health care cost growth and we
need to build the case for revenues to
make Medicare and Social Security
solvent
okay all the stuff he's talking about in
terms of improving Medicare and Medicaid
are good things but they're the same
challenges that we have from Medicare
for all need to build the case for
revenues to make Medicare and Social
Security solvent financed long-term care
is the same argument as it's going to
cost more and we're gonna have to argue
to get more money all of the
transferring some Medicaid long-term
costs to Medicare these are all things
that could be much simpler under a
medicare-for-all program and again if
you want to get back to that winners and
losers situation and you're worried
about upsetting those billionaires I'd
say let them have their boutique health
insurance and guess what there's still
winners we Jake the boss class still
gets to sit on their asses while their
employees and their pre-existing capital
do all the work and make all the values
so whatever you should be saying you
won't have such huge winners it makes
less you'll be winnings winning a little
less so you know I mean some of this
arguing here in the argument that some
of the Medicare programs would not
qualify under the exchanges in terms of
and I guess that may mean in terms of
like specific benefits but if you're
going to raise the quality of the
benefits under Medicare you're gonna run
into the exact same problem that you're
gonna have with
you know Medicare for all except for
Medicare for all from a political
standpoint there's a reason why there's
so much excitement because it is a much
easier political cell than we want to
ensure that the cola increases if Social
Security are not eaten up by increases
of not a pocket expenses in Medicare no
just go out Medicare for all we're gonna
make it all good no you just stood those
reclines bowtie on it right there even
just like having to listen to that just
now made my eyes glaze over when the
good option is so much simpler and it's
not always it doesn't always happen that
way sometimes the good option is more
complicated and that's hard but this is
great because it's not and one more
point I want to make that I got from
Nathan Robinson wrote a really good
article actually in reference to
criminal justice reform but this is a
concept that can be applied across the
board just because it quote-unquote
works and produces the outcome doesn't
necessarily mean it's good right so like
you could make a law that everybody in
the country has to buy private insurance
no subsidies no anything and if they
don't do it they go to jail right and a
lot more people would have coverage that
way but would that be good would
people's quality of life improve I don't
think so exactly I mean I I think the
idea is that like I said yesterday where
people are done with the idea of of
striving for universal coverage by hook
or crook
they just that's gonna be people want
their health insurance to not be a thing
that they have to constantly worry about
and deal with you know I was looking up
forget where I've where I came across
this but who was the guy he ran for
Senate in 93 or was it 91 a Harris
Wofford I think he ran for basically he
was the guy his Senate race was in a lot
of ways as the template for Bill
Clinton's 92 race but what was funny was
the centerpiece of it was I don't think
it was single-payer but it was universal
health care some version of pretty by
that standards of that time fair
aggressive and apparently he put out an
ad and that reversed a 40-point deficit
he ended up winning a race down from 40
points and it was it was like our
forefathers correctly gave everybody the
right to an ally GLE process because
they understood that everybody needed
that because they were a bunch of
lawyers and people attuned to that and
the guy was like you know I'm a doctor
and if the founders were doctors
everybody would have health care rights
exactly the same thing as far as any
type of basic starting point in this
system it needs to be simple keep it
simple
exactly it needs to be simple but how
that guy's Health's doing Tim boss there
