let's play this is obviously a
incredible story that is not does not
seem to have any resonance in this
country I think partly as a function of
like you know what's happening with the
Kurds in Turkey in Syria and just that
it's almost too terrifying to
contemplate on some level because the
Trump administration has proven that
they're the they're the I don't know
what I would call it the lack of
diplomacy or just sort of their
diplomacy is a function of like if I
don't have a hotel and Kashmir why would
I care and here is a lon Omar in the
House Foreign Affairs Committee bringing
up the issue of what has been happening
in Kashmir part of the reason I asked
and the part of the reason I emphasize
the context of the larger PGP project is
because I think the situation in Assam
is an is as bad as Kashmir if not worse
and I think in both cases the impunity
we have seen for crimes against Muslims
under the PAP was warming for such worse
things to come in Assam almost two
million people are being asked to affirm
alia prove their citizenship as my
colleague and the chairman said they
have there have been official statements
to the effect that no Buddhist Christian
Sikh or jinn refugees need to worry
about their status and so this is a
clear anti-muslim program and I'm sure
you've seen the same reports that the
Indian government is starting to build
camps in Assam presumably to hold those
who are unable to prove their
citizenship this is how the Rehan
genocide started at one point do we no
longer share values
India are we waiting for the Muslims in
Assam to be put in those camps
this is she's talking obviously about a
province in India but it appears that
Modi's project is not just limited to
Kashmir yeah it's not and but it does
basically I mean you're talking about
people who've lived in India for
generations who are Muslim who were
basically demanding all the sudden
paperwork to establish their citizenship
and it would almost be like I mean it
would be actually directly analogous to
you know I don't know like someone going
to Matt's family saying well you say
you've been here for a while but right
you know protist where yeah
