[Music]
now that we have you here let's let's
pit well let me get your take on
impeachment before we go any further you
don't know you know that the Sandlin guy
the other guy on the transcript you know
who that is he owns like some home yeah
he's not like a hotel millionaire from
Oregon and he got appointed ambassador
de tu of course and he's just he's just
you know he's just like a millionaire
donor you know he's just a guy who
bought an ambassadorship and gave
millions to Trump's inaugural so was
like okay that's just a prestige
position that's just so that you're a
rich and you get to be called
the Honorable for the rest of your life
right why is he being trusted to do the
crimes well I think it's because he's
just a I think it's because he's not a
professional because I think that if he
was a professional ambassador like the
EU there are some all presidents appoint
people like this right but they usually
do it too like Monaco yeah or like you
know you'll do some country that we you
know we may never have to call you in
the four years we may not you know you
just keep doing what you're doing and we
may never even have to contact you to
get the EU is I think it's probably a
little bit more relevant a position but
I think it's because um because of the
very reason that he's probably not
qualified is that like oh he's just a
guy he's just gonna be doing he's a
bagman it's a hotel guy yeah I guess I
mean normally if you take hotel guys
seriously in this administration if you
have one of the important ones like a
ambassador the court of st. James
normally you have a career civil servant
to that someone who knows what the hell
they're doing right but Trump obviously
doesn't trust the State Department and
he's probably right to theirs they all
hate his guts and they crazed maniac
because he is so all of them all the
important roles that you're supposed to
give to smart people have just gone to
donors like a Woody Johnson is now the
ambassador of the court of st. James
right why why would you trust this guy I
don't know who else you gonna trust
that's the thing Trump doesn't have he
doesn't have Haldeman you know he
doesn't have a chuck Colson he doesn't
have any competent bagman that's right
at all
and
you know I was thinking about this the
other night because like my overall
takes so far is I'm really bored with
this because it just sounds like it's
the same it's a reboot it's the same
damn story from 2017 it's every single
thing from that time like right down to
the the inscrutable Russian names that I
don't understand I was saying Audrey
instead of Andray for a long time
everything everything is the same and
it's just it's it's I mean I I know
there's something real to it I'm not
trying to downplay that and I'm just
living in the spectacled zone where I
see you know the same kind of self
congratulating back patting how dare you
sir journalism happening or Chuck Todd
you know giving an indignant monologues
right like that anything well I saw this
before I saw this two years ago you
could be taking clips showing me clips
from MSNBC from 2017 about the need to
impeach the president how it's gone too
far and all Republicans are gonna wake
up and come to our side and I would not
know the difference so like on one level
as an entertainment as a new plot you
know it's like get better writers the
fact that it's a country that ibattz
Russia is okay it just it just it just
doesn't sound new enough if we're like
Burma or something like Trump would did
a quid pro quo with the prime minister
of Burma that could be fun that's like
tigers and a jungle adventure or
something like that but now it's just
back to Russia right the meze onsen is
very similar you know it's funny you
should say that Virgil because I feel
like it's much funnier than it was the
last time around was I just not paying
attention before was it funny before it
was not funny before boring the amazing
thing about this is this is exactly I
mean you're right it is like but it's
like hey we did one that looked back on
collusion let's do a sequel that is
actually they're colluding in the future
and that's what this is yeah I mean but
then we didn't have what we have now
because you've got people like Volker
who who are get wrapped up into this who
at one point go like hey wait a second
I'm not going down with the ship here
and I'm going and I'm gonna give this
stuff up you've got guys like Bill
Taylor who is like clearly like so just
want to be clear you want me to do a
crime right it would like me to do
treason exactly and but but I I you know
I I asked because I think there are
broad swaths of politically engaged
people who don't care about this yeah
and you know as opposed to like broad
swaths of people who are not politically
engaged don't care which is you know
that's par for the course on some level
yeah right right but I mean a lot of it
is I think the hangover from the entire
Muller saga where for years you heard
about you know this is the Trump is
uniquely dangerous and and you know he's
cropped and he colluded with a foreign
power in order and it's treason and all
that stuff and just wait for the Muller
report to come out and say drip drip
drip and they're gonna take him down and
he's gonna and vote you know really you
have to make sure we elect Democrats to
Congress in 2018 and they're gonna hold
him accountable they're gonna peach him
and then Pelosi takes the gavel and they
don't impeach him and she says I I'm not
gonna beat him then the Moller report
comes out which you know reach really
lays it out that the firing James Comey
was obstruction of justice absolutely
was I don't think anyone disagrees on
that point anyone like actually serious
and honest about it because if the
 said so himself and after that it
was like okay whatever that story's done
let's move on to a new thing so it's
there's a little bit of boy who cried
wolf there yes I think so
but now we do actually have impeachment
hearings no no the those transcripts
that and not just broke last night like
that's that's pretty damning right there
that's bad about what is interesting is
you know what a Watergate is the obvious
comparison right and with Watergate it
was the cover-up it wasn't the crime
that really did Nixon in because the
actual root crime of Watergate like the
facts that they established probably on
their own if they had come out as it was
happening would not have been
impeachment would have looked bad I've
been bad but Nixon probably could have
gotten away with another checkers speech
if he said you know some people under me
they did this explain the checkers
speech the people Virgil uh yeah so in
the 1950s Nixon was the vice president
in 1956 Eisenhower was running for
reelection and there was this pressure
to dump Nixon from the ticket because
Nixon had accepted basically bribes from
a lobbyist say what slush fund feels
like a slush fund of California like
oiligarchs basically right and that
included famously a dog given to Nixon's
daughter named chatters and Nixon went
on television he gave this speech saying
no wasn't a slush fund blah blah that
was that was just a gift and you know
what if you want me to send the money
back I'll send the money back but I'm
not sending back the dog because my
little girl loves the dog and that was
the end of that right and and I mean I
think you know getting people to break
into an office could be a bit of a
problem but you could you could distance
yourself if you can really quickly you
fired the right people said take this
hit the things but the cover-up had the
competence in the fact that it is
directly being directed by that was
being directed by Nixon and that all of
this all came out at some point which
showed the depths of his his his
Machiavellianism and his paranoia that's
what did him in ultimately with Trump
it's weird because everything happens
immediately because these aren't complex
schemes of his these are things that he
just says because he has an unregulated
did I mean I think there's a very
important point because it's almost the
opposite like Trump almost learned that
it was the cover-up that does you in and
so he goes on yesterday he goes on
national television and announces that
we did this and what I think Trump
understands is that in America now it is
the cover-up not the crime and so if I
come out in announce I did the crime I'm
okay
yeah it puts everyone in a weird
position like wait he just admitted to
doing the
what did he do now let's defense let's
do we go gay about me that I haven't
already said about myself I don't know
what do you do do we do we go put the
handcuffs on him he just said he did the
crime everyone is confused now
right exactly you're supposed to cover
this stuff up but that the reason why he
can't though is is because he has
absolutely no competent people around
him who could possibly even not not even
cover up the crime but even like do the
crime and confident he won't allow them
to cover it up because he's just
convinced that like I can go out there
and I can say I mean on some level this
is sort of like you know you mentioned
the spectacle some way this is a little
bit of like you know the sex pillow
cells where you build in the critique
into the the product on some level it's
hyper real and it and here's what
persuaded you on those let's help the
building critique well here here's Lee
Zeldin right he comes out this is
representative Lee Zeldin from Long
Island or wherever and in New York and
he comes out in the middle of the the
inquiry I guess is about three or four
o'clock he comes out of the the volcker
hearing I think it is and says like the
whole story got completely destroyed too
now of course he's lying but easily the
whole story got completely destroyed
today the idea that Trump was looking
for something from the Ukrainians about
investigation and watch what happens to
him here he is he's in the mode that you
were talking about like oh we got to
cover this up yeah and he doesn't
realize that the guys covering up for is
not in that mode yeah these Committees
of jurisdiction is are blowing massive
holes inside of the theory the narrative
that chairman chief has been providing
to the public for example when he says
that President ROM was asking president
Olinsky to manufacture dirt on the
Biden's today blows a hole in that
argument when you're making the claim
that the the president was asking for a
quid pro quo with President Solinsky
today is blowing a massive hole in the
mid
of that allegation to investigate your
body today I'm sorry one more time
president asked the president bring you
investigate your vibe today on camera
no that's trying to investigate your
license today so well again so with
regards to I don't want to get all the
answers to the quid-pro-quo allegations
that have been leveled there is a lot of
evidence of the fact that people knew on
both sides very clearly on both the
United States side and the Ukraine side
that the that there was no connection
there was no linkage between and - as a
matter of fact Ukraine didn't even know
that the money was even being held up at
the time it was crystal clear the
guidance that was being provided on both
sides u.s. and Ukraine the readouts from
the the July 25th call on both sides but
again I hesitate to get to all the
substance the ins and outs answering
every detail of that before the the
interview finishes this evening trumpet
Giuliani have is they absolutely have no
discomfort in lying I mean this is like
what happens when a relatively normal
scumbag is just like well he just like
he just like realize like wait a second
oh my god the earth had just moved
underneath my feet I've got to get out
of here as soon as Roz a cover-up where
Trump contradicts their general talk it
like every day they got like alright
we're on the same page there's no quid
pro quo the president didn't say this 30
minutes later exactly and I'd ask other
people to do this deal well Volcker
Volcker was in there for nine hours
so the Zelan he comes out and he's going
back in to finish the interview and
that's where the I think they did the
text show up and so he was lucky he
dodged the bullet defense has to be that
there wasn't a quid pro quo that yes he
asked them to investigate Joe Biden but
that's a normal you know within the
that's a normal thing for the President
to do to investigate corruption ensure
that that our trade partners investigate
corruption
obviously politically motivated uh even
what would you say that let's let's put
aside the notion that Trump held hostage
like a door an arms sale in exchange for
an investigation of Joe Biden all he
said was China and Ukraine should
investigate Joe Biden with that itself
be impeachable I think so I mean I think
that the the idea that the president is
doing that as a in particularly as a
candidate against the political rival I
think that's highly problematic there
are wait like it is not the president's
job there's no indication that the
Justice Department has been working on
this investigation on their own and
we're getting stonewalled and we need
help that's not the way this flowed was
it should flow the opposite way and
that's what I think his problem and in
the early nineties did George HW Bush's
campaign asked the major government to
release stuff about Bill Clinton dodging
the draft or they do that on their own
to curry favor with a sister party I
don't know in its kind of analogous it
could be in itself does that constitute
collusion collusions a word that's the
meaning of it has been obliterated well
yeah I mean there's no I mean there's no
I mean collusion as defined in the
Muller report was specifically not I do
something that you know I like that I
know that you like and you do something
that you that that you know I like like
and we keep doing this back and forth
and even though we're getting cues from
each other we're now if we don't
articulate it it's not collusion in this
instance I'm sorry this is like we have
we have one of the players saying as I
said on the phone last night I don't
think we should be holding up aid for
political domestic reasons yeah and for
some reason the guy at the heart of it
thought that's what they were doing and
and so it's I mean I think I look really
what it seems I bet that can't be the
case because like for Trump's defense
that that has to not be the case because
I think he can get I think your line on
that being collusion is ambiguous enough
to most people to let Republicans off
the hook and
to not move the needle is what I'm
saying overall in what people believe in
how they vie with the president but if
it I think that's the line to be crossed
right there into an explicit you do this
for me I see I don't think that the
political salience of impeachment is
what you're talking about I think the
value of impeachment I mean aside from
like for all the people who think that
what Trump is doing is corrupt I think
it's important to say our system is work
you know working at least enough to hold
this guy accountable right like like you
know as skeptical as we all are of the
of the media as an institution and of of
a whole range of things you're gonna be
concerned about this whistleblower but
you don't care about Edward Snowden yeah
you know like all of this definitely
problematic and room for cynicism but at
the very least to ignore this would be
that much more deeply problematic but in
terms of its political its political
efficacy I think the only the real value
is you don't even have to necessarily
sell people on the idea that he should
be impeached because I think he's going
to be impeached yeah that's all right
I think that's basically a fait accompli
the the value is in that race in Iowa in
that race that congressional race in
Arizona in that congressional race in
Colorado in that senatorial race in in
Maine you're gonna be able to if you're
a Democrat running against the
Republican you're gonna be able to say
you voted to protect Donald Trump and
its story your on Trump's team okay now
and somebody votes for you they're
voting for Trump I agree with that I'm
wondering but does how far does that go
cuz doesn't that at some point reach
doesn't that meet a hard core of Trump
support that's not gonna be moved also
I'd say you can say you know this will
move the needle in Maine but will it
move the needle in or make a state like
Kansas combated no will make a state
like Kentucky competitive no it could it
could in Texas because I mean that's I
really think like after that transcript
was released last night
it's it hinges on two questions I I
think I think the importance of this you
know just get beyond the whole thing of
you know of defending the Constitution
our institutions or whatever the two
critical questions one could there be an
actual breaking point where enough
Republicans in the Senate would remove
no no III do know there is a but two and
then that's height to the first question
Trump has you know his approval ratings
have been in a very narrow band his
entire presidency could this actually
break his approval race could he
actually drop beneath where you know he
has had a hard floor of like 35 percent
I I think that it's conceivably could
drop a point or two and is but I think
these look this was the same thing
during the Bush years there's thirty
five percent of the population that
that's it they're not moving they're not
they're they will they're intractable in
the only line where you'll have any
Republican senators vote for impeachment
is the day that Trump is caught on video
naked running around the front of the
White House chasing that little boy who
was you know in the meme mowing a lawn
that's it I think that's a little wrong
and it's exactly I was exposing
corruption I was exposing corruption but
I I think that all the data from 2018
shows that it's not just a quick not a
question of persuading Trump voters it
is a question of getting people who are
on the sidelines
out to vote against Trump and this makes
it that much easier to get people who
who aren't necessarily compelled to vote
against a Congress person to vote
against Trump by voting against that
Congress person or to a vote against
Trump about voting against that
Republican senator because they there is
no greater way to tie yourself to a
president than voting to not impeach
them mm-hmm I think I mean look this is
what it but is this but but that this
story has to matter for that to matter
or else it gets dismissed as partisan
politics but was that the case in 2018
are you saying that this
is substantively worse than what had
come out by Election Day 2018 where the
Democrats did take back the house but
they lost ground in the Senate they lost
swing state they lost the Florida Senate
race for instance well I I do think I I
do think that it is I think it makes a
difference but I think it's basically
just the way the Democrats are reacting
I mean I you know buy into this concept
of basically the reaction shot I do you
know as a director I'm shooting an
action that someone does and the
audience I tell the audience how to
react to it with laugh track by laugh
track or by showing a reaction shot from
someone that they that the audience
relates do like a horn honking noise you
throw you know that's basic comedy I
understand you'd only work but but you
know but that's it's the reaction that
that tells the audience how they should
interpret this and when the Democrats
come up and in actually impeach I think
it basically says to people who don't
pay that much of attention like this is
worthy of impeachment mm-hm and and it's
not you know the underlying thing is he
he leveraged to aid to a foreign country
to get dirt on a political rival and you
know it's not like these cast of
characters either you know or like
distinctly it's not like they're gonna
bring Giuliani up there and people
looking back that's like Ollie north
well there's also you know Matt pointed
this out the other day you know it's
it's the thing itself the the underlying
thing is actually something that would
really piss Republicans off who are
content to see Trump you know he can do
whatever he wants he can he can he can
put children in camps he can you know be
a buffoon on the world stage that
doesn't matter unless he doesn't screw
with interest rates he doesn't mess with
the Fed and he doesn't mess with arms
sales to Ukraine or Saudi Arabia or
Israel once he starts screwing with
stuff like that it's okay no the adults
have to step in the real question is if
this is what he did with Ukraine what
what else has he done with what there's
there's other readouts from other phone
calls in this
most protected secured server in the
figured out that everything he says on
the phone is like that going to to be
released because that's that he probably
that's why he still gives on his private
number like everybody recorded it
reported it's like him being an idiot
which he is but that's probably also his
like I just give up man I wrecked line
call me and my paranoia call my burner I
but I also think that like I'll tell you
what would really do them in is if with
those people is if he finds out that
this war with China this trade with
China was because they wouldn't give
information on hunter Biden that's the
other thing and I'm not a hundred
percent sure because it was reported
today that he had a conversation was she
about Biden oh yeah I've also said III
think we largely agree on this and I'm
not trying to be relativistic but the
fact that at the core of this is Joe
Biden's scummy son with a job that he
obviously didn't earn that's you know
that that holds the story back a little
bit and I worry that your average person
who's not really you know man on the
street is not really paying attention
that closely could be persuaded by an
argument that well you know wait he was
making how much working for a gas firm
you know all his dad was vice president
that does seem like something to be
investigated I mean I think there's some
truth to that and I think if if I'm not
sure and I'm not saying they're
comparable at all no they're not
comparable I
they aren't inoperable at all but it is
it is ridiculous when when I I hear you
know Democrats pushing the impeachment
hard or people in the media say and by
the way at the root of the stories 100
percent falls there's nothing there
about Joe Bob all there's a conspirator
same thing that happened with Hillary
Clinton that's precisely there is a
conspiracy which is false
yeah is this prosecutor getting fired
that is false and actually contradicts
all of the evidence and that's a whole
other conversation about how we use
corruption and so on which i think is
important in the car wash world to talk
about but regardless the one thing that
is true and probably even legal is that
this kid got an astronomical payday to
sit on an Energy Board everybody thinks
that's disgusting and this is exactly
what Trump can do he mashes up truth and
fiction in a way that's effective well I
think without a
if Joe Biden cared about beating Donald
Trump he would step out of the race
right son
he lost arts he would see he would
realize that like you know that this is
too much of a liability to enter into
the the the general election but I don't
know that there's a lot more with Hunter
I mean look there's there's Biden's
whole career but then even if you want
to just do the threat of his son
I believe he started lobbying for MBNA
right around the time that Biden was
pushing through the bankruptcy bill I
think he even was on the Amtrak board
yep but Biden would never think that
because for guys at that level that's
just business as usual that's normal
that's the same reason that Hillary
Clinton didn't decide not to run after
giving those Wall Street speeches or
after using the slinging fund as a
global slush fund well Trump has
actually been quite adept at taking what
we consider to be run-of-the-mill
corruption that is almost like just the
way things are done yeah and making it
as if he is indignant about it
minutes where you say like I know these
these politicians are corrupt because I
was the one corrupting them yeah he runs
on liberal hypocrisy right and it
doesn't matter to the people who like
him that Trump is a total hypocrite to
for whatever reason because he doesn't
have the effect like he's all high and
mighty while they do em all right so
we've talked about liberal hypocrisy
let's talk about the election
