[Music]
take one more phone call that's it five
six one come from a 561 area code who's
this where you come from oh my god hi
this is Alexa
I'm calling from Jersey but I've been
following you and other independent
progressive media for a while like TYT
and David Pakman and I think what you
guys do is great but as a person of
color I find it kind of difficult to
find progressive independent media from
the perspective of people of color and
especially queer people of color so I
want to know what your thoughts are that
are and if you know any independent
progressive individuals as people of
color I agree I mean I agree I I mean I
look for it all the time honestly like
the you know everybody here is sort of
chuckling because that is we're always
looking for folks like that Ben Dixon
has a show he's straight he's male
I don't I don't know now to be fair I
don't spend a lot of time consuming
media I can you know I know Pakman I
mean I know him personally I I can't say
that I watch a show very much at all
same with kolinsky even with TYT i III
don't I don't I don't I don't know there
used to be a network
I guess called twig and lon gosh his
name escaped me I'm old right now
he had a network that had a couple of
shows but yeah
it's a problem it's a real problem and I
can tell you Alexa that I I mean I look
for this because I'm aware of this shows
lack of diversity and so I'm always on
the lookout
I'm always on the lookout and I don't
know I don't know why you know it's not
like there isn't that there isn't stuff
to be said I don't know why why that is
you know you can do a show like this one
from your desk and it's not gonna look
as good as this but this did not look as
good as their mean you go back and look
at what this show looked like eight nine
years ago and I was already you know
coming from you know radio I I'm just in
front of a white wall with a tiny
computer printout you know a printer
print out of the majority port logo
which you know my friend Dorsey made
mm-hmm
I have another quick question since I
asked this because I'm actually thinking
of doing my own YouTube channel to help
incentivize people my age to be into
social politics and be socially
politically aware but my biggest
question is I mean you produce content
every single day you're on at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern every day and I am wondering how
do you just start because obviously it's
a one-man job I'm doing right now John
Kasich doing this every day like you are
but I really want to produce content to
make it digestible for people my age and
I just don't know where to start I guess
send me an email a majority reporters at
gmail.com okay thank you so much wow I'm
actually really surprised that you
answer my call I was waiting and it's
really great to hear that you answer
your colleagues especially I called
other other shows and I've been like
really degraded since I'm only 19 but I
really appreciate your honesty
especially in even viewing your own crew
with with the lack of diversity because
I really am trying to find this to help
all my friends and people that I talked
to who are people of color be into
progressive independent media yeah I
mean to a large extent to be honest with
you you know a big part of my you know
personal project is to try and grow more
of this
type of media and it's hard we don't
have you know huge resources to do it I
try and I try and do it to it to the
extent that we can you know but yes I am
I am if I want to say first of all you
should email us at majority reporters at
gmail.com and and and happy to talk to
you about this stuff and more but I
would just say to anybody out there to
if you know of shows that you think that
we should be aware of and we can help
promote in some fashion email us you
know like there are some shows that I
think are not not good not just in terms
of like I'm not so worried about sort of
the production style the you know the
performance but just in terms of like
the messaging I don't think is good and
I won't necessarily promote those but
I'm pretty open and any way we can help
people we will do it so you send us an
email but other people you know feel
free majority reporters at gmail.com if
you think their shows I should check out
by all means please yeah add me at
Twitter too and I would just say to
anybody generally thanks Alexa on the
production side of stuff might yeah just
start doing stuff because you're not
gonna get like you're not gonna get the
production down to your satisfaction
until your you've done it for like a
year probably I
broadly speaking out even outside of the
political realm just in any type of
project any type of business I have come
to the conclusion that doing it is
better than doing it right you can do it
in in in in the world that we live in
now you know I'm pretty conservative
with this stuff not ideologically but in
terms of like how quickly I'll grow I I
had a PowerPoint presentation on how to
go out and raise money for this and I
was just very reluctant I just for
whatever my own psychological issues I
don't feel comfortable doing that and
you'll launch and if you are thoughtful
and you work hard at it and you focus on
the things that are important over time
you will get the resources that allow
you to put it back in
to the business and to you know up your
production value and the important thing
is just you go and you do it and then
you start making it better doesn't have
to be perfect on day one I I know too
many people who are held back because
they question it's not even just
endeavors like this is like any small
you know entrepreneurial endeavor
sometimes you just gotta jump into it
and go like I don't I don't know what
the temperature of the pool is it may be
shocking when I get in there but I'll
get used to it
and then if I don't like it I'll get out
that's that's that's gonna be the name
of my book my business book if I don't
like what the pool feels like I'll get
out that's it for phone calls folks
sorry apologies
