so Kevin when we talk about the the
various there there are I guess there
there's there's sort of a taxonomy of
corporations that are involved in higher
education so let's just so that for the
sake of clarity let's just lay them out
for us we have for-profit universities
and then we have for-profit entities
that work with nonprofit universities to
ostensibly provide a semi profitable
educate I mean I don't know how to yeah
how to work that up but but but walk us
through these things so that people
understand sure so you know there are
regular colleges and universities that
probably most of our listeners have gone
to or many have gone to public
universities state universities private
colleges and universities there are
for-profit colleges that also provide an
education and some what a lot of them
are sort of small like mom-and-pop
cosmetology schools but then there are
these big publicly traded companies like
the University of Phoenix although
that's gone time it recently but that's
kind of our national and offer degrees
and are accredited the the companies
that I wrote about in this recent
article that I wrote it nothing to post
are a sort of new breed of companies
called online program managers or or
OPM's
for short and what they do is their
clients are by and large regular public
and nonprofit universities so you know
Harvard or Yale or University of
California Berkeley or University of
Michigan places like that that people
have heard of and what they do is they
help those universities create online
programs and they do a lot of the
marketing and the recruitment and they
provide the online technology platform
and a lot of the counseling and things
like that and in exchange for doing all
that they get in many faces up to 70% of
the tuition revenue that comes through
these programs okay all right and we
will we will circle back
to that because that's an extraordinary
amount of money having a
fourteen-year-old daughter I have become
far more intimately aware of just how
expensive college is and but but I want
to I want to back up because I think on
at least a grounding in the for-profit
sector gives us a sense of of where
revenue for this stuff comes like and
how important things like government
regulation and requirements for
accreditation particularly tied
obviously to student loans is so let's I
mean let's look at some of these let's
let's go back and as you do in your
piece which is really comprehensive go
back in in history to sort of track the
development of ultimately what becomes
these OPM's but through the development
of these for-profit universities like
obviously we've had for a long time I
remember as a kid seeing ads for ITT I
guess it was and and but they were in
the in the early aughts I guess the late
90s these things sort of exploded would
just walk us through that sure I mean
there has been for-profit colleges for a
long long time you go back to the 19th
century and you can find mostly business
colleges when women started to work into
the workforce there were you know
secretary of schools for women and they
weren't even really considered to be
colleges in the same way than again a
Harvard or University of Wisconsin or
whatever they were a different kind of
business providing certain practical
skills for mostly adults who wanted to
be in the business world really the the
big thing that happened was after World
War two when the GI Bill was passed
which we think of now as being a bill
that allowed returning GIS to go to
regular colleges but actually probably
at least half the GI Bill money was
spent that what we think of as
for-profit colleges or shorter term
training kind of programs radio repair
or being a truck driver or kind of all
crunch things like that vocation
vocational type of degrees right that
are like sort of post graduate from high
school and maybe and would these schools
require a high school degree or a GED
then I mean is not met as many people
graduated from high school back right
and you know they're in business to
enroll you know whomever remember they
can and I don't want to paint with too
broad a brush
there are definitely examples of good
business oriented for private schools
out there and always have them that I
think do serve a mission provide a
certain purpose a lot of traditional
colleges aren't really in the business
of providing vocational education to
people do need skills for kind of all
kinds of jobs what we really wanted to
trouble is when there was an opportunity
to be paid with federal grant money or
loan money and since World War two the
federal government has greatly greatly
expanded the extent to which its
finances higher education to the point
that now it provides about a hundred and
thirty five billion dollars a year in
the form of either grants to the Pell
Grant program for low-income students or
through federally subsidized and
guaranteed student loans which runs
close to a hundred billion dollars a
year now here at college it has to be
clear that money you're talking about
encompasses all higher education not
just for profit exactly okay so all
higher education but for-profit colleges
are eligible to be paid with those those
dollars any accredited college you can
take your loan money or your Pell grant
and go to any accredited college and the
for-profit colleges are by and large
accredited now tell us what the what
does it mean to be accredited and has
that changed over the course of the past
25 years
well the accreditation system is
interesting in the sense that it's
basically a voluntary system that is run
by nonprofit associations that are
governs and financed by the fees that
colleges provide so colleges have to be
accredited so they go to their local
accredit earn that is paid for by fees
and basically staffed by P
from other colleges it doesn't really
involve the government at all the
government federal government in
particular is essentially outsourced to
quality control to these accreditors who
also determine whether or not you're
eligible for federal financial aid
okay so fair enough so and now these are
crediting the this accrediting and the
the notion of being accredited has been
essentially the the spigot for federal
funds right that's the that's the only
requirement that the federal government
requires in terms of whether it will
provide you a student loans or grants
for you to expend at an accredited
school that's right not that in being
authorized by whatever state you have to
you happen to be located in you have to
do that as well but accreditation is the
big thing and what what happened over
the last 15 20 years particularly right
around 2000 in a little bit afterwards
what some of these for-profit companies
or even companies who hadn't been
for-profit colleges before realized was
that you could buy one small accredited
college so say like a
going-out-of-business liberal arts
college in the middle of the middle of
nowhere and use its accreditation
basically to qualify all of your online
programs regardless of where students
live so there's a you know a a one
for-profit corporation that is located
in San Diego and mostly runs out of a
big office building in death in San
Diego bought a failing liberal arts
college in Iowa and used its
accreditation to make every online
student in the whole country eligible
for federal initially wow that seems
like a massive loophole there I mean
obviously that doesn't work in the
intent it doesn't assess the quality of
what the main business is it's basically
like I I'm trying to think of what the
metaphor for that is and it's it's
almost it's almost unique in its
you know taking them permit or of an
existing college and that's I guess it's
basically a loss leader is what they
call that in in other industries all
right well listen so okay with that
so-called I guess innovation taking
place in the early aughts let's take a
break because the certainly at
particularly towards the second term of
the Obama administration those type of
arrangements got a lot more scrutiny and
and that's changed but that also opened
the door to what we perceive as being
more prestigious universities and
colleges sort of doing their version of
that we've got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is wearing a fire
radio we'll be right back with Kevin
Carey
