Donald Trump of course was not only
laying the groundwork to saying I know
you are but what am I
China is the real intervener he also and
this was a report that came out a couple
weeks ago I covered it on this show
serious exploration of backing a coup in
Venezuela let's be really clear here
you can't sugarcoat what's happening in
Venezuela there's massive corruption
there's serious humanitarian problems
there's actually such a large military
presence in the government that I don't
know how in some ways we Square this
with it being a left government at this
point although obviously the Bolivarian
revolution and Chavez have definitely
achieved some excellent things and I
think it's also a very legitimate and
very serious question to ask what would
replace it a us-backed coup is not going
to deal with corruption issues it's not
going to deal with the relationship
between the Venezuelan military and the
cocaine trade as I say if anything the
cocaine trade that it's a part of might
just flip from an alliance with people
on the sort of the FARC remnants to
right-wing paramilitaries and cartels in
Colombia which is gonna happen to some
extent anyways because the FARC has been
demilitarizing so any of the issues that
these people are using some of which are
right and we can't spin that are real
legitimate problems of Maduro and
Venezuela
first of all part and parcel of a
military that you would use to advance a
coup because that's actually the seat of
where things like these cartel
connections come from and number two if
you have a different social base of a
military coup whatever tiny remnants of
social progress that were achieved by
the Bulevar in governments that are
still holding on will be promptly
destroyed and number three we should
oppose us-backed military coos period
full stop here's the idiot at the
talking and musing about just such a
thing just a pure replication of the
right-wing cubed dynamic there which is
another thing to look at I think his
name was Posada but a Cuban terrorist
who worked with the CIA from the Bay of
Pigs through 2002 when he was arrested
in Panama as part of a plot another plot
to attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro
spent some visit how many were totaled
by the way I mean I think at least
dozens as have like I think like we know
of dozen that have been to class like
Declassified dozens of attempts to
assassinate Fidel dosi into his radio
studio with air LSD aerosol LSD I
believe was one of them should we do an
ELISA history on that that made me feel
just like a pure chronicle of like
bizarre plots to assassinate Castro
there was also the exploding cigar one
was real yep yeah oh and for those
curious how Trump might know a bunch of
people from an excerpt outside Miami to
be Venezuela and he is a golf course
they're great gross Doral great gosh
great great cause it's funny how he was
talking about defending the Venezuelan
people and immediately just just pivoted
to them being people in Florida exactly
these Venezuelans in Florida look who's
not an electoral skeptic this guy
[Laughter]
can rel Camilla grants in highly
specific circumstances
