let's hear this is a little bit
depressing but but this guy it's gonna
be interesting to see what his future is
in in politics
Beto Rourke loses the Senate race I
guess now by three percentage points as
more votes came in about 200,000 out of
a almost 8 million votes so not a huge
loss but here he is giving his
concession speech and dropping the
f-bomb I want to thank this amazing
campaign of people not a dime from a
single pack all people all the time in
every single parts of Texas all of you
show in the country how you do this
I'm so proud of you guys there
you go so he's allowed to say it borsch
Epstein was very skinny concerned right
Porsche meanwhile baitul Rourke says
swear words
but the president is demonized for other
things that the liberal media says he
does and that is the comments for
sinclair media i'm i like at borsch up
shine even looks like he's having
trouble reading the teleprompter at his
own name I'm Boris
