with Sam
Sita the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any elite
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday February 5th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of history at Vanderbilt
University Sarah I go on the known
citizen a history of privacy in modern
America also on the program today the
Southern District of New York digging
deep into the Trump inauguration files
subpoenas issued meanwhile Nancy Pelosi
Zaid tells insurance executives won't be
pushing for Medicare for all and oh yeah
Trump giving a State of the Union
address tonight stacey abrams with a
response meanwhile Democratic voters
care less about policy than beating
Trump
according to Democratic voters and is
the US government behind blocking the
travel of journalists and immigrant
rights lawyers to Mexico meanwhile the
Trump Trump is shut down on his national
emergency gambit
and surprise surprise Donald Trump's
interior department head is a former oil
lobbyist
lastly AOC readies her green new deal
bill as details are revealed all this
and more on today's program welcome
ladies and gentlemen it is a pleasure to
have you here thank you for joining us
we will be tonight and then this will be
our first broadcast of the day as you
know we always like to do multiple shows
a day and really kind of do if you
brought in that out it's it it it
depends we usually that's true
but Tuesday's is usually two shows
emanating out of the studio anyways
tonight however will be the State of the
Union address super excited I'm sure all
of you are very excited to hear what
Donald Trump has to say
I actually am excited to see ste ste
Abrams speak in response that is always
a thankless job and very few people have
come out of that with a more positive I
guess glow around them than they went in
although there's been a couple I thought
Kennedy did okay last time and Jim Webb
years ago but however years ago
supposedly crushed it yeah and that's
true yeah yeah but then but yes he did
quite well and so we shall see but
excited to see that and of course I'm
also excited to see the sixth grader
that Donald Trump has invited to the
State of the Union who apparently has
picked on because his last name is Trump
I can tell you that matters is me that's
I'm the only one that matters you know
really epithets with that kid why
doesn't the New York Times write a nice
article about me I'm your mom down paper
I'm headed to at least one from Jamaica
estates we will be starting around 8:30
we will also we will also be drinking as
my sense and probably heavily and so do
join us do join us for that this evening
let's play this this this clip I I'm so
torn as to which one go with your gut
that let's go with it let's go with the
the first one that we saw we'll do the
other one about the State of the Union
later that is just you know now those
line up the question of tonight now look
I don't know yeah well yeah we can ask
that question later we'll do that one at
the end of the show the the AOC is
releasing her green new deal shortly so
of course Fox News is on a 24-hour state
of alert and they keep it on their
Chiron but here they have what's this
guy's name again now Charles Payne yeah
Charles Payne they bring him on and the
this clip fascinated me because I got
totally misdirected I thought they were
I thought where this was going I want
you to listen to this conversation
they're talking about the the polling
that shows that people support a wealth
tax that Elizabeth Warren is proposing
they support a OCS tax to 70% on the top
marginal rate of ten million dollars are
over they're going to support Bernie
Sanders a similar call for such taxation
as well they're really amazed about it
but pain makes an argument that well you
listen but I want you to just as you
hear pain talk right there's three
people here there's
bill hemmer who's not gonna say very
much sometimes he gets a little bit of a
stomach virus if you know what I mean
and join himself yeah maybe a little bit
more enjoyable than the stomach virus
yeah and I don't who is the other I
don't know any other host on Fox and
Hammer just sit there looking a little
goofy and and then pain comes on so I
want you just to think as pain starts to
talk about his argument like where you
think it's going because it really it
throws it it he does a double Lindy as
far as I'm concerned go ahead there
isn't a seat what seems to be a movement
against capitalism in this country this
is a piece of in Politico just published
so second let you know we should say
that taxation is a big part of
capitalism it really is a big part mean
it's there's nothing there's nothing
anti-capitalist
about taxation in many respects it's the
well first of all taxation is the only
thing that gives our money value or I
should say is the primary thing that
gives our money value it is the but-for
if the government did not take taxes in
US dollars your money would not have
much value that's just the reality of it
folks but putting that aside there is an
anti-capitalist anthemic growing in the
United States it's just she's just not
picking out the right things that are
indicating it just soak the rich
Americans say go for it in this piece it
talks about how recent polling is
showing that the American public is
increasingly on board with raising taxes
on the rich as evident evidence we
pulled up this latest Fox News poll on
the issue whether Americans for raising
taxes on the wealthy on incomes over 10
million bucks those that are in favor of
that 70 percent Charles over a million
dollars in income 65% are in favor of
raising that's it for one second I'm
also super impressed with how sort of
incredulous she seems like I mean he's
not just he's so
beyond commonsensical it's like--it's
she is a good actress right I feel like
she could be delivering like oh my god
there's a doorknob on that door it's not
butter but she does sound like she's
talking about like AOC is actually
proposing like putting the head of Exxon
in jail right exactly they ask the
question like should we tax seventy
percent of their total income over ten
million dollars or like it seems like
people don't understand marginal tax
rates still when they're answering this
question which makes it even more
impressive right over a million dollars
in income sixty-five percent are in
favor of raising taxes the idea of
fairness has been promoted in our
schools for a long time and we're
starting to see kids who grew up in this
notion that fairness above all and and
now they're becoming voting age and
they're bringing this ideology with them
so join your misdirection do you get
that explain he starts talking about
fairness I thought he was gonna say look
kids are taught about fairness in school
and it is unfair to ask the the rich to
pay more but no he is bemoaning the fact
but the idea of fairness is gaining
traction in society should be the new
tagline of Mr by the way
fairness above all right these are all
ready rapport sorry we believe in
fairness wicker we're gonna be we're
gonna be we're gonna be handing out a
nice big dose of fairness get you Austin
you're about to intern all fairness
he's by moaning the fact that fairness
is becoming an ascendant ideology his
fairness Warriors so does that is SF SSW
world I am I'm a social fairness warrior
and not just social ef-2 oh yeah
economic I love his big time economic
fairness warrior can this guy really
honestly are there really people
listening to Fox watching Fox going like
ah fairness what what's next yeah there
are I am do the right the old people
who's so broker is sibling a class
action lawsuit against these people for
jacking their cortisol levels up every
day who probably are just be like that's
like Venezuela but they're all about
fairly recent Venezuela
how much fairness are they gonna just
keep heaping on us so bored of fairness
oh my god that is we get it fair there
they are so turned around now like they
have to resort towards sort of fake
astonishment that seventy percent want
to tax people over the first 10 million
dollars like like really really are they
did they think they took this poll in
the commissary and Fox like you know be
only oh we only pulled the hosts of Fox
of Fox News and that was surprising I
mean like I'm running around no no don't
ask the makeup person i gosh
exactly still using the slogan fair and
balanced are they Oh disgusting
that's it squabbles coming from inside
the house folks today as support for
today's show comes from third love using
millions of real women's measurements
third love designs bras with breast size
and shape in mind for an impeccable fit
in an incredible feel just to answer a
few simple questions from third loves
fit finder quiz to find your perfect fit
third love offers double the number
sizes most brands offer cups a through H
bands up to 48 and with lightweight
memory foam cups straps don't slip
tagless labels you'll want to wear these
soft breathable bras and underwear every
day especially the new cotton t-shirt
bras and underwear thanks to the 100%
fit guarantee returns and exchanges are
free and easy maybe even
air fare policy for a show built on the
foundation of fairness so we have a we
had a we recruited a special bra wear
for for to get it into you know an
endorsement because I obviously don't
wear bras and so I don't really can't
really assess them but okay I don't this
is what we heard back I love that they
don't have a zillion options it's easy
to choose something quickly the fit is
great I usually have to return most bras
i order online even though they're in my
size I ordered to both fit that almost
never happens super comfortable for an
everyday bra but not as boring as most
t-shirt bras subtle cute details so I
don't feel basic there you go folks
third love knows there's a perfect bra
for everyone so right now they're
offering my listeners 15% off your first
order
go to third love.com slash majority find
your perfect fitting bra get 15% off
your first approached purchase that's
third love.com slash majority for 15%
off also folks you spend one third of
your life in your sheets I spend about I
would say 75% of that staring at the
ceiling just leave that I have trouble
sleeping yeah but I love my sheets it's
about time for bedding upgrade for you
folks founded in early 2014 Brooklyn is
the fastest-growing bedding brand in the
world with over 30,000 five-star reviews
half-a-million happy sleepers and
Counting
their mission is to make five-star hotel
quality sheets that are affordable and
easy to order and since they believe
that sheets should look great in
addition to feeling great they offer
over 20 colors and patterns you can mix
and match I now have four sets of of
Brooklyn and sheets kind of colors you
go no no I got stripes
I guess stripe so they discontinued the
stripes and so I got the reverse stripe
so they have I've got the hard stripes
and then I have the it's sort of like
gray with like tiny white stripes
so the
since of gray I guess if you want to put
it that way but I love like I get the
crisp cool cotton ones and I love them
they're incredibly comfortable there I
know they're gonna last a long time
cotton sheets like this I've had I've
had sets of those in the past for for
ages and I love them
my Brooklyn sheets are the best most
comfortable sheets I have ever slept on
and now it's time for your upgrade
Brooklyn and dot-com is giving an
exclusive offer for just my listeners
get 20 bucks off and free shipping and
free shipping when you use promo code
majority of Brooklyn and calm Brooklyn
is so confident in their product that
all their sheets comforters and towels
come with a lifetime warranty the only
way to get 20 bucks off and the free
shipping use the promo code majority at
Brooklyn and dot-com that's Brook linen
dot-com BR oh okay Li n en dot-com promo
code majority Brooklyn and these really
are the best sheets ever and lastly I've
got a new sponsor and Kelly helped out
with this old Kelly this is cool
your dog's health is as important as
every other member of your family and it
starts with what you feed them oli
offers vet formulated recipes fully
transparent ingredients to give your dog
the healthiest food possible we're
talking real all-natural that even
people can eat I don't know that you
want to do that but no preservatives and
source from us family farms no wonder
all he beat out store-bought dog food at
attend to one on the palatability scale
try for yourself just go to my - Ollie
excuse me my ollie
dot-com answer a few questions about
your dog they'll ship custom recipes and
pre proportion meals straight to your
door in a regular schedule shipping is
free and if your dog doesn't like the
meals they have a money-back guarantee
best of all Ollie's offering our
listeners 60% off your first box plus a
free bag of treats at my alley my o L
ie dot-com / majora try / majority so
that's what's the tricky one
my Ollie dot-com / try / majority check
it out this is what is what Kelly said
about Ollie said he loves Ollie spent a
lot of time cooking for my elderly dog
so when I got et as a puppy I was
relieved I didn't have to cook anymore
and could feed her stop a store-bought
kibble but I knew it wasn't the best for
her health and I've always felt a bit
guilty
Ollie is an amazing solution for dog
owners like me the delivery was fast the
packaging was a hundred percent recycled
and biodegradable took me to a couple
answers to answer a few questions about
my dog and Ollie recommended one of
their recipes the order arrived within
two days the instructions are simple
phase Ollie into Edie's diet using
portions based on the scoop they
provided store the food in the fridge
using the releasable a reusable lid they
provided there was no reason to phase in
the food despite the fact that every
other food change is given Edie a little
bit of adjustment Ollie meals were easy
for her to digest she's excited when I
take the food out of the fridge I plan
on using Ollie moving forward even if
it's only to mix with her kibble human
grade food is clearly what she prefers
and it's the best for her health
Kelly's very excited about it go to my
Ollie
comm / try / majority for 60% off plus a
free bag of treats spelled my oh L Li
e.com / try t ry slash majority alright
quick break when we come back we'll be
talking to professor Sarah I go right
back after this
you
cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program professor of history at
Vanderbilt University author of the
known citizen a history of privacy in
modern America Sarah I go thanks so much
for coming on to the program my pleasure
thanks for having me
okay let's start let's start with the
title it is a reference to a a poem by
WH Auden from 1940 the unknown citizen
what what was it about that that that
poem that had spurred the title I'm so
glad you asked that
it's a lovely poem it is as you say from
1940 and a poem that charts the life of
a man who is anonymous
he's never named in the poem but is
known by all kinds of different agencies
in the society you know his creditors
doctors labor union journalists
pollsters and so forth and when I
stumbled upon it it just spoke to me in
the way that it captured a dilemma for
Americans around privacy which is both
their desire to be known and their
desire to be unknown at the same time or
maybe better their desire to be known as
they wish but usually aren't so it
really I don't know in a kind of very
succinct way seem to capture up many of
the themes that I was thinking about in
terms of the history of American debates
over privacy and to eloquently you know
lay them in front of us let's talk
I feel like it's too broad of a question
to ask like what is privacy but and I
think that's sort of the in any respects
that's that's the point of the book is
that it it shifts the concept of it
shifts over time and you start to track
it basically at the beginning of the
20th century just a little bit maybe
before that so let's let's let's let's
do that I mean in terms and hit some of
the milestones but where what when did
the concept of privacy really
come most or you know sort of establish
itself on the scene as it were within
the context of society
sure so I mean privacy I think is you
know very old human concept even if it's
been into taken different forms so I
would not say it began in any simple way
in the late 19th century which is where
I begin the book but what I do want to
argue is that privacy became a kind of
public issue a political issue for the
first time for for many people in
American society and that it never
really left the stage thereafter
obviously not today but really for all
the years in between so what happens in
the late 19th century is that a series
of developments the kind of creation of
the National mass media some
technological innovations photography
instantaneous photography fingerprinting
a whole bunch of other things start to
create a crisis in the boundaries around
private persons and to raise questions
about what could and should be known
about Americans how should they be known
to the broader society so it sparked in
the first instance really by new
technologies in new media so in some
ways it has some interesting
correspondences I think to our own
moment but you know more than a century
ago we're talking about the 1880s and
1890s when candid photographs could be
circulated easily for the first time
could be printed in the newspaper where
people could be caught unawares
and recorded by new kinds of devices and
this will provoke for a couple of
lawyers the first modern call for the
right to privacy which is in 1890 in the
Harvard Law Journal and that's a
beginning point yeah and I mean and and
and I want to get to that that concept
that Brandeis you know I guess forwarded
but the the I mean so at that time right
I mean it seems to me that when we're
talking right around then to it's like
there's a question of like privacy as
anonymity
privacy as sort of control over your
domain you know and I imagine - we're
talking about an era where for most
people they didn't have a huge amount of
property right I mean or personal
property or whatnot and there wasn't
necessarily I mean I guess there's also
a question of like you know who can
enter my domicile in some way and and
and all these things get implicated with
the technology and then as you say this
concept of the right to be left alone is
privacy let's talk about that mm-hmm
yeah so the older ideas about privacy in
the United States certainly legal ideas
had to do with this property idea right
ones home a man's home is his castle
which comes out of Anglo old Anglo
American long and what what really
changes in the late 19th century is that
those borders no longer seem to protect
the people that they used to protect
which was generally you know white
property men to really sort of sum up
you know who privacy had protected in
the past and but suddenly new kinds of
communications technologies virtual
technologies like photography could kind
of cross those those borders and
boundaries so in the first incidence
this privacy crisis really is a crisis
around middle you know upper-middle
class property rights and the privileged
people in American society suddenly
realizing they can be witnessed and
observed and captured on film and sort
of trotted out in the scandal press in a
new way but it doesn't stay there for
long and in fact this idea that people
might have a right to protections from
not just physical intrusions but virtual
intrusions travels travels really far
really quickly so you get suits in the
late 19th century some of the earliest
right to privacy suits that are actually
coming from women whose photographs
whose images are being used in
advertising in all kinds of ways that
they didn't authorize didn't even know
about often times and start claiming a
right to privacy that is not about you
know break-ins into one's home or
property but really about incursions on
one's reputation one's image ones
public persona one's dignity and so so
the notion of privacy really changes
from one that's based in property never
fully escapes that but that's really
grounded a property to one that's more
grounded in personality which is the
term that Louis Brandeis and Samuel
Warren will use in that 1890 the Harvard
Law Review essay now is there a
distinction at that time between the
idea of like okay you took my picture
you use it for an advertisement the the
concept of privacy versus sort of you've
taken my it's it's you know you've taken
my property you've taken my you know my
what we would now I guess call on some
level intellectual property right or I
mean because it's it's interesting that
this that we start to see these suits in
the context of and maybe that's why we
only see them in in the context of civil
suits but in terms of like issues of
exploitation of peoples of things that
people don't want to put into the
marketplace but it's but it's an
exploitation as opposed to just simply
like a leering right well so that's a
really interesting question it's first
of all this market is totally
unregulated in the late 19th century
there are no rules about circulation of
photographs yet and so actually what
there are a number of different reasons
one might wish to protest one's image
being circulated but the most common
ones are not about having some sort of
financial interest or property interest
in that sense but more so about the kind
of embarrassment or shame of having
one's face kind of paraded around in
commercial culture which particularly
for women could seem quite scandalous I
mean it was to have yourself mixed up in
in the market and in commercial
transactions was it can you know in some
readings - prostitution or you know so
kind of unsavory public presence so so
there there were a number of different
ways this could play out but but I think
but it's really a later development of
people wanting to profit from say their
image or to capitalize on their image
and so they're getting more into kind of
intellectual property sorts of fries or
the you know for a celebrity rights over
their image you know right to publicity
actually which is related in odd ways to
a right to privacy that is okay and so
then as we move into you know the pre I
guess New Deal era where we're sort of
the concept of privacy changes but where
are we they're like what what I mean
it's interesting because we don't have
this fear really of the government when
it comes to privacy right it's just
other actors around us yeah wasn't in
the 19th century that's pretty much true
I mean certainly there are cases where
and they're sort of memorialized right
in American law in a way about
quartering soldiers or right the
government breaking down the door but
that was not a very live or regular
concern for most Americans in the 19th
century actually and where the threat
comes from is actually commercial
entities other private entities in the
first instance but in the 20th century
as you point out there starts to be a
growing fear about the administrative
state about what the state knows about
people how it is tracking people as a
kind of more fully blown social welfare
state comes into play and as you know
more people are paying taxes in the 20th
century people are starting to benefit
from federal social programs like Social
Security there's a new regime of
documentation around birth certificates
to travel out of the country one needs a
passport so all these documents which
seem
you know age-old but they're actually
pretty new inventions come onto the
scene and create a new set of worries
about documentation identification by
various kinds of state bureaucracies and
I should say not only state
bureaucracies even there because we're
also talking about credit agencies and
what they know about Americans some
worry starts to creep in there too in
the early 20th century so so yeah so
fears or discussions debates around
privacy change not to be about just sort
of publicity and exposure but start to
encompass worries about information and
about what we would now call data
privacy or information privacy people
didn't call it that them but they were
clearly starting to worry about all the
different kind of pieces of information
that various kinds of authorities
private or public knew about them and so
this is this is as we develop into what
what you call a knowing society right
yeah that's right and and and so I mean
I'm really fascinating because I I
didn't I wasn't aware you know because
mmm I was aware that the social security
number was supposed to be highly limited
and and you know in terms of its use and
then of course it it ultimately became
far more abused and we have a lot more
you know problems associated with you
know identity theft and whatnot at this
point but I didn't realize how excited
people were about the social security
number because of the implications it
had in terms of government and I wonder
how much of the development of I mean
and and we you know we'll get to how
people's perspective on privacy shifted
I think in the Cold War because there
was you know an agenda being set there
but I wonder how much of that sort of
table setting was there with the idea of
people because it seems like most of the
concern about the social security number
at that time were of opponents of the
idea of social security in and of itself
but but but speak about the different
currents of excitement because I just
didn't
realize how that people I mean I think
when what you're saying like you know
people were tattooing their social
security numbers on them horses before
the Holocaust and yeah we're we're such
you know tattoos became it meant
something totally different but people
wearing dog tags with it talked about
that era and the differing views on the
social security number sure yeah this
was one of the biggest surprises to me
when doing research for this book I had
actually turned to social security
numbers because I expected that there we
would see this early privacy debate
about information right the state all of
a sudden first of all putting a number
on people and then second being able to
use that number to you know as a kind of
index to their work history financial
lives and so forth and there was a
little bit of that although much of the
early pushback against Social Security
numbers was as you say about opponents
of the program or about the government
or about tracking of union members in
particular and there were some other
scattered concerns but but what really
bowled me over was the yet the embrace
of these numbers as members as
identifying numbers that would show
citizens would prove you know citizens
status to the government as deserving of
support whether for unemployment
benefits or for for socialistic for
welfare retirement benefit so there's
this really rich kind of material
history that I started digging into of
yeah people getting jewelry with their
social security numbers emblazoned on it
special bronze plates that they would
display in their homes getting their
dentures you know marked with their
social security number and then this
this trend that was you know never huge
but was not all that small either of
people getting their Social Security
numbers tattooed on their bodies you
know permanently making that number part
of their identity as a kind of badge of
pride and belonging economic citizenship
you could look at those in a number of
different ways but
not hiding them and certainly not
treating that number as a kind of
private fact about themselves the
contrary sometimes really broadcasting
that number and that was it carries all
the way through the 30s and 40s and into
the 50s and it really only changes
starts to change dramatically in the
1950s sorry in the 1960s when Social
Security numbers start entering into new
computer data banks and start getting
linked in new ways to other pieces of
information no before we get to there to
though I'm also fascinated by the the
idea that the social security number was
received in part because the concerns
that many people had was less about the
government and more about their bosses
that seems like a Social Security number
was like okay here's my token you no
longer have to know what religion I am
or what you know what my you know what
my marital status is or what I you know
all these other things here's the token
that just you know this if I'm okay if
this number is okay then I'm okay is
that basically the data that's
fascinating yeah that's right and also
the fact that you know workers had been
surveilled by their employers for a long
time there was a lot of distrust and
skepticism about into employers intent
and actually here was the federal
government coming in as an intermediary
and securing certain kinds of things for
workers and what workers were really
worried about was not the government
having their information but making sure
the employers would not have access to
the government stashes of information so
yeah that was a really interesting
discovery that that really you know just
tells you that that relationships
between Americans and the state were
different right and private agencies
were different than they are today and
we shouldn't assume that their privacy
fears were the same as ours right those
relationships have really changed over
the course of the last century
I mean I'm find that so fascinating and
I'm not you know you know I think I I
come with my own predispositions but I
can't help but think that a combination
of the Cold War where we were sold this
notion of how
drous you know a government could be
right in terms of the and that the there
was a there was an agenda or a value to
the employer class to sever that
relationship that people were feeling
between them and their government and
that they wanted to make them more
skeptical of their government mm-hmm
yeah no I think that's right and it you
know this is a Social Security number is
a nice case both because Americans seem
more trusting than we might expect as a
federal government but also because even
though corporate America was very
invested in not letting Social Security
pass which of course it did you know
left on the possibilities of the Social
Security number for surveilling their
employees I talked about this in some
detail on the book but but employers
started creating their own fictitious
surveys of employees claiming that they
were related to them getting a Social
Security number which they asked for
much more extensive information about
their personal lives and the federal
government ever did so so yeah that that
relationship I think is is worthy of a
second look right about the the kind of
shifting ways in which corporations have
both led distrust in the United States
and also have foster distrust in other
big agencies namely the federal
government that's that's fascinating and
and and to what extent to and I guess
maybe this runs parallel to this but the
idea of who was deserving privacy
expands in some way and I wonder if it
would where where the Social Security
number comes in in that respect to
because that is you know on some level
it's the great equalizer right I mean
like everybody gets a number and you
know to say you're all just a number in
some ways maybe the dehumanizing but
it's also quite a gala terian yeah it is
although of course not everybody did get
a number
there were racial despairity of course
of course we have spoken about this on
this program in it and there should be
an asterisk on everything we were
talking about in this context we're
talking about a narrow set of Americans
or I should say maybe a wide set but
there were certainly huge swaths of
Americans who were left out people of
color and and women were you know in
some respects you know targeted to not
receive Social Security benefits at that
time that's right that's right but you
know the larger point I think is really
important and often especially these
days when we're so concerned about
documentation and identity theft and
data breaches the larger point is that
you know identification by the federal
government being visible to the federal
government in this case because of a
benefits program was very very very
valuable it was a kind of prized
possession and this is my social
security numbers played a different role
in Americans lives that right so to hold
on to this number to be able to recall
it to be able to you know produce it was
seen as something really precious and so
of course you know its history with
zigzag on from there and and start you
know we now think of them quite
differently but but documentation and
identification could be really really
sought after other kinds of statuses for
Americans right so so anyway I feel like
that's a really important point to make
because it helps us see that there's not
an inevitable relationship between kind
of negative surveillance and
documentation right there are the other
arrangements yeah and then and then that
everything turns a little bit south in
part because there is a desire to make
the Soviet Union more nefarious but also
it seems in part because our government
started to snoop on its own citizens in
a I guess a in a particularly aggressive
fashion right when we get in the late
60s in early 70s and how does that
impact how does that impact privacy
there because I imagine there's also
this dynamic of well that there's a
portion of the of the
American public that's going well the
government's you know spying and on but
they're spying on all the right people
in the country right right right yeah so
they're actually of course in a long
history of the US government the FBI
spying on citizens its American citizens
but what changes I suppose in the mid
20th century is that this becomes much
more obvious and much more publicized
and you know politicized in a sense
because it's not simply aliens and
radicals as it was during World War one
but there's a kind of you know McCarthy
sweep and you know a real debate that
breaks out about the reach of the
federal government and it's kind of
inquisitorial powers at the same time as
you have non-state actors that seem to
have powers to intrude and invade into
Americans mean a deeply intimate
personal psychological life through all
kinds of new techniques and some of
those are adopted by the state and some
aren't but I'm thinking about things
like you know the psychological exams
personality testing at the workplace
various kinds of experiments to see how
far you can get into people's
consciousness and so forth and so a
whole new domain opens up around
psychological invasions in the 1950s and
60s again only partly further by the
state but it's been certainly you know
gets more attention probably because of
the public knowledge about US
surveillance of its own citizens and you
know undemocratic kinds of trials right
of people losing their jobs because of
suspected communists or radical
associations so so the fifties and
sixties sees this this really quite
anxious and urgent debate about the
shrinking space of privacy in American
life and will you know give rise to
certain kinds of solutions or remedies
one of which I mean not directly but but
is I think in response to all this is
you know finally
a right to privacy as announced in the
Supreme Court in 1965 on the case
Griswold v Connecticut but also
legislation pretty far-reaching
legislation like the Privacy Act of 1974
so there are there is a kind of response
in terms of thinking about how to
regulate and guard Americans privacy
both their information privacy and their
kind of privacy post-op but they're not
very effective remedies and so the
debate goes on well what's fascinating
about that areas you have Griswold which
of course was about birth control and
and ultimately became in some respects
the foundation for roe v wade but
simultaneously you also had people
moving what was previously considered in
the private realm to more to the public
realm right like I mean broadly speaking
their sexuality and their other things
are now more transparent so there's like
a paradox there it's being almost like
legalized on some you know there's a
legal structure that's being built but
society the mores change yes yeah so I
mean this is what makes just maybe but
I'll really a challenging topic I think
to get our heads around because lots of
things are moving at any given point and
what does happen I think the 70s are
really critical for this what's
happening there is both a more
sensitivity to certain kinds of privacy
invasions one's data identifying
materials anything that might be used in
a kind of discriminatory fashion against
them at the same time that yes there's
been a liberalisation around certain
kinds of personal material that would
have been guarded very carefully in the
19th century and through the first half
of the 20th century but suddenly has
been D stigmatized so sexuality divorce
family dysfunction alcoholism and
various kinds of medical conditions
right
so there were social movements that sort
of were behind those and where the
feminist movement may be first and
foremost also gay liberation also
various kinds of other social movements
that that made those things as a
political project less shameful right
but at the same time it's not as if
there aren't other kinds of pieces of
information that seem damaging in a
different way and this is where we start
getting into worries that come along
with at work society with computer data
banks a computer that never forgets
those people would start to say in the
1960s oh so I think you see a kind of
rise of information privacy concerns and
calls to regulate corporate and
government uses of identifying
information at the same time that you
see a kind of freeing of other kinds of
personal and intimate details and that's
not even getting you know into the 80s
and 90s and confessional memoir and
social media and blogs and so forth
right it's already there really in the
1970s right it's illogical and a
political movement
really so that damn so that dynamic
carries through almost up until you know
this sort of we're in a new age now and
and I would imagine like I mean so the
you know largely the story of your of
your book is that privacy is a sort of
in a constant it's never static it's a
it's a constantly changing concept and I
imagine now it is it's as the departure
particularly I got to imagine you know I
have a teenage daughter that the concept
of privacy for her is so radically
different than it has been at any other
stage right because so much of what had
been considered private even twenty
years ago is now like that's we just
throw that out the door now like
literally shove it out in the front yard
or the screen or whatever the equivalent
is yeah yeah I mean
there are continuity though even in the
differences so I think yes absolutely I
mean there is a kind of freedom with
which people share certain kinds of
personal narratives and experiences that
would have been you know utterly
incomprehensible to someone like Louis
Brandeis so in 1890 on the other hand
you know the to my mind that some of the
best studies of a teenage social media
use Dana Boyd's work for example
suggests that teenagers are just as
concerned about privacy as people have
been their parents are but in a
different way and are figuring out
different ways on a new platform to
protect information that they only want
to share with a few or want to share
with no one versus the kind of
information they're willing to broadcast
more widely so I think the tension
remains I don't think we're what we're
seeing is a kind of abandonment of
privacy I'm in fact on the contrary I
would say looking historically you know
we're in a moment where people are
thinking about and caring about privacy
public more than they have since at
least the 1970s right now so so it's
it's a little bit hard to decipher but I
think we're what we're seeing is a read
I don't know a resetting of the terms
maybe while also realizing how little
control any of us has given what's
already occurred right that so much of
our information is already out there in
the world and we aren't going to be able
to wrench it back in very easily in fact
that's probably you know a game we can't
even play so when I think about our
current moments what strikes me is that
were what we're seeing is the collision
or the crossing of two different trends
one is this one way we're talking about
earlier which is the kind of letting go
of and these stigmatizing of certain
kinds of personal information which has
led people to very freely talk about
write about share information about
themselves with a
we profitable and sophisticated data
mining you know a landscape that's come
into place and was not related to that
first trend but is is now you know able
to use all that stuff that's out there
in new ways and and really threatening
and unsettling ways so so I think that's
generating you know our current debate
and our current predicament
which is pretty hard one for us to
resolve obviously how much of that
paradox is a function of like a push for
it seems to me in the late 21st century
excuse me the late 20th century in the
early 21st century sort of a bunch of
private public type initiatives right
which was a big push which essentially
you know implies that the government
trusts these private entities to do a
lot of this stuff right like you know
from prisons to to farming out you know
immigration services to farming out you
know to get data on behalf of the
government etc and then there's sort of
this whiplash with like oh wait a second
they have a different agenda and we
can't trust facebook or what now ya know
it's a great question I think you know
my historian self would today well of
course they've always been these blurry
very blurry lines between corporate
America and the government I'm thinking
back to the kind of use of the telegraph
lines by the federal government ability
to I'm gonna sort of get into private
communications and to subpoena corporate
information for example so that goes way
back but but I think nevertheless you're
right that there is has been a kind of
tendency to both to privatize public
goods or public functions which is part
of this even the social security number
fits into this because a number that was
meant to be only
a of a federal account essentially
retirement account became a kind of
number that was used by insurance
agencies and credit bureaus and all
kinds of other private corporations to
do their work so so that yes that kind
of pooling or sharing of information
whether intentional or not you know
whether the US government is cooperating
with Google or Google is cooperating
with US government the fact that it's
this information is seems to be porous
and accessible has certainly contributed
to our current problems because it
becomes very unclear where the internet
who is responsible ultimately for what
information is being collected how it's
being used how it's moving around
whether it can be stopped whether it can
ever be erased
you know those are those are I think
some of our most important debates right
now and they're very hard to figure out
because it's it's pretty unclear either
technologically or politically what the
limits to information sharing that may
be indeed it's fascinating book the
known set is in a history of privacy in
modern America the professor Sarah I go
thanks so much for your time today I
also have to just add it just occurs to
me to like that social security number
huge huge my financial gift to the
private industry right I mean what would
they do
well what would they do if they didn't
have that number it across platforms too
from everything to do with credit and
identification it's fascinating
well thank you so much totally
unintended we will put a we will put a
link to the known citizen at majority
dot F M thanks so much for your time
today add that to my list of you think
you built that I would like to see
ninety per look your landlords your
your loans your banking institutions
your phone companies and like oh how
many services ask for your social
security number and they all do that
because of the tremendous amount of
value they have in relying on that
number in the information that that sort
of trails around with it
businesses would not be able to function
you could have you could have a million
different like Equifax is and this and
that but if there wasn't a a standard
number you would be Sol you're welcome
so you're welcome for that generic
libertarian I'm having an argument with
and my head often what happened during
that I would say like three or four
times yeah I was imagine I could
literally see you like I don't know
shuffling out of a post office or
something it's like exactly and that's
why that works I'd say you don't
understand I honestly in my head I'm
arguing with his dumb honestly I would
say that happens at least like twice a
day I mean I don't always land like I
was gonna say maybe I don't always land
on something two or three times a day at
least I don't know I'm not always
landing on something yeah I could be
reiterating something that's why I made
your point before like I said yesterday
and the day before and the day before
that and then the day before that now
that's when it gets really disturbing
well that's what you've really been
brought into this when you're like in
your apartment relitigated some argument
like a random call to get away from yeah
just described my life just described my
life only the road the only break the
only break I get from that is arguing
with my daughter those magic or or your
kids being like dad stop you're
frightening me right who built the roads
dad I need lunch stop I'm scaring me
folks just a reminder let's play that
clip I want to play that clip before we
go as a way of reminding you what's
going to happen this evening on the show
here is this is CNN is this that who is
that dude that's not it
geez that guy has been around for a long
time a lot of different incarnation of
it what's his I actually know from
Bloomberg for boolean Juliana writer he
was Giuliani speechwriter and then he
migrated into migrated into being one of
those guys like in the from the early
aughts I think who was like sort of a
centrist like he liked he was heavily
branded as a centrist oh really is that
right how their brood their beloved
apart wait which aisle are they on on
the same aisle sent to right there
they're loved between the center-right
and the center writer I don't totally
hate gay people we both support cutting
capital gains it's a really no it's not
like totally gay people it's like I like
the gay people I know in my own life
right
but generally speaking I'm not gonna go
to bat gay people are fine black people
are terrifying cut the capital gains
rate but in nevertheless he's been
reborn as he a CNN he seems like more
than a contributor here he does the
reality checks oh thank you we needed
that here's a reality check for you
tonight you think it's just the State of
the Union but it's something else
welcome to super bowl for policy wonks
the State of the Union is here and
tonight President Trump Plaza for one
second
sorry imagine there's a lot of you who
have just tried to commit suicide after
you but just to hang in there
it gets worse maybe he was saying like
the Super Bowl was boring this year I
didn't forgive it him way too much I did
boring I thought it was pretty exciting
and I love the way that it finished but
continue welcome to Super Bowl for
policy wonks the State of the Union is
here and tonight President Trump will
offer his scripted vision of governing
in a constitutionally mandated report to
Congress now he enters the arena with a
robust economy but barrel scraping
approval rating fresh off the longest
government shutdown in history what's
worse a new CNN
says that 43% of Americans say the
federal government's doing the worst job
of governing in their lifetime but
there's always a chance that a strong
speech could leave analysts saying that
tonight was the night that Donald Trump
finally became president I like how he
oh yeah he won steps that away from him
right he doesn't say a good speech could
be the night the president finally
becomes president he instead says that
analysts could say that that's the
classic some say I'm not saying I could
become president today some people are
saying I could be president today
tonight
well analysts can be gullible so dad you
say it God being shameless Trump I've
never felt more just a visit what's that
feeling where someone else's pain
becomes your pain I've never had that
before but this kid he's got this
beautiful last name
beautiful beautiful last name and
they're mocking him can't be best it
just makes me feel it what's that
feeling in your stomach where you feel
the concern for another human being
I've heard people describe it to me it's
not hunger it's that hugger it's not
it's not I'm not hangry either it feels
feels like I'll tell you what's gonna be
fast it's what they said Schindler's
List was like but I fell asleep five
minutes in I'll tell you what's gonna be
fascinating I'll probably repeat myself
before the thing but if he does try to
do to make this like about like I want
the country to come together and I want
to reach you know put an olive branch
out the Nancy Pelosi it's gonna be
fascinating to see and his point his his
approval rating we'll move on that but
it's gonna be it is going to be a
function of just how diluted and absent
the American public is to see how far up
it moves and that's another segment of
blaming the I got it I got it audience I
got another one of those segments coming
right up all I'm doing now is
just I'm right in the book night
analysts say it might move the needle
and they could be right but that's
because you never bet against the
stupidity lack of inform this and
general ignorance of the American team I
that is not that is not it it's it is
far more active it's not ignorant
I'm sorry everybody stupid it's just the
desperate desperate desire to have
things to have to be living in a
delusion right and that I mean because
honestly like you you have to be I can
understand why people support him
because there are you know hateful
racist types out there who feel they're
under siege what I don't understand is
that like you know he was pretty nice in
that speech I changed my opinion about
that guy that to me just seems nuts
alright folks that is actually pretty
nuts it's pretty nuts we're gonna take a
quick break
heading to the fun half and when we do
we don't have a post roll no no post
rolls and here is what's going to happen
we're gonna be a live streaming tonight
8:30 p.m. we will have a show tomorrow
it will be an interview that I think
that we have pre-recorded so we will
have a new show for you tomorrow but
we're going to come in late so and just
a reminder this program relies on your
support you can become a member at join
the majority report com also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
always free shipping and tonight is
Tuesday night there is no Michael Brooke
show but it will be Thursday or last
Thursday depending on your preference
it'll be on this Thursdays special
Michael Brooks show Jeffrey Halper who's
the head of Israelis against housing
demolition is going to join us and talk
about one state democracy home
demolition anti home devolution activism
then Brianna Jewett grave the intercept
is going to talk about Kamala Harris
prosecutorial record her political
history and will dissect the State of
the Union elisa history this weekend
with Zack Carter of the 1990s why Howard
Schultz's whole campaign is a giant sort
of exercise in desperation to reverse
the clock among America's elites back to
the 1990s we'll explain what that means
good couple with the Third Way illicit
history patreon.com slash CMBS also of
course on youtube and itunes jamie the
anti fada yeah so this week on all in
the anti Fattah family we are joined by
some longtime listeners who've been with
us since the beginning to discuss the
nefarious role Vladimir Putin in
undermining not just American democracy
but everyday freedoms in all of our
lives in the greatest nation on earth
we also have a group sing-along and it
was very cool to have all of our
excellent listeners right here with us
IRL so check it out patreon.com
the anti Fattah I also want to give a
little shout out to comrade Ted Leo for
having the for inviting us North
Brooklyn TSA to have a table at his show
this past weekend it was a lot of fun
sweet hee hee he's the one who provided
us with our daily opening version of
pressure drop Seb Leo's awesome he's the
real deal both terms of obviously good
musician but very committed to this
stuff he's a good really good person
yeah he said very nice things about us
too on the stage made us feel great we
got like 10 signups though sweet that is
a good night
the most recent literary hangover I
didn't know that I really remember this
but it's actually kind of topical with
the Northam minstrel blackface stuff
because we go into the early history of
that sort in the 1830s that was one of
the original sort of mass cultures and
we go into that a little bit so check it
out folks all right folks six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number be right back
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you're
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow ultimate math nerd don't you see why
don't you get a real job instead of
spewing get rheology through your left
will involve everybody's taking their
dumb juice today come on dance dance
dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post-coital seat
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no all right gonna take
a quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there
take whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber lastik I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey hey
[Music]
just flesh this out a little bit I mean
look it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report them we'll be with
you shortly
it's the fun half
ladies and gentlemen yes the famous fun
half this Charles Payne let's play this
other Charles Payne thing he's wrong
about this incidentally but it's so
obvious here he goes yeah this is the
other one this is not-- clip number
three they're really up in arms about
this whole well that was that oh okay oh
I guess we didn't go uh I can look for
another one oh all right
oh we do I thought we end that early
okay that's okay we don't need to do
that um there is it's not just Fox that
is completely obsessed with a I would
say the the tax proposal I mean it
really is amazing how worried I are
about this now is it from that same clip
yes from the same thing where the guy
heckled him the other day yeah like last
week wait
okay we're I guess people couldn't get
over the heckling first and now this new
more substance to back to that Howard
Schultz a clip with Andrew Ross Sorkin
he's a little bit concerned that the way
that we're referring to the word
billionaire let's let's listen to this
and so look everybody you know we don't
want to get too PC around here but we do
need to be careful about how we speak
about people who who have an enormous
amount of money we don't want to you
know in any way
make them feel marginalized I am
probably the you know strong contender
for at least PC person in this office
but I have to admit I was moved by this
sort of genuine human sentiment yeah one
final question about the system and the
capitalistic system of money and what it
may or may not be doing to politics and
then I want to get into your story and
being in the projects and where you came
from because I think there's some
instructive and important items to talk
about but the author of winner-takes-all
sent in a question and said do you agree
that billionaires have too much power in
American public life and it gets it it
gets at the issue that that AOC has been
talking about it gets it the issue that
Elizabeth Warren's but not everybody
gets it yeah you know the the monarch a
billionaire now has become the the
catchphrase I would rephrase that and I
would say that people of means have been
able to leverage their wealth and their
interest in ways that are unfair and I
think that speaks to the inequality but
it also directly speaks to the special
interest that are paid for by people of
wealth and corporations who are looking
for influence and they have such
unbelievable influence on the
politicians who are steeped in the
ideology of both parties and once again
I go back to this if I should run for
president I am NOT in bed with any party
I am not in bed with any
special-interest all I'm trying to do is
one thing walk in the shoes of the
American people you're gonna need to
start really something I I would I
change that Monica to just just a means
a person of means first of all just to
be clear Andrew that term billionaires
is actually violence so respect the tone
first oh did you
dad you know you dehumanized me with
violent rhetoric so that being said I
think that both sides both sides both
sides both sides both sides down sides
both sides don't he actually was talking
about three sides of which he is none he
is he's saying that while other
billionaires I mean other people of
means will leverage that money to buy
the two different parties and I am NOT a
part I'm not like so many of iliyan
heirs do things like throw a tantrum if
the City of Seattle doesn't give them a
massive tax giveaway close and then ruin
the Seattle SuperSonics that's what some
people of means might do do you know how
close he is to saying like look back
behind you do you see only one set of
tracks that's because I was carrying the
American people on my shoulders yeah
don't judge a billionaire until you've
walked a mile in his Louboutins okay
prints on the sand did you know a
billionaire owned to that Beach yeah Ari
I'd like to share an ancient billionaire
proverb he claimed he this is a longer
one on AOC and how she's sort of just
misinformed and we need to okay and and
does this come after that in the tears
actually immediately before it well
immediately before it okay so he hasn't
quite introduced the notion of not using
the word billionaire okay let me ask you
a question that might be put under the
umbrella about the American dream
because in many ways you are the
embodiment of it however this is a OSI
Alexandria Acacio Cortes you know her I
imagine you I don't know if you know her
personally I do not know she was born in
Queens I think she not Brooklyn her or
her adviser says that every billionaire
and you are one of them is a policy
failure meaning that the the
capitalistic society that we live in too
is struck is improperly structured and
that actually your success oh and and
becoming a billionaire is a failure of
the system what do you think of that
it's so unamerican to think that way
first off I'm self-made as you said I
came from the projects and took
advantage of the promise of the country
I'm living proof of the American Dream
and the aspiration the magnetism and the
opportunities that were presented to me
I think there is a problem that she has
identified but I think the way she's
going about it unfortunately she's a
little bit misinformed the problem is we
have significant inequality in the
country the problem is we have about 40
percent of American families that
literally don't have $400 for a crisis
we have roughly 5 million young people
many african-american Latino that are
not in school not work and we one of
every six Americans are food insecure
every night so she's identified issues
that have to be fixed but not to do it
in a way that's punitive to people who
have succeeded because of the foundation
and the gift in the promise of the
country so when President Trump issued a
new tax policy that took the corporate
tax rate from 35 to 21 percent I was
with you on television that day and said
I thought this was a terrible mistake
that it was Fool's Gold that to reward
corporations and not look at it as an
opportunity for comprehensive tax reform
and give the people who need it the most
relief was a tremendous missed
opportunity in addition to that there's
a great opportunity for infrastructure
development in America that could create
job I don't need to hear more from this
guy you know what's stunning is he talks
about ASE as being as being misinformed
this guy just laid out the case for why
he why billionaires are a policy failure
okay just there two points here he says
the problem is inequality well
the fact of the matter is is that you're
billions of dollars should be spread
around and that will that's the only
thing that is going to minimize
inequality there is no amount of money
that you can give these people who can't
say four hundred dollars that is going
to minimize inequality if you are
allowed to continue to make money at the
rate in which you've been making it and
to even hold on the money that you have
that's just a physical impossibility and
that's his facts
that's his set of facts answered him and
on top of that giving tax breaks to
people who cannot say four hundred
dollars is meaningless those people do
not make enough where a reduction in
their taxes would make an iota of a
difference this is absurd this guy is
it's like within one answer and I we
don't continue on to see if Andrew Ross
Sorkin calls him out on it
but in one answer he both says my
critics don't know what they're talking
about
and now let me prove that I don't know
what I'm talking about
we agree on the same set of facts and
I'm going to prove in the course of this
answer that I don't know what I'm
talking about let me add a third point
that is very minor compared to those two
which you just outlined but like if the
brand is we're bringing the country
together and essentially like my
policies are right-wing on economics and
then I'll throw a bunch of SAP's to some
kind of like you know attempt to sort of
like reignite the Obama idea of uniting
the country which is the closest I could
see to like a threat here coming through
Schmidt and Burton advising him and his
own delusions it is an incredible tick
he has that essentially every single
time a o'seas name comes up or bernie or
anybody that talks or warren he always
just heard his first move is literally
their unamerican right and the
incredible synthesis of we need to stop
demonizing each other we need to listen
we need to figure this out Oh what do
you think of it
tax proposal to solve the problems you
just acknowledged a real exam said oh
that's an American and then you can
pound that that AOC pointed out if like
why the hell did nobody ever say to him
why don't you start with a race for City
Council which goes to the Steve Jobs
example I always use in the Walter
Isaacson book of him asking got jobs
about education policy it means like has
anybody ever asked the New Jersey State
public school teacher of the year about
Apple supply chains does anybody ask
like just the incredible deference given
to these people is wrong in and of
itself and then they go out and prove
themselves to be both wrong on the
merits and then totally internally
contradictory and actually a really
messed up way yes we don't I'm just like
I just like we don't use that term we
are ironic when we say like on American
or whatever he's being sincere yeah and
he calls it that every single time her
name comes up yep he also refuses to
make the connection between the
existence of billionaires on the one
hand and the existence of lots and lots
of people at the bottom whose
exploitation enables the existence of
billionaires right like America cannot
support an infinite number of
billionaires right like if everybody did
what they were supposed to do according
to him and like live the American dream
the economy would crash so he's being
very disingenuous it would just cost
like a you know 1.2 million dollars for
a latte
everyone would be a billionaire so no
one would be he's actually not terribly
far off from the Sacha Baron Cohen
character Boeing why don't we just put
yeah yeah we just move double and then
the 99% is in the 1% that's actually
like Howard Schultz is just doing a a
bougie version of that bit all right
yeah so there is a lot there's a lot
happening right now in terms of the
attempts to forestall medicare-for-all
and we have seen just about every
candidate in the race to this point to
the extent that they're supportive of
Medicare for all all back off and
provide some wiggle room we have seen a
lot of commentators you know ostensibly
on the left I mean I got criticized by
somebody on Twitter for talking about
that jon favreau clip from from Favreau
the other one I loved it loved it
from pods all America and somebody
simply criticize me like did you listen
to the whole podcast I'm like no I
listen to the part that they cut and put
on there that they cherry picked because
they were trying to make a point and I
was refuting that point which is that
there is an ideological difference and
there's even more importantly than an
ideological difference because I
personally feel that you can very easily
get too caught up in ideology but there
is a fundamental difference between the
you know how we do medicare-for-all or
the idea of medicare-for-all and simply
providing universal coverage universal
coverage is is certainly one of the
reasons why you would want Medicare for
all that's the point but the other idea
is that you want to take it off the
table
you don't want it to be so Byzantine you
don't want it to be a function of your
employment you want to you want to
reduce the cost of medicare for all and
the fact is is that we know you cannot
reduce the costs of health insurance if
the vast majority of people are on
private insurance it's simply not
possible unless you're willing to impose
strict cost controls across the board by
the government now if you want to raise
that if you want to say we're going to
apply strict mandatory statutory federal
cost controls an endoscopy can only
cause so much a this type of surgery can
only cost so much I mean Medicare will
do that for all we'll do that in terms
of reimbursement rates it will create
downward pressure but the only other
to achieve that if you're going to have
disparate payers of health care is to
impose strict statutory federal cost
controls and then you're having to
create a whole new bureaucracy that is
redundant and and then frankly is going
to squeeze it's gonna have to squeeze
the insurance companies anyways yeah and
you leave an industry alive
that wants to get rid of the cost
controls it's like the frog and the
Scorpion that's also true you are you're
going to I mean I don't think
politically it's doable but in terms of
just like there's only if your agenda is
to to cut the cost of health care and
give it universal there is really no
other way to do it
III think you can maintain a smaller
private insurance like I could say
supplementary but you can't have them
provide health insurance for everyone
it's just not going it's just physically
not gonna work the UK has had Bupa for a
long time but it nobody really I mean
it's just for rich people basically
exactly I mean if if it makes it more
palatable for Howard Schultz to have
Medicare for all and he still has his
private doctor and his paying his
private doctor with his private health
insurance then god bless we'll get to
Howard Schultz's billion a slightly
different way in the meantime this has
come up the intercept reports apparently
someone's leaking is so not everybody on
Team Pelosi is excited with this
initiative but the it appears that the
Democrats are going to focus on drug
prices and which is all well and good
good they should there's some easier
ways to do that then I think what
they're proposing but broadly speaking
the leadership of the Democratic Party
wants to focus on drug prices and part
of the what they're doing is they're
going out to health insurance industry
and basically saying we will leave you
alone if you help us with drug prices
that's the deal that's going on
in other words they are already
negotiating away the thing that got them
not totally but certainly many many new
congressional members were elected on
this is part of a PowerPoint
presentation that was brought in there
and that was shown I guess to insurance
executives by this guy Wendell Primus he
is a he is a top aide to Nancy Pelosi
let's play the video because he talks
about there are apparently like five
things here we - let me just go back to
that there are five things that single
payer is difficult they're trying to say
we need to fix the ACA and improving the
ACA is the most cost effective path to
universal coverage they argue it's
slowed growth and improve quality that's
probably true the growth has slowed but
I get I got news for you it's very hard
to pay your insurance bill which has
gone up 15 20 percent over the number of
years and be comforted by the fact that
it's not gone up 16 to 21 percent that
slowed the growth of that's not that's
not enough and there's absolutely you
know no future guarantees it has they're
going to undo the sabotage and expand
ACA the affordability of health
insurance act of 2018 they're all again
just laying band-aids on top of
band-aids on top of band-aids the
problems with the single-payer cost
which we will address when this guy
Doc's about is video creates winners and
losers I don't know what the eff that
means there's there are no winners and
losers in our current system there are
only there is no let me put it this way
there is no such thing that can pass god
there's nothing the government can do
that doesn't create winners and losers
that is what society is always about
there is no there
no win-win-win-win repeated over 300
million times that doesn't happen the
question is who are the winners who are
the losers
stakeholders are against yes that is
without a doubt there are stakeholders
who are against there are also some
stakeholders or for that is all like the
vast majority American people
monies are needed for other priorities
that gets to the question of cost and
frankly those priorities you know to to
make sure that everyone is getting
health care are pretty substantial a
priorities there's gonna free up a lot
of money in the economy just in terms of
the sheer productivity of people not
having to spend all the time you know
trying to fill out insurance forms and
implementation challenges yes of course
all right so let's listen to this guy
say it a little bit the other thing I
want to say about universal coverage
improving upon the ACA is clearly the
most cost-effective way or budget
effective way of getting to universal
coverage single-payer is very expensive
the Urban Institute says thirty trillion
dollars
it creates winners and losers I mean
you're taking basically everybody that's
getting positive we know about this
thirty trillion dollar figure it is more
or less the same figure that the
Mercatus foundation we're already
incidentally we're already paying half
of that amount anyways okay so the other
half of that amount is going to be a
savings in people's pocket but now he is
talking from a purely political
standpoint if we offload the expenses to
people after they pay for their you know
as if it was groceries right then the
government is not accused of spending
too much money even though the
individual has a greater financial
burden than they would if the government
was spending the money they can
be blamed billion dollars
it creates winners and losers I mean
you're taking basically everybody that's
getting employer-provided benefits and
putting them onto the federal budget now
again in that process you're going to
create winners and losers some of the
retail stores that don't offer very good
benefits are gonna be benefited some
others that get very wonderful coverage
to their employers are at risk of losing
some of posit so in other words right
now there are winners and losers those
of you are working at a retail store
you're a loser those of you who are in
the c-suite you're a winner and that
could change and that would be bad of
that and so the point here is I do not
understand why all the excitement in
California is kind of ground zero for
some of that excitement about universal
coverage the leader is very aware of the
cost of that it has no chance of
happening in the next several years etc
and possible I would so the leader being
Nancy Pelosi is aware of the cost of
that I don't know what that means and
that it has no chance of happening in
the next several years I think that's
also true because the the Republicans
are not going to sign on to it but you
know what else is also true
fixing the ACA is also several years
away ears
etc and I would say you know the
Medicare for all Medicare right now
doesn't have an out-of-pocket limit it
would not be eligible for going on to
the exchange so where I think the debate
has to go is improving Medicare and
Medicaid Democrats don't have a very
good answer right now in my opinion to
block granting Medicaid I think we've
got to be thinking about taking some of
the long-term care cost off of Medicaid
and
putting it on to Medicare or financing
it directly we've got to talk about
slowing health care cost growth and we
need to build the case for revenues to
make Medicare and Social Security
solvent so okay all the stuff he's
talking about in terms of improving
Medicare and Medicaid are good things
but they're the same challenges that we
have from Medicare for all need to build
the case for revenues to make Medicare
and Social Security solvent financed
long-term care is the same argument as
it's gonna cost more and we're gonna
have to argue to get more money all of
the transferring some Medicaid long-term
costs to Medicare
these are all things that could be much
simpler under a medicare-for-all program
and again if you want to get back to
that winners and losers situation and
you're worried about upsetting those
billionaires I'd say let them have their
boutique health insurance and guess what
they're still winners exactly like the
boss class still gets to sit on their
asses while their employees and their
pre-existing capital do all the work and
make all the values so whatever you
should be saying you won't have such
huge winners it makes less of you
winnings winning a little less so you
know I mean some of this is arguing here
in the argument that some of the
Medicare programs would not qualify
under the exchanges in terms of and I
guess that may mean in terms of like
specific benefits but if you're going to
raise the quality of the benefits under
Medicare you're gonna run to the exact
same problem that you're gonna have with
you know Medicare for all except for
Medicare for all from a political
standpoint there's a reason why there's
so much excitement because it is a much
easier political cell than we want to
ensure that the cola increases if Social
Security are not eaten up by increases
of not a pocket expenses in Medicare no
just go out Medicare for all we're gonna
make it all good no you just stood those
reclines both eye on it right there even
just like having to
listen to that just now made my eyes
glaze over when the good option is so
much simpler and it's not always it
doesn't always happen that way sometimes
the good option is more complicated and
that's hard but this is great because
it's not and one more point I want to
make that I got from Nathan Robinson
wrote a really good article actually in
reference to criminal justice reform but
this is a concept that can be applied
across the board just because it
quote-unquote works and produces the
desired outcome doesn't necessarily mean
it's good right so like you could make a
law that everybody in the country has to
buy private insurance no subsidies no
anything and if they don't do it they go
to jail right and a lot more people
would have coverage that way but would
that be good would people's quality of
life improve I don't think so
exactly I mean I I think the idea is
that like I said yesterday where people
are done with the idea of of striving
for universal coverage by hook or crook
they just that's gonna be people want
their health insurance to not be a thing
that they have to constantly worry about
and deal with you know I I was looking
up forget where I've where I came across
this but who was the guy he ran for
Senate in 93 or was it 91 a Harris
Wofford I think he ran for basically he
was the guy his Senate race was in a lot
of ways as the template for Bill
Clinton's 92 race but what was funny was
the centerpiece of it was I don't think
it was single-payer but it was universal
health care some version of pretty by
that standards at that time very
aggressive and apparently he put out an
ad and that reversed a 40 point deficit
he ended up winning a race down from 40
points and it was it was like our
forefathers correctly gave everybody the
right to an eagle process because they
understood that everybody needed that
because they were a bunch of lawyers and
people attuned to that and the guy was
like you know I'm a doctor and if the
founders were doctors everybody would
have health care right so exactly
the same thing as far as any type of
basic starting point in this system it
needs to be simple keep it simple
exactly it needs to be simple the
helices Health's doing Tim boss there on
the I am
song plays somebody's getting married
from the Muppets Take Manhattan I've
never went just witness an interview
that hit Sam's back wall so hard I just
like to point out that this guest is
definitely Sam's next wife Jonathan
about was he great any of you can we
talk about these spots he's jonathan
Armstead Sam you've done a great job but
listening to callers talk about their
petty qualms of the Democratic
candidates who have announced so far can
you explain to me if I'm wrong in the
following hang up
should I be skeptical of Elizabeth
Warren because she used to be a
Republican I sometimes worry it could
means she could be easily duped I don't
think so
what her party affiliation was 20-some
odd years ago is that relevant
JJ cool hey Sam should we be looking
forward to seeing you upstaging Bernie
upstaging Abrams with your own State of
the Union at rebuttal Adam Koch head I
got fin domed by the ant and do fata and
it was awesome
oh yeah Charles Krauthammer 'z
wheelchairs cushion
did you see Hannity blamed
sex-trafficking on liberals last night
it was amazing watch and discuss we got
to pull that sound wait what was sing
sex trafficking what he blamed liberals
sex trafficking supports the FASTA
that's exactly what Hannity was like
cesta FASTA more like abusive sex
workers all right that is right their
movie that's it progressive Hannity yes
very obvious if Schechter sup homies
this weekend on and we're keeping the
dog too
my co-host yon proper roaches and I on
healthcare policy expert nests
look-alike John Lovett we discussed the
big issues like why Obamacare is already
Medicare for all because people
eventually all get Medicare and can we
call their media consultant to give us
tips on coming up with
Podcast name's Helen of tyranny Trump
walked back troop withdrawal from Iraq
on Sundays Face the Nation should make
everybody where he is citing Iran as a
reason and saying all I want to do is be
able to watch this is how it starts just
ask Jared about how much he regrets not
being more prudent when Trump first told
them that all he wanted to do was walk
that's a really good point and I'll be
covering that a lot more on MRI yes
clipper did we get really took it in a
better direction the clip from we had
that yesterday right the the Iraq one of
the guys you know of Trump on Sunday
this is Donald Trump arguing that he is
completely for withdrawal except for
when it actually happens in Iraq it was
a big mistake to go one of the greatest
mistakes going into the Middle East that
our country has ever made one of the
greatest mistakes that we've ever made
but you want to once a chosen well we
spent a fortune on building this
incredible base we might as well keep it
and one of the reasons I want to keep is
because I want to be looking a little
bit at Iran because Iran is a real
problem
whoa that's news you're keeping troops
in Iraq because you want to be able to
strike in Iran no because I want to be
able to watch Iran all I want to do is
be able to watch we have an unbelievable
an expensive military base built in Iraq
it's perfectly situated for looking at
all over different parts of the troubled
Middle East rather than pulling up and
this is what a lot of people don't
understand we're going to keep watching
and we're going to keep seeing and if
there's trouble if somebody's looking to
do nuclear weapons or other things we're
going to know it before they do so
you're gonna trust the intelligence that
you receive I am going to trust the
intelligence that I'm putting there but
I will say this my intelligence people
if
that Iran is a wonderful kindergarten I
disagree with them a hundred percent it
is a vicious country that kills many
people when you talk about torture and
so many other things I loves it so get
the straight one if anybody was curious
we have a huge surveillance system out
of our base in Iraq so just just in case
you were wondering what is the focal
point of our surveillance of Iran it is
that base now maybe they already do this
maybe they know but also cut it too
right we can't me just clear that up at
all the interviews I mean he clearly
just got briefed on the surveillance
capacity that is coming out that is
unique to our embassy in Iraq right like
he just got briefed on that and he just
basically told the world hey be he's
also just said despite the fact that we
have intelligence there I'm not going to
listen to them unless they tell me what
I believe is true exactly and see he
thinks that kindergardens are super
benign and maybe they'll come back the
country is getting absolutely when I
ended the horrible Iran nuclear deal
it was a horrible deal done by President
Obama and John Kerry that didn't know
what the hell he was doing when I ended
that deal Margaret
all of a sudden Iran became a different
country they became very rapidly right
now they're a country that's in big
financial trouble let's see what happens
I want to move on here but I should say
your Intel Chiefs do say Iran's abiding
by that nuclear deal I know you think
it's a disagree with by the way you
disagree that Intel people that doesn't
mean I have to agree well so I just
think like you know whatever it's Trump
and it doesn't matter and frankly this
is an area where there would be no
difference Marco Rubio would have done
exactly the same thing in terms of
ruining this and getting this close to
the war come and this is the you know
establishment position of the Republican
Party and of the Israeli and
in golf lobbies that sort of push
against it but I mean there is a very
logical case just in terms of narrow
self-interest as to why Iran would want
to have a weapons capacity just purely
based on the fact that they're
surrounded by a ring of US troop
presence in Afghanistan and Iraq the
fact that Israel has that capacity and
threatens Iran and the amount of work
that they actually did effectively not
just Obama and Kerry but actually Wendy
Sherman who was like the point person on
that to assure them that there's another
way to do this was actually like it's
the most successful piece of modern
diplomacy that any of us have ever seen
and lived through I don't believe right
exactly I don't believe they from my own
measured experience in foreign policy
negotiations now but on the other hand I
host Qaddafi an event once I get news
for so think about it they're not
kidding to garden they're not
kindergartens and also you know it like
I actually think it's really healthy for
the world system but the fact that the
eurozone has actually created like an
alternative back up finance mechanism so
that they can keep the agreement going
with Iran if you're like in in some you
know a nationalist American prestige
mode very bad oh you're American like
the way that overlaps with the way the
Europeans have been getting involved
with the belt and road initiative the
way the fact that the Chinese and the
Indians are already totally and that
Russians are a hundred and on board with
this Iran's making inroads in Africa
like this is even by that really narrow
like of course I support to peace and
blah blah blah but it's a disaster for
US influence this is the this is the
nightmare for all those people want the
us hegemony right what is like we're the
only system of finance in the in the
world bad wagon just wondering if you
guys made the conscious decision not to
back or mention Jumaane Williams for
public advocate seems like he's been
pretty earnestly working for the people
for the city for years he's taken New
York communities for change real estate
pledge no money from real estate packs
no
money from principles of for-profit
developers no money from landlords
owning buildings with six more units no
money from corporate PACs just wondering
if you took a look and decided to go
with no Mickey is there something that
you know that we should know about
Jumaane that disqualifies him in the EM
our team saw it no I mean from my
perspective I don't speak for Michael
that that real that that real estate
pledge is is all well and good the
definition of for-profit developers is
pretty loosey-goosey you know one of the
the keys is to set up these nonprofit
these nonprofit entities to build the
the development sell it etc etc but but
putting that aside ah the reason why and
for probably any other position in the
city or in you know the state I would be
supportive of of Williams but the for
from my perspective this is the the
public advocate is a rather undefined
job that I think is best suited for
someone who does not anticipate or has
reason to not be able to anticipate a
long term political future in New York
state politics the way that New York
State Politics work it is so
transactional that and Intuit and in any
other position I think you need that but
I just happen to think that sort of in
terms of personality wise and in terms
of you know her role in the context of
the the Democratic Commission on on
looking at you know primary reform
someone who is both willing to function
within the Democratic Party but also
willing to burn a lot of bridges and
so I think she's uniquely suited for
this for this part for this job well I
don't think that there's anything I
don't think there's any place that she's
not going to go to in the context of
this job in terms of exposing stuff
that's going on in the the either the
state or the municipal government and
you know the state is sort of a bank
shot but and so that's that's that's why
I also yeah I mean I basically would
echo that I I also think her work on
Puerto Rico and the context of New York
City is exceptional and really important
and I I like I don't I also I mean let's
just be blunt like I I know no Miki and
I don't know Jumaane right just think
that some transparency or just like of
course if you know somebody and you
trust them and you like them then you
know that doesn't mean it's like or
denigrate somebody else at all and
really the only substantive I mean I
like Jumaane a lot I was very
enthusiastic to vote for him and Cynthia
Nixon I it does to me seem like
specifically the only thing I've seen
that's negative that could be on the
negative side of Ledger's I I am pretty
wary of how he's kind of played those
real estate donations and that to me it
seems like that's something you need to
be absolutely unequivocal on especially
in a place like New York City where so
many people you know any politician in
New York City is gonna most of them are
gonna you know Trump is disgusting they
might even have some really excellent
and correct rhetoric on inequality on
race and policing but there's a couple
of real basic tests and one of them
would be not taking real estate honey I
you know for me it's just the biggest
thing for me is just like I want someone
in this position who owes no favors is
reliant on no one else in the in the
party for their their future in that
respect I just that's that's basically
it I you know and that and and so all of
the the lack of experience the lack of
of of of experience in the context of
the Democratic Party is actually this is
one of the few positions I think that
that is a plus frankly I mean speaking
as a member of the New York City DSA
going back to when he was you know
running with Cynthia Nixon he pledged
right before our vote you know not to
take any more real estate money and
since then there have been some
questions as to whether he's wavering on
that pledge but even like that and
there's also issues with um maybe
violations of campaign finance rules but
even aside from all that like if I have
the choice between somebody for Public
Advocate who used to take real estate
money and then stopped after people put
pressure on them and someone who never
took real estate money I'm gonna go with
the second JB does every POTUS approval
go a rating go up after the State of the
Union maybe Trump will be the first have
his drop I have a feeling it's gonna go
up I just don't see how it cannot glass
Siegel to the John saves America guys
run a consulting firm called Fenway
strategy strangely this never comes up
on the show where they interview and
endorse candidates and policies who are
their clients for the sake of balance am
I also think you should disclose this
info for do you see communications USA
in the you know I was noticing the other
day I was listening to some Biggie and I
unfortunately I wasn't here for your
your your lyrical breakdown of juicy
well I wasn't breaking it down yeah well
yeah maybe by the way which site did you
use to read lyrics on did you didn't go
to genius did you know I'm not familiar
all right yes okay I like it but I was
but there I think it's in hypnotized
it's a biggie biggie biggie is it I
don't forget I think she's saying what
did you just tell Atari Melbourne yeah
uh you all right Melbourne he puts he
changed me he puts you to shame oh I
think I think you'll find that's the
other way I mean I remember Nessa bodega
boy shoutouts
I mean all right milk Melbourne ring
since I use it back just I gotta say I
think Mac I I mean I never know nemesis
I never know what he's talking about but
it's not like that stuff I I can see
what's in the prompter he plays that out
of nowhere really good he doesn't write
that stuff good for Melbourne I mean I
just the reason he was the victim of a
joke yes Betty and BS live shows USA in
the UK just FYI John Avalon was quoting
van who said last year tonight Donald
Trump will be became president tonight
it's a running joke now on CNN Oh was he
mocking Van Johnson in that self-aware I
feel like that's giving John Avlon we
that would have been pretty good though
a pathetic steamroller I think one thing
that I think isn't talked about enough
is homelessness according to HUD in 2012
homelessness in America could be
effectively eradicated for only twenty
billion dollars per year that's less
than half a percent of the federal
budget pajama boy hey Sam so New Jersey
just passed a $15 minimum wage which is
great I have to admit I'm not the best
economist but I keep hearing people
saying oh this will put small businesses
out of business or this will bring
automation on quicker or your fast food
prices are going to skyrocket what's the
best way to combat this line of thinking
you just Google Seattle $15 minimum wage
and just the the proof is in the pudding
it hasn't it
none of the the the dire consequences
that we're supposedly going to happen in
Seattle happened now there could be
other factors that that implicate this
the overall economy broadly speaking but
there's a lot of reason to believe that
all these small businesses are gonna do
slightly better because their clientele
are gonna have more money and when you
give $15 when you give a raise to
someone who is making minimum wage I can
tell you with almost a hundred percent
assuredness what they're gonna do with
that race they're gonna spend it and
they're gonna spend it locally because
you're
still not making enough to say like oh
I'm gonna put away 25 percent of my
income ten percent of my income and put
it into the stock market or I'm going to
you know buy that second house and I'm
gonna pour my money into you know
Western New Jersey or whatever it is are
hot take more people at minimum wage
that's a Gordon Gekko clip you remember
this what is this from a while ago but
they basically asked him about Bernie I
think it was maybe in 2006 clues this
this is the guy that Gordon Gekko was
based on and they asked him about
Bernie's policies here we're asking
everybody essentially who you think the
best candidate for the economy would be
Bernie Sanders without a doubt why is
that what no question is well I think
it's quite simple again if you look at
something called velocity of money you
guys know what that is I presume that
means how much gets spent and turns
around when you have the top 1% getting
money they spend five ten percent of
what they earn when you have the lower
end of the economy getting money they
spend a hundred or a hundred and ten
percent of what they earn as you've had
a transfer of wealth to the top and a
transfer of income to the top you have a
shrinking consumer base basically and
you have a shrinking velocity of money
Bernie is the only person out there who
I think is talking at all about both
fiscal stimulation and banking rules
that will get the banks to begin to
generate lending again as opposed to
speculation Wow and then all of them
pretended that conversation never ever
happened that's what happened Jeremy
Michael Douglas's yeah honestly that is
like after that that that that moment is
over they all walked to the commissary
they all take out a knife they cut their
hands right thick this and they do a
blood oath to never talk about that
again we're gonna pretend that never
happened
are you all in because we all got to do
this because if one of us breaks we're
all going down that's what happens after
that nobody saw that right exactly I
mean that's
no they there's a lot of different ways
of talking about it that was probably
the most succinct and concise version
I've heard we had Nick Hanauer on the
program years ago who said you know even
a rich man eats one loaf of bread at a
time you know the bottom line is you
give money to people on the low end of
the income spectrum and they will spend
it it will generate more economic
activity than if you give it to a
billionaire because they don't even know
how to spend their money
I thought living in excess was the
American dream they go to high base okay
well they're trying to go to Mars but
the thing is they're not they're just
talking about we will go to Mars one day
you know their money makes more money
for them that's what they use it for it
just makes them feel good shut up maybe
build like a bunker for when the
revolution comes that's what I've been
doing that is actually with it they've
already done that but there's only so
many bunkers you can build you know it'd
be real sad if the majority reports to
do if I don't know does the word Gawker
mean anything I was gonna say with you
gross I don't show you that the the odds
of this program ending because of that
type of thing as opposed to just like me
me passing away or they're just like
retiring oh that can also be arranged
maybe there's a little accident while
you're checking your stupid Twitter
there we go that's the way this is gonna
go down come from a four seven eight
area code who's this where you come from
oh yes this is a supporting character
yes adored reports for duty sir Jeff
from Georgia
how are you sir you you still still
feeling the after-effects of youryour
New York adventure yeah man I'm just
down here you know missing the New York
subway real bad and and for anyone who
thinks I'm being sarcastic about that I
surely am NOT it was a wonder of modern
technological advancement and I
loved it is awesome I know it's got
problems but you
ain't nothing like it anywhere else Iver
should have been here five years ago
yeah I love to complain about the subway
as all New Yorkers do and then I go
anywhere else and I'm like well and I'm
like yeah LA and a frigging mercedes
lift this is awesome well we're not all
pulling down at a sweet sweet podcast
money like everyone here I know so known
everyone can live a luxurious life that
we do as superstars on the mid-tier
talk-show circuit actually man I wanted
to order to talk a little bit about
health care you know I know it's kind of
going wrong these days I the clip that's
played aside that's that's kind of one
side of the angle for people who are
against the single-payer system you know
that I think the other side that we got
to wash it up for it is freckly lab work
third bell is what it's kind of handed
right like you know better control that
sounds good but maybe dot or maybe you
buy it or maybe a public option or you
know whatever just just kind of fiddling
around the edges a little bit and what
they're relying on then they say all the
time is you know a lot of people like
their insurance and they want to keep
right and and I want to meet people
where they're at so you know just I know
I'm spitting in the wind here a little
bit but two pieces of advice for the
left I think is one you know your
insurance ain't your doctor I think a
lot of people you know just conflate the
two of the things and I think there's a
you know that if that good health choice
you got you like it a lot
your employer I got bad news for you it
ain't safe you can't keep it if you want
it insurance companies downgrade their
source plan I mean a company you know
don't go to our provider insurance plans
all the time yeah I've had five six is
your scars just my wife started working
at her job every year there's a damn do
it right like you know if you like your
research your diet you're not safe well
it's harder to take away you could lose
your job you bring up I mean you know in
theory the idea of a Medicare buy-in I
find intriguing the problem with it is
and you hit and you're hitting on this
is that if you have and and this is why
when I talk about you know it's okay to
keep
some measure of private insurance the
key is is that your doctor the the we
talked about 90 to 95 percent of
Americans their doctor has to sign on to
take Medicare payments right like this
is the key if Medicare is just buy-in
then you will get a two-tiered system
and that is problematic because you
don't want to have to have people change
their doctor that's the whole point
that's one of the drags of private
insurance right now and because your
doctor at any time could say I'm not
taking insurance anymore
it's just not worthwhile for me to do it
and so the the biggest problem with a
Medicare buy-in is that problem right
there is that all of a sudden there is a
chance that essentially your health care
will be ghettoized on some level and you
won't be able to have access to the
doctor that you had before and so you
want to make sure that there is no
there's no two tiers of medical of
medical treatment and so you know or I
should say to the extent that there's
going to be two tiers you want on one of
those tiers small enough that it doesn't
implicate a lot of people the other
thing I would say about people who talk
about sort of Obamacare a lot is maybe
this is a bit petty me saying you know
from my perspective where they were push
that the ACA you know the exchanges
really were that the thing the the point
you know the the Medicaid expansion was
tacked on relatively late in the process
to save money
everyone think about that it was
actually easier to just give people
health insurance below a certain income
line that it was to throw money at them
in form of a subsidy to purchase the
church to the primary market ever going
to keep that it by but in any case like
these exchanges were supposedly like the
future right and not only do people hate
that but it didn't even work right
and it ain't working right now and and
that is not what we need to do and I
don't want to let these people really
run away from that I probably the
Medicaid expansion was great and I just
supported obviously you know but these
people solutions are not what we D yeah
as soon as I appreciate you take my
coffee thanks Jeff thanks for visiting
every job
yeah good to see you by the way now he's
gone higher so like yeah as soon as
other Democrats started to parrot the
words
medicare-for-all I knew this was gonna
happen they were going to water it down
take a phrase that people like and make
it mean something totally different like
oh you want Medicare for all here's
Medicare for all
plus extra access option right I mean
this is not I mean this is the history
of this country right the idea of health
insurance for everybody is 80 years old
and they haven't the the closest they've
been able to come as the ACA where I
guess the Medicare at least in terms of
but you know so you know this is not the
idea that it was going to be you know
that that that simply people talking
about a lot was gonna bring it about
obviously not gonna happen it's gonna be
hard here is I just have to say really
sorry just like 30 seconds I just as
somebody who most of my adult life and
has you know been around a lot of people
who have you know lacked health coverage
for various reasons I mean for the
obvious reasons for significant periods
of time you know I just always want to
reinforce the sort of basic moral
calculus of this - and the real you know
the reason at least I'm so
uncompromising on it I just think it's
disgusting and grotesque and actually
horrifying if you've been on the
experiencial end of it to have this even
be a question and in play and of course
what Jamie saying is also true of the
green New Deal and every other policy
thing that has been sort of put forward
by progressives and now has nice brands
and good polling here is a guy Bakari
sellers and he was the former South
Carolina Democratic party chair if I'm
not he's the mayor of Atlanta no no no
okay and I've sat on a couple of panels
with him I've met I mean nice perfectly
nice guy but there is seems to be
right now a big push on trying to draw
down the expectations for health
insurance as we enter into this campaign
and it's interesting because in 2008
this went on but it was very quick it
was very quick and part of it was that
some of the biggest advocacy groups that
were looking for a medicare-for-all very
quickly settled on okay we're just gonna
ask for the public option which is why
it's and that should be a cautionary
tale right like the negotiation ends
when they start voting on the
legislation do not pre negotiate the
best-case scenario away not even the
best-case scenario don't pre negotiate
any scenarios away but so understand
that's what we're in the midst of now
like it is already the the fight for
what the Democrats will do in 2021 has
already begun here is Bakari sellers
with with his argument he is throughout
this process Democrats and their plans
and their ideas and all of these
proposals are gonna be fleshed out and
people are gonna get to the root of it
but when what you saw this past week was
you saw a slight difference of opinion
because I think that medicare-for-all is
the standard in the Democratic Party now
but you have different ways in different
candidates who want to get there so I
still favor for example making sure that
we still have a healthy private
insurance industry in this country but I
do believe that we need to move towards
a Medicare for all and let private
insurance fill in those gaps and I think
that you have Kamala Harris and Cory
Booker who have sponsored bills
throughout the whole plethora or the
whole Jean or of that making sure that
we get just and if we just drop the age
limit for Medicare five years I think we
at least cover more people and we we can
at least start to have those discussions
I know it's I mean there's such a weird
frame and this is why like I think
making the idea of the existence of
private insurance binary is problematic
because
it is unnecessary to say that there
cannot exist any private insurance for
there to be a functioning and good
Medicare for all well they don't outlaw
private insurance and companies with
single-payer they just put them largely
out of business well exactly which is
exactly my point
so the point is is like rather than die
on the hill of whether private insurance
should exist or not that is secondary to
what the affirmative thing that we want
which is cradle to grave access to
Medicare by access I mean free free paid
for by payroll taxes okay so a taxed
based payment for health insurance
cradle-to-grave if you want to have
supplemental insurance for super wealthy
people and they need that by all means I
don't need I can have a functioning air
industry that is available to everybody
and still there can be people have their
own private jets that doesn't bother me
I mean I the the root cause of their
ability to have private jets is
something I'm gonna tackle later just
fair warning we could shoot on private
jets resurface they just know that the
tape but that's the that's why it's your
own risk you pricks that's the
thing it's like you know don't argue
that part of it that may be a result but
that's not our worry well it seemed like
he was arguing to still include the
private insurers in this universe that's
exactly right and the opportunity to do
that because see by saying by making it
a a by making it a just a pure binary
choice private insurance or no private
insurance that gives the opportunity for
weasel words well I look I think private
insurance has a role fine but the
problem is is that once that becomes the
argument he's moving he's moving the the
goalposts to like well private
actually it's not necessarily a
supplements compliment they work hand in
hand like no no that can't that doesn't
function this is the thing that's the
sleight of hand here that does not work
it does not work if you drop the age of
Medicare by 5 years you're still gonna
have a big problem you because you're
not gonna have the same access to
doctors you're gonna have an
increasingly number of doctors like wow
you know I'm just gonna do a younger
clientele on some level and because
they're not gonna have the same it's
gonna be an easier group of people to
service I mean that's that's the problem
is that you're going to have essentially
a two-tiered system and we don't want
that yeah there is no reason to include
private insurance companies in the
universal coverage plan besides as a
hand out to the private insurance
companies and then you have to look at
where people's money is coming from V
Spa is a train boy a part of the
northern mouth thanks for the note train
boy found it on my chair a part of the
North immerseus how in medical school
future doctors are often taught to doubt
physical pain reported by black patients
right systemic racist racism and action
you know at that point terms of why
black people were less susceptible to
the opioid epidemic was two part one
lack of insurance and because doctors
were less willing to prescribe
painkillers I mean not at all surprising
a friend of mine had a totally drug-free
childbirth twice not because she was
really excited to feel all the pain but
because she knew statistically speaking
that if somebody went wrong the doctors
were less likely to take her seriously
because she was black so she just wanted
to like not ask for any drugs to begin
with so they didn't treat her like a
junkie visa I want to give you a
friendly daily reminder to risk the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
or little note nickim pope obvious
acronym left his best Congressional
baseball fan your favorite baseball
family starting a new job next week as
an economist can I get a shofar oh I may
not be able to I am as much but stay
tuned for my forthcoming baseball
economic updates play ball America let's
go to the phones call from a two three
one area code who's this where you
calling from
hello hello this is Mohammed from
California
hello Mohammed I can hear you what's
going on I basically bought the health
care for all the mmm tea people who
think this is going to be deflationary
event meaning that you don't have to
raise taxes but lower them to pay for
the health insurance bro because the
insurance company which we're going to
be phased out a lot of people will be
out of jobs so you have to increase the
spending to hire those people so it's
gonna be a have have a deflation area
bias so what do you think about that I
mean that's conceivable I would imagine
you know a lot of those people who are
working now in the private insurance
industry will end up working in in the
in the case of a medicare-for-all end up
working for them on the death panels I
mean the fact is is that look the
expense associated with private
insurance is one obviously there's a
profit motive the profits are not
received by the people who who are doing
the the work that may be implicated in
their pay to some extent but it you look
that you know the the these are these
are publicly owned companies then they
need to they have shareholders are
getting a big chunk of it the other
savings is going to come from the
efficiencies created by having a single
buyer and the sort of the monopsony
power that is associated with that and
you you have much more rational pricing
and ability to assess the efficacy of
various you know prescribed procedures
and whatnot so as far as it having a
deflationary impact because the there
I'm not sure I follow that because
you're suggesting that there'll be an
increase in government spending and
there'll be deflationary I'm not sure I
understand how that works and it's not
it's not about that it's about think
about it this way for me as a company I
am getting private insurance for my
employees right yeah I am NOT I'm no
longer helped to do I'm saying I see
what you're talking about
yeah going down yeah well I mean there's
there's one of two things that could
happen in that instance right I mean and
it's it's hard to it's hard to say and
it may you know how you roll it out may
impact it but I mean presumably right if
I'm saving 10 bucks an employee by there
being a public health and you know part
of that is going to be eaten up frankly
by new taxes levied on me as an employer
right because I'm gonna be paying in
taxes I'm gonna be paying for that to
the extent that I have any I have any
savings as a company which I suspect I
might right because we know that health
insurance overall is going to be is is
the price of health insurance to society
is going to go down we know that based
on just the the libertarian think-tank
report so to the extent that I am paying
less in taxes than I'm actually paying
for health insurance now
has a company let's say I have two
dollars left over I can put a pot out of
a buck in my pocket and I can give a
buck to my employees and if I'm gonna
give a buck to my employees I may be you
know enticing your employees to come
work for me and so that person's gonna
have to give a buck to their employee
and so you know that's that's
theoretically how it work I don't know
if it will be deflationary for an
extended period of time but it's not
gonna be yeah and also because a lot of
administrator who was going to be let
off they're going to be competing on
already jobs so this is going to be a
downward effect on prices for salaries
well like I say there might be not gonna
be yeah there might be
yeah well think about it this way yeah
when unions negotiate salaries for their
employees health care is something that
they won't have to bargain with anymore
and I know you know not everyone is in a
union but I hopefully will see an upward
trend in that in the coming years if
we're all gonna survive but there's no
reason for it to be deflationary in
terms of salaries because not every
crisis you'll see more entrepreneurship
bags
what do you both what do you say yeah
that's a good thing all right
III follow exactly how this happened
right yeah I think it's happened this
effect is good good thing because it
will we encourage the government for
more spending for raw job guarantee for
example or the make all education free
yeah all right appreciate the phone call
come from an 8 1 0 area code who's this
where you come from it is me yes it is
you cool Flint steel from Flint what's
on your mind I'm calling to make a quick
dumb pedantic points about Kamala Harris
great whatever her name whatever her
name recognition is I would argue that
it's about 30% of that given that's
roughly two out of every three like deep
political walks say her first name
incorrectly what is their first name and
uh Carmela Kimura not Kamala
not Camelot so I don't know I mean I'm
not like a linguist or a racist or
anything so I'm not gonna like
psychologize that but but I think it's
interesting that you know somebody's
running for president they're like
seeing to be the front-runner and most
people don't say her name the way that
she does what is it it's again it's
Kamala right Camila Camila all right
yeah it's like that guy from Ohio
that guy from Ohio who might be running
for president that Senator how do you
say his name
it's Indiana uh no no oh the hi he was
the mayor self no I'm not talking about
him
I'm talking about the other guy the
senator from Ohio schmuck --all no he's
picking an easy name to prove a point
um I believe it's pronounced cop mala no
wait a second I'm a Scott Brown thank
you Michael
you're welcome back what's that right
appreciate to go Barney Sanders I was
hoping would be get a final
pronunciation of booty gig sherrod Brown
sherrod Brown Sherrod ba sherrod Brown
gone from a four to tray number four to
three thank them yeah who's this
thanks for taking my call this is Andrew
Cohen Tennessee Andrew what's on your
mind and appreciate your commentary I'm
here in the Bible Belt middle of Magha
countries
thanks for doing what you do I'll just
uh had a question about I kind of came
to you guys through the Jordan Peterson
wormhole uh took me about half a day to
figure out I wasn't on that tip just to
find the Joe Rogan podcast where he
talks about being on the all meat diet
so uh I didn't really need your guy's
commentary but I really appreciate it
hey let me just say that just interested
what you what your kind of take is on if
you think at any point that veganism
becomes a moral imperative you know when
we talk about climate change the green
new deal the impact the catastrophic
impact on the environment that's going
on right now I guess that's one of my
frustrations generally with the left and
I'm on the left I'm you know I guess to
the left of the left on animal rights
right it seems because I just I don't
hear a lot of talk about it barely at
all in the mainstream let alone you know
and you got you know on the left you got
a lot of people pointing out the fossil
fuel companies which totally right to do
I just yeah basically at any point do
you think that that becomes like a
winning strategy or any sort of litmus
test you know in terms of at least
reducing the amount of I don't I mean in
all honesty like I think ok the I think
we are a ways off from that i I mean I
think that it's quite possible right I
agree I think it's quite possible that
we as a society may come to view the
meeting the eating of meat like in the
way that we view slavery now and I think
that's conceivable I suspect if that
happens it's it's going to be sort of
the reverse of what you're talking about
that climate change is going
to make the way that we eat meat
unsustainable and therefore our our
value system will change along with that
I mean the I just think that if climate
change happens in the way that I think
statistically speaking the odds are at
will right like I don't write you know
if I had to BET right now I would say
unlikely that we as a as a you know as a
planetary society are going to be able
to mitigate some of the worst impacts of
climate change I think it's going to
change you know our our agriculture and
our you know livestock practices
significantly and it's you know it's
just as conceivable to me that we will
be eating completely manufactured you
know meat
well yeah lab meat lab meat and I think
yeah and then I think as that happens
the moral the the the moral problems
with eating animals will increase I have
some thoughts on this is someone who was
vegan for more than 10 years vegetarian
for like 20 and I'm now like a
pescetarian I'm still mostly vegan but
you're never gonna convince people
solely on the animal rights tip right
because rights unless you believe
they're derived from our Creator right
and even then not everyone agrees on a
creator there's really no way to prove
that anything has rights right you
either believe animals what if we want
to trigger right-wingers I see it's a
great thing to do well yes sure but and
I would also like to get away from the
lifestyle politics aspect of it
but it's something that I struggle with
a lot because you know I think it is
kind of wrong to eat me and I you know I
do make some decisions in my daily life
that are kind of lifestyle politics see
but it only matters when you do things
on a mass structural scale so I would
say rather than focus on the moral
aspect or the lifestyle politics aspect
of it
just I think we should focus on the
practical aspects right because the
planet cannot sustain the current level
of meat production that is happening so
if we were to move to some sort of
socialist model where people have
control over production we would have to
agree on a mass scale to eat way way
less meat or to trance transition like
Sam said to like lab meat and meat
substitutes the I mean this is there
there's a little bit of a dilemma in
this but I think like you know step one
is we need an agricultural policy in
this country that does not promote I
mean really it's our subsidies of corn
they're really you know sort of at the
at the you know the sort of the first
building block of all this frankly the
the problem is is that it becomes
somewhat problematic in that you're
basically saying we're going to
basically price people out of eating
meat now and we're going I hate
arguments about it like oh you should
just make these consumer products more
expensive and then people won't buy them
only rich people will buy them like
that's not cool I mean that that is it
is problematic but it is I think like
you know the I don't know what the other
first step is right like that is you
know and I think our subsidy of corn was
designed specifically to bring this
about it was to make food throughout the
entire our our food system to make it
cheaper so that people would have more
money to spend on consumer goods this
was like an explicit endeavour by the
Commerce Secretary under Nixon and
it worked but that's why there's so much
corn filler essentially in all our food
and why cows you know that that's what
creates these factory farms the thing is
if you eliminate all the corn oats wheat
and soy and fed them to people that we
feed the animals you know there would be
no man woman or child that we grow
easily maybe maybe yes like that but but
the reality is is that that that corn
that is subsidized by the US government
is not for human consumption
it is it is relatively few we're growing
fuel for animals essentially to fatten
them up but yes the if you're gonna
subsidize stuff you could subsidize
other stuff now conceivably what could
happen right is you cut those subsidies
for a period of time you know wealthier
you know your average American can only
eat meat once maybe a week or something
like I mean like when I was a kid I
remember like the idea of you know
having steak more than like twice a
month was like a big deal you'd be
looking around like what's going on I
mean it was all like I think chicken at
that time or something or or fish maybe
I can't remember but it was like the
idea of steak was like a treat and you
know and this was I remember that as it
was you know around that time before
those subsidies started kicking in and
and you know we were the you know a
middle class upper my dad was a lawyer
up you know Worcester but nevertheless
and so I mean I think if you were to cut
back on those subsidies it might
increase the the the development of lab
meat and I don't know it's funny that
people think like lab meat is gross when
you're like well we're eating now came
from it's like lives in its own in
a slaughterhouse I think they're worried
about the estrogen and soy and not in
the cow's milk right exactly
appreciate the call Andrew
yeah thank you we got a democratize
control over production folks the
possible that people would vote to
destroy me up one day a week where we
don't eat steak in my house the thing
about the thing about meat being so
inexpensive that it might create some
problems is also true of automobiles ro
Kahana thing is that yeah let's play
that this is good I mean I you know like
again this is the other part of that
right we're going to see some there
seems to be a genuine commitment by the
Democrats across the board to to make
drug prices lower and to impose more
restrictions on it the problem is that
this is already becoming a trade-off for
Medicare for all
but here is Roca HANA making the same
argument we heard this last week I feel
like - right who's arguing Jose OC made
the same argument like you have
socialized the cost of development and
privatize the profits and basically
we're all sitting here and we're all
like angel investors except for you're
not giving us any returns my colleague
representative comer said earlier today
that he's concerned the government would
have more of a role in medicine and his
concern is that if government has more
of a role in medicine it may hurt as he
put it or innovation my colleague if he
cares about innovation should actually
be cheering for government to have a
bigger role I know you're familiar with
the study that shows that between 2010
and 2016 of every drug all 210 drugs
that were approved by the FDA were
funded by the NIH or public money would
it be fair to say that most of the
foundational research is being done with
public dollars and that I mean this is
just sort of common sense if you know
the people who go do their MD PhDs and
want to win Nobel prizes they tend to go
to university
not becoming General Counsel's or vice
presidents at pharmaceutical companies I
mean is that not your experience yes and
actually I think that's happening more
and more it used to be the case that a
lot of large pharmaceutical companies
had really big research arms but in
recent years a lot of those companies
have divested from those research arms
and instead are looking for the research
that's coming out of the academic
settings and I want to also bring back
to what other people have said earlier
in this hearing about the need for a
financial incentive and actually a lot
of these people at Harvard and at Johns
Hopkins you know a lot of these
scientists go to work every day and
their incentive is to try to cure
disease and to make people better and to
enter progress and to you know develop
the progress of science and you know
they're not thinking about whether or
not they can become a billionaire or
whether that's the incentive
what an odd concept right I mean like
members of Congress we don't you think
here most people would think they don't
want to make just a billion dollars
they're in it for the public good what
an odd concept that someone else may
have a similar view yeah I got some
questions about a lot of those Congress
people but in general I agree with that
that concept that he's talking about and
you know that came out of that same
hearing that asu's and it's a this is
the benefit of having the Democrats
control the house and having some
genuine lefties in the the Democratic
caucus ones that attract media attention
because these narratives are going to
keep getting out there in a way that we
haven't seen in decades all right I get
time for one more call and come from a
509 area code who's this where you
calling from Ronald Reagan
congratulations
oh thank Ron Reagan is named for the
time gift by the way a new daddy
oh you're welcome he's a dad twice over
- kids - yeah test us
I wanted to talk about politics real
quick sure I just think that before we
can have Medicare for all we need to
have all for Medicare okay and most
America is not great because of what
we're capable of but because of what
we're not incapable of and our
willingness to challenge notion risk
ideals and boldly projected future not
only for today but for tomorrow is
unparalleled not only in the world today
but in the history of civilization and
we can dream of a tomorrow that not only
matches our trajectory of yesterday but
our imaginations of the future because
we're not the u.s. we are us like that
one you're not getting a lot of sleep
right we don't need a green new deal we
need a green new ideal and I don't want
to live in the United States I want to
live in the United States you know the
problem I mean the problem I'm seeing is
that too many people define themselves
not as Americans but as American so
anyways I just wanted to challenge you
to find the strive inside to imagine
more than previously believed possible
by shattering paradigms and climbing
ladders of success okay I'll do that
and really don't look a gift horse in
the mouth look a mouth gift in the horse
don't write off more than we can chew I
got one for you off more than we can
bite
whatever great night you got can I give
you one Reagan what if is that it what
if instead of telling time we listen to
it anyways
ask not where is the beef instead be the
beef you wish to see in the world how
about this one for you America is great
because America is not bad he hung up
clearly he liked it alright folks that's
it for phone calls apologies but that's
a good one to end it on I know we had
people on there for over we had duds and
people over on for a half hour and a
half and I apologize tough stuff we got
will take six more Iams and then we'll
see you tonight 8:30 Kentucky Fried
comrade hey I'm our crew want to get big
thanks make my first time at NYC a blast
Michael show was okay too I guess there
was a story this weekend about
cryptocurrency change quadric where they
lost one hundred and ninety million
dollars worth of crypto fun bucks
because the owner died with the password
to the wallet I guess this is
competition kicking it yeah we saw that
story and I was gonna talk about it but
the guy apparently died because he had
colitis and was in in India trying to
set up an orphanage so let's not mock
that guy but I think maybe we be a
little bit classy about that but we
can't take a lesson about cryptocurrency
well I think on the next who's gonna
find a pathway
guffy be okay listen listen if you have
a password that really controls more
than I would say six hundred and fifty
dollars write it down put it in your
desk or maybe put it in a safety deposit
box and give your you know cousin a key
or something that's all I would say
themes Darwin Sam was listening to last
night's show it was great to see you
incidentally thanks Darwin and wanted to
mention that people interested in the
anti-semitism campaign
korban should find and watch the
forepart al Jazeera Doc called the lobby
it makes pretty clear what's happening
now has been in the works since before
Corbin's initial ascent in labor Mike
Huckabee Howard Schultz should put on a
Kangol hat and turn it backwards
whenever he mentions coming from the
projects right right Louis series
question why don't one or more of
out-of-office Democrats try to run
against Trump in the Republican
primaries at a minimum they might get
into a debate and bust his chops but
should Trump be forced out of office
before the election thing would be very
interesting I think if you do that why
also just think if you do that you're
giving the you know that would that
would get more people to rally around
him in some way all right two more black
Marxist what moral distinction to the M
R crew make between millionaires and
billionaires also as a Sanders supporter
him overshadowing Abrams is bad
well I think look I think when you start
getting up into the hundreds of millions
I think you also have a problem but
billions are obviously like just sort of
an easy slam dunk a billion is a lot
different than a million zillion is a
lot different than a million also I mean
we always have more arguments for stuff
but my primary argument is practical and
structural so in that sense I don't
differentiate between them because they
both got to go Sanders supporter him
overshadowing Abrams bad I will say this
I don't think that was his intent the
guy is run has done these for at least
three or four years since there were
three other people last year who did a
similar thing I do think though that
it's not as politically adept as it
could be if you're going if you know
that there is this narrative out there
this is a fairly unique thing to have a
the first african-american woman to to
give a direct reply to Trump I think
everyone knows the you know the dynamics
of the midterm elections and
and I think that yeah it was certainly
predictable um I just want to say I
don't think she will end up
overshadowing Stacey Abrams I think
she's gonna give a great response I act
I do think to be honest in terms of any
like the pre one by a calm low Camilo is
interesting so but this is just also the
nature of what it's gonna be from now on
it's just like everybody's gonna have
their hit and it makes sense that she's
doing a pre one it makes sense that
Bernie's doing his thing and I'm but I'm
primarily the person I am most excited
to hear from tonight is Stacey Abrams
both because I like her and I'm actually
really curious to see what direction she
goes in it's it's just more personality
garbage like oh it's her turn she
deserves the attention blah blah blah
like the more the merrier why can't like
wouldn't it be great if you got to watch
a good response from a Democrat and then
another good response from an
independent like this shut up there's a
there look it's it is there's a finite
value to this and certainly like III
it's not such a foreign thing to me I
mean like the idea of like there's a
there's a performative aspect to this
none of this is policy this is all just
the performance right and it's all the
the reason why she's given that platform
there is value in the platform it's not
just like oh she's just giving a speech
it's like this is going to be an
introduction to the the country and this
is going to be a way to bring her onto
the national stage the to you know to
deny the the there's no doubt in my mind
that there that people are being
opportunistic about this and trying to
make something out of it that it's not
but also to deny that there isn't that
there's like absolutely that it's
manufactured out a whole cloth like I
think in certain situations right there
are things that different people have to
be careful of
some people have pre-existing their
pre-existing perspectives that people
have it's called politics is what it is
I just feel like attention is not a
zero-sum game
in this instance and she and Bernie have
worked together before and they're only
gonna add to one another but what do I
know don't care
okay Josh from a joke was kind of funny
though I didn't I didn't it says I don't
have a login Josh from Houston my mom
recognized you when when I played Mr in
the car cuz she watches MSNBC but she
observed and I quote why does his voice
sound so much different than TV
tell us Sam why do you save your deep
sultry voice for primetime she also
thinks you're cute who well III don't
know why my voice sounds there it
doesn't sound different to me see that's
a key thing in me meanwhile three hours
later like well I think that there was a
policy well I think she's saying that my
voice is deeper on TV no I understand
tired a little faster your voice gets
deeper deeper yeah surprisingly I
noticed that way then I go higher in the
register that's what I yeah but I've
noticed sometimes because you do a
different voice a little you have to go
through more with Ring of Fire and for
some reason ring a fire I put on my
radio voice right so I see Walker so
tired of billionaires moving the
goalposts to claim their definition of
American dream for most of us it just
means having our hard work lead to a
modestly comfortable life indeed and the
final I M of the day well
maybe how's Howard Schultz going to
explain his prominent leading role in
the war on Christmas okay folks see you
tonight
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
