[Music]
this is pretty disturbing the I think
most people recall the story of Sandra
bland this was now I guess four years
ago that Sandra bland had been pulled
over in Texas she was I believe in route
to classes she was 28 years old she was
from Chicago I'm known excuse me she was
she had a new job and she was I think
just starting the job or just headed
there 28 years old from Chicago in South
Southeast Texas this is in 2015 she was
taken into custody for a traffic stop
three days later she was hanging in a
jail cell in what was officially ruled a
suicide this obviously was a flashpoint
one of them for black lives matter the
the trooper my understanding ended up
being charged just with with with with
lying but there was no charges he or he
made a false statement to a grand jury
during throughout the whole thing they
said the reason why he brought her in
was because he felt like she was he was
in jeopardy like you know a mortal
jeopardy or his safety was in jeopardy
this guy was charged but he was not
convicted the state trooper I think he
was or the law the cop and he was then I
believe ultimately banned from being a
cop but that was about it
there is a video that has now been
obtained by a local television station I
believe it was a local television
station that did some type of Freedom of
Information Act it was the TV station is
WFAA and or maybe they just did this
through investigating I'm not exactly
sure how they got the video but
apparently was the video on her phone
that the police and they really they
released the troopers dashcam video but
the the video that she recorded makes it
very very clear that he should have had
any reason to fear for his life here is
that video it's very short it's only 35
seconds clearly what happened is he's
like telling her to get out of the car
and at that point she realized like I'm
gonna videotape this and she starts the
video and you will hear him basically
pull his taser out claim that he's gonna
light her up and it is I mean he's aware
that it's a phone because he's like stop
recording so here is this video now why
am I being apprehended you're trying to
give me a chance way to failure why am I
being apprehended you just opened my car
door you just opened my car door so
you're gonna you threaten to drag me out
of my own car get out of the car and
then you're like you up
get up Wow now Wow get out of the car
well you know you're doing all of this
 over there right yeah yeah
let's take this to court let's do it for
a failure to signal be up for a failure
to signal off the phone my school get
I'm not on the phone I have a right to
ensure this is my property this is my
property
sorry put your phone down right now now
I guess this guy could claim like
somehow before that he field like he was
afraid for his safety but what's clear
is he did not pull that taser out
because he feared for his safety I mean
we can see the moment that the Taser
comes out and it's inspired not by her
doing anything that was threatening he
doesn't say drop the phone at that point
he doesn't say like he just says get out
of the car he was clearly not afraid for
his safety he was clearly mad that this
passenger of the car was questioning the
legitimacy of him pulling him or her
over and the family is calling for a
reopening of the investigation and it's
pretty hard not to wonder you know if
the cop is that aware that he was lying
big time if the police department was
aware that this evidence this video in
some way was problematic I don't see how
they don't how they don't reopen this
investigation and it's pretty shocking
it's pretty shocking that they've had
this for four years and didn't release
it I mean it is but also it isn't
because we know how things are in this
country and the cops have too much power
over regular people and we live in a
fairy white supremacist country still
well I think you know one of the things
that we heard at that time quite a bit
from members of this audience who were
in law enforcement
was that the biggest problem is with the
prosecutors because you're always going
to have cops who are inclined to abuse
their power and cops who are racist but
you need prosecutors to basically say
you can't get away with it
and this Wow I mean I I'm it is shocking
that they thought they could keep that
video from getting out
yeah and they should I mean just
societally speaking i think police
department should feel lucky that there
isn't more unrest because of this stuff
then there is absolutely there should be
more right there will be more speaking
