meanwhile however in Arizona Kristen
cinema it depends on which poll you look
at but Kristen cinema up in the NBC
Marist Poll on October 30th was at 50%
mcsalley at 44% I just saw another one
that shows a cinema down to mix alley by
a couple of points here is martha
mcsalley on she's on Sean Hannity's
program right and this radio program and
this gives you a sense of what is going
on I think this is indicative her her
plight I guess in regards to healthcare
is indicative of what we're seeing with
a lot of Republicans across the country
it is a function of Democrats running on
health care and here is martha mcsalley
on hannity show including building a
wall yes sir
would you vote to repeal obamacare the
vote that john mccain decided to change
his mind on well Sean I did vote to
repeal and replace Obamacare on that
House bill I'm getting my ass kicked for
it right now because of being
misconstrued by the Democrats they're
trying to you know invoke fear in people
without family man wait a minute
I know Arizona didn't how many Arizonans
lost their plans lost their doctors and
are paying infinitely higher rates
because of Obamacare yes
Obamacare is failed in Arizona there's
only one choice in fourteen of counties
which is no choice people lost their
health care coverage we have people
right now at pre-existing conditions who
can't get access to health insurance
because of the failures of Obamacare so
I worked hard to make sure that we were
moving away from that and towards
something that gives more choice for
people more flexibility at the state
level more free-market get the federal
government you know to not be doing this
one-size-fits-all top-down penalties
taxes and mandates it's failed and so we
you know I voted yes again I've got
millions of dollars attacking me right
now misconstruing that vote I voted to
protect people with pre-existing
conditions
that's good intentions but their
policies are wrong we need more
conservative power
please bring the cost down and provide
more options for people to get access to
insurance
all right martha mcsalley a really a
rockstar hero for the country she
sounded like a rockstar whining about
ads and telling obvious lies with
conservative word gibberish that's a box
what was impressive too was Sean Hannity
we just watched her being on air
disciplined by a talk radio show host
where is she
regretfully voted to cancel it and then
had to back off that and pretend that
the we all know what the vote was right
I mean we have 20 Republican states
right now suing the government to get
rid of pre-existing conditions
protections to get rid of the protection
for you if you're under 26 and being on
your parents plan to get rid of lifetime
and yearly caps to get rid of the
preventing recession and so they're
fighting an uphill battle they're you
know they're able to convince the people
in the fox world and you can hear you
know the comments I you know you read
all these things from voters or
interviews in lines at these rallies and
whatnot and they just regurgitate
word-for-word what they hear on
Republican media Fox online and they're
not gonna move from that but but broadly
speaking people know that they wanted to
replace it for seven years they voted 57
times was it to replace it repeal and
replace but they never came up with a
replacement and so Graham Cassidy which
was the bill they settled on at the end
would absolutely strip people protection
for people surprises that was a skinny
and efficient appeal and in addition to
slashing Medicaid in a way that not only
as I recall if I recall correctly not
only would it get rid of the expansion
under Obamacare but actually cut
Medicaid in the long term yes however at
the very least in terms of Medicaid
and this is you know like I say there
were two parts of the Affordable Care
Act there was three parts in total to
the Affordable Care Act well I guess
depends on how you count at four maybe
there was the patient protections which
we've just outlined those things that
insurance cannot do and still consider
itself to be insurance right I can sell
you a car doesn't have an engine
legally we can't call it a car and the
patient protections part of the ACA PPI
was was the success in my estimation the
expansion of Medicaid a you know wasn't
as mately it could be even more
successful talk about that in a moment
the affordable care part the affordable
part not so much that but that's really
because you needed the public option in
the original design of it right the
public option will help keep that price
down the public option would would maybe
the public option would have basically
presented in many states a
government-funded alternative that would
theoretically compete and because it
doesn't have the profit motive would
compete against P and that's hacker's
case Jacob hacker devil hacker was the
one who had to develop the plan right
all three said it would keep that that's
there's a price mechanism yes that was
right was that would have provided cost
controls on some level I mean really
what did what it was it was really
supposed to be a example of a of what
medic a pay in by in Medicare
essentially would look like in these
markets remember there's only 11 million
people in the country who are in by
Obama care there's only 11 million
people who buy insurance over the
exchanges there's another 11 million so
maybe I may be a million or two off on
one way the other who have expanded
Medicaid and then everybody else gets
the patient
protections in some measure of cost
control relative to what it was before
but it's controlling the rate of
increase not the actual cost and so in
terms of what it how it impacts people
terms of cost it really doesn't feel
like it has saved anybody any money and
to the extent that it has it only has
saved it really theoretically which you
know that and the theoretical savings in
a dime will get you a phone call if you
can find a payphone but with that said
there could be millions more who end up
with Medicaid gilliam in Florida is
looking good he's going to pull Bill
Nelson over the finish line it looks
like now none of this
please don't take anything I'm saying as
a license not the voter to get cocky
about any of this because none of it is
Kansas there's the possibility in Kansas
Cordray in Ohio is looking good those
are big ones I mean for obvious reasons
I mean Ohio because Ohio and I think you
know people always need to remember
I'm Kovac I mean when he's one of the
lead apartheid advocates of this country
and he really needs to be beat he needs
to be beat now that may get screwed up
by a by a guy named Orman who is a
Kansas businessman undoubtedly taking
votes from both of them probably more
from Kobach than I would imagine Kelley
but I don't know could be screwing up
could be more from Kelley he's not a
good influence I don't know Abrams in
Georgia she was up by one point in the
fox 5 atlanta opinion savvy i mean i
don't know the though she'll win that
race
camp doesn't steal it I mean definitely
there it there's no way to measure in
these polls ballot suppression this is
no way to measure it and so I was
learning purely on votes
the bottom line is what you should be
doing is using the show as a source of
entertainment as you walk around and
knock on people's doors right now or in
between the phone calls that you're
making on behalf of people this is you
know this is do-or-die time in terms of
these midterms you got one week this is
the time to do it fun things happen my
friend Jenna just posted the picture
she's in canvassing in Georgia and she
just was out with Michael B Jordan look
at things great things happen when you
canvass
