[Music]
he also traveled to the Great Barrier
Reef what did you find there well what I
found there was extremely heartbreaking
I I had been there for the first time
back in 1995 if I remember correctly and
and I was back there in 2017 the first
week of what ended up being a major
coral bleaching event it was the second
major event of that kind and in as many
years and so coral bleaching is what
happens when the water temperatures warm
up so much that it's at a temperature
that the corals don't can't survive in
so the beautiful algae on them that
gives them their brilliant colors they
that's a food source for them and as the
waters warm too much that becomes toxic
the coral bin ejects the algae so as not
to die but then it's starving to death
and it's bleached white and that's why
it's called coral bleaching and it if
the waters don't cool back down in time
the coral will die within three to three
to six weeks of that happening and
that's what's happening and so when I
was there the bleaching event was
occurring and huge swaths of the Great
Barrier Reef were bleaching out and
between the event that happened in 2017
I'm sorry 2016 and then the one in 2017
and then another one happened in 2018
over 50% of the reef that bleached out
had died during in just those three
years alone and then right now we have
you know record warm temperatures in
Australia again and this is videos are
the single largest coral structure on
the planet it's 1,400 miles long it's a
World Heritage Site and most scientists
there and many of the studies say that
the Great Barrier Reef is essentially in
terminal stage and it probably will not
be around for another ten years
so as you're traveling through
the I mean well lets I guess let's talk
about Stan Rushworth because at the end
of the day as it were you in many
respects you argue that we are we're
almost there like that that so much of
this has already baked into the cake
that really we need to figure out a way
in which to to mitigate this or I guess
I mean are we at like you know now the
plan should be how we going to adapt
what what what stage are we in this I do
believe that's where we are and you know
doing working on this book and seeing
all this firsthand and doing the
research I was confronted with dealing
with my grief around this and all the
the feelings with that on a regular
basis and so I ended up beating a Native
American elder named Stan Rushworth he's
Cherokee and we started talking and he
started selling a lot of stories but
that helped a whole lot so one of those
is that in western colonialist
mindset we we have rights what are my
rights right and but in indigenous
cultures they believe were born onto the
planet with two primary obligations one
is to serve and take care of the planet
the second is to serve and take care of
future generations and so no matter how
bleak things appear to be they do appear
bleak humans could even go extinct
there's been a lot of writing about this
we are in the sixth mass extinction but
we don't know for sure that that's going
to happen we do know that tremendous
change is baked into the system and
there's going to be a lot of suffering
that comes along with that but no matter
how bleak things appear if I get up each
day and I'm thinking about okay how can
i fulfill those two obligations to the
best of my ability to the planet to
future generations and I've got my work
cut out for me and I've got no shortage
of work to do and I I feel very very
strongly about doing that especially
when you look out you see these student
marches you see these kids walking out
of class
they get it they get it and so am I not
going to live my life to serve those
kids and be in the deepest solidarity
with them as possible and still do
everything I can to try to take care of
the parts of this planet that are still
intact and and these young kids that you
know they're born into a world that they
didn't create they're going to have to
live in it so what can we do to help
them I mean did you look at this stuff
do you think that there's there was
there a period of time where we could
have me I mean obviously you know I mean
on some level I wonder if human
limitations just from you know the
inability to see that far into the
future and understand our actions today
implicate the future made it ever
possible for us to to do what needed to
be done well it was back in the 80s when
NASA scientist James Hansen went before
Congress and sounded the alarm bell he
really at that point blew the whistle
and said look we are changing the
climate of the planet if we don't make
some dramatic shifts right now and how
we are living and certainly the economy
we are setting ourselves up for some big
trouble and in the not so distant future
and if we had listened to him then and
if the US had taken the lead as a
leading economic country and said look
we have to change this entire paradigm
globalized capitalism is literally
killing the planet and if we started
making the dramatic changes back then we
probably possibly could have averted
this but instead since then everything
has only accelerated at warp speed
capitalism has become fully globalized
and continues to be so and you know if
we if we're going to talk seriously
about mitigation the first thing we have
to talk about is an entirely new
economic paradigm ie not capitalism
because this rampant industrial scale
production of goods and consumerism that
is precisely what's killing the planet
in
and we should also say that the the
structure of capitalism also created a
lot of people who are doing their best
to make sure that we didn't listen to
people like James Hanson right I mean
well that's right I mean right yeah the
system is set up to perpetuate itself
and we have this fossil fuel funded
denialist meme in the country and that's
exactly warn of the system I mean it's
over there's over 97% consensus about
human-caused climate disruption and less
it's 2.9 percent that either are
doubtful about it or disbelieve it it's
it's you know there's been some
excellent journalism out very very easy
to find for a long time that shows that
the vast majority it does doubters or
deniers are fossil fuel funded right and
so are you in any way heartened by
something like the green New Deal I mean
it's still just a a proposal and is you
know obviously getting a huge amount of
pushback and it's almost absurd that has
taken this long for just that idea to be
to beYOU know to exist in some or at
least in this more sort of tangible form
as something that ultimately could be
you know a piece of legislation but does
that give you any encouragement well I
think it's a step in the right direction
I think it's it's you know anything is
better than nothing at this point and
and anything that could potentially
mitigate this even a little bit is a
worthy action but my critique of it is
it doesn't go nearly far enough and it
still doesn't call for a complete shift
of the entire economic paradigm because
it's it's still essentially promoting
economic growth and jobs etc when in
reality I think we need to be looking
squarely the fact that the time for D
growth is upon us and we can either
start doing it willingly or it's going
to be forced upon us and I think that's
that's really one of my major critiques
of the Green Deal but I don't want to be
too disparaging because that in other
things you know any
moving in a better direction than what
we're going now is important to do no
matter how fallible it is and in well I
think that's a good place of anywhere
Dar Jamel the end of ice bearing witness
and finding meaning in the path of
climate disruption thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
my pleasure thanks for having me on
