[Music]
seven seven eight area code who's this
where you calling from hey guys this is
Lance from Vancouver Canada Lance from
Vancouver what's on your mind Lance
well I got a funny story for you guys
I've run a comedy channel on YouTube we
had about seven thousand subscribers and
we made a bunch of videos that were you
know making fun of Joe Rogan and
PewDiePie and how they kind of have ties
to you know alt-right in the alternation
and stuff like that and then yesterday
on April Fool's YouTube shut our channel
down and we've got a lot of reason to
believe it was because of a pretty
coordinated oblate trolling attack on
the channel plaguing them for things
like scams and misuse Wow so wait so how
do they go about doing that so enough
people swarm your channel give you
negative reviews or something and that
sets off some type of algorithm for
YouTube is that the way it works right
so what what had happened before is we
made a video on Mark Rand Dazza which I
don't know if you guys know he's Alex
James's lawyer as well as a whole bunch
of Nazi signals and alright big thing
and he kind of makes them all hide
behind the banner of free speech and
stuff like that so we made a fake
commercial about mark grandes about him
being a scumbag lawyer and he's you know
the scumbag lawyer who will fight for
the not there's an almost kind of stuff
and that was the first video we ever put
up where it immediately got flagged as
hate speech from you know thousands of
users and we were very curious as to why
and once we looked into it we you know
we we talked to YouTube we talked to
Vimeo Vimeo actually shut her account
down once we put that video up and the
guy who wrote the original article for
The Huffington Post that we based our
whole comedy routine on contacted us and
said you know your video was was funny
was accurate there's no reason why a
popular figure in the public sphere
shouldn't you know be above reproach
shouldn't be allowed to be mock like
that and what they do is he's like I
have a strong suspicion that there's a
coordinated attack against these kind of
people where you know but go on 4chan
discord service stuff like that and they
flagged your videos for specific things
in our case we were flagged for trying
to scam people a lot of money how or
posting like external links stuff we've
never done so and so what is the idea do
you then
contact YouTube but of course there's no
I mean I I wouldn't even know how to
contact YouTube is there when they shut
you down do they they send you any type
of letter saying that there is any type
of yeah we got a generic letter that
basically said you know you have been
found in breach of certain guidelines
regarding scams and money and stuff like
that you guys don't even collect any
money you know yes you guys don't even
know
we've also we've never linked to
external sites who's never asked people
for money we have nothing to do with
that we were just making comedy videos
about alt right and and right-wing
figures did you tweet at YouTube we did
so yesterday actually was it was pretty
amazing we went from having a really
terrible day to this grass roots
explosion online happen there's been
thousands of people tweeting about it
you know YouTube is getting and
alternated with it right now so I mean
I'm really hope you have a sample
reformulate a formal response
sorry paid again do you have like a
sampling I want to retweet something
right now is it like a Twitter account
you want yeah you know yeah these guys
are good oh I've seen I've seen some
these guys are good yeah I can tweet to
you right now the gist of everything
that happened it's it's folks go to the
at the surf ser f surfs TV the surfs TV
ser F s TV well you know keep us updated
tweet at us and we will try and retweet
and
I would also suggest that you you get
folks to tweet to the Young Turks
because they they deal with people at
YouTube and and I don't know that they
can do anything but you know and I would
also definitely tweet too to Dave Rubin
because he's very sensitive to these
issues
I'm not being facetious I'm actually
going to do anything about it but you
the opportunity to live you know if
there's anybody who knows how to
complain to YouTube it seems to me that
Dave Rubin has mastered the art so and
if you want to set up you know or maybe
there's a real person that you know in
your head that works at YouTube if you
want to communicate today feel free to
do it as well so basically Dave keeps
getting trolled by some guy who claims
to be writing like with an inside source
in Silicon Valley oh yeah I do is this
bad but it's just so disturbing listen
so do you have anything that you want to
do other than just you know keep
retweeting your stuff to YouTube that's
all great we're actually not looking for
people to see you know take time out of
the day to do anything it's just we just
want to get the word out because you
know it's one of those things where I I
think it's a slippery slope I think if
it's something that is proven to be
effective especially as like some
methodology by the alt-right then it's
something they're gonna keep doing yeah
that's gonna be a strategy we'll see
again and again all right well I
appreciate your calling and good luck
with it and I think you're right thanks
for sharing that with us appreciate
community definitely Canadian could tell
that I'm not looking to get people to do
anything crazy with her day just we had
a bunch of Nazis just thrown off Auto
YouTube for no gosh darn reason but um
anyway started take up too much of your
time
