ladies and gentlemen I promised a
television host a well esteemed newsman
that I would deal with a problem that we
have here now you should know here at
the majority report we believe in free
speech that's why we allow Judy to come
on and and talk about such thing I'm
assuming my Dave Rubin clip will be
restored shortly
I was D platform then my speech was
violated we are weird that is still
going through an Administrative
Procedure but it has come to my
attention that let's go with the
original exchange shall we I'm at that
Matt lek super producer here at the
majority report has been going on
Twitter and saying mean things to the
two boorish Epstein who is the esteemed
commentator for Sinclair local owned
media so someone writes back to borscht
Epstein after borish says something you
do realize the First Amendment does not
guarantee you the right to question
Donald Trump or any president on the
White House grounds right I realize it's
lucrative to paint yourself as a martyr
but this is maleeh and misleading
application of the constitution this is
this is a response to Jim Acosta and
then someone responds kendall bill
russian guy weighs in
now boris of course was born in russia
but is an émigré to this country our
immigrant I should say tolerant left
using my nationality against me we came
here legally when I was 11 and I've been
a proud American citizen for almost
twenty years
nice try
we did this in the Lord rocks way
wait a second he's super young yeah but
wait he's been he was he's been here for
20 years
he still has a pretty thick accent we
run I'm tryin best that I'm best my
family came run criminal rackets
Brighton Beach like you okay so so he's
three years older than me that's crazy
that is crazy he's a nice kid and so
Michael J Fox was no man the time
it is it is inaccurate to call him a
Russian guy he is American obviously of
Russian heritage admit that's a bit
xenophobic it is a bit xenophobic
however my family came here and did
something for this came well it came to
my attention that Matlack responded with
quote not sending their best of course
is a quote of the president the United
States and one of the complaints that
the president has had that we have
immigrants coming and we're not getting
the best
cream-of-the-crop implying that boorish
is subpar in some way now it's arguable
it's definitely arguable I mean but
Boris responded with this that's funny
Matt now when you have any modicum of
achievement instead of just being a
snarky nobody on Twitter get back to me
now should someone owned for someone who
is so sensitive about being called
Russian or so sensitive about not
sending the best this is sort of like
the it seems to me to be an
inappropriate act right like you know
that you Matt you obviously your your
your achieved
you've literary hangovers growing at a
just record pace your literary looking
three blood you are the producer
five-time award-winning podcast and do
you have a degree don't you a couple of
them couple of of Education degrees
probably more than Boris probably to
undergrad in the Masters
I learned what I do from school of life
I also achieved a ratio here on this 57
replies to 35 likes for Boris that's
pretty yeah I got the same number of I
got about 7 followers out of it that's
the same as the amount of retweets that
this has gotten so there you go
Boris Epstein now what's really stunning
to me is that here Boris is on how many
stations across the country 30
television stations guys on television
look at how many followers he has also
was an advisor to the president United
States it's 33 thousand followers very
impressive that's not very much that's
less than Mindy we call them less than
Mindy for every call he's a heavy hitter
though that's not very much for a guy we
call Boris must run Epstein
exactly I mean here's the thing he's
forced on people in some ways I mean
this is like you know he's instead he's
a literal corporate plant but he's a
little extra flying presence on
television well I mean no one reads a
prompter better than that guy he's like
in a Koster in a way right I mean
honestly like he is goes he is force-fed
on to people he has been a I mean talk
about affirmative action it comes this
country this is like they need to fill a
quota of one boorish epstein that's
basically it doesn't say a lot for how
good competition is working in the
corporate media market is a very strange
like they honestly can't find somebody
more suited for television than Boris I
wonder what that deal is wonder like
what why they had to take Boris
president Trump will continue diplomacy
on conventional liberals will react but
the success will be in the puddings now
that we see you're not I'm making fun of
them for being Russian you're making
front of him for having an
unintelligible accent
and being a maybe a little flat-footed
on television yeah as where my materials
coming from as an example I work
regularly on my show with almost certain
Russian spy Ilona Mankowski so I have no
beef towards Russians right without and
more importantly what this means for the
American people exactly now now that
you've you've your tweed has been
highlighted on this program I wonder if
that constitutes a modicum of
achievement in his mind and maybe you
should get back to him I know I'm gonna
try to get back to him fairly often and
see just when is the time I should have
gotten in his eyes I mean a modicum of
achievement that's not should be that
much that's how much would you need for
a modicum like I actually consider this
getting retreated by him to be an
achievement yeah that in and of itself
all right folks we gonna take any find
success on different terms Boris I was
gonna say you should smoke a J and
remodel of achievements feels like like
what his you know it's gonna be on his
tombstone at this point there were many
mother Kim's I can tell you how did this
guy get to be special what a special
advisor to the president my father sold
Donald Trump a medallion a special
assistant to President Trump and how do
you lose that job so quickly
the cartels representing Phillip art it
was appearance of impropriety of
appearance of varieties but now I'm on
Sinclair most importantly what happens
for American people Supper vote changed
but sub we'll both go back president
Trump is going to continue to tell it as
is
