[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program independent journalist and
author of handbook for a post ro America
Rob and Marty Robin welcome to the show
you know I I'm fascinated by this
because I think I certainly after
Cavanagh but before that I think it was
a fairly safe assumption that we are
headed to a an era where if not directly
overturned roe v wade certainly the
right curtail certainly the right
curtailed in in such a matter as to be
effectively overturned just yeah I
suspect that's your belief the intention
is that Roe is going to be overturned in
which case we have at least fifteen
states that will make abortion
completely illegal we have about ten
states that will make abortion
completely legal and the rest will fall
in between but what's really interesting
right now is if you watch this surge of
so-called heartbeat bands that are
happening in states across the country
those are all failsafe bills and what
they are is they are an attempt to make
sure that if for some reason the Supreme
Court does not decide to overturn roe v
wade they can still essentially ban
abortion in their states what they're
playing on is this idea that the supreme
court could potentially say all right we
are going to keep abortion legal all
throughout the United States however
states can do whatever it is they want
to do as long as they do not officially
completely ban abortion so with that
happening that's why we're seeing
Mississippi um
Louisiana just introduced one now every
state in the south in the Gulf area and
then many of them through the Midwest
are all doing these heartbeat bans
knowing that if the Roe is upheld an
abortion stays legal they can still
basically ban it completely within their
states and I noticed that
today I guess or maybe it was yesterday
that a Alabama at least passed the House
of Representatives a bill making it a
crime for a doctor to perform an
abortion and I would imagine also we're
gonna see like trap laws right like
these the you know anything that makes
it just that much harder to from a
practical standpoint to provide an
abortion will be found to be the the
scrutiny in which a state's restriction
or regulations around it will be lowered
the scrutiny will be lowered and and and
therefore this is just going to be
chipped away I mean there this is almost
inevitable it's just really question of
like how blatant right and we're not
even two years out from the Supreme
Court saying that trap laws are not
constitutional we already had the ruling
and whole women's health the Heller said
in 2016 that said no you cannot use um
regulations or use extra scrutiny on
doctors in order to close abortion
clinics and make abortion inaccessible
despite this fact we've had the Fifth
Circuit in Louisiana say you know what I
think we should go ahead and revisit
that and so we're still waiting for this
new makeup of the Supreme Court to
decide whether they're going to uphold
whole women's health or if they're just
gonna toss that one aside as well and
and just to be clear the trap laws and
and the the Heller said I think was in
Texas and I can't remember if that was
the physicians needed admission rights
into a local hospital or but there's
other stuff to the effect of like
abortion clinics need to have 11-foot
ceilings or something to that right I
mean both of those were unconstitutional
however we've already seen other states
that are trying to go around it in other
directions one really good example is
that few people have noticed that in
Ohio more than half of the state's
clinics have closed over the last five
years and that has happened because what
they're doing is they have transfer
agreements which are essentially the
same thing as this admitting-privileges
law but the Board of Health is shutting
down
one one by one and because of that there
has been no scrutiny over this because
there is no point in which they say that
they've actually reached an undue burden
yet so because they do it one by one
they can keep going and then when the
court finally says okay that at one
Clinic was too many and now it's an
undue burden to the right to access an
abortion then they're basically as close
as they could be without going over okay
so now my understanding is that you you
think that the that an overturning of
Roe would be a good thing is that
relative to you know the the essentially
what we what we're we're seeing in Ohio
or these these sort of like when it's
chipped away it's hard you know there's
no headline of the day there's no it's
very hard to rally people around in Ohio
that one by one the health inspector is
shutting down these clinics and so it's
very difficult to sort of like make
people aware of how this right is being
taken away and inter alia gets it yeah
because one of the things that we've
already seen on the ground is especially
since but even before that it's been
nearly impossible for many communities
especially rural communities and
communities of color and communities of
low economic standing to be able to
access abortion as it is it's too
expensive
there's too many hoops to jump through
all of these things make it too hard for
people who need abortions to bevel to
get to them yet abortion is still legal
in all of these places what we need are
these really big wake-up calls that will
help make people who are less affected
by abortion restrictions understand that
this is a fight that they have to have
and be engaged with now and we saw that
immediately after Trump was elected when
millions of women came out not just in
DC but across the country and marched in
order to say no you are not gonna take
our rights away right now
and then we saw it again when people
came out when Cavanaugh was up for a
4:00 appointment and people were coming
into DC and they were being arrested
there was this huge
moment where everybody understood this
is a point of change I believe
personally that in a lot of cases it is
too hard for people to access abortion
it's why we are seeing so much of an
uptick of people trying to access it by
buying medication online people trying
to do things themselves people already
leaving States in order to get to other
states in order to get care should we
hit a point where row is officially
overturned and people understand okay
these states do not have any care
whatsoever and we're talking about not
just like a state here or a state there
but an entire swath of the country that
is going to have no care basically from
the edge of New Mexico all the way out
to Florida there will be no legal
abortion there when that happens it's
unavoidable when that happens it's a
rallying point and unfortunately I feel
like although activists right now are
doing so much good to try and make sure
that people are getting access there's
just only so much that can be done until
the people of privilege really recognize
that this is a problem and step up all
right well that's I mean that seems to
me to be a big dilemma to even in the
event that Roe is overturned or even in
the I think the worst case the worser
case as it were that it is de facto
overturned but in it but nominally not
overturned which is that you know when
we talk about Alabama when we talk about
Mississippi when we talk about Missouri
we talk about you know Louisiana we're
talking about like you say women who are
maybe living in poverty and don't have
access to this care when we talk about
the states where it will still be legal
we're talking about the bigger of the
wealthier states right where presumably
folks of privilege are our living and
will not have the same experience
because it won't be in the local news it
won't be in the the you know to the
extent that it's even in the national
news because the national media is
centered around those areas where
abortion will vary more than likely but
still be legal how does that word get
out I mean effectively now there's
couple of states like you say where
where abortion is almost effectively
unattainable but yet very few people are
conscious of that so what we do is make
sure that abortion becomes a much bigger
platform especially when we head into
the 2020 elections we need to make sure
that every candidate knows how to answer
questions about abortion one of the
things that is going to be probably the
biggest factor of 2020 is the fact that
the right has already decided that they
are going to define everything by
infanticide but they are going to only
talk about abortion as it comes to third
trimester abortions and they're going to
conflate everything that happens after a
first trimester should be a so-called
late term abortion which does not exist
our politicians need to know how to talk
about this they need to know how to talk
about abortion as a right fit belongs to
everyone and that isn't just something
that people unfortunately have to have
that it needs to be considered a part of
healthcare
it can't be divorced from it and in a
lot of ways it needs not just to be
clinic based because regardless of what
happens with abortion law as long as
abortion can only exist by going to an
abortion clinic rather than through
purchasing online doing teleMed as long
as it's restricted to just a clinic then
the Wrights knows that all they have to
do is close a clinic be it through
regulations through zoning through
violence if they can close a clinics and
they can cut off healthcare access we
need to be sure that everybody
understands that this is not just a
rural problem or not just a Midwest or a
South this is how they will close
clinics in New York this is how they
will close clinics in California they
will close clinics everywhere because
all it takes is to take them out one by
one and no one will have care we need to
expand access beyond just clinics okay I
want to circle back to that but let's
start with the question of late term
abortion and infanticide I am very
confident that that there's nobody who
supports the idea of of just deciding
after the
birth of a child that you can wrap it up
I think as Donald Trump said it the at a
rally the other night in Ohio wrap it up
and then decide to kill it killed the
baby that doesn't happen when we talk
about when people say late term abortion
we're talking about dilation and
extraction explain to us what that
process is and give us some numbers here
because I mean it seems to me that there
are and tell me if I'm wrong my
understanding is that there are third
trimester abortions that take place when
a mother maybe wasn't unable to get an
abortion earlier was unaware that she
was pregnant I mean they're extremely
rare but they do happen when a woman's
health is not necessarily implicated
just discuss that I mean what into the
to the extent that they exist so the
first thing that we have to talk about
is we have to straighten out all of our
terms there's no such thing as late term
abortion because term means 40 weeks and
so late term would be after 40 weeks so
that does not exist when we are talking
from a progressive standpoint and we use
the term late term abortion even though
we shouldn't be what we are usually
trying to reference is the idea of third
trimester abortion right the first thing
we have to understand is that when the
right is saying late term abortion they
are in fact referring to anything after
the first trimester so that is how
things are getting conflated and how
you're finding stories of then they'll
start to say okay well look at all these
statistics about abortions after 20
weeks and why people have them the thing
is 20 weeks is not viability 24 weeks is
the point in which science believes that
viability is a likelihood and viability
is the point in which with medical care
if there is a 50% chance of survival in
order to live outside the womb so we're
already talking on different levels of
definition and those have to be
straightened out when you get to a third
trimester abortion a third trimester
abortion is almost always going to be a
labor induction there is not
Diani dilation and evacuation because at
that point the fetus is too developed to
do that um so when when we are having a
third trimester abortion it's going to
be a labor induction that would be the
third trimester abortion would be the
only point in which yes it could be
possible that a fetus that is born at
that point would survive the abortion
but because of the way that the
procedure is done
fetal demise is always done first so
first there would be an injection to the
heart they would make sure that there
was no longer a heartbeat and they would
do all that before any sort of process
to open up the cervix and then induce
the labor so when we're looking at third
trimester abortions or Trebor shion's
after viability they are in that case
always going to be because of the help
of a pregnant person or because of a a
fetal anomaly we do not have elected
third trimester abortions it just
doesn't happen does it is it is it is it
illegal or are you saying it just
doesn't happen like you Roe you are
allowed to have abortion in the first
trimester you are allowed to have
abortion in the second trimester for
special indications and in the third
trimester it is only for the physical or
mental health of the person who is
carrying it mental health in almost all
circumstances refers to okay there's a
fetus with an anomaly it is more
detrimental to this person to be able to
be forced to carry to term and give
birth to this than to just go ahead and
end the pregnancy okay fair enough I
mean so that I mean that I think it's
important for people to really
understand because as you say there's a
lot of conflation of a lot of different
is they'll start talking about okay so
we're having late abortions and look
here are the stats it's say here are
these people 20 who have abortions after
20 weeks that say it's because they
couldn't access a clinic early enough or
say that it was because they didn't know
they were pregnant all of these other
things but they're talking about
statistics that aren't specifically for
the third trimester they're talking
about statistics that are any point
after the twenty twenty weeks and so
because of that they're complaining
second trimester third trimester
abortions which are done under
completely different circumstances and
laws and we should also add that these
abortions take place
essentially after consultation with a
doctor between a doctor and their
patient right I mean this is not like
you don't just go in and you know go
online and register for it like you're
going in for you know a I guess you know
I don't know a haircut or something and
you you are actually in consultation
particularly in the context of the third
trimester with a doctor to assess
whether your need for an abortion
crosses that threshold exactly and if we
want to talk specifically about the New
York abortion law which is where this
whole thing got started the thing that a
lot of people have lost track of is that
when New York passed their new abortion
law what they were doing is they were
allowing people who were in the third
trimester to be able to obtain abortions
with just one doctor saying that it was
okay to have an abortion because before
that it took three doctors saying that
it was okay to have an abortion
I'm sorry not New York in Virginia Bob
that they fought over and then it got
stalled because that was the only change
they were trying to make it wasn't even
hey you can have an elective third
trimester abortion it was you only need
to get one doctor to consent to this
abortion you don't need a full panel and
this whole idea of a panel approving an
abortion goes back to the days pre Roe
when people were trying to get abortions
and they were illegal and so you had to
go up to a hospital and give them the
entire story of why abortion mattered
for you but not for being legal for
everybody and so in a lot of ways it
just goes harkens back to this age of
it's not that we want to make sure that
abortion can't be had by any
but it's just we want to be able to pick
and choose whether we think that your
abortion is valid or not
okay so with that clarified let's talk
about what we're looking at in a and I
think it's it becomes it's a little bit
easier it's a little bit more
low-hanging the fruit as it were if you
know a Supreme Court says we're
overturning roe v wade end of story
forget about it completely thrown to the
state's anywhere that they want to ban
abortions totally they can do it that's
a little bit easier to imagine what
happens if it doesn't happen that way if
it's simply like it's okay for states to
pass trap laws that we're just not going
to give that measure of scrutiny what
what all right now we're getting into
the handbook a little bit what do we do
as as women what do we do as men in the
context of you know activists and also
people who need this health procedure
over and over again is the idea that we
are not in is nearly dire of straits as
we think that we are because there is a
system that is already out there and
already exists already networks people
together in order to make sure that
people can get from one state to another
state if a person needs abortion care
reproductive justice groups have been
doing this work on the ground for
decades already and they've been doing
it with little resources in their
communities helping their own
communities because they know them best
so what we have are abortion funds we
have practical support groups we have
clinic escorts we have all of these
people on the ground especially in low
access states who know how to get
somebody to a different clinic how to
put them up in a home how to drive them
to a different place these are all
places that exist and that as activists
if we are new to the movement and want
to do something to help we can find them
and plug our selves into already
existing work this is good because it
means that we do not have to spend the
resources to try and create an entire
it's already out there so as people who
are seeking out abortions the first
thing that we're going to need to do is
it's best to try and figure out ahead of
time some sort of plan um one of the
things that I recommend is that people
try to figure out where their nearest of
washing clinic is going to be what sort
of restrictions might be there how much
money they might need for an abortion
another thing that I tell a lot of
people right now to be completely honest
is it is not a bad idea to treat
medication abortion like you would
emergency contraception the biggest
problem with medication abortion at this
moment isn't that it's a health risk
because it's not um it's that it is a
legal risk and especially in states
where a person could be it could be
under investigation for having a
miscarriage that could be a problem for
you however the other big problem right
now is the fact that getting that
medication online can take a long time
the FDA is already cracking down on
places that are offering it in to people
in the United States those are closing
new ones have popped up but even still
we're seeing that it can take four to
six weeks for somebody to get medication
that orders it online and and you have
to trust it right I mean it's it's I
mean it's it I mean it yeah III think
these things are imminently trustable
and certainly but you don't know the
agency right you don't have that
presumption that you have you know
within the states I guess they're on
vetted information to make sure that so
they order pills themselves in order to
test the materials that come through see
how long things are gonna take make sure
that they do actually provide what they
say that they're going to provide plan C
is a group that does that online and
they have a report card and they update
the report card as different pharmacies
disappear and other pharmacies pop up
again it's still a long waiting period
and so I often tell people that if they
think that this might be something that
they will need to do down the road it
does not hurt to purchase pills off of a
vetted supplier on the plan C report
card
have that medication in case you need it
and if you do not somebody else might
need it and then you can get it to them
in a timely manner and you can purchase
another one yourself um I don't see any
reason why medication abortion should
not be treated in the same way as
emergency contraception in Canada now
they have decided that they no longer
need to have an ultrasound before a
person takes medication abortion um and
in the United States there is absolutely
no concern about medical risks other
than the fact that a person who might
have complications could feel insecure
about the idea of going in for follow-up
care um in which case they just need to
know that there is nothing that they
have taken that will show up in blood
work or urine work and that all they
need to say is I think I'm pregnant
I think I'm having a miscarriage and I'm
scared right and and let's talk just a
little bit about I think the you know
the the general preference for clinics
and surgical procedures in the context
of abortion because that is I mean it
just seems culturally that is what we're
used to I mean and and and what is I
mean what do we do about that yeah there
is a lot of benefits to having a vacuum
aspiration rather than a medication
abortion for one thing it's a lot easier
it's a it's not it's not more medically
unsafe if that makes sense
so it's if done in the clinic it's very
safe um it's quick and it's done and
there is a lot of there's a lot of
mental mental well-being to the fact of
knowing that you go into a clinic and
you come out and you're not pregnant
whereas with medication abortion you are
involved in in that abortion you it will
take a while it will be lots of blood it
will be a labor a miscarriage so yes
there is a huge advantage for a lot of
people in being able to access a clinic
and be able to get a safe vacuum
aspiration abortion and also medication
abortion does not work as well when a
person is in the second trimester so
that's another advantage we need to work
as hard
possible to keep our clinics open and
one of the things that we're seeing
right now that is actually really making
me feel a lot better than I if you would
talk to me six months ago are things
like Kansa the state of Kansas just
reaffirmed that the state constitution
it says there is a right to an abortion
so as long as the state is not capable
of amending their constitution Kansas
will have abortion regardless of what
happens
federally the same rights as long as
that is not amended Iowa will have the
right to an abortion we're seeing more
states that we did not expect to keep a
right to an abortion find that their
state constitutions have it is there a
is there a provision or I guess I mean
is there I wonder about the concept of
clinics that are designed specifically
to receive women who have begun a
medically induced abortion so that was
actually something that we saw happen
quite a bit in Texas when the clinic's
had all closed especially when the
clinics in the Rio Grande Valley had
closed El Paso ended up with a clinic
that was open solely for people who had
begun who were experiencing any sort of
miscarriage issue and one of the things
that I want to make really clear is the
fact that if a person is having a
miscarriage they do not have to go into
a hospital an abortion clinic can help
them as well and can probably do it much
more cheaply it's just it's not
something that people who are pregnant
with wanted pregnancies tend to think
about so um what would happen is that
yes people who were trying to induce on
their own would begin to bleed would get
concerned and would go into this clinic
in El Paso and they were able to finish
it up with a vacuum aspiration that's a
thing that could work and really should
be in existence especially if we hit a
post pro era one of the issues is that
this is also going to be something that
is gonna be highly highly scrutinized
because the right has already looked at
this idea of miscarriage management as
being a way of just hiding aboard
and they're already looking at
statistics of clinics that have and have
announced that they have done
miscarriage management and saying oh
well we don't believe that was actually
a miscarriage that was obviously just an
abortion that was being done in secret
and so when people hear about various
states and we've heard this over the
years of state legislators trying to
pass laws about you know the police you
need to file a report when you have a
miscarriage or something to that effect
with the police this is a way of
intimidating women from exercising this
option particularly of a medically
induced abortion all right well so let
me ask you this so two things one is
assuming that there is a either an
effective or a total overturning of roe
v wade what is the do you have a sense
of the legal strategy we may be decades
away before that legal strategy can be
in play at least on the Supreme Court
level but to the extent that there is
one or there is possibility is there a
legal strategy to come back after that a
and B what about the symbolic
implications of I mean roe v wade made a
material and practical difference in in
women's lives but it also was a
statement that women have rights over
you know sovereignty over their own body
that it also opened up a whole
understanding that reproductive rights
was also economic rights what what
supplants that so to go to your first
question what we would see happening
when roe is overturned is probably a
state-by-state level of counter to try
and get state constitutions to once more
include the right to an abortion what we
do need to think about though is Roe
being overturned is not an end game for
the rights what they want is a amendment
to the Constitution a person could amend
to the Federal Constitution so that
abortion is completely illegal all
across the country and once that happens
and that would be addressed in the same
way that we just saw in Ireland where
they overturned the Eighth Amendment and
then made abortion legal in the country
and made a right to an abortion legal
all throughout the entire country so the
right only well let me rephrase part of
the right is only just getting started
when it comes to the idea of a returning
roe v wade because what they really want
to do is make sure that there is a
complete and utter federal ban on
abortion all over the country the thing
is the I would say that the
anti-abortion extremists want this but
the Republicans in general do not and
they do not want this because abortion
is the easiest way for them to pick up
votes in an election um
abortion is the reason why Trump is
president right now an abortion quite
frankly will be the only reason that he
can get reelected if it happens and they
don't want to give up something so easy
they have so many people especially the
people who call themselves pro-life
democrats who will go out and vote
against absolutely every progressive
value that they believe in just as long
as they believe that they are saving
babies the right doesn't want to get rid
of that they don't want to lose that
low-hanging fruit so in my opinion
there's never gonna be a federal a
federal law that makes abortion
completely illegal okay and and then the
second part the the sort of the symbolic
nature of a federal understanding a
national understanding that a woman has
sovereignty over her own body
I mean inherently that's what the Equal
Rights Amendment is and that's something
that we still need to push and make
happen and that's something that they're
fighting for in Congress right now and
that's why the same people who are
opposing it right now are they changed
their language as to why they oppose it
but in general it's the religious right
and they do not like the ER a because it
it interferes with their belief that
traditional family values means that
there is a man who works in a woman who
stays home and takes care of the
children and that's how God
to this family to be the book is
handbook for a post ro America
Robin Marty thanks for talking to us
about it we will put a link at majority
dot F M this is I mean and you predict I
think that this is going to happen in
2021 after the election really and it it
really isn't implicated by the election
at this point there's five votes there
you know at least there could be you
know there could be six theoretically
and one of those five could be even a
younger more conservative maybe then
then even Clarence Thomas so this is
there's a certain inevitability to about
this then and really important to
address I appreciate your time today
