[Music]
Edward Snowden has a book out um he
should be pardoned you know some people
are extremely perfect like the guy went
to save himself personally frankly after
you know and if we can understand that
institutions make compromises and
nothing is black or white I think we can
certainly Accord that to somebody who at
enormous personal cost exposed the most
aggressive domestic spying program
imaginable or an extremely aggressive
one he has a book out he wants to come
to the United States and I believe here
he is on Democracy Now I just want to
show Edward Snowden solidarity this is
the reason I think although this
whistleblower is absolutely being
mistreated by this White House and this
White House is doing absolutely
everything they can to stop this person
from communicating what the public needs
to know to the public in the meaningful
way so that we can evaluate it I do not
think they will succeed because in this
case the White House is in isolation and
in a meaningful way in opposition to the
Congress that feels their prerogatives
are are being stepped on by this and
that's quite unusual and in the context
of whistleblowing typically we see all
three branches of government aligned
against the whistleblower in this case
because the at least alleged bad
behavior is so bright line clear and
because the White House is trying to
deny Congress access to the complaint
more so than the public itself I think
there are enough people who will go to
bat for whoever this person is that they
will end up all right and that's
actually a wonderful thing it's not
enough whistleblowers are today and will
remain unfortunately a vulnerable class
until we fix the broader system but the
most alarming part of what we see in the
treatment of this person today by the
White
is what every white house does they try
to make the conversation not about the
allegations they try to make the
conversation about the source and
allegations they want to talk about the
whistleblower rather than the
government's own wrongdoing and we need
to have access to the facts and we need
to hear this person out because it
doesn't matter the provenance of an
allegation what matters is the proof of
it is what this person is alleging to be
true in fact true and if it is what are
we going to do about it
yeah and that's an important point
obviously because a lot of the kind of
you know under the Trump administration
there's so much more sort the you know
whistleblowers or all of a sudden
praised by the certain part of the
political you know fields who were quite
willing to criminalize people just
exposing NSA wrongdoing before and of
course on the Trump side of the equation
let's look at Trump Trump and before
everybody gets all freaked out benefited
from WikiLeaks I have no comment beyond
that about anything else about it he
benefited from WikiLeaks he praised
WikiLeaks when he was running for
president then they unveiled the most
horrifying indictment against Julian
Assange which even though the Obama
administration was very bad on
journalism and whistleblowers they did
not go that far
they never unsealed an indictment
literally pressing charges against
somebody for doing investigative
journalism and you know of course
Chelsea Manning continues to be be
terrorized under those conditions as
well so you know Edward stone and I
think is pointing out there this sort of
there's the politics of whistleblowers
and then there's the fact that
whistleblowers whether they're exposing
corporate or governmental wrongdoing
needs to be protected period regardless
of where it falls politically
