here is the here is a different show
than ours apparently one that is now is
this on TV is this the HBO version of
the show or is this I don't know I don't
know if any of us follow that closely
enough to know yeah because I know they
have an HBO show and I wonder if this is
just there this just must be their
podcast set I used to listen for
impressions but I haven't the only thing
was a good signal here yeah all right so
let's uh this is sort of interesting
Kristin Gillibrand goes on to the wrong
show after announcing that she's going
to run for president in terms of what
she wants you know greater exposure and
whatnot and here is one of the hosts Jon
Favreau and not to be confused with Jon
Lovitz who's like the comedy guy right
yeah fabrics really funny
he's very funny and not to be confused
with the other Jon Favreau well I
thought was the same person for a long
time that other Jonathan guy was a guy
yeah knows where he played a film
director that's right yeah that guy I
took a trade for about I don't know 150
bucks one night poker what happened why
did you stop your run did he spray some
lavender no I just it was only we only
played one game played well um one night
anyways the Jon Favreau whose money I
did not take at a game of poker
interviewing senator Kirsten Gillibrand
and good for him for asking some rather
pointed questions at best you as
president would have a Democratic
majority in the house and a narrow
Senate majority certainly not sixty
votes right after this election so there
are no Senate Republicans in favor of
Medicare for all uh probably very few in
favor of a big program like green new
deal or something like that as president
would you push hopefully Majority Leader
Chuck Schumer to get rid of the
filibuster so you can pass something
like Medicare for all
a green new deal the filibuster is
mostly gone barely exists no I think
well yeah that's why I'm sort of
thinking like it barely exists it barely
exists there's pretty much a 51 vote
threshold now for everything right the
only part we had left in place was for
Supreme Court justices and Mitch just
took that away so I think it's useful to
bring people together and I don't mind
that you have to get 60 votes for
cloture because you're trying to get
people to a point where and that's a
that's a term of art from your listeners
it just means that you're done with
debate and so you will urge people to
have at least 60 votes to say we're done
with debate that's not an unreasonable
goal because if people don't feel like
you're done with debate and that they
haven't been heard enough maybe you
should debate a little more and I think
government only works when people who
care deeply stand up and fight for what
they believe in and I know how important
their voices are and so if you're not
able to get 60 votes on something it
just means you haven't worked hard
enough talking to enough people and
trying to listen to their concerns and
then coming up with a solution that they
can support so I'm not afraid of it one
way or the other you'd be oh you'd be
open to getting rid of it for something
big like Medicare I don't think we
should have gotten rid of it for the
Supreme Court justices because their
lifetime appointments and I do think you
should be able to earn at least 60 votes
yeah but you know think about it I you
know I can I believe I can work well
under either system because if you don't
have 60 votes yet it just means you
haven't done enough advocacy and you
need to work a lot harder alright I
gotta say look that that's bad that's
bad this is a question that US senators
have had to wrestle with for at least
five years right because there was a lot
of pressure on Harry Reid to get rid of
the filibuster because the Republicans
were stopping every judicial nomination
that Barack Obama had they were also not
Nam they were also not confirming the
exact
positions the cabinet positions they
refuse to do it they refused to do it
so Harry Reid got rid of the filibuster
he didn't do it alone he did it with the
Democrats but they get rid of the
filibuster for those things Mitch
McConnell got rid of the filibuster for
the Supreme Court and what remains is
the filibuster for legislation if and I
don't think that's unreasonable for a
senator to say like there needs to be
time for debate that is a very important
aspect people need to be heard I think
that's perfectly legitimate which is why
if that was your concern and it was your
closely-held thoughtful belief then you
would have a proposal that would be in
the forefront of your mind because one
of the biggest issues that you face in
the context of the process in the Senate
that would go something like this
I favor a plan where you you need 60
votes to shut down debate for the first
48 hours and after 48 hours
automatically you know it goes down to
50 you could do that you could do that
it is incredibly undemocratic the
filibuster the Senate is already a
horribly undemocratic institution okay
there is no reason with all due respect
to Matt why his senators from North
Dakota should have the same power as
senators from New York State
who have millions more people I had they
represent I'm cool though
and the filibuster is even more
undemocratic he stopped every every
attempt to move this country forward in
terms of progress that we have seen
undoubtedly we would get bad legislation
under a a Republican Senate but the fact
is the reason why people don't want to
get rid of the filibuster is to
fold it's either one there
institutionalists which is I mean a
really unreasonable thing to be in this
day and it exactly
it's absurd you cannot you cannot Harry
Reid just you know the other day had an
interview where he said basically the
Senate's gone the Senate is not what it
was it's not coming back
it's gone it's been blown up if you're a
Senate institutionalists you are it's
time for you to give up the ghost and
the other reason why you do that is
because you don't want the Senate to be
responsive to the people it's because
you do not want this desire for
medicare-for-all or for increased Social
Security payments or for free college
all these things pull very well you do
not want these things to happen and you
want to be able to rely on the other
party to give you the fig leaf so that
you can go back to your people and say
good and do it six lien Gillibrand case
I mean I think this is very appropriate
to remind everybody that a couple of
weeks ago she was making the final Wall
Street rounds before she announced I I
think you know I think especially in the
interim period before this started going
it was very useful to give people props
for going in the right direction and
embracing things like Medicare for all
but as the rubber hits the road and
that's a great example of the rubber
hitting the road right like you clearly
are not committed to this agenda you
clearly do not have the political
commitments be and incidentally even
like in terms of the fear of Republicans
theoretically if the Democrats actually
did implement an agenda like this this
might mean that the Democrats are in
control for a significantly long term
longer period of time well then if
people had health care people delivered
on these promises then there would be
without a doubt a different electoral
landscape not even making that argument
oh she's she's just she's not even she
doesn't even have her spin well plan let
me just say I mean I said this the other
day and maybe I should stipulate I know
there's some people that were not even
gonna cover probably who have gotten in
the race like I guess that Delaney guy
or something
of the mainline candidates of the people
would profile Gillibrand is the first
one that's out there's no there's no
reason for this candidacy well I think
she's gonna be out pretty quick she's
the one who's supposedly like pandering
to the left by pivoting on all these
issues to be more progressive and like
oh I guess we should say that that's
good and you know give her props for it
but yeah like Michael said uh this is
not sincere and she's really bad at it
if that's what she's trying to do if
she's trying to pander to progressives
right now like what is she doing she's
still talking about the Republican Party
like they're not a homicidal death cult
that needs to be checked every chance we
get I also think I also think if you're
going on pod save America and
your-your-your explain to people what
cloture is you're not quite aware of
where you are you're not yeah and that
and precise and that's like exactly
where you should be aware of where you
are cuz that's your home that to me
seems a clear that to me suggests maybe
not the best campaign you know
infrastructure that's another advantage
for Kamala Harris I think because one of
the things that I've noticed that I
actually think is really smart that she
did out of the gate is I think it's
actually I mean it goes without saying
it's not my politics at all but I think
she she grabbed medicare-for-all which i
think is gonna become I mean whether
they'll follow through in off as a
halter question but I think that's gonna
basically become like a democratic I
think that will be a litmus test but
she's everything else she went on was
like Clinton 1992 rebel class tax cuts
and that is so smart to say basically
like it's a combination of bio health
care and an appeal to a center-left
constituency that actually still really
exists and Christian Gillibrand has done
all of these moves to try to be like a
full progressive which she just is not
the case and it can crumble like that
right and one question because it's not
coherent to her at all
Harris is gonna have right all much more
adaptability yeah
Harris is definitely the one to beat at
this point I think and the one that the
establishment is going to rally behind
yeah it's I will just caution it's early
and who knows I only can tell you that
in 2015 we did that remember that Hayes
had that rotisserie candidate thing yes
and I got it was it was on air and it
was like a game because people were just
laughing like the Republicans are gonna
lose and this is way before Trump add to
the race and I had gotten just by the
you know picking off a board not even
seeing it was all hidden like I had Jeb
Bush Mitt Romney I can't remember what
two or three others it was like a
complete I was like I was I was so
convinced I was gonna win there was no
money involved but I felt like you know
I felt like there was in my own mind and
it obviously none of that worked out I
think I had Scott Walker - who was the
sleeper at the time it turns out
literally the sleeper if he ever for
some crazy and sane reason is able to
become president like Shawn and I are
actually going to move to Mexico because
his Union will be a thing of the past
Scott Walker I think he's done and thank
you guys totally said that's outside
yeah this is
