and while this is going on Donald Trump
was in rare form he received a question
let's do I guess the first one of just
the sort of pure sexism this would
probably be the time no I but I mean
obviously this and I can and I think
they're all the patriarchy he's enjoying
this this is Donald Trump speaking with
a reporter her name is cecilia Vega
Sicilia vega she's a reporter for ABC
News and he's gonna take her question at
a press conference at the Rose Garden
and has this to say okay question yeah
go ahead sure she's shocked that I
picked her know like in a state of shock
I'm not thinking that's okay I know
you're not thinking you never do
I'm sorry no go ahead go ahead he's so
 Wow Trump is so
no go ahead sweetie it's fine Jesus
Christ get a real tight look at the
patriarchy to here all right here's
here's uh here is uh oh my god I'm
forgetting let's come to Stevenage and
this is Steve Newton with his shades on
with the reaction Oh fangs what's he
doing this is like face he made when he
picked at old ladies god oh my god jerem
to a vampire vampires are cool who
compared him to vampire you said he had
fangs I mean I think fangs are are they
exclusive to vampires I don't know
usually you would know that whole
territory for our baby different kinds
of things I guess I know nothing Jamie's
are cryptids ooh yeah cryptozoologist
correspondent
