oh let's go with Rand Paul this coward
this dirty coward dirty coward who as
far as I can tell did not vote to
override president Trump's veto on the
war in Yemen right essentially you're
selling stuff to Saudi Arabia is that
right did did he vote to override the
arms sale and the veto I don't think he
actually did I don't think he was part
of that what a coward well a despicable
coward brave enough to hold up the 9/11
compensation fund because he want to
make sure that those guys actually have
cancer here he is talking about someone
this is a guy who had his whole life
basically handed to him on a platter
wealthy a doctor dad who made a lot of
money as a doctor and leading basically
a proto-fascist group of followers who
he would write emails to talking about
the Jews and the blacks and sometimes
that would happen he would just we
wouldn't read them carefully you know
how you often accidentally hire a racist
anti-semite and let them write emails in
your name and don't check their work
that happens to all of us we've done it
on this show multiple times it's
unbelievable
that's why we don't send emails anymore
because you can never be sure that the
person you're hiring isn't gonna write
stuff that's why we had to stop dick
Spencer from written the blog post
exactly dick Spencer had some
interesting ideas took the keys from him
but here's a guy who basically went I
don't know did he go to private school
probably smoking bongs in his college
dorms I got no problem with that I
certainly did that was more of like a
joint guy myself but nevertheless this
is a guy who's known the greatest
hardship he's ever had is when his
neighbor's beat him up and I'm sure that
was not painted that was painful sure it
was not fun but for now but for him to
well listen to his comments about ill
Ilhan Omar I'm in a town where we have a
lot of people who are
who have come some from Somalia some
from Bosnia I've never heard one of them
say that America is a terrible place or
be a unappreciative of our country most
of them are thankful I've met people who
have come here from behind the Iron
Curtain that got away from communism
they're some of the best Americans we
have because they really appreciate how
great our country is and then I hear
representative Omar say oh there is a
terrible place I'd love to be justice
and there's no justice here it's like
well she came here and we fed her we
clothed her she got welfare she got
school she got health care and then lo
mall she has the honor of actually
winning a seat in Congress and she says
we're a terrible country I think that's
about as ungrateful as you can get and
so while I'm not saying we forcibly send
her anywhere I'm willing to contribute
to buy her a ticket to go visit Somalia
and I think she could look and and maybe
learn a little bit about the disaster
that is Somalia that has no capitalism
has no god-given rights guaranteed in a
constitution and has about seven
different tribes had been fighting each
other for the last 40 years and then
maybe after she's visited Somalia for a
while she might come back and I
appreciate America does this guy not
know that she came from Somalia is he
not aware what she went through to get
here I mean it's stunning how desperate
this guy is how thirsty he is for an
appointment from Donald Trump how horrid
the voters his voters must be that this
is the type of stuff that they that he
thinks they expect to get reelected this
is garbage party garbage people
appealing to other garbage people not
all garbage people how's that hash tag I
also just would say well they're talking
about Republicans so my my emphasis on
making these distinctions doesn't stand
when you're talking about Republicans so
it may be not not all you're still
voting for these people at this point I
don't know what to tell you but the you
know I mean I won't even get into it but
there's always the
colonial and historical lesson of how a
place gets to be in the state it is
including even under the Bush
administration dem encouraging Ethiopia
to interfere in Somalia in a very
aggressive way and of course Somali has
its own failings and its own problems
that are self generated it's an
interdependent process but you know and
this just is if you watch Alon Omar and
what she says about the United States it
there's a incredible degree of optimism
and idealism there that these people
have no understanding of precisely
because they are a bunch of spoiled
bigoted trust fund babies and I I think
that that's actually another thing to
emphasize that if you look at the real
seriousness about the opportunity of
America that someone like ela Nomar puts
across it is in fact if you want to
frame it that way
profoundly more respectful of this
country and its possibility than
anything has ever come out of these
people's mouths way more respectful than
it deserves in my opinion I don't know
no horrible Rand Paul though is just on
a complete mission to suck up to Donald
Trump oh yeah I mean you want to talk
about the libertarian to alt-right
pipeline just watch this video and you
know you were talking to our libertarian
friend earlier and he was expressing you
know upset that so many libertarians
turned into Nazis or Nazis call
themselves libertarians you might want
to ask yourself why yeah exactly
