even Miller really blew his top in this
segment I mean this guy comes on to CNN
and his hair is on fire did you notice
that it's Luis hair right off his top
there you go thank you
Wow Steve Miller looks different in this
picture I'm trying to imagine what why
that was do we do we have the other one
just to compare it I mean this is Wow
he really that guy really Heights all
right put it back up there here is on
with Wolf Blitzer and you know this is
this is part of the failure of the
mainstream press you know I'm going way
back here
so maybe only some of the older people
in the audience will remember this but 7
weeks ago we were under massive threat
from a huge swarm of people in what was
known as a caravan that had second
homeowners in Minnesota worried that
their homes would be overrun by this
this Caravan and the reason why you may
not remember it's because the media has
not talked about the caravan since the
election and the reason why the caravan
got so huge was because the media would
only talk about the caravan and how
would they report I'm not saying you
don't report on what the president is
saying but this is how this is how you
cover the president talking about the
threat of the caravan in the same way
you cover the president talking about
the threat from the you know abominable
snowman you report that the president
says
we have to be worried about the
abominable snowman that's right
Obama did nothing about it as you know
there really is no such thing or we've
been through this before man was part of
Isis right and but but in in in pursuing
and going down and and making the
caravan a real thing now it is a real
thing but to make it a real to project
to portray it in any way as if it was a
real threat continues this false
narrative that we have some type of
crisis at the border there may be a
political crisis for Donald Trump
amongst his own base but this country
does not have a crisis of immigration
whatsoever
end of story period and this needs to be
articulated in situations where you have
the follically challenged Stephen Miller
appearing with anybody in this case wolf
blitzer on CN n in the same position as
we were a week ago the President had as
you know two years a
republican-controlled house and a
republican-controlled Senate to get this
done to build that border wall why did
he fail well the house is voting as we
speak on border security the fights only
just beginning as you know first of all
we're talking about successful border
security this president has been
unprecedented achievements in that area
but right now as we speak
we are rallying Republican lawmakers to
try and get a bill out of the house and
the fundamental issue here is whether or
not Democrats will supply votes to pass
border security or whether they're going
to push for open borders which equals
mammoth crime and math even if the
president's Americans don't care what
you're saying to our southern boy I
understand completely what you're saying
about the importance of border security
was it I imagine what Blitzer has done
some preparation for this but to the
extent that 300 Americans a week died
from a heroin overdose I'm not I'm not
sure about that statistic but even if I
stipulate it
the vast the vast majority of heroin
that comes across the border comes in
through legal means could I fit is
smuggled in through legal means through
legal points of entry I mean I got feet
Wolf Blitzer a question is the caravan
threat more or less real than what was
on your head yeah exactly that would
have been good
I understand completely what you're
saying about the importance of border
security and I understand what you're
saying about the border wall the
president spoke about it in virtually
every campaign speech as we know here's
the question why didn't he get the
border wall done during his first two
years in office with the Republican
majority in the House and a Republican
majority in the Senate well we actually
have completed or have underway a
hundred miles but the president's made
clear that he's not interested in
continuing to build the while mile one
mile one stretch at a time he wants to
build the wall by getting the money now
just like the president was very clear
about for the last year leading a
funding fight the right as we speak he
watch now as we speak there is a surge
of illegal immigration heading towards
our country that presents a national
crisis now right no no no not a year
from now right now in this president
took an oath like every lawmaker in
Congress did as Venga citizens of this
country how many more innocent people
have to die even pursuit of an agenda
calm down a minute we don't have to yell
these these are important policy issues
that were discussing the American people
have a right to know where are you and
the president the White House stands Wow
he really did blow his top there I like
a wolf Hathaway
not getting enough out of that joke I
like hell wolf like tears on fire he's
literally had members of his family
write pieces like I don't know where we
went wrong here or what happened or what
the hell is wrong with this kid he's
obviously incredibly disturbed and sick
and weird disgusting but like wolf has
none of the moral indignation but he
just has the length all right all right
look I totally understand preening for
your boss being completely craven media
performer however I
my own Craven role to do so that's right
and I'm gonna need you to calm down a
little bit
are you aware of what the score is
that's basically it
like how come how come your boss has not
tallied enough bodies in this situation
exactly your boss should be more than
happy you were able to hold on to some
red state seats and his base is
absolutely racially riled up and you got
a nice clean 15 seconds in there for the
highlight reel now I'm that that wolf is
asking him questions only about the
process why has your president failed
now this is like a bank shot I mean you
know wolf was gonna say like well when
he says why the president has failed
he's gonna have to admit that the policy
is not good for Republicans but why not
just goes directly at the premise of the
policy that the guy is advocating for
there is no crisis I don't think that
has been wolf Blitzer's brief I know and
this is the first well I mean what
circlip I've watched and probably five I
don't have a memory of being this earth
and Wolf Blitzer not being on CNN
reinforcing whatever the dominant
narrative was of anything well and his
only non seeing an experience that I
know of was that he literally worked at
AIPAC and Jerusalem Post I think yeah I
think these news guys are still
motivated and incentivized to be polite
and not challenged their interviewees
too much because that's how they do
things in the media and they want access
even when the one side is utterly insane
I guess I guess getting access to Steve
and Miller is is has some value but have
some self-respect known as a Candy Man
in front of three times or something
Matt just hit you know I think that you
just answered your own question
