[Music]
as you know steven crowder is you know
is still reeling from the revelations
that he got cold feet and was afraid to
debate me at the blanket con and and on
gavin mcginnises show and so different
celebrities have been weighing in on
this and I have to say that I really
appreciate I want to do the other one
not this one and I I just want to say I
really appreciate the support from some
of these people many of whom I don't
even know I've never met
scaramouche II I've met Jesse Lee
Peterson my understanding is that was
played the other day I
who else did we hear from who's the
first one that did it Tommy Lauren told
me Lauren I get to meet her Kevin Sorbo
I'm obviously familiar with his work
I've never met him
me and him went to the same College and
and I've never met the this woman here
but of course I've admired her work
since I was younger I can't remember
exactly when I first saw her work but I
give you Dee Williams who excuse me Oh
Dee Wallace sorry who is got a message
for steven crowder hi Steven this is Dee
Wallace I was the mom in et and your dad
is telling me that there are people
bullying you and calling you cold feet
because you won't mix it up with this
big kid named Sam and I just want you to
know I'm really proud of you for knowing
who you are and for really sticking to
what you believe about yourself and
what's right that's what he did he kept
his heart open and
you know sometimes when kids make fun of
us like that it's because they feel
really insecure within themselves so you
just keep knowing who you are and you
know that your daddies they're loving
you and protecting you and you follow
et's example and just keep your heart
open good luck baby you can do this
Steven phone home phone phone
Wow should we play shuffle up or should
we say that one for I mean I'm all for
doubling up okay and so far swarming and
I would say if we're doing this we might
as well play this card but she won again
no well I we got when we have too much
time but folks it wasn't just that it
was you know some people are sweeter
than others to Steven who has covered
this is not sweet this is a little bit
disturbing
why steven crowder would get a message
from Chris Hansen I don't know but it
does raise some questions about crowder
let's check in with Chris Hansen from To
Catch a Predator Chris Hansen here of
Hansen versus predators in To Catch a
Predator or maybe I should call you by
your secret screen name cold feet 69
doesn't want to debate Sam very
suspicious very present like maybe you
need these thermal socks here I used
them for catching my predators in the
cold weather anyway I was going through
some transcripts the other days Steven
then it appears that you're afraid to
debate Sam that's what I said and that's
what the transcripts
so I'm gonna need you to have a seat and
even if you need cue cards well your
daddy might be able to help you anyway
buck up Sonny Boy get ready for the
debate I think you can handle it and
remember I'll be watching all right take
care
yeah so there it is Stephen you're
getting both sort of like a an
encouragement and a slight threat
don't come dad come yeah good cop bad
cop situation but Stephen I hope I hope
you I mean I got to imagine that maybe
you'll be be looking at these and I just
want you to know that die in no way have
solicited any of these superstars to to
send these messages and these aren't all
your Hollywood pals no these are not all
my Hollywood pals man every day every
morning I wake up I just I'm so excited
to know which celebrity is gonna jump on
the bandwagon today there's a lot of
people you know I guess in the liberal
Hollywood elite that are that are really
looking to steven crowder to buck up a
little bit we'll see
