[Music]
let's say let's actually continue sort
of the tour here of kind of fascism in
action so in Brazil there's a reason
that I was covering this story there's a
reason we were talking about Lula as a
political prisoner there was a reason
why you know I did a little bit of
coverage and I understood that the that
Dilma was it was a coup that the
impeachment was totally illegitimate and
I understood that obviously this lava
jato process was a political one to D
legitimize the left from very early on
but I think so many of us bought very
easily into a moralistic narrative about
the Workers Party there was not nearly
enough left solidarity with Workers
Party in their leadership and there was
a very easy simplified narrative that
was exported to the United States which
fits within the easy simplified
narrative about the Democratic Party
which by the way is more true of
Democrats so in other words if Barack
Obama did a tenth of what Lula did for
Brazil we would all have to admit that
Barack Obama was the best president in
US history
even with his imperfections and so on so
the accomplishments were stunning
and also the prototype of imprisoning
your political opposition and the
weaponization of the judiciary as well
as the press you already see in action
against Corbin you see in some form
against Sanders and I wouldn't be so
sure that you wouldn't see even in this
more radical form that we've seen taken
to an extreme in Brazil so we had a
corruption team that was lionized in the
press from the New York Times to the
Jimmy Dore show that was a engine of
far-right politics Sergio Moro the head
of it is now bolson arroz justice
minister and these new reporting's which
are ongoing from the intercept have
given full evidence to what was always
analytically obvious which is that Lula
as a political prisoner lava jato is
corrupt right wing hacks
and now Sergio Moro is getting at least
the first fraction of a political
accounting although of course he's still
backed by fascist thugs president bolson
ro still close relationship with the
United States because again think of
whose interest this whole process is
played into this is a report from Brian
Mayer fort Ellis or again you got a read
and a Brazil wire and watch Brian Mayer
he's been right and clear about this
from the beginning this is him on
Mauro's appearing appearance in the
Brazilian Senate Justice Minister Sergio
Moro has answered questions in front of
the Senate's justice Commission in
relation to the lava jato probe this
hearing comes as news outlet the
intercept to revealed through leet
audios and messages that then judge
morrow allegedly worked in tandem with
the lava jato team to prevent former
President Luiz inácio Lula da Silva from
running in the 2018 presidential
election this included giving them
direct orders during Lula's trial while
he was a presiding judge during the
hearing Morris said he was the real
victim at his conversations was
illegally recorded and the real victim
and the real victim always the repeal
always the fascist response I'm the real
victim adding that a well-structured
criminal gang was behind it our
correspondent Brian Mayer has more from
Sao Paulo this morning Brazilian federal
Justice Minister Sergio Moro is
addressing the Senate he was called in
to testify in response to the
revelations published in the intercept
based on leaked social media
conversations that while he was leading
the operation car wash task force he and
his co-workers actively worked behind
the scenes to sabotage the 2018
presidential elections to jail former
President Luiz inácio Lula da Silva
with no evidence as they admit in these
conversations deliberately to prevent
him from winning the elections now he's
testifying in front of the Senate and
he's trying to play the victim card he's
saying that he's the victim of a crime
his his conversations were illegally
recorded and that this damages further
anti-corruption fighting this is my
Roenick claim from a man who spent five
years illegally recording conversations
from the president of Brazil from former
president Lula and from Lula's defense
team and leaking those things to the
media constantly so it's unclear now
whether these revelations will result in
Sergio Moore resigning from his Justice
Minister position but the fact is his
reputation is irreversibly damaged and
if he does stay on in this position it's
gonna be as a kind of lame duck that's
exactly right
remember that this guy was globally
lionized across the board and he's
nothing but again an authoritarian
right-wing hack whose sole purpose in in
de bolsa narrow position of this
authoritarian bigoted government his
first target was labor unions to apply
the same lawfare tactics to destroy and
D legitimize any sources of
working-class response to the austerity
and privatization programs of the BAL
scenario regime um and you know as Brian
said it's very important that he
regularly illegally wiretapped and
leaked conversations every step of the
way and that one of the key revelations
when Brian says that there was no
evidence not only was there no material
evidence of the Lula conviction four
days before they went to trial the lead
prosecutor was emailing other people
being like this is really weak and
basically doesn't even fall under our
purview
so he's a political prisoner join Bernie
Sanders and calling for freeing him now
and this story has big implications for
us both in terms of the parallels and
because of us support for these regimes
from the Justice Department from the
Department of Justice to the Wall Street
Journal editorial page
