[Music]
alright well let's uh since we're
talking about odious people what do you
do if you you can't rerun for for mayor
because you participated in
well you've crapped all over your
citizenry in many respects you have
participated possibly people seem to
think he did I don't know how he
couldn't have but it's possible I guess
that he was completely hoodwinked by
everything that went down with the
laQuan McDonald's case and if you were
the guy who said you know after the left
let's destroy all the outside agitation
during the Obama administration if you
were the weak kneed guy in the Obama
administration right like if they look
around the room they're like who's the
first guy to retreat from any any taking
any advantage of the destruction that
george w bush left in his wake the first
guy to retreat it was this beautiful eat
and and quaffing jackass if i knew the
risk you said and which is appropriate
and it measures up is oh i should tell
people because that's probably not an
official title rahm emanuel folks here
he is health care is a single issue that
democrats have a thirty five point
advantage on president Trump was trying
to do everything can to narrow that down
we've taken a position so far and the
candidates have through the process if
you have not about basically Medicare
for all which is we're going to
eliminate one hundred and fifty million
people's health care and we're gonna
provide health care for people that just
come over the border that is an
untenable position for the general
election as you know George I just biked
around Lake Michigan nearly a thousand
miles through Michigan and Wisconsin two
really important states
nobody had a diner ran at me and said
take my health care away
nobody this is this is reckless as it
relates to and you don't have to take
the position to what I wonder how many
people ran up to him at a diner just
said hey your nail or had no idea who
the hell he was they were lucky right
position to win the primary and you're
basically literally hindering yourself
for the general election to the
governor's point I mean it there is a
question about whether this comes down
to electability and this return to
stability that the Biden is running on
or whether voters want someone like
Warren who's going to shake up the whole
system and when you look at our poll
particularly it shows that that there is
this boost for Biden because of the
electability argument yeah first of all
there's so much with that exchange that
is just sort of stunning now of course
you know when when chris Christie is you
know when rahm emanuel supposedly
bringing up the left here on this panel
this is the the the conversation that
you're gonna get it is impossible to
find in this country in our history an
example of a presidential candidate who
came out with a proposal that was in any
way unpopular and wrote it to the White
House you cannot find it in history
except for the last presidential
election where just about every proposal
that Donald Trump offered had a net
negative perspective with polling so
just that frame itself is just absurd
and again and this is gonna be the theme
that we're gonna hear about or you're
gonna hear about because I'm gonna keep
talking about it for the next 12 months
the model that these old idiots are
using this idea that there are people
out there voters who lean Democrat and
lean Republican and sometimes they vote
Republican and sometimes they vote
Democrat that model is done surely you
can find those people there are some of
them but
is all about return on investment an
opportunity cost those two dynamics the
data shows that in purple districts in
2018 where people ran towards the center
as a Democrat they lost and the reason
is is because Republicans are getting
record-breaking turnout and so Democrats
need to have record-breaking turnout the
way to get record-breaking Democratic
turnout is not to cut against
polarization but to not worry about
polarization and provide things that
animate Democratic voters and lean
Democratic voters there are not voters
staying home saying I think this these
policies are too too far to the left at
least on the Democratic side they're
just saying does this impact me enough
and that could be materially and it
could be an emotional impact but they
are predisposed to everything that the
Democratic base is predisposed to they
just need to know that it's actually
going to impact them it needs to impact
them in some way so when you talk about
immigration how much does it motivate
the people there we know from data that
the the question of immigration in the
wake of the donald trump election the
left is far more energized by it than
they were during the obama
administration without a doubt it became
an issue in many ways in the same way
that what happened with right-wing
voters where everything became
racialized so too for the left
it's just that they now support these
these things in a in a in a more
polarized fashion you want to bring more
people out you hammer those things
you're not going to depress your
your turnout by supporting things that
marginal voters don't necessarily want
they're just waiting for things that are
going to push them out that are going to
motivate them to get up and electability
and shaking things up are not
diametrically opposed these are not
opposites you can you have to go all the
way back to 2016 to see that they're not
diametrically opposite cuz it turns out
that the guy who was promising to shake
things up one incidentally it's
obviously self selected audience but the
greatest applause line we had after
celebrating David Koch's death at our
live show in Chicago was definitely
roasting Rahm Emanuel yes people and a
lot of folks in Chicago beyond that room
if you look at polls right really hate
him right right and and which is why he
is up there representing Democrats in on
ABC television I mean it's sort of
fascinating I mean it's all you started
the Claire McCaskill the same it's
precise same exact tiny percent with the
voters of Chicago 80 percent with ABC
right brass right there it is and and
and we could probably spend six months
trying to delve into what what creates
that dynamic but that's just the reality
