[Music]
on on on climate change you have a
Republican Thomas Massie this happened
from two days ago John Kerry I guess was
testifying to the House on climate
change and Tom Massie a republic from
Kentucky I just please could be he's
questioning John Kerry how is it
possible that you got a Bachelor of Arts
in science political science here we go
secretary Kerry I want to read part of
your statement back to you instead of
convening a kangaroo court the president
might want to talk with the educated
adults he once trusted to fill his top
national security positions it sounds
like you're questioning the credentials
of president's advisors currently but I
don't think we should question your
credentials today isn't it true you have
a science degree from Yale what's that
Bachelor of Arts degree is it a
political science degree yes so how do
you get my Rattler of Arts into science
well it's liberal arts education and
degree it's a bachelor okay so it's not
really science so I think it's somewhat
appropriate that somebody with a pseudo
science degree is here pushing
pseudoscience in front of our committee
today
I want to ask you are you serious I mean
this is really let me risk happening
here you know what it is it is serious
you're calling the president's cabinet a
kangaroo court is that serious I'm not
calling this kind by the Calgary Court
I'm calling this committee that is
putting together a kangaroo committee
what are you saying that he doesn't have
educated adults there I don't know who
it has yet because the secret well you
said it in your test why would he have
to have a secret analysis of climate
change
ah I just think you know like it that's
pretty good
I love how John Kerry was just like am I
being put on here is this like it is
this a surprise it was a very effective
response from Kerry are you serious is
this a thing that's happening Harry
Harry lets himself do he's basically
really is just like a good patrician
dickwad and instead of like pretending
to be like respectful of his lessers he
should just do more of like seriously he
would have won yeah really
is that a joke because this is son my
grandkids like Sasha Baron Cohen I'm
sorry I mean like the he also had the
advantage of it being completely
bat-crap crazy where a congressman was
like you've got pseudoscience right like
you're a you've got a Bachelor of Arts
but it's in science like like how many
members of Congress are General in the
government have science degrees versus
say law degrees or do you think that any
the only thing that I can think in this
instance is that he knows what he's
saying is jibber gibberish but he also
knows that the the broad swaths of his
constituency and and the Republican
Party constituency looks upon the idea
of college and the idea of like just
saying the words Bachelor of Arts just
triggers their anti-intellectualism and
their sense of like what an elitist oh
yeah that up that's what I was
gonna say like they have a hatred of
elites which is defined by right-wing
populism as academics experts and people
who think they're smarter than you I'm
actually I'm looking for it heat no I
lost track of this but no he sent out
some type of like that wasn't what I
said sort of tweet try to find it
well I guess on Twitter you're backing
off it because you may have like a
different constituency on Twitter no I
do stuff like that all the time but I
feel like he would have done it a little
bit better that was I was not
well executed well you did not make fun
of me I made fun of you right as you you
were mocked sir I got I got burned
you girl comes off like you owned a nerd
yeah exactly you got burned and it
doesn't matter if Massie went to MIT
himself or whatever because he's
directing the hatred at the guy who
comes off like someone who thinks he's
fanned on that exchange Oh Mary Kerry
came off like he owed a nerd yes he has
glasses and Kerry was like what are you
talking about yeah that's I mean all
that all that really shows you is the
type of staff that Massey has working on
his prep because it's like how can we
own the sir no he look at he got a
political science degree they literally
just went to his Wikipedia page and look
for something to dunk on and then that's
deliver it alright a couple items we'll
get out of here Winnipeg Craig Sam on
last Friday's show someone sent in and I
am saying you could you would
collectively cover Canadian politics
more when we got another crack smoking
mayor it's like the listener is totally
unaware that Doug Ford the brother in
longtime political partner of the
crack-smoking now deceased former Mayor
Rob Ford is not the Premier of Ontario
but does expose crackers dougies Walker
out to have been a drug dealer earlier
in life and involved in as many
ludicrous controversies as his brother
yeah but he didn't say does he get high
in his own supply yeah that way you
won't make any money Salvatori
