[Music]
Alexandria Cascio Cortez was snubbed by
Nancy Pelosi who had some very just
boring dull comments about the green new
deal today which is you know or
yesterday everybody sports it but nobody
knows what it is well we're gonna
explain precisely not only what it is
but the contours around it with cain't
Aronoff who's one of the probably I
would say the leading journalist of this
in the game in a few minutes and the
leading politician of the green New Deal
is of course Alexandria Acacio Cortez
she was on did an extended interview
with NPR and Steve Inskeep that came out
just I believe either yesterday during
all things considered or today from
Morning Edition I'm not sure maybe I
should look at my sound sheet Morning
Edition so it came out today here she is
um she gets that you know you expect to
get the the you know how you gonna pay
for a question yadda yadda yadda but
this isn't really important actually
because not only does she parlay this
question but this is actually a broader
argument she gets into here which I know
that you know this is where the MMT
stuff is really important for how we
discuss policymaking this is AOC talking
about how to pay for a green new deal
you're talking about things that
obviously would cost a lot of money I
know you'd rather think of it as an
investment rather than a cost but it is
just certainly a lot of money you don't
specify where it's going to come from
other than saying it will all pay for
itself yeah I think the first thing that
we need to do is is kind of break the
mistaken idea that taxes pay for a
hundred percent of government
expenditure it's just not how government
expenditure works we can recoup costs
but oftentimes you look at for example
the GOP tax cut which I think was an
irresponsible use of government
expenditure but government projects are
often financed by a combination of taxes
deficit spending and other kinds of
investments you know bonds and well I
get that but deficit spending is
borrowing money that has to be paid back
eventually through taxes yeah and I
think it
well I think that is always the crux of
it so when we decide to to go into the
realm of deficit spending we have to do
so responsibly we ask is this an
investment or is this actually going to
pay for itself
so you're saying borrow the money make
the investment the economy will grow
we'll pay off the debt absolutely
because we're creating jobs although I
do have to say you mentioned the
Republican tax cut they said the same
thing about the tax cut let's do this
tax cut the economy will grow it's going
to be great it's going to pay for it so
hasn't turned out to be true at all
absolutely and I I think that that that
is an important distinction to make
because when they were advancing that
cause they had no evidence to say that
these things were going to happen but we
actually do have the evidence for every
one dollar invested in infrastructure we
get six dollars back okay so look she's
absolutely right on the merits there's
no doubt that particularly if you have
control of your own currency and
spending you can do these types of moves
and this is actually a Zack Carter
points out this is one of the things
that sort of broke the brains of the 90s
consensus because do several cycles now
there's been this oh my god the deficits
gonna come and we're gonna pay the price
there was a whole scam that threw off
the economic recovery after Wall Street
melted the economy in 2008 if people all
of a sudden saying we needed to go into
austerity in fact the United States had
a bit of a better recovery so in fact a
much better recovery than the European
Union because of even just an incredibly
modest stimulus package that the Obama
administration pushed through before
unfortunately acquiescing to austerity
themselves the eurozone sunk their whole
economy through austerity and of course
seriously practiced you know just
vicious cruelty on Greece so she's
absolutely right on the merits and also
in terms of the more narrow question yes
how many more jets can oligarchs buy
that has diminishing returns if you put
money into
normal people's pockets and create jobs
it has you know it has a stimulative
effect that's the stat on put in one get
six out now it's a and it's frankly a
boring annoying question that we already
sort of know the answer to but Frank
look whatever NPR is gonna ask that
question they're gonna ask how you pay
for it what is actually pretty
unacceptable journalistic malpractice is
to draw an equivalency between
Republicans talking about their top end
tax redistribution and us and investing
in energy infrastructure and generating
a new economy we know empirically those
two things are not comparable you could
even on four ins of comparison here you
could even just look at the results of
the Obama 2009 stimulus as well as the
Trump tax giveaway or the Bush tax
giveaway and you could see these things
had very different effects in terms of
bang for your buck so the fact that that
is still a talking point I don't think
you'll ever get to a point and frankly I
don't know that you should as much as I
might roll my eyes at the question I
think how are you gonna pay for it okay
that question will continue the
equivalency between investing in
transforming our energy infrastructure
and the massive social economic and
ecological benefits of that versus yet
another tax giveaway when even Bill
Clinton was sort of explaining that
trickle-down didn't work in the 90s
relative to Reagan and Bush tax cuts
that's ridiculous
like NPR just needs to update their
style guide on that also you don't we
don't ever we're never going to just pay
the debt never like no and nor should we
that would be it's really bad yeah but
it's it's somehow in implicit in a lot
of these questions like well someday
we're gonna need to you know bounce of
books on this is well not maybe not
there's not gonna be a day where the
president United States and the premier
of China sit down and the president
writes a check for
three trillion dollars from the Treasury
and they both were just like all right
it was nice doing business with you go
back to our respective spheres of
influence that's not how it works that's
not how the economy or international
relations works and also if you want to
talk about coming to a head with debt
I'm far less concerned about government
debt but you do need to for countries
that have been systemically exploited in
the global system through histories of
colonialism imperialism or through
austerity and abuse today so this could
be anywhere from Haiti to Ukraine
you need to have massive debt relief you
need to have a jubilee for the entire
African continent you need to have a
Jubilee for great parts of Latin America
Asia Eastern Europe and there also needs
to be mass public debt forgiveness as an
example in the form of student loans the
United States everybody student loans
the United States should be erased will
have huge economic benefit and of course
be the right thing to do so if you want
to have like a come to a head
conversation about debt I'm all for it
let's talk about all the debts we need
to erase and forgive so we don't have a
loanshark economy anymore
