[Music]
here is a guy Pete hagseth who was on
the short list apparently of Donald
Trump's to run the VA because of all his
experience on Fox and Friends and this
is an interesting perspective to take on
on vets
I wonder if they will if they will push
this like maybe they should do a special
on Fox about how those vets those greedy
greedy vets there are two hundred
billion dollar budget posit and I should
say this is Howard Schultz at his Fox
townhall talking about the VA our budget
and there are good people who are there
is probably a good example of a
government organization that is quite
bureaucratic and not meeting the needs
of post 9/11 veterans I will fix the VA
well that was Howard Schultz last night
at the Fox Town Hall in Kansas City
Missouri meanwhile most of the
Democratic candidates are running on
socialist ideas like Medicare for all
but with that route that system really
work in the United States American
veterans know the answer Fox and Friends
weekend co-hosts Army veteran Pete
hagseth Pete you were all over this
system - this is one of your passions
you were heartened to hear that no I
mean it was a good problem
identification right but then if you say
we're gonna fix it well there's a the
Devils in the details now this president
has gotten right from day one he has
said give veterans choice hold people
accountable make the system transparent
but but the reality is this is still
there was a Wall Street Journal op-ed
this week that started a lot of this
discussion you like socialism asked a
veteran the VA is veteran government
runs socialized medicine and we've
pumped billions into the system millions
and it hasn't made it better okay so
let's take a lousy for one second
throughout the history of the VA which
is actually actual socialized medicine
all the doctors are our employees our
our government employee
and not maybe not all but the vast
majority and they have one of the most
complicated tasks the VA as a whole is
like almost like like a completely
socialist country in some way in terms
of the support that it provides for vets
and really for the you know past couple
years there was a dip but the
favorability ratings or the you know
however you measure that the
satisfaction satisfaction levels were
we're higher for the VA than any other
system that we have and Pete hagseth he
he doesn't like how dependent people are
on it I guess
and it hasn't made it better okay so
let's take a look by the numbers how big
the VA is right now over close to four
hundred thousand full-time employees
over twelve hundred health care
facilities nine point eight million vets
using it in 2017 it is the second
largest department in federal government
and people when you look at posit now do
you think they're gonna come to the red
to the recognition like maybe we
shouldn't have so many wars yes I'm
looking at that number of vets and I'm
thinking that's a lot that's a lot of
veterans current forever strange I'm
guessing no and people when you look at
twelve-hundred health care facilities
you know one of the things that you have
talked about and the president has
talked about is he'd like to be able so
that somebody who's disabled or needs
care doesn't have to go to a facility
they just throw their local guy that's
exactly right get the best care anywhere
is the idea and it doesn't have to be a
VA facility the number of VA employees
has gone up by a hundred thousand in the
last ten years a hundred thousand more
employees you've got an entire hospital
network only seven million of 21 million
vets actually veterans in America
actually used the VA and even with all
that manpower increase and all that
money increase you're still waiting
longer and longer at the hospital
actually be seated wait times have not
improved wait times have not improved
this is what you get from government
more spending because it's a top-down
perspective here's the hospital you use
within this radius and you get this
doctor as opposed to empowering the
individual to say I've got a
issue dr. Jones down the street could
help me with it and the dollars could
follow me to get that it you're still
getting on lists to get of course see
their house their doctors fortunate look
at this veterans green a disability
compensation if you compare after World
War two 1.5 million veterans 2017 four
point five million better this is a
really complicated discussion this is
about disability ratings that which
isn't always necessarily tied to health
care but the idea that this the health
care you get is about service-connected
disabilities if you're if you go to war
and you get injured will take care of
you
so when you come home they try to rate
what how much how disabled you are and
that's how much care you get well I
could be rated for fifty percent right
now if I wanted to be I mean just to
have it totally and that's notice out
there I could do ear and ankle and knee
and back and report because it's
proportional for different injuries that
you have groups out there vets groups
mostly encourage vets to apply for every
government benefit they can ever get and
why they leave the service because well
why not right the government's giving it
out to me the ethos of service is I
served my country because I love my
country and I'm gonna come home and
start the next chapter of my life and if
I've got a chronic condition mental
physical otherwise the government better
be there for me but otherwise I don't
want to be dependent on I don't Agri
you've got oh yeah all those all those
all those vets who now one of the
reasons why that number could be higher
is that we don't have as many people
dead after conflicts we have more people
injured mm-hm
and the I mean there's there's a couple
of things to unpack in there but the VA
handles unique injuries that are a
function of war that you don't get in
any you know just in civilian life a and
B just this idea that somehow vets now
are just getting like our to grunt beard
yeah they're all they're coming home
from the war and getting on the gravy
train they just can't wait to get those
handouts when they're back from war I
mean they could always bring back trench
warfare that might cut down on the
number some I don't understand why they
don't more vets don't follow Pete hexxus
a path and leverage other vets
to score points on fox news that's
really I think I think they're not
risking the imagination of a new posture
like welfare mercenaries they are
they're only joining because they want
health care get him out of there
disloyal let's go to the phones you come
from a
