[Music]
all right let's play this Andrew yang
look if Andrew yang here's the thing
with Andrew yang in the same way that I
want people to stop effing around with
Warren or Gabbard I want you to stop I
think around what Andrew yang if you
claim to have a serious progressive
mission and get serious about the
unparalleled opportunity of a Sanders
campaign there's a lot of problems with
Andrew yang that I think we've
articulated on both platforms and
there's clearly a lot of emotion and a
lot of touchiness about that but I also
have no problem giving credit where
credit is due and if he is playing
constructive role with Trump voters then
that is an extremely positive thing I
think actually by the way also does make
a broader point that speaking to
people's material needs is a good thing
and you know it does not mean appeasing
people's garbage it does not mean dog
whistling to them I think to be I think
Andrew yang has in fact done some of
that in the past and I've criticized him
for that but the broader notion that you
have to speak to people across the
country including in people who are you
know demographics that are not
fashionable and media discourse right
now about their material needs is not
only it's the right thing to do
politically it's the right thing to do
historically it's the right thing to do
morally and it also is frankly the only
thing that we know of with any actual
efficacy on the ground with exiting
people from the worst and most toxic and
pernicious attitudes so to the extent
Andrew yang is doing that and he is
doing some of that happen to disagree
with his prescriptions and frame but he
is doing some of that props to him so
let's check this out
yes it was now I'm a Yankee crack but
only for Andrew yang I'm only here on
the Democratic side to vote for Andrew
game
I would not give you two cents for an
establishment Democrat to be honest we
that's just my opinion but Andrew yang
makes so much sense when Andrew yang
talks you actually hear the solutions to
the problems that got Donald Trump
elected you know we all want to Donald
Trump to go in and we all wanted him to
drain the swamp we wanted him to be that
larger-than-life
outsider WWE Superstar you know he was
on WWE at one point in time doing little
bits with Vince McMahon we all wanted
him to be that guy the outsider but he's
actually just the insider you know and
the country's only gotten more and more
divided and then when you hear somebody
talk like Andrew yang and he says you
know what guys it's not immigration
it's automation and you think holy cow
you know what
at McDonald's guess what I don't even
have to talk to anybody they bring me my
food to the table I don't have to talk
to anybody you're going to Walmart one
person is man in 20 registers because
they're all self checkout its automation
that's taking away our jobs here in
America that's why Donald Trump won the
Rust Belt he went in like gangbusters
and he was like hey we're gonna bring
all the jobs back guess what
y'all we can't bring the jobs back
because the robots are taking them
there's no bringing them back so what we
got to do is we got to get ahead of the
curve and Andrew Yang is the only one
that's talking about it that's over here
what would you do with a thousand
dollars a month how to change your life
you know we've this is great
I mean look I would make this guy some
time correspondent on T MBS but I just
think like the bottom line is that and
the only thing that needs to be taken
from that conversation really is the
talking about people's material needs is
a really good thing and I and I have
some you know and appealing to people
outside of the traditional base of the
Democratic Party without a doubt but I
think it's very important to
disaggregate you know there was one
discourse that happened after 2016
that really placed an emphasis on
so-called economic anxiety and then it
was
there was this big counter reaction to
talk about the racial and xenophobic
motivations of the Trump base and you
know to me it's just I mean first of all
there's some there's some just really
obvious things and a little bit of
nuance in the conversation one that's
obvious is that we already know and have
known if you know anything about modern
political history that the Republican
base to the extent there is an organic
constituency it is driven by various
forms of white identity politics and
that is a problem it is toxic and it has
been that way since these voting blocks
left the Democratic Party because LBJ
pushed through civil rights now there's
different variations Nixon did it
differently Reagan did it differently
the Gingrich Republicans did it
differently but it's all the same
through-line
and it's and it's all the same white
ethno state or white identity politics
right but then there's this other
dynamic right now that on like a
literary on an on a narrative structural
level is very problematic like I you
know I think like people aren't dying of
whiteness they're dying of obesity and
opioids and their racism and their
attachment to white identity politics is
undermining and destroying their ability
to deal with their problems 100% but I
don't like the idea of the language but
like there's actual things that are
literally killing people and I have some
trouble with the tendency of that
language construction and I also can see
that there is a long American history
primarily identified on the right but
actually perfected ironically by
neoliberal Democrats like Bill Clinton
of blaming the poor discourse and
blaming the working discourse now we're
very aware because it's almost always
deployed towards people of color of how
fundamentally racist that discourse is
but if you look at the other counter
narrative or counter trend which
actually started with charles murray
charles murray wrote a book called
falling behind I believe losing ground
losing grounds where and charles murray
of course is the the but the bell curve
is an extraordinarily bigoted book but
the argument the structure of the bell
curve
what's really going on there is there's
nothing we can do about poverty period
because people are cognitively limited
so let's get rid of the welfare state
that's like the that was actually that's
the structure of that book and the
racism and the classism falls into that
and the G key and the IQ stuff and all
of that and he wrote a book called
losing ground where he's basically said
now because of deindustrialization and
because of economic trends are
generating these same problems in white
ethnic communities right because it
never was about intelligence or culture
or all of this nonsense that people
lectured and sermonize the poor about
and racialized race science I'm poor
whites - no he just had to flip it and
make it cultural but he did do a
cultural he did do a cultural now I was
and that's why there's a big
conservative trend now and it's and it's
been it's been exemplified over the last
several years of oh my god look at these
dumb poor white people and that's
actually the violence sorry Jamie Vance
exactly JT Vance there you go precisely
JT Vance is the big pop culture
representation of it and it's funny
because Donald Trump indulges some of
these people in his rhetoric and then
the Republican elites including ones
with indistinguishable policies from
from Trump they're they're bigoted
they're anti-immigrant all of this stuff
but they have nothing but disdain and
contempt for these people and now you
see liberals who want to argue against
universal program starting to replicate
some of their own history stuck things
are essential nothing changes nothing
moves on much more deserving targets but
they should be aware that the narrative
structure is the same the narrative
structure of there's a self-contained
culture that isn't interacting with
history or economics and it can't shift
because of people's personal pathologies
that's a problematic standpoint for any
kind of politics and it's antithetical
to a materialist than just this one and
it's fascinating to me frankly that if
Andrew yang and I've say this again at
times he's appeased these people in ways
that I've I mean I don't have to I mean
you can look up the videos I've
critiqued them much to the freakout and
the sugar
his people but more broadly than that if
you have a guy who is relentlessly
talking about you know the cost to
people's economic lives who is a person
of color and frankly that's not an
irrelevant thing in this context and you
know who at the end of the day is
offering something that really will not
solve the problem but it's it's uh
that's getting through the people that
should really be a lesson uh for a lot
of folks yeah exactly that's why he's a
more a better candidate than say Kamala
or some of the other people in the
candidate he was beating her in
California he's beating her in
California well I mean look what it what
the the nobody and I think the problem
is is that you know this professional
class coalition of the Democrats I mean
that's what the Democratic elites Bank
on right we can we have the socially
tolerant oligarchs then we have
professional class people that identify
with the oligarchs and then we can get a
sweep of endangered communities from
white supremacy and homophobia and
transphobia because we're not as bad and
then that will be a 51% coalition and
then we'll limp through for another four
years of maybe some modest social gains
and I really say maybe because I
actually think like the social gains
under Obama to his credit those are
unique I don't know that there's a lot
of social gains under a Bill Clinton
presidency in some ways there was but in
other ways he reinforced on a policy but
also discursive level some of the most
regressive attitudes and ideas about
poverty and race and co-signed in such a
way that even talking about poverty as
like a resource issue was utterly
marginalized in the eighties in the
nineties excuse me he also did Don't Ask
Don't Tell at a time when gay rights who
are starting to come to the forefront of
our culture and our consciousness and
just go back to yang I mean the $12,000
is I understand why that a lot of people
see it and they're like I really like
that but really it's about you need to
democratize and dica modify the economy
and $12,000 is not going to be enough to
save you from structural economic issues
like automation
not even close absolutely absolutely I
also think we need to look ahead to the
general here because Andrew yang is not
going to be the nominee for the
Democratic Party is not I I don't like
to make too many predictions but I feel
like I can make that one and that guy
that they're talking to he specifically
names the Democratic establishment as
the thing he doesn't like and I
absolutely believe that that guy could
be convinced to vote for Bernie Sanders
and he could not be convinced to vote
for any of the other candidates and look
you need swing voters I feel like a lot
is made of a relatively small number of
people who make up swing voters in
places like the Rust Belt but they are
electorally significant and we're gonna
need to pick up a lot of those if we
want to redraw the electoral map and
beat Donald Trump absolutely another
really important thing to consider in
the race here and one of the reason I
support Bernie sander oh I just want to
say related to what Jamie said crystal
balls commentary on the hill this
morning is really smart about how the
and you know on a campaign level the
Sanders campaign needs get significantly
more aggressive and they need to embrace
the fact that there isn't there just
isn't gonna be a piece with the
so-called establishment right like it
just isn't gonna exist they're going to
destroy and do everything they can to
destroy Sanders and everything he
represents and he needs to respond in
kind fully to get the benefit of really
revealing that you know look the worst
forces in the society are arrayed
against him I mean the anti endorsement
list was one of the most smart things
campaign did I think that this is
