all right let's I don't want to get too
too much into the weeds with this this
next clip but here is Dave Rubin nice
little palate cleanser exactly he is he
is interviewing Maxime Bernier who is a
a Quebec in a Quebec Ian that's French
for max boot that's right he's Quebec Oy
Gary Johnson yeah okay
so and who you know I don't know I
watched some videos of him like he's if
the proud boys are up in Canada he's
spoken to him lazy that type of guy
right I'm speaking I mean like he's not
funny not yeah but I'm not speaking
literally but he's been he's been
dancing around stuff like this and so
here is on Dave Rubens show and Dave
Rubin you know it's been tough for him
lately he's he's he's dabbling he's
becoming anti-abortion curious and so
he's going through a transformation
right now because he's starting to
realize like maybe it's not even worth
it for me pretend anymore no we have our
sovereignty as a country and we must be
able to select our immigrants and so
that's coming from the UN so yes you're
right I don't like the UN I think that
they're not so efficient and and I'm
clear about that yeah do you guys have a
strain you know we're seeing in Europe
now where there's nationalist parties
that there does seem to be a strain of
sort of ethno-nationalism or something
that has a different racial kind of
connotation to it do you guys have a
strain as bad in Canada because it seems
to me that I think what's happening and
we're starting to see it here is that if
if the good liberals and and the good
libertarians and the people who just
want to live in let live if they don't
start making some advances against this
radical left ISM that's moving there's
going to be a lot of people that break
in a bad way yeah and in a weird way I
wouldn't be able to blame
and I thought no racism in yeah yeah but
they would be left with no alternative
as they watch their country yeah crumble
do you have any of that no we don't and
it's a good news but at the end that's
why we must have this discussion yeah
and and I don't fear to have the
discussion for now for those of you who
are not watching those who are not
watching you're just listening sam
harris is naked and they're licking his
body lying on the coffee table there
licking his body I just want to say I've
always liked the Reuben report set
because it's like a poly guys living
room a single basketball and a glass
cubby yeah you picture him and he's he's
about to pull out a go set and care for
a game yes and oriental this is so so
yeah I I don't even know Dave Rubin here
is like basically saying that the the
sjw's are forcing us to have to be ethno
nationalists in this country I guess and
if we don't have the conversation of
course it'll get worse which is you know
also in a weird way he can't blame them
if they do that yeah he can't I mean he
doesn't have any race in minutes heart
but he can't blame them because they
have no choice but to become white ethno
nationalists like the soft bigotry of
low expectations that is now starting to
like I can think of personally like you
know a bunch of sort of like different
choice they their main service are
different choices you might make other
you know sort of centrist you know
middle-aged crotchety white guys who are
annoyed by like I don't know dumb SJW
whatever and they've they've managed
there they're like you just have not
embraced white nationalism I think is
the path of least resistance to their
like minor irritations about internet
controversies that don't matter or
whatever it is that they like nobody
went and like Dave Rubin it was like you
family guys not doing gay jokes anymore
I'm gonna need to join the National
Front yeah exactly I have no choice
because anything is fueling the fires of
reaction worldwide it's this neoliberal
status quo that cannot continue it's not
radical left ism maybe but I still think
that those folks have a different option
even I'm not talking about individual
psychology I'm talking about world
systems yeah I Dave seems to be talking
about the individual psychology I'm
talking about a manual other Steve weird
systems I don't even think that is an
sgw I mean I don't think that you know
turning towards a white supremacy as an
option is is is necessarily systemic
this this system is already set up that
way I'm talking about it on a totally
different level than him oh well yes I
should hope so too my own horn or
anything you answer that - well that I
mean I just think though what's
interesting is like okay there's the
abortion move in the last couple of days
and now there's this I feel like and
they're gonna launch their own
alternative platform and I feel like the
abortion thing makes me think there's
some type of partnership of Glenn Beck
and works but that also is good like
there and then that but that also I feel
like that Levin and back maybe you're
gonna see like they might be letting go
of the like you know I'm okay was a
great guy that's what I'm talking about
they might have to make their own
transition to like I did some research
that guy was actually a communist
it's not inconceivable but I mean look
they have no choice and they have no
other choice because that's what
what's-her-name ayaan Hirsi Ali also
said about Anders Breivik on her CEO Lee
literally said in 2011 I believe that
idris brave ik I don't I mean this is
already way out of but he who went and
committed some of the greatest
atrocities in our modern era right he's
shot like 50 kids point-blank after
bombing city centre after drama
to draw emergency there right and his
closing statement in his trial and I'd
this isn't this isn't polemical it reads
like a Breitbart column I mean just
objectively and so anion her CEO Lee's
big contribution to that conversation
was like well I understand because
Muslims sjw's won't let us talk about
Mo's right you couldn't say what he
needed to say in Norway so he needed to
leave his mom's house and commit mass
murder well I'm sorry that Reuben is
struggling so much with this if he was
willing to talk to us maybe we could
educate him well it's funny that you say
that because look this can get very
juvenile stuff like this this this I
mean this is this is a little bit
juvenile all right the apparently
somebody set up a GoFundMe to create a
billboard to mock dave rubin that he
will not debate me and it's going to go
up in LA apparently they only needed a
thousand dollars they drop the amount
that they did and they're just gonna
leave it up there it's gonna be on a
digital billboard for an extended period
of time and I think that comes in the in
the there's six updates now of course
this is juvenile it's also juvenile to
say hey let's look at this clip from T
YT the other night that where they said
we're you know just almost randomly this
came up that's also juvenile and let me
show you how juvenile it's like this
yeah exactly
to some degree I have and it's hard some
days but some degree sympathy for Dave
Rubin no 0 yeah because look he knows he
knows do you see what I'm saying like he
knows he's us he sold out and and so
like I feel like Ben Shapiro sleeps
perfectly fine at night he's like I'm
doing a great thing this is whatever I'm
because I said right it's like you know
like he keeps denying that he's a fraud
mm-hmm but like everyone knows watch
your show and pretend like they like it
they know you're a fraud you know like
like the fact that he's so scared
to have a conversation with Sam cedar I
loved watching it someone paid $100 in
YouTube super chat right to ask Dave
Rubin about Sam cedar like why won't you
debate him and he purposely phrased the
question to make it seem as though he's
on Dave Rubin side like calling Sam
cedar and SJW and so he's reading this
comment out live and then once he starts
realizing that this is a question about
debating Sam cedar he went don't worry
about those guys don't worry about those
like oh so by the way if you guys are
new you don't know Dave used to work
here and then he went and like became a
right-winger pretending to be a classic
liberal whatever the that means
right by to some degree large degree by
the Koch brothers foundations etc and
it's just it's a little revolting to
look at and and we know for a fact that
he goes and lies about his time here
right why he left and what his
experience was really what the what
happened at all right yeah yeah but says
he I we know for a fact that he knows
that he's lying that's what makes me
think east probably has a little trouble
sleeping at night but maybe I'm wrong
about that yeah I don't know I think I
sleep like a baby
but I have no conscience or intellect
it's pretty weird now obviously that
type of stuff is really immature and
beneath us
and but I love being immature with Ana
and talking about Dave Rubin we do that
every single time we do a segment
together well I mean it's interesting I
mean but the serious point about it is
of course that it's very hard for Dave I
would imagine to maintain his core brand
proposition of being someone who wants
to expand the
the playing field for conversations and
welcomes you know people who are from
the alt-right and people who deny things
like date rape on to his show but he
won't have someone on who will challenge
some of his assertions about liberalism
and and whatnot and so that's very
difficult for Dave and so he has to
transition to other things and so in
that way I want to say I'm sincerely
sympathetic because it would be very
very difficult I think to try and change
your brand midstream in front of tens of
thousands of people he's saying that
Dave is gonna become a white nationalist
so he doesn't have to debate you I'm not
saying that but I'm saying that he's
going to probably have to find something
new because who could possibly believe
his whole branding of this of being
intellectually curious under these
circumstances
honestly like they're not gonna be I'm
sure that Barry Weiss who is that New
York Times writer wrote about I'm sure
now she regrets on some level that she
was so hoodwinked by this right so
that's all I'm saying who's really
getting hoodwinked by Dave Rubin I
imagine she must have been because she
was but she's right golden retriever
well well everything look a lot of
people like golden retrievers I had a
