so Jeff in the in the last segment you
basically outlined the potential avenues
that the Democrats specifically Richard
Neil chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee has to access Donald
Trump's taxes you cited the bill that
was signed earlier this week in New York
State by Andrew Cuomo that would allow
the the House Ways and Means Committee
to seek the taxes of any citizen in New
York State Richard Neal already
announced almost moments after the bill
was signed that they wouldn't be looking
for Donald Trump's taxes meanwhile they
filed a suit it's been a long time
coming and they don't seem to be so far
too aggressive in the pursuit of getting
that suit resolved any time soon you
it's your belief that Nancy Pelosi has
been trying to slow walk impeachment if
if not completely stifle it in favor of
an agenda that would be popular to
everyone and and I I think I agree that
that's a strategy it's hard to see the
outlines of this and it's certainly not
working I think there was a story of
maybe a week or two ago where Cheri
Bustos the chair of the Democratic
campaign committee basically was
bemoaning the fact that no one seems to
be paying attention to all the
legislation they've passed how do you
make that assessment and then say we
should continue doing this yeah I think
that Cheri Bustos is and Nancy Pelosi's
and Steny Hoyer zuv the world believed
that if it were not for those wacky
lefties everyone in the country would be
obsessing on legislation that has no
chance of getting a vote from Mitch
McConnell and I think that reflects
complete misunderstanding of modern
communications and the difficulty that
anyone has of dictating an agenda that
is boring
to the American people and American
people have a lot of opportunity to
choose what
pay attention to and mainstream
assignment editors keep track of what
generates clicks and what generates
views and I very much support the
eminent vote on increasing the minimum
wage to fifteen dollars over the next
several years and would support it
passing and expect it's going to
generate very little attention because
no one thinks Mitch McConnell is going
to allow a vote on it and I think Bustos
blames and the others blame that on AOC
and alon omar and others on the left and
i think that is a crazy view of modern
communications and its really worrisome
that the person who's in charge of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee has so little understanding of
communications being as communications a
key way you know candidates do or do not
win elections so you would want to put
in charge of a campaign committee
someone who understands politics and
campaigns
unfortunately the Democrats have failed
to do so so it's really worrisome it's
really worrisome and I mean I guess on
some level I I wonder if this isn't a I
mean I I wonder if it's a function of
simply getting your chops in a different
era or what it doesn't even strike me as
ideological of their inability to sort
of sense the what is working like you
say it's a communication failure and
that transcends it seems to me ideology
we just have about four or five minutes
left here but I want you to just outline
what you see at least if there was
vigorous oversight which there also
seems to be fairly anemic if there were
hearings how would we dovetail that into
a 2020 strategy so I look at the House
Education and Labor Committee and the
House Ways and Means Committee as two of
the paradigm attic examples of
committees that have incredibly
interesting oversight issues before them
which could be very relevant to kitchen
table issues the House Education and
Labor Committee has supervision of the
Education Department which if you might
recall is led by Betsy DeVos one of the
most visible corrupt incompetent and
representative members of the Trump
administration
you know she's a fail daughter she's
just ascended upward due to great wealth
and familial connections and she's
incompetent and she's also letting loose
all sorts of the worst corporate
grifters in this country from the
for-profit College industry and the
student loan servicers these are just
genuinely malevolent forces who sucked
dry earnest students financial
livelihoods and they do so in a matter
that is replete with fraud and abuse the
idea that someone could give over an
entire department of the federal
government to these grifters and not be
held to account
there's been no oversight of Betsy DeVos
on these issues or of the many lobbyists
and former grifters who she is people
turn to our department with that that
would make for dynamic television there
be clips showed all over if you were to
make Betsy DeVos answer for her sins and
the committee has not done that
similarly the Ways and Means Committee
has the ability not only to go after
Trump's tax returns but to go after the
tax returns of all the many companies
which are not paying taxes which is a
type of issue that you know forces the
tax burden down to the middle-class and
working-class Americans and that's the
type of thing that gets people's blood
boiling it's a kitchen table issue the
House Ways and Means Committee also has
oversight over Medicare so there and you
know aspects of pharmaceutical companies
so we could be seeing really populist
really kitchen-table personal economic
focused oversight which connected the
corruption of the Trump administration
senior officials to the real lives of
Americans across the country and that
would be populist it would be good
economics and it would be good politics
and I don't know why it's not occurring
I mean all right I'm gonna ask you to we
only get about 90 seconds I mean can you
speculate I mean it seems to me if Nancy
Pelosi's agenda was to have no
impeachment going after Betsy DeVos and
going after other people would at least
give you some
like we're doing something I mean why
does the Democratic leadership think
that the population is so allergic to
the idea of finding out about scandal I
mean this is III just I just don't
understand
there was this phrase that I started
noting with alarm in way 2018 that I
really had never encountered before
in many years of following politics
called oversight overreach the notion
that Democrats would be punished that
they did too much oversight and that
makes no sense to me especially since
the paradigm attic example was a
sensibly Benghazi which not only never
hurt the Republicans it arguably led to
their victory by way of the email server
scandal and Jim Comey but they just got
in their mind the notion that if they
spent too much time trying to figure out
what people like Betsy DeVos we're doing
on behalf of the for-profit lunk
companies people would say that they're
just getting in the way of the Trump
administration and the Trump would
become some sort of sympathetic victim
and I think that that is a
miscalculation of epic proportions but
as so far as we can tell it's 80% that
miscalculation and 20% not wanting to go
after potential donors but maybe more 95
percent miscalculation it's really hard
to understand it certainly is but Jeff
Hauser I appreciate your taking the time
to to try and help us understand it
always a pleasure
