[Music]
no on on MSNBC Amon Molly Dean who is a
an anchor MSNBC good morning anchor I
think right oh man maybe they had him on
a show that was a little bit later and
[Music]
here is a some pushback I guess from the
reporter at the White House saying that
basically a mullah Dean was not being
you know fair to fair to Donald Trump
according to former homeland security
secretary it's done or designed to
promote immigrant self-sufficiency to
ensure that they are not likely to
become burdens on American taxpayers we
know the preference the president has
always had a preference for immigrants
from Nordic countries he's made that
very clear as opposed to some of the
other disadvantaged countries walk us
through the impact on these immigrants
why now well I don't know that the
president has expressed a preference for
Nordic countries that is something where
I'm not sure where you're getting that
from but he has certainly said that he
has an emphasis on merit-based
immigration and he has talked about that
extensively so that matches up to his
rhetoric
now here's the thing he has explicitly
said that he has explicitly said that
let's put that up we'll put that up but
what's disturbing about this is put out
do we have the actual the actual quote
where he was talking about reporting
that showed that Donald Trump sorry here
we go we'll put this up but Donald Trump
has said back in during the his
country rant
that he prefers immigrants from places
like Norway now what is a Norway's yeah
here it is
NBC news source NBC news source same
we're talking about an NBC correspondent
who's not aware of this whose job it is
to cover the president NBC news source
as Durban explained how to deal with
impact from Haiti Trump said Haiti why
do we want people from Haiti here
then they got Africa why do we want
these people from s whole countries here
we should have more people from places
like Norway Nordic is a decent reduction
of places like Norway oh I would yes or
if you dig in deeper to what is really
like Norway I don't know what Donald
Trump met maybe like people are used to
being around more like you know
evergreen trees or something like that
and oh here we go so well Dean says well
people can forget these comments and she
said of course I know the reference well
this is an extra two million this is to
somebody else okay our memory yeah yeah
of course I know the reference but
there's a difference between something
said in private meeting in today's
actual public policy proposal I try and
speak stick to what we can report and
not a flip comment well this is reported
by NBC News so is she
see this is what's so problematic about
about these people okay this is why this
is I mean this is so problematic because
a she doesn't know this in the first
place and that's a big problem because
you cannot report on what's going on
with immigration today if you don't know
the context in which this is offered you
cannot report on it but it's not only
does she not
have the ability to report she's pushing
back on it and clearly did not know the
reference so she lied but let's just
assume I'm gonna give her the benefit of
doubt she didn't lie of course I know
the reference she says but she is making
a distinction between what's made in
private and what the actual public
policy first of all that is incoherent
that that that sentiment that statement
but something said in a private meeting
in today's actual public policy proposal
that doesn't even make sense to put
those things at all she's just covering
her ass with jargon total see why it
couldn't have been that private if that
quote got out I try to stick on what we
can report and not a flip comment she
obviously doesn't remember the reference
because she would realize it was an NBC
report
she works for NBC so is she not aware of
the way her company does reporting like
this arrogance coupled with the
ignorance is so dangerous when we are
told time and time again that journalism
is supposedly the the last protection we
have against fascism or authoritarianism
or democracy dies in the darkness and
blah blah blah I really hope not
this is this is really problematic and
the idea that she doesn't have the
ability to step up and go I stand
corrected
as if her Authority emanates from like
III just this is it's bad it's really
bad and and then a mamola dean
apparently saw that same tweet and it
what's the timing there she says that a
1050
on Mullen Dean sees it and he retweets
it at at 10:48 so what's that right
after yeah she saw it right after and
maybe she did or did not see that now
mola Dean tries to be gracious and says
there's been so many disparaging
comments made about immigrants by this
presidents understand about why this
would have been forgotten um but she she
won't have it
cuz he's on ms I was being more
professional than you are any money you
know I was saying the other day when
criticizing the mainstream media and how
they covered the Trump administration I
don't need them to become like anti
Trump propagandists I just want them to
get a clue and have some sense of
history but this even goes beyond that
like this isn't history this is very
recent hi yes like they have a
responsibility to know who they're
covering and if you forget it
fine well not fine that's a problem like
you better go back and start hitting the
books but to come out and then be
arrogant about it and start to do the
same gaslighting that this
administration is doing and essentially
rely on the the authority the imprimatur
you have as a journalist like I'm a real
journalist I don't report on these
things she didn't even click the link to
find out that it was NBC News that's
such a total embarrassment it's
unbelievable
like this is the type of thing where
it's like hey we're gonna put you on the
sidelines for a little bit it's okay to
admit when you've made a mistake would
say if you're a journalist it's almost
required as part of the job yeah yep
