[Music]
so let's talk about Joe Biden this guy
we didn't pull that tweet that I saw you
know like I tried to stay off of I tried
to stay off of Twitter over the vacation
my whole plan was to go to like this
like resort a place where they have
programs for the kids and I could put
the kids in and at like 9:00 in the
afternoon in the morning and they're
like see you guys at like 3:30 or 4:00
dad's gonna read a book and that didn't
work didn't get any reading done I'd
never had more than four minutes
contiguous minutes of like Solitude and
over the course of like 16 hours a day
it was the most exhausting thing we had
a great time I love being with my kids
and that was fun but it was exhausting
so all I could do is like just like to
escape was to look at political Twitter
that was yeah I need another vacation
but so I see this from and this was I
guess this was like maybe this was just
a couple of days ago maybe was Friday
yeah and and I guess it was at night so
we were maybe traveling at this point
and Jen Psaki who is a mom and she's a
vice president at the Carnegie Carnegie
Endowment she's a CNN contributor she's
at we advisors I'm just looking at her
and national security action former
White House coms chief former State
Department spokesperson and this is the
tweet that she had now I don't know if
you're aware of this but there's a lot
of issues that Joe Biden has around
women you know the touchy thing and
getting into people's personal space I
think that's I think that's indicative
of a guy who doesn't feel like he has
any boundaries who is really very
cocksure of himself and that is
something that is you know it helps to
be a white guy who's been in the Senate
for 40
years or whatever it is do you have that
sense like a there's no one's personal
space I don't even have to contemplate
the idea of personal score so you don't
think that being a white guy who's been
in the Senate for 40 years is you know
it's you know they say like he's never
having to say sorry it's it's never
having to think about other people right
so it becomes super easy for you to say
oh I'm gonna have my people float that
Stacey Abrams is gonna be my VP
candidate because that's gonna help me
that's going to help shore up the
problems I have with women and with
maybe in particularly african-american
women because of the whole Anita Hill
thing we'll talk about that in a minute
now if you're if you're a person who has
respect for other people and you
contemplate hey maybe she doesn't want
to be exploited in that way you should
reach out to her and say like hey I'm
contemplating do you mind if you know
well and then we found out later that no
he never had that conversation she was
rather upset about it I think it was
pretty clear from her public
pronouncements you know she didn't say
Joe Biden's an a-hole but she basically
said that was the subtext in my opinion
anyways so Joe Biden has these problems
with women
that's a Nita Hill just what he did with
Stacey Abrams he did the same thing with
Elizabeth Warren actually four years ago
2016 and he knew again that was like I
have a problem with women that's Joe
Biden saying I have a problem with women
I have a problem with my relationship to
banks and that's why he chose Elizabeth
Warren to float that year because that
gives you the idea of like wait a second
if he's open to Elizabeth Warren maybe
he's not the guy that I think he is so
Jenn pisaq I don't know if she is a
surrogate for him I don't know if she's
going to be working in his comms I don't
know I mean in some circles apparently
this type of thing is like a huge
scandal if they haven't announced that
they're working and they're actually
doing this but
I'm not one of those people who thinks
that's a huge scandal but here she is
writing Elizabeth Warren would be a
beloved Harvard Law professor not a
presidential candidate if Barack Obama
and Joe Biden had not worked with her to
make her idea to form a Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau law now
first off she's wrong because Elizabeth
Warren was chosen by Harry Reid to sit
on a special committee to deal with the
wid tarp when the financial crisis
stopped and I don't know if it was
called tarp at the time but to sit on a
conic on a committee to look at the
financial crisis well before Barack
Obama was president secondly I want to
see the documents from that White House
if Joe Biden is gonna claim any credit
for putting for choosing Elizabeth
Warren Joe Biden who they used to call
senator from MB ma this is a guy who has
been in the banking industry now look
does that make you a horrible person
well I'm in my opinion yeah not great
but but we can hope for most people I
don't you know that's fine but Joe Biden
is the reason why the bankruptcy law
does not allow for kids to get out of
student debt or students in bankruptcy
Joe Biden protected the credit card
industry in terms of their protections
from people who couldn't afford to pay
their credit card bills that's just who
Joe Biden is and if he wants to claim
credit for putting Elizabeth Warren on
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
I want to see the documents on that but
lastly a way to believe are we going to
now analyze Joe Biden the only reason
why Joe Biden can even contemplate
running for president a third time after
his massive losses is because Barack
Obama made him vice president
I mean is that gonna be the center of
his campaign is that the way that
everybody's gonna assess that Joe Biden
would just be another aged guy in the
Senate at this point maybe you had been
challenged by now Neil Kinnock
plagiarist exactly top line for him the
old clinic kinnick plagiarist I mean
honestly you would never you would never
hear anybody say that about Joe Biden
even though it's it's the nothing could
be closer to the truth and of course I
mean I'm just just I mean we know we
don't know what Biden's role I I agree
with you I'd love to see the
documentation we do know that she came
to national prominence battling this
grotesque bankruptcy bill oh yeah yeah
that's the that is actually the real
reason that she isn't just a
quote-unquote beloved Harvard brother
because she was a national academic and
activist against this atrocious piece of
legislation that Joe Biden was the prime
market so uh but now what what what what
that tweeter I can't remember name is
again she is doing you'll recall how did
Scott Brown run against her professor
professor professor professor okay she
is diminishing what Warren has done in
creating the most durable aggressive
what people consider the best government
agency we have set up in such a way that
the Republicans can unwind it and like
they've tried to unwind just about
everything else and there's a little pat
on the head and they send a woman out to
do this because at least they have the
sensitivity to realize that if they had
a male spokesperson do this they could
never get away with it but but make no
mistake about it it is just as demeaning
misogynist sexist as it would be if a
guy was sent out to do it it's just a
little bit more cynical it really is I
mean stunning I'm surprised that hasn't
gotten a lot more attention a lot more
attention here is Joe Biden talking
about complaining
about about the bankruptcy bill and how
to many people getting a free ride in
this thing an awful lot of people who
are discharging debt who shouldn't he
said during a twenty two thousand one
Senate hearing something is up and that
happened when the economy was booming
absolutely booming now I'm not a real
smart fellow maybe but there's something
wrong in other words he's he's arguing
that when the economy goes up no one
should be going at the bank no one
should be now we also know and he maybe
he didn't care at that time but at least
50 percent of bankruptcies particularly
in 2001 were a function of medical debt
which and maybe you're not a smart
fellow doesn't matter what the economy
is doing you get hit by a bus it can
cost you and sink you into debt 50% of
all personal bankruptcies some people
well this is a letter from the same
article that Warren wrote in 2005 some
people do abuse the bankruptcy system
but the overwhelming majority of people
in bankruptcy are in financial distress
as a result of job loss medical expense
divorce or a combination of those causes
there is not a an institution a system a
business an agency a program that is not
abused to some extent I will cop to this
right now at the hotel we stayed at you
give a card and you get a beach towel
okay and I sent my kids up to go get an
extra beach towel and I told him this
tell him dad has the card so we had four
towels so that we could save seats
corruption happens everywhere but the
idea that that's gonna be the excuse you
don't think there's corruption in the
credit card business I mean give me a
break and so when Joe Biden sends out
either his attack dogs or its friends of
his attack
or either paid or just simpatico
surrogates to go out there and attack
Elizabeth Warren there's a reason why he
does it because he's got a lot of things
to answer for but one of the biggest is
how this guy is married to the bank's
married to the credit card companies and
not just in a sort of a a neutral benign
way but in a way that fundamentally
targets American citizens that makes
their lives materially worse that allows
for predatory practices and Elizabeth
Warren knows it and that's why he's got
to get out ahead and say she would be
nothing but a little beloved law
professor if it wasn't for me I mean at
a time when the biggest financial
institutions in this country we're
trying to put the squeeze on millions of
hard-working families there was nobody
to stand up for them I got in that fight
because they didn't have any
and Joe Biden is on the side of credit
card companies that's it
Joe Biden was on the side of the credit
cards got their seats that's the problem
she's got the receipts so I mean it's an
odd choice you would imagine like Joe
Biden's not in Elizabeth Warren's Lane
so why is the first thing that they're
doing when they come out the gate in
terms of attacking anybody is attacking
Elizabeth Warren
they're attacking Elizabeth Warren
because they know that she knows who Joe
Biden really is and so they have to
discredit her and make her seem like an
uppity ungracious you know beloved
beloved whichever call like a mail a
beloved like you know it's a it's
unbelievable how sort of like gendered
that attack was I mean I was I was
really taken aback and I know Joe will
just going Oh father forgive me I have
sinned because I called her beloved
right it's a weird I mean I've heard it
there's gendered it's also and I hope
that I'm in it would be bizarre if this
is what they were doing for for obvious
reasons but it's straight I have heard
that for four men who are basically like
beloved like very old like a beloved
professor all right I can beloved Grimm
Lovett grandpa grandma the professor
thing also works in terms of like who
you're gonna listen to that egghead over
there who's telling you that I'm the one
who screwed you on your credit card
bills or me
