[Music]
here is a Steven Miller I mean giving us
maybe what might be a I mean that there
seems to be and and and who knows but
there seems to be a sense in the White
House that shutting down the country the
government for the issue of the wall is
a winner for them now I guess it remains
to be seen but protracted government
shutdowns as far as I can tell do not
help the party that is perceived in the
public's eye to be the cause of it now
it seems like that battle I mean usually
there's always like a big battle leading
up to a government shutdown and and
shortly after a government shutdown and
that battle is who's responsible for it
the last government shutdown I think was
a year ago or two years ago and it
lasted literally over a weekend I think
it was like it shut down on a Friday
night and by Sunday night the government
was restarted - nobody really felt the
impact and I think the Democrats were
afraid that they were gonna get blamed
they obviously didn't have much
political power anyways at that point
they didn't it's not like they had
leverage like they will this time which
is like you can wait but in two weeks
we're gonna control the house in this
instance that that fight is over
it is Donald Trump's government shutdown
and the Republican Party's government
shutdown if there's a fight about it
it's just going to be how far as it
extended beyond Donald Trump and based
upon this clip was Steven Miller
unless he's freelancing or unless maybe
that spray
John hare has impacted his aerosol his
capacity to articulate aerosol smut off
the circulation it seems like I mean it
could also be one of those things like
we've got it all wrong and it's not fake
hair and he's just willing hair to grow
in that moment it's some sort of fungus
yeah but this this is him on that face
fateful face the nation we are about
five days from potential government
shutdown and Republican leadership says
there's no plan what is the president's
plan and will he shut it down to get
this five billion in border wall funding
we're gonna do whatever is necessary to
build the border wall to stop this
ongoing crisis of illegal immigration
and that means this is a this is a very
if it comes to it absolutely this is a
very fundamental issue at stake is the
question of whether or not the United
States remains a sovereign country
whether or not we can establish and
enforce rules for entrance into our
country the Democrat Party is a simple
choice they can either choose to fight
for America's working class or to
promote illegal immigration you can't do
both is there wiggle room on that five
billion I'm not going to negotiate the
details on air with you right now
well the senator latimer said this
morning you're not going to border wall
and if the Democrat Party what if the
Democrat Party wants to go down the road
of continuing to preserve a model that
enriches smuggling organizations that
spreads misery on both sides of the
border that kills 300 Americans a week
through heroin overdoses alone by the
way illegal heroin costs our country 230
billion dollars about the intent of
these migrants plastered hold on one
second I just got a I can't help but I
mean aside from this guy's blinding
charisma when he delivers the thing and
obviously a lot of people I would
imagine in the middle of the country are
just like ah this guy seems like like
almost like he could be sitting at my
dinner table telling me this stuff every
this is a super easy thing to find but
every official who's responsible in
fighting illegal importation of drugs in
this country will tell you that the
percentage that comes over the border at
through illicit crossings is negligible
the
vast overwhelming majority amount of
illicit drugs comes through legal border
crossings and are simply hidden from
officials this is a very easy fact to
find and one would expect that if you
were paid the kind of money that I
imagine would be involved in hosting a
program like Face the Nation even if you
are doing this on a temporary basis your
producers would know this but apparently
they do not continue migrants and and
trying to stop that which really gets
you more to the diplomatic issues of why
people are fleeing in the first place
not the border wall itself the largest
is the largest we shut down over
Christmas as you yourself acknowledge
the largest increases in illegal
immigration are categories that are
incentivized by loopholes in our laws
and loopholes created by activists
left-wing judges including a district
court judge are happening right now in
the categories that correspond with
these loopholes and the interventions
reckless lawless interventions of
district court judges and this president
has taken historic action to stem the
tide of illegal immigration and to fight
for working people in this country this
is his last best chance to get a border
wall before Democrats and we want it's
time that both parties this is what the
American people want both parties to
come together for the sake of American
children the sake of children all across
this hemisphere to create a lawful
system of immigration not the lawless
chaos that even perpetuate Stephen why
are you yelling at me
we're right here Stephen I really
appreciated how you went right after
that lady it threw it in their face bad
they should have him in the room he's
bad yeah I mean whenever a Republican
ghoul says the word working-class you
should be very wary of him that goes
without saying but I just did a whole
episode on this on the anti Fattah and
like it is simply not true that
immigration hurts the working class in
this country throughout history like
they actually
analyze migration in part because
immigrants from Mexico and elsewhere
were too strong a part of a labor
movement and helping the working class
too much so they criminalized migration
and all of a sudden it hurts not only
migrants but native-born Americans as
well because they use the
criminalization the undocumented status
of undocumented workers to to police
them basically to police the workers and
enforce worse conditions on them and it
drives down the wages of everyone for me
I've been recently thinking about what
Castro and Che did when they came to
power and I used to think it was
actually kind of brutal and kind of
harsh and set things in the wrong
direction and then I saw me bowl on TV
and I think to myself I just want to add
just one other data point the the vast
majority of the research into this
suggests that the more you actually
restrict immigration the more it cuts
down on jobs in this country now with
that said that is just testing
restricting undocumented immigration
there's a lot of evidence that actually
cuts down on the number of women who
enter the workforce at a not necessarily
at the the lower ends of employment but
that the domestic workers who come
undocumented free up women to go work in
the workplace in the event that we were
actually to give protection to these
people as we should and give them a some
type of protection through some type of
official status that dynamic may change
a little bit but certainly the number of
people who perceive a crisis of the sort
that
haier Steven Miller suggests is I think
it's getting smaller yeah I think that
that message is falling on left is
resonating with less and less people not
coincidentally but I think it's also
because of just the I think it's like a
lot of issues we've been talking about
where the the middle which didn't really
exist to begin with is disappearing and
it's precipitated by the fact that I
think people who really are that brutal
and that vindictive and bigoted are
seeing it and they're realizing that
they like it and they're actually just
savage disgusting humans and then others
who maybe weren't as invested before
being like wait a second when they mean
get tough at the border talking about
killing children and separating families
maybe I need to have a humane price
laughter and when he says the majority
of American workers do not support
immigration that's simply not true we've
cited a bunch of different polls in our
episode I mean I just think this is a
textbook example of how white
nationalism and racism because obviously
the enforcement of immigration is
incredibly racist there are places where
they racially profile people and have
actually been ruled by judges that
that's okay it only serves to divide and
hurt the working-class wherever people
buy into it
