[Music]
the majority report
it's a cedar it is Wednesday August 28th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to tape steps
from the industrially ravaged Kiwanis
Canal Gowanus Canal the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA
oh yes ladies and gentlemen we're all on
vacation but we yes we have another
brand-new must here show for you today
Columbia Law Professor Katherine Pistor
on her book the code of capital how the
law creates wealth and inequality folks
this was one of those that were like
right in my wheelhouse the this book
essentially codifies the the macro that
I have been regurgitating for years now
that there is no free market but the
market is a function of society and laws
and as such if you understand that you
begin to understand that the way that we
structured the market the way that we
structure society through our laws they
are political choices they're simply
choices that we've made there's no you
know we're not growing a you know a
peach tree it's not like there's a way
to do it properly and if you do it wrong
it doesn't come out that way that's not
the way it works we structure society we
do it through law I don't know why I
said a peach tree I don't know why I
really don't you mean God didn't set up
the market for us but good that's
exactly right
but God does do the peach trees although
scientists do with the hybrids I get it
[Music]
nevertheless you're really gonna enjoy
this one and for members you're gonna
get a bonus
what's that bonus don't know deep
archive pick from Brendan Itay I say to
him don't even tell me don't even tell
me don't want to know I want to surprise
I like the surprise if you're not a
member and you want access to that deep
archive of this show in its first
iteration on air America you can hear
how badly I stuttered then relative to
how badly I started now I also on the
radio I tend to speak a lot quicker I
don't know why it was always a sense of
like I've got to get this out we don't
want dead air we have commercial breaks
and stuff to the hoop commercial breaks
to hit you got to hit a post there was
this I don't know what it is that makes
me speak slower but frankly it's
probably because I'm being more
thoughtful on the show it was a little
glib on the radio show anyways you can
enjoy that if you're a member and you
can become a member it's super easy all
you got to go is go to join the majority
report comm and sign up to become a
member
pennies a day times a day nickels and
dimes a day let's be honest nickels and
dimes and you will have access to the
fun half of the program and you will
support the free half where I interview
people like Kathryn Pistor who is a law
professor from Columbia on the code of
capital how the law creates wealth and
inequality you can listen to that in a
moment before you do I want to remind
you if you want the news of the day sign
up subscribe to the majority report on
iTunes and stitcher or wherever Spotify
all for free and in that feed you will
get the more a.m. quickie which is five
minutes news brief or the news you need
to know that morning so check it out
a.m. quickie you'll find it on our our
stream all right quick break when we
come back the code of capital with
Caston Pistor okay
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Katharina Pistor
she is the Edwin B Parker professor of
comparative law at Columbia University
Law School I should say and the director
of the Law School Center on global legal
transformation and author of the code of
capital how the law creates wealth and
inequality Katharina welcome to the
program thank you very much for having
me so the the look as you look to the
question of of I guess it started where
you were looking for the question of
like why is there such inequality I know
that you started at least developing the
idea of this book in in two thousand
seven or eight around the time of the
financial crisis just tell me a little
bit about the genesis of how that of of
that journey that came to the
understanding that the that that in many
respects capital is a function of of law
yes sure so I think as the financial
crisis unfolded beginning in 2007 and it
really imploded in 2008 many observers
were trying to understand what was
happening and I think I came to the
conclusion as did others that the
existing analytical frameworks that we
had the existing explanations that we
had were not really sufficient and
neither did I just wanted to say all
this is just another blip you know maybe
some exogenous shock and the system will
come back on its feet somehow it did
eventually come on its feet but only
because of extraordinary measures by the
central banks of various countries and
by legislators who passed that past
bailout packages and so I put together a
research group of folks from different
disciplines from law science sociology
and economics and I basically asked the
question you know what
is that we missed with the analytical
frameworks that we had so basically take
what you know you analytical framework
take a segment of the financial market
and explain me to me why we didn't
understand what was going on just look
back 10 20 years and just explain what
we can't explain him and tell me where
your theory breaks down and we conducted
this research project over a course of
one and a half two years and what we
basically discovered relatively soon is
that we many of us had just missed the
basic building blocks of how the
financial system is constructed and so
that's when I started to develop what I
then called the legal theory of Finance
which basically says every financial
asset in our complex financial systems
world right so there are villages we can
do just on spot transactions and we
don't need that but in a more complex
setting every financial transaction is a
legal commitment that is ultimately
backed by state power and only with the
state power it becomes scalable so that
we can trade in anonymous market will
still rely on enforceability somewhere
down the road and so I've developed a
whole theory on that and published a
paper in 2013 and as I was thinking
about what I had done if we were so free
to marketing this paper and talking
about this and developing new research
projects I just thought you know the
institutions that we identified like
contracts and property rights and
corporate law and Trust the common law
trust and bankruptcy law these actually
institutions that have been around for
hundreds of years and so I started to
dig deeper so and for the sake of I mean
on some level having been raised by
lawyers myself and a very brief but
probably I think you could characterize
it as unsuccessful stint in law school
many many years ago that that concept
seems I mean I feel like I was raised
with that idea maybe not so much
specifically in terms of capital but but
but more broadly speaking what
just so that people get a sense of like
the the the scope of the question what
could have been other answers to that
question I mean what like from other
disciplines how would you know assuming
the other people on your team like how
would they look at this if they weren't
necessarily looking at it if it didn't
occur to them that the the key to this
is sort of the the trajectory of law and
some level yeah so one framework that
was very dominant and is still I think
very much dominate in the economics
literature is the rational actor
framework so people usually are rational
but maybe sometimes they're not rational
right so they're there to come to heard
effects and all of a sudden their
behavior changes it's a behavioral
explanation and I think after the crisis
many economists switched from the
assumption of a rational act of framing
to behavioral things so so before that
they always believed that markets would
exist outside legal frameworks only that
the law helps and supports market
structures somehow but not that law is
essential to market structures so they
had belief that just rational actors
make certain contracts didn't really
fully explain contracts and somehow they
markets with an you know like prop
approximates some efficient outcome and
when this didn't happen they basically
said it has to be behavior that
psychology and it's sort of the animal
spirit and things like that that would
be one explanation and and I basically
double down on the structures and says
it just really does this take a look at
the financial instruments that we have
created let's take a closer look at the
credit default swap or the
collateralized debt obligations or the
asset backed securities and and look
let's look at how people behave and my
answer to them is basically you know you
don't have to be irrational for
everybody to try to enforce that
contract at the same time and if all of
them do this at the same time actually
you will bring down the system and let
me just make one more comment service
and I find it interesting that you say
well of course duh right of course it's
the law many practitioners with whom I'm
speaking and there's being spoken since
and and also co-teach they are all also
say of course and still
I mean that's what they are doing but
I'm basically argument arguing against
the dominant framework in economics and
also in law and economics of the framing
of these questions in in the academy
that I'm trying to question again others
have done this before me I'm not that
original but I'm just trying to push
against this again well I mean it's
frankly often I debate libertarians and
it's really on some level it is a
similar argument this notion that
because just to put a finer a fine point
on it
the idea is that many people start off
with the notion that markets exist
outside of the framework of law and
society and that law and society simply
may be fine-tuned this these these
markets and so they don't have the
ability to when something goes wrong it
is it's not predetermined because the
market can never be wrong
it's that function you know operator
error I guess so all right so let's so
starting with this notion that the
market cannot exist without law and then
basically you go through a history of
how the law has created the various
elements of the market including capital
tell us how that how that sort of the
flow of history happened I guess yeah so
I'm basically saying you know what what
happened is that law creates certain
rank orders and ranked rights to certain
claims it could be you know a land it
could be a claim to future payment like
debt it could be rights to a business
organization it could be rights to ideas
that somebody has somehow law gives some
priority rights to such assets and
sometimes even adds to the priority
rights and says well not only do you
have a better right than everybody else
but we also can add
a bit of durability so we can protect
your rights against the rest of the
world for a little longer than other
people can protect their rights and
maybe for some other rights we even give
you another attribute which is you can
actually convert your asset into more
stable asset on demand or at least you
can try to push others to accept this
kind of put option and last but not
least we can actually make your rights
enforceable against the world which
means against anybody whether or not you
directly contracted with them so
basically identifying four attributes
that the law confers on assets which is
priority you just mentioned this is the
rank order it's sort of a hierarchical
order its durability is the extension of
these priority rights in time its
convertibility which is basically a way
of securing past gains but couldn't
converting the assets into something
else and universality extends these
attributes in space and this is
basically has been done and that that
was I think the most striking finding
for me was starting from my work on the
legal theory of finance and then going
into history is that the legal
institutions have not changed much over
the last four or five hundred years
we're talking about contract law
property law collateral law corporate
law trusts law and bankruptcy law so if
you take the core features of these
legal what modules I call them in The
Bookman they're not middle modules if I
take these that these legal modules I
can basically grasp them on any asset
and thereby flip them from a simple
asset into a capital asset okay so let
why don't we go through that with with
an asset so that people understand these
sort of four elements that the law
provides to an asset and and and then
let's talk about because I mean I think
to a certain extent we have a hint of
what is problematic in this in some way
because four to five hundred years ago
we weren't talking about a democracy
right we were talking about certain
people get certain things
and the way we justify the the creation
of these rights and then and thereby
we're going to fashion a machine the law
essentially around the way that we want
these rights to exist the way that we
justify it was ostensibly you know God
said that I'm the one who should get
this and and and now we're gonna we're
gonna create basically a machine that is
gonna make it look like man has done it
on some level as opposed to just like me
you know deciding I happen to you know I
happen to have the right last name or
whatever it is so let's let me walk us
through what what it means to sort of
like I guess create or create this
priority to extend the endurance of the
the laws or the durability the
convertibility where you can take
something and convert it to something
else I guess and the universality that
it basically protects this asset from
all comers walk us through like what
that would mean in practice for
something yeah let me just take the
simplest assets of all of them which is
land and I think most of the legal
institutions and legal modules I
mentioned were actually created in
relationship to land so you know when
did land land is just a piece of dirt
plus if you just look out there you know
it could just be a field you know with
grass on it or you know some cows
grazing it's a piece of dirt and it's
not a property right yet but it can
become a property right and you know
people know of course about the famous
enclosure movement in England in the
16th century the landlord's decided to
prevent the commoners from using the
land in ways that they had done for
centuries so for centuries they could
just go on the land at certain times of
the year grace their own cattle grow
their own crops and it's some some
periods during the year maybe the
landlord would have so control over the
land but it was basically shared and at
some point the landlord's basically
started to build fences and to build
hedges and then the Communists came back
and they broke the hedges and they broke
the fences
at that time it wasn't clear who would
have the priority right so they went to
court and the courts it was really a
battle in the courts it was fought both
in the field and the courts for
centuries went back and forth in a
number of cases but in the long haul the
Lord's won they had the better lawyers
on their side they made the better
arguments they ultimately maybe if the
courts were more inclined to believe
them than the commoners and so they
asserted that for centuries and
centuries lords had the priority rights
and therefore they could now use the
land exclusively and disallow the
commoners from grazing their cattle on
the land so you enclose when to create
priority now the landlords go ahead and
say okay wonderful now we have proud you
rights we can commercialize the use of
the land we can have sheep Hertz there
we can then use the warrants and send it
into the textile factories that we're
coming up or we can grow cash crops or
the like for that they needed cabbages
so they took out loans and so indebted
themselves and then gave a mortgage over
the land to the creditors well soon they
found out of course the creditors wanted
to enforce against them they can't pay
the creditors might take away their land
so they didn't like that and they found
a number of lawyers who said a clear we
have a solution to that rather than you
being the individual owner of the land
we're creating something which we call
the entail which is very similar to the
trust which basically says the land that
you control is actually not your
individual ownership but it belongs to
your family including to your children
and grandchildren and so you have only
temporary control over that which also
means that you cannot give the creditors
more than a little slice in the pie
can't give them the entire pie so they
basically invoked old legal doctrines
and then said a creditor even in a
secured creditor can have at most half
of the land and never the family mansion
that's durability right the first
enclosure was creating priority now we
basically protect the owners against
their creditors which is creating
durability how do we create
convertibility well you can think about
sort of basically monetizing the land
either by
creating collateral or mortgaging it or
by selling it we can sell it into cash
for cash and thereby secure the current
nominal value of the land
suppose there is a slump in you know in
land values what you want to do is you
want to sell it now to get the true
value you don't necessarily have a right
against others to sell it a certain
price unless you have created an option
or unless you have a state that might
might want to back you went by the land
from you in order to avoid a major slump
in assets and I discuss in the book a
case and in Prussia in the 18th century
was something like that did happen so
you would have priority durability
convertibility and then universality is
always a sort of imputes of in the
property rights definition already which
basically means a property right once we
accept you will give you the rights of
having priority rights the law protects
these rights against any trespassers and
anybody else who comes along might not
have known about the right but if you
can show that we have title even if you
run it around even if you did not build
a fence but we're basically are
socializing the cost of defending your
property rights by saying the state once
you you can show that you have title the
state will put its coercive powers
behind protecting this title so the the
idea is not that the that that the the
the the landowner is the ultimate
landowners had the the best argument
what if they had the best argument right
and that first I mean like what it seems
to me that I'm just trying to sort of
project onto the conversation that I'm
having with a libertarian in my head
which I do probably far more often than
I should and this libertarian says well
look the the court just figured out what
the reality was like it existed
beforehand that or there there's the the
best argument like how is it that the
law at that point is it is it the
structure of the law that determines
whether the argument is most compelling
in terms of who gets that property right
is that
well at the time basically the argument
that they were making in court was to
say that that they had seniority so that
they had been there first and because
they were Lords they always had the
better rights and that this was always
accepted and that's one of the reasons
they won another reason they won is
because the courts basically denied the
commoners standing in court very often
by saying you don't you can't defend
yourself collectively because you are
not incorporated you're not a real
organization so you know we want to take
one of you but we can't take you all
together and and and and so they they
lost standing in a court proceeding but
let me come back to the seniority
argument because it's really interesting
when you compare what happened in the
16th century with what happened later in
North America or New Zealand in
Australia and the settlers colonies
because when the settlers came and
claimed land here there was no doubt
that they were not first
so the seniority argument did not work
because the first people had lived there
right the Indians or indigenous people
that were here already so they slipped
the argument and the argument that then
basically won the case and the set of
colonies was that we discovered the land
and we improved it because we put our
labor into the land and then improve it
now it's ours and so I think it's
interesting to look at you know which
argument wins in different contexts so
there is an underlying power structure I
think that's we're getting to and of
course isn't even underlying power
structure which influences the way we
frame legal issues and with the right
framing you can basically transpose
these priority rights and durability
universality rights on on assets with
the backing of your statement that says
now that is legal and we will defend it
therefore with our means of coercion
it's almost like how can we determine
what the outcome is going to be tell me
what the parents of the judge did and
then I can tell you what who what what
what argument is going to carry the day
well I mean I can't really deny that
completely I mean it sounds like a you
know like a almost too simplistic but
it's you know I think when you don't
look back into the sixteenth century and
you ask yourself so who are the judges
where did they come from or where the
lawyers they're making these cases so
the lawyers array of some second or
third born sons of
wealthy families I didn't get the
property and then became service
providers doctors or all lawyers and the
people who went into court or similar so
they typically come from literate
gentrified elites right it's not that
the commoners produce all that many
offsprings that become judges at the
time so there's a cultural affinity at
the at the very least we can of course
that is kind of the class issue that
plays into these structures yes and and
we should say like what are the
implications so if if in in England and
I imagine throughout Europe but if in
England the the essentially the remnants
of feudalism right carried the day right
because I'm a Duke or I'm a lord and you
don't you know nobody's electing you the
Lord at that point right it's a it's
it's simply some type of aristocratic
largesse I guess if that creates the
foundation for the property right there
well how do you like what happens with
the law that when we get to the the
colonies what's the mechanism that the
law basically used to sort of find that
well this you know there's no lords here
right there's commoners well let's call
them into indigenous people and then and
then other types of commoners who have
you know added their labor to the like
what did the law have to do anything I
mean I guess I can on some level like
I'm scat when you see how the court in
England in one century can rule a
hundred and eighty degrees from a court
that ostensibly comes from that same
lineage in the United States you know a
couple of centuries later can rule a
hundred and eighty degrees is it is
there a transformation in the law or is
it just simply like we have the ability
to reverse engineer this stuff well I
think I think it's um I think it's both
it's I think on the one hand in order to
have to create the authority of the law
to sustain the authority of the law and
its legitimacy there's always a very
strong attempt made to show continuity
and consistency with what the law is
always done right and so basically what
the law does it creates legitimacy that
to cover basically a major
transformation and reallocation of
property rights in different contexts
and and the specific arguments that are
used in the law can flip so you can say
that is reverse engineering and I think
the lawyers however will try stuff to
make it somehow fit and they use analogy
you know exploiting completeness of law
to do so it's you know it's there's
always of course a lot of wiggle room to
put your own political preferences into
that right but I think there is sort of
these dual strand of things going on
there's an underlying power struggle of
course going on and then there's sort of
at the surface the attempt to ensure
that people have trust in the law by
trying to couch the law as if it had
always been that even though if we look
a little closer it's it actually changes
quite considerably in exactly the kind
of argument that they're using to create
priority rights but the goal is always
to sort of reconfirm certain legal
entitlements but the way you do the
specific arguments they change over time
and in that dynamic is the one that
basically I guess it really sort of
illustrates that the market and capital
and these things are not they don't
exist in nature but they are really at
the end of the day political decisions
I agree with that so I'm basically
saying you know to for cab the capital
as it has to be put on legal steroids
and these are the these attributes I
mentioned before they have to be better
and have superior superior rights over
others you have to be able to convert
them to to to defend these rights in in
court and in that sense what the judges
are doing is they confer these rights
and arrows indicating the claims that
one side is doing they're basically
allocating these rights and this is a
politicized decision this is not just a
neutral decision
the size decision and so judges heft in
the common law tradition judges have
done this for a very long time and they
still basically doing this you notice to
stretch the whole argument to today and
we talked about the transition from
feudalism basically all the way to
democracy the dilemma that we face today
is that we basically are in the
constitutional framework where we are
saying yes I still judges and they still
suppose of course to make the law in
conformity to the tradition like in the
common law but at the same time we have
legislators that govern our collective
will and are enacting laws at a certain
level and and you know there can be a
clash between these two modes of
lawmaking between the democratic more
top-down legislated mode of lawmaking
and the continuty of trying to use the
elements of the code or the modules of
the code to refashion capital over time
I mean that that is in in there there
there feels like there's like another
level to it on some level that's some
level I mean I because there's there's
another way and then we lay our
decisions that we see in the law today
over that sort of tension - right
because we have this sort of notion of
of common law that is basically bequeath
to us to us from feudalism that
necessarily sort of like baked into the
cake is this notion of like well of
course the law privileges or advantages
one sect of people one group of people
over another that was that was almost
like the whole point of starting the law
right - and we have that and then we
have this sort of theoretical attempt to
which to democratize the law and then on
top of that we have these sort of
machinations within that tension that
still are influenced by we still have
that same problem of like you know who's
this person's parents that are judging
right it's a little bit less simplistic
today but so we have that on top of that
tension
yes I think I think and I will just add
one more thing is sort of you know the
way we the arguments are made in favor
of say let's say bottom-up self coding
of capital is now you know within the
paradigm of market efficiency so private
parties know best what's best for
themselves so they should be in the
driver's seat when they code basically
they're their own assets whether they
can decide where to incorporate their
company or whether they want to fashion
a particular complex security they know
best how to do that and so we have you
know we're leaving a lot of private
autonomy to private parties without
second guessing by the state even if
there is a dispute because we're saying
that's basically something where we've
carved out the sphere of autonomy so
we're of course you know we're framing
this very differently today we basically
see that is the market right so there
are people who are negotiating and yes I
have different bargaining power but they
got to that because they were probably
has better skills or you know we're just
smarter at doing that so we're and I
think we're really down playing so the
feudalistic past or the you know the
family relationships we're basically
explaining the distribution of assets
and the manner by which this is
happening as a natural market phenomena
which in fact it is not and according to
my argument cannot be because the market
alone can't prioritize these rights that
have to be enforced in order to give
some really a superior right that is
universally enforceable against the
world
I had a debate with a professor of
economics who was a libertarian and we
had that exact same moment where I said
how we gonna resolve who owns this piece
of property and ultimately he said his
court and my court would meet and
negotiate out in a third court that
would figure it out I guess and this is
his fantasy world I was saying like I
don't understand how this is supposed to
work out in the and that was that's the
the that is ultimately the the dilemma
is that in this sort of notion of a
market that exists in the wild
there is no way to prioritize other than
my army is bigger than your army yes and
so and army of course we're talking
about the legal coding rather than the
physical army right well I mean pre I
mean presumably right pre the enclosure
movement right I mean that's what it
would have been like on some what I
think yeah but I think the beauty of it
you know and of course I mean it's
likely the beauty of that is that you
can do this in love in rather peaceful
manners I don't want to overstate the
case because the enclosure was physical
they're fought in the fields but
ultimately the battle was lost or won
depending on which side you're on are on
in the courts right so once you you
basically transform these social
structures or social battles into legal
battles and that by you you make them
more peaceful I don't want to overstate
this particular case because there was
most of the black act that imposed
capital punishment on the commoners who
would trespass the landfill wasn't quite
that peaceful but we're still basically
bringing us into the legal fold and
there lies a struggle changes quite
considerably and the winners have a
bitter as a bigger vacuum off legitimacy
on their side so for folks who are sort
of like you know understanding this
concept like and this is you know this
yeah I think like this this assessment
is is largely diagnostic about our
system but where does that once people
take that diagnosis that are that assets
that capital exist only because of the
law what what should they I mean how
does that we're at what point does the
rubber meet the road with this and is it
people being aware that our political
economy is a function of our political
decisions as represented through laws
that we have created in laws that we
have adopted from centuries ago
yeah let me I think the rubber hits the
road at a stage where we have reached
the levels of inequality that we
currently have which I think even both
sides the rich and the poor would say
probably at that level it's not
sustainable and clearly for for the
quest of democratic self-governance this
level of inequality doesn't bode well
let me add one more dimension to that
and I don't want to sound too
nationalist on that but I do want to
bring in globalization and the
globalization of law here as well
because we have expanded the sphere of
private actors being able to pick and
choose their laws and and and try to
protect their own interests by getting
legal vindication of their interest and
today they can do this not only in their
own legal system that they can go to
foreign legal systems and get this
vindication it might still be able to
protect us in their own domestic court's
so this has you know I think this is an
additional layer which curtails the
ability of society to self govern
because many members of the society
simply opt-out of a domestic legal
system up into another one where they
can get better rights and the local
courts will still enforce them there's a
whole over layer of legal rules that
makes that possible too
so if you take this together as you
suggest we have to think about sort of
where do we go from here and you know
you could become very you know very cozy
we have to dismantle the entire system
you know I have to study sort of four or
five hundred years of the system it's
enormously resilient the law can go and
code different types of assets so you
might try to resolve the issue
you know with land and then so you have
peat they're coming back on financial
assets or intellectual property rights I
think the next big asset on the agenda
are data that are being coded right now
so I think we have to think in more
general terms and just focusing on one
asset type and we have to think about
the appropriate balance between private
autonomy to some extent and then the
prerogative of democratic legislators
and lawmakers more generally and I think
the balance does out of whack it's just
a lot of private autonomy and in a
decreasing scope for democratic
self-governance and that's why I'm in
the final chapter of the book I'm
basically
going through a list of things that we
could do some of them sound rather
technical and might sound rather minor I
think in combination they they are
actually add up to something and so just
in summary it basically says well don't
you know we can't have just a bias in
favor of private autonomy without having
second thoughts about this we have to
think this through we have to maybe
limit the scope of the ability of people
to opt out of a legal system and still
get for enforceability afterwards so we
have to basically regain Democratic
control and we have to find other ways
also the domestic legal system to make
sure that that the private coding cannot
happen outside legislatures increasingly
actually also outside courts interesting
and so the let me I mean just to because
that's the I mean there's so basically
the option you're suggesting is we need
to reform our legal codes and we need to
have things like broad regulatory
changes that will will democratize our
our courts in the way that we structure
capital I guess interrupt the you know
regulation alone not but I think I want
to really go to the basics of the coding
itself right the the ease with which we
can transpose certain priority rights
from one as a class to another that we
basically you know scale that back so I
I just want to not only put a public
regulatory framework on top of what we
have because one thing that we have
learned is for hundreds of years is that
when you had control the modules of the
code you can easily get around the
regulation that you put in place so what
is the module of the code at that point
is that is that just like we're not even
talking about regulation but we're
talking about just simply the the you
you can't we're going to put a
constraint on your property weight well
are we basically saying sort of we have
to you know the courts for example have
to have the right to review let's say we
if you opt into private arbitration
maybe the courts should be able to have
greater say and not only enforce a
private
which will award which allows you to opt
out entirely as a legal system except
for benefiting from the course of
progress of the state right so basically
saying the court should have more policy
control over how to do certain things
and and and and limit limit the the
complete opt out the courts also should
have you know second thoughts about the
sort of thing just because private
parties say that's what they want to do
all this create sort of greater
efficiency I'm basically saying we
should shift the burden of proof when
somebody saying we need this because we
can expand the pie I want them to also
say well how exactly did we expand the
pie for everybody else except only for
yourself before you get these additional
legal privileges and of course assuming
and that's the weakness of the argument
I'm assuming that judges would be
amenable to that right so if we have the
judges in place that or not and at that
level you can't do all that much but
quite frankly I think if we don't get to
that level and only try to do this
through top-down regulation I think our
effect will be limited so you're talking
about broader like sort of structural
things that that that would and then
maybe I misrepresented it by saying
curtail property rights we're just
saying not offer as much flexibility as
we have in the rights that we have
created essentially and so just lastly
give me a view of like just for the sake
of having done due diligence here what
is the I this is the thing I can't
figure out I didn't even know how to
conceive of this but what is and I
imagine if I was to bring that
libertarian on that they would have
their notion but again like I said it
involved like multiple courts and
negotiations at the end it was no clear
I could not see at what point that ends
but if if the option was to dismantle
right rather than I mean you said that
was you know that that's some people's
solution to this problem what what would
that even look like from your
perspective so I think one of the things
that are also considering the book is
basically you just take away the punch
ball which basically says we guarantee
the enforceability of the private rights
that you create well we say we don't
guarantee this
we might but we might not right
so there's for example one provision of
the dodd-frank act that says if you if
you create mortgages without checking
anything at least ninj our mortgages you
don't check whether people have income
you don't check whether they have any
kind of way to sustain the mortgage that
they're taking on these mortgages may
not be enforceable that's what I mean by
taking away the punchbowl
so just sort of this Blanco guarantee
that I think over the last several
decades especially the US and England
but increasingly source and other
countries with given the private
quarters to say you know we think you're
great and just go forward and code this
is saying well you need we know that you
need the enforcement powers of the state
because otherwise the credibility of the
S typically clients if you basically say
you know we'll check whether we really
want to enforce your contracts at the
end stage right and the courts will not
blindly give their enforcement power to
that that adds uncertainty to the system
and when you listen especially to the
representative of the financial sector
they always want legal certainty they
want nothing more than legal certainty
and what they mean ideally of course
something that benefits them but they
would even do something that has some
cost as long as they can completely sort
of nail I don't know what legal
certainty is and I think if we want to
have the upper hand and that we have to
actually explore a couple of tripwires
into the system and saying oh I just
can't Bank on that we might have other
considerations further down the road is
that I mean and and and what's what's
problematic with that because it's
basically what you're saying is like hey
if you're gonna I mean to use the
property the the land analogy it's like
fine do you want to you want to build an
explosive Factory on your property
that's fine but guess what we're not
we're not we're not sending the police
there if trespassers come that's gonna
increase the sort of risk I guess
associated with that project and they
may say oh yeah forget it we won't build
that I mean that's the that's the the
dodd-frank provision essentially right
like what what's wrong well I think you
know people would say this is horrible
because we won't have legal certainty on
the other hand I would say even
economists would say the idea of
property rights was that people would
internalize the cost of using an asset
and the internalization of course
also means sort of the cost of pollution
for example or the cost the broader
social cost and I think we've basically
thrown that argument out of the window
and said well we just think that
property rights as such are great so you
can take whatever you want and we don't
care about the externalization I'm
basically saying let's remind you that
you have to internalize yourself so just
you know factor in that they might be
cause down the road and trying to
enforce what you have because we will
not blindly just put the courses powers
of the state behind your assets right
it's it's fascinating stuff the code of
capital how the law creates wealth and
inequality
Catherina Pistor we will put a link to
the book at majority dot F M thank you
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you so much for
having me I appreciate as well take it
in mats it goes back to get
I'm gonna get
[Music]
I wasn't when I just got cut
[Music]
feel and advance
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
gonna kick
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
rub their hands before
I love sweet ride
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
