Bernie Sanders is back fresh off of the
mega rally in Queens with AOC here he is
on Jimmy Kimmel explaining why we need
to have full health care for everybody
period on these subjects I think you are
very blunt and brutally honest almost to
the point where it's shocking to see a
politician say yes this is going to make
your taxes go up but in law in the big
picture I think that it will make it
cost you less right look here is the
reality we are the only major country on
earth not to guarantee health care to
all people as a human right I believe
that health care is a human right and
not a privilege and what that means is
we need all that we need to do people
make this more complicated than it is
Medicare right now is the most popular
health insurance program in America I
want to expand Medicare to include
dental care hearing aids and eyeglasses
and then what I want to do is lower the
eligibility age first year from 65 down
to 55 then to 45 10 to 35 and then we
cover everybody and when we do that
there are no more premiums
you're not paying any more premiums no
more co-payments no more deductibles no
more out-of-pocket expenses and
virtually every person in this country
will save money on health care because
we are currently spending twice as much
per person as the people of any other
major country and the reason for that is
that the function of the health care
system today shock of all shocks is to
make the drug companies and the
insurance companies incredibly rich well
I don't think that's the function of
health care
so if you are paying just as an example
if somebody was self-employed today is
paying 1520 thousand dollars a year in
premiums and out-of-pocket expenses
that's all God well they may pay seven
or eight thousand dollars more in taxes
there are twelve thousand to the good
and that's what we have got to do we
have to do what every other country does
is make sure that anybody can go to any
doctor they want whenever they want and
not worry about the cost of health care
perfectly put this is something that
he's been fighting for with clarity and
consistency for 40 years he's absolutely
right
and I just want to say I mean notice the
difference here I with Warren's
resistance of the tax framing question
because it's a fundamentally right-wing
way of asking the question however and
of course it's still unclear what her
actual health care plan is I've actually
even heard that in might involve a v80
which is extremely regressive but that
turns out to be the case she's talked so
many circles around it but it's really
concerning to me I mean yes and there's
some sound that we'll get to in the
latter part of the show I'm not I'm not
clear where she is on this issue
I'm sure she'll put forward something
that's better than the status quo Biden
has put forward something that's better
than the status quo but I want to just
say that getting tripped up the the
refusal and the transparent concern
about oh well if I say there will be
middle-class tax cuts it will be clipped
a tax increase it will be clipped in an
ADD and played in November that's true
but you get caught in playing these word
games and going around in circles about
that one specific word even as again I
sympathize with her resistance to it but
Bernie right there it's clean yes you
might pay seven gram more in taxes
you'll save several you know at least
maybe even more you know several
thousand in private health insurance
costs boom done simple it so you make
the same point you bring the same
clarity
but you also you know you don't invite
the look of being a sort of prevaricated
politician and I think you know again
this is one of those issues you can go
back literally to the 1970s he was
making exactly the same point he was
right then he's right now he's
absolutely right about the
implementation
I remember when Sandra's Bill gun
unveiled and the Jay Paul bill gonna
veiled in the house even the sort of Vox
--is of the world at the time are like
okay this is how you do it these are
real policy proposals they're profound
they're not that difficult to implement
at all and there's a clear timeline ah
and again it covers absolutely every
single person fully including mental
health dental health and eye care that's
what we need yep and when you get out in
front of the question like that little
twerps like mayor Pete can't make an
issue out of it like no you're not being
honest about the cost like yes you are
right exactly and then we can go to a
dishonest little twerp like mayor Pete
and we can say how I care for all who
wants in it is a public option which
you're not being clear about how it's
going to compete how it's gonna work
with the broader regulatory environment
for insurance companies it's still gonna
leave millions of people vulnerable and
overcharged it almost certainly will
continue you know a rate of people dying
premature deaths after several year
decline it looks like uninsured rates
are starting to move back up a bit so
you have to explain to us mayor Pete why
you still want to leave millions of
people vulnerable and underinsured and
also why you know you talk about being
young and thinking about different
things I mean mayor Pete is giving us
the progressive option of 2007 how about
we go with the progressive option of
2019 that's someone like Bernie Sanders
has been right about and clear about for
40 years
