[Music]
the Senate Judiciary Committee has been
talking to bill bar and bill bar is the
the Attorney General most well known for
his his helping George Herbert Walker
Bush extricate themselves from the
iran-contra stuff and suggesting pardons
and otherwise misleading Congress on
several issues but on the eve of Barr
testifying in front of the Senate
Judiciary Committee today the Washington
Post got a story robert muller
complained that bars letter did not
capture context of trump probe look
these things don't come out as two
people who got that letter right one
person who wrote it one person who
received it theoretically there are
other people on that sort of the chain
of title if you will of that letter but
unlikely any of them would have in any
way shown this letter to a reporter
without one of those two principals
permission and i can't imagine that bill
Barr who we will see in a moment just
weeks ago claimed that he had no idea
what Muller's thoughts were about his
letter bill bars letter to congress in
in multiple different testimonies now
it's unclear I mean it's unclear exactly
I think what Muller was concerned about
with the letter we have yet to see the
letter but we've seen we've we've heard
parts of it I guess or maybe it's been
released this morning by Bill bar to the
Senate committee but clearly they are
upset at bill Barr spinning
and it is a big deal
for someone like robert muller to put
this stuff down on paper it is a
complaint the idea that it's now been
leaked to the press makes it even more
formal bill bar has been testifying i
don't know that i've ever seen a witness
who's testified at any hearing so
confidently so blatantly avoid answering
questions as proficiently as bill bar
and quite clear why everybody in the
white house was excited to get him
because he is as obstinate and I would
imagine ethically challenged as Jeff
Sessions but clearly more talented can
you please slow rail cuz I will make
sure no part of myself here exactly
let's go back to April 10th now the
letter was from was from one April 4th
was that what it was the the I'm sorry
not the bar letter but the the Muller
letter was two or three days later I
guess so April 10th would be an April
9th would be days after Bill Barr
received a letter from Robert Muller
saying really don't appreciate the way
you're characterizing the report think
it's misleading and so here's a bill
Barr lying to members of Congress I mean
I guess you could call it what was it
that the whiteout would the New York
Times said the other day like sort of
prevailing on the truth in a way that
stretches things in a uncomfortable
manner something to that effect here's
Chris Van Hollen asking Barr ultimately
if Muller supported his conclusion now
Barr spends a lot of time in this saying
well it's not a conclusion it was a non
summary of the findings
Oh on fact in making that assessment
it's that's not a question I really can
answer until I think well you did it but
but you may you you looked at the report
right and you looked at the evidence to
the report and you made a decision and
you said that the president's not guilty
of criminal obstruction of justice I'm
asking you in your review of the report
did you agree with smaller that there
were difficult issues of law in fact I'm
gonna give my reaction and comments you
know about the report after there well
it wasn't okay so what bill Barr is
doing at this time a couple of weeks ago
is he's trying to just have the only
narrative out there is that there is no
obstruction we know subsequent to this
we saw the report and the report
specifically said we're not dealing with
the question of obstruction not because
we don't have evidence of obstruction in
fact we have ten separate incidents
which would constitute obstruction but
we also are very aware of the OLC s
ruling that governs the DOJ that a
sitting president cannot be indicted and
there are other constitutional
mechanisms in which to hold the
President to account those other
constitutional mechanisms necessarily
reside outside the DOJ and all you need
to do go to the Constitution and find
out what those mechanisms are and their
impeachment so Barr is making it out
like I didn't make any conclusions or
I'm not going to talk about why I made
the conclusions it's not appropriate for
me to talk about that now and it's it's
all part of a spin campaign go but you
you put your view of the report out
there on this issue of obstruction of
justice right nobody asked you to do
that what happened to our sound is this
sound there I'm not hearing aids
evidence did you agree with Muller and
his team that there were difficult
issues of law in fact as I say I am
going to explain my decision and to the
extent that requires any assessment of
the Mulla report the more decision out I
made your decision require you to
but look into the intent of the Prezi
nine states with respect to obstruction
of justice I'm not going to discuss my
decision I will lay it out after the
report is out mr. attorney-general the
thing is you put this out there I mean
the president went out and tweeted the
next day that he was exonerated that
wasn't based on anything in the Moller
report with respect to obstruction of
justice that was based on your
assessment that was on March 24th and
now you won't elaborate at all as to how
you reached that conclusion because I'm
not asking you what's in the molar
report I'm asking about your conclusion
let me ask you this what was that
allusion it was the conclusion of a
number of people including me and I
obviously and the Attorney General it
was also the conclusion of the Deputy
Attorney General Rod Rosenstock I
understand no I've read the letters and
I will discuss that decision after
support your conclusion I don't know
whether bodman although supported my
conclusions well at the very least we
know that Bob Muller was unhappy with
the way that those conclusions were
presented we know that for a fact at
that point bill Barr did not answer that
question and then a couple of days later
he goes in front of the House committee
and questioned by Chris Christie at the
House Judiciary Committee and this is
what bill Barr had to say further at the
very least misleading Congress I mean
this is a guy who is a professional liar
and he very adroitly I think avoids a
perjuring himself but he's got to be
pretty adroit because he's certainly
misleading Congress in a in a
particularly acute way reports have
emerged recently positive we should also
say this is after the news reports that
came out that members of Muller's team
were upset with the way that this letter
had come out now understand the way you
know Bob Muller is getting circles run
around
frankly because he's trying to fight
this through the press and he's also but
he's driving with the brakes on the
reason why members of Muller's team came
out and did that is because Muller is
still operating under some type of
notion of like I've got to maintain the
integrity of the office and it's got to
be secondhand and it's got to be at
arm's length from me and so bill bar
takes the opportunity I want you to
listen to this carefully bill Barr knows
that Muller is upset about the way that
his report that that bill bars letter
went out there because he's he's talked
to bill to a Muller and he's gotten a
letter from Muller but what what bill
Barr has not done is talked to members
of Muller's team so chris Christie
doesn't rob me to excuse me Charlie
Chris doesn't realize that he asked the
question in the context of people of
mulish team bill Barr only answers in in
regards to Muller's team and avoids
having to really address what the gist
of the question is is does Muller have a
problem with what you did reports have
emerged recently general that members of
the special counsels team are frustrated
at some level with the limited
information included in your March 24th
letter that it does not adequately or
accurately necessarily portray the
report's findings do you know what
they're referencing with that no I don't
posit so he doesn't know because he
doesn't know he doesn't know what the
members of Muller's team thinks he only
knows that Muller has that problem
keep playing oh that's it yeah okay so
he's just basically arguing he's just
basically answering the very narrow
question I know what Muller's problem is
with it because I got a letter but I
don't know what people the Muellers team
is because I never heard from them that
that's the the game that they've been
playing and they're playing it much much
better than and certainly Muller Muller
was the only one who had this
information
so that's what's happening it means and
look you know this is from the very
beginning from the very beginning every
investigation of a president every
impeachment whatever it is is a
political activity it is not within our
criminal justice system
you cannot indict a sitting president at
the very least you cannot indict a
sitting president under this Department
of Justice and so from the very
beginning this has been a political
fight and so to the extent that there
have been excesses on either side it is
their what they're doing is politicking
but for those who had argued that the
atomic clock or whatever the nuclear
clock is being implicated or that Muller
and Bill Barra best friends in bill bar
would never lie about the Muller report
in any way there's no daylight between
them or that this this investigation I
guess or maybe the hyping of the
investigation or the nature of the
coverage of the investigation
somehow handed Donald Trump some type of
big gift none of that has been borne out
did people get out over their skis in
terms of like yes there backbenchers who
who tried to take advantage of it that
guy Eric's wall well I was on TV a lot
he may be one of three Democrats who
don't make it into the debates because
it didn't work for him which I think
also cuts into the assessment that
somehow everyone was like caught up and
the specific fever of conspiracy charges
it's quite clear that the Trump campaign
was encouraging of
of Russian interference I don't know
that that made a difference in the
context of the election certainly didn't
help Hillary Clinton but it's quite
clear that the the Trump White House or
I should say campaign did that maybe
they did it and maybe he obstructed
justice because he didn't want people to
find out about his but the lies he had
told about not having business in Russia
which he claimed throughout the entire
campaign maybe Donald Trump knew that
that three hundred four hundred million
dollar Tower in in Russia was enough to
get him to do just about anything to get
that built including sanctions he didn't
care about including who knows what I
mean does anyone really think that this
guy had fully formed opinions kochiya
strategy on geostrategy yesterday that
were not tied into how much money am I
gonna make there's a hotel right there's
an agreement there are many things can
you make agreement yeah I don't think
we're covering it because we're hanging
all of our hopes on it but like it does
bear mentioning that the president could
shoot someone in the middle of Fifth
Avenue and he wouldn't be indicted
that's right and there is only one
process and that is through Congress and
Bill Barr subverted that process not I
mean you can't do it officially Congress
can still take action but it's a lot
harder when the narrative is totally
exonerated everything's obliterated and
in fact that was not the intent of Bob
Muller when he's submitted that report
and you know because under the bill
Barre regime there is no way you can
hold the President to account
