[Music]
let's go to the phones calling from a
two one zero
area code who's this where he come from
good afternoon Sam Johnson San Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you sir
what's going on I'm doing good yeah I
want to continue our impeachment debate
and I know you're very passionate about
the subject that is just remember our
history I was very happy to see you
disagree with Nancy Pelosi on a shows
last week I agree with you that people
should be held accountable you continued
your comments on Ring of Fire over the
weekend you made the following comments
I actually believe there's an argument
from a political standpoint you don't
want to impeach him I think the
strongest argument against impeaching
the president is the full knowledge
there's simply no way the Senate will
convict him
when controlled by this many Republicans
and you only get one bite at the Apple
and God forbid that Donald Trump gets
reelected in 2020 you're still going to
want and Teachman arrow in your quiver
because otherwise you've already
expended it and if you've already
impeached in the Senate is rejected it
Donald Trump is going to feel like it is
completely as completely no checks and
balances on him because you basically
unloaded the only metaphorical of course
bullet in your chamber and then you
talked more about Pelosi and then you
went back to Donald Trump needs to be
impeach the Republicans are protecting
them now is the time to do it because
you can't get the job done which is you
know very similar to what a lot of
Democrats are saying so we agree that
primary voters should vote based on what
they believe politically not based on
who has the most potential to win an
election that will be held in the
distant future but we don't agree with
the political calculation of pursuing
impeachment the area where the gym
emphasizes the fact that Republicans
won't remove Trump from office your
argument has held up well Republicans
are corrupt to the core they probably
won't remove Trump from office before I
said that if you need an overwhelming
evidence they will impeach and remove
them if you look at the people who've
been indicted
most of the people have flipped on Trump
everybody everything relates to a
percentage and the odds are that you're
right but this goes beyond politics I
want to address the fact that one bite
at the Apple Theory Trump is a weak
president he just lost 40 seats in the
house you simply don't know if the
impeachment process will be a political
advantage for either party I think it
will help Democrats because it will
expose Trump's genuine law breaking but
I don't know for sure but why should
Trump get immunity just because he's
created a cult in society where
Republicans won't hold them accountable
you think of impeachment as a strictly
political action but it's also a matter
of law enforcement because of the
terrible office of legal counsel ruling
that's a sitting president cannot be
indicted the question is should a
sitting president get away with breaking
the law and the obvious answer is no the
LLC memo is wrong Trump should have
already been indicted and people should
be taking talking about this more well
you say that you only get good well no I
mean I get you I mean I get your
counter-argument but but first off I
agree with you in terms of
accountability but I can tell you that
he will not you he will not be he will
not be held to account we know this
right I mean this is from a just great
look I'm not saying that that we
shouldn't go forward with the
impeachment process okay or let me put
it this way I understand I'm not I don't
know I don't know that one can know
about the the value of the impeachment
process politically on the the race in
in 2020 I just don't know I you know it
could go either way I could be convinced
by either argument in terms of starting
the impeachment process I sort of feel
like we already have right like all of
these Oversight Committee hearings
they're not formalizing the impeachment
process but they're they're all
providing what would ultimately be
articles of impeachment I agree
with you that he needs to be held to
account but there is no way he will be
before the 2020 election there is no way
and so my argument the one argument that
moves me is this is that right now if
you make the analogy that the
that impeachment as a law enforcement
mechanism right it's more political it's
not with the law enforcement but it's
you know is a law accountability
mechanism it's the equivalent of saying
like okay half 75% of our police force
is out sick today today is not the day
that we should go you know perform that
raid on the major drug cartel because we
could go in there and all our officers
could get slaughtered and we will never
get that drug cartel kingpin that's
that's the argument that I'm making that
if you actually impeach right I get to
the point where there's a vote for
impeachment and it goes to the Senate
and the Senate rejects it
they do not convict and Donald Trump
gets reelected forget about it
like like what won't Donald Trump do at
that point well I mean I mean first of
all if you if you try and teach MIT and
you bring information out in the public
domain that wasn't available because of
the research that you've done you may
actually prevent him from being elected
in 2020 you might say freeze right you
might you might know I I agree with you
that you can't really know how it's
gonna play politically you have to do
this based on on the law and the fact
that you know he's already in an
unindicted co-conspirator and if he
wasn't the president he would have
already been in die
it's a child I agree with you but but
but what about my case of this okay we
know the drug kingpin is a drug kingpin
we know that he runs a cartel we also
know that he has a hundred armed men you
have ten do you go that day and try and
raid him or do you wait until you got
more men but but no because I Got News
for You daily he walks out of office is
the day he gets indicted
maybe there's a lag time right right and
that makes him more dangerous because
you know all of his authoritarian
tendencies you know just last week he
was saying during the police supporters
could get tough and he's always lying
about election fraud so John do you
think thinking all of it
John what do you think ring what do you
think the Democrats are gonna find that
is gonna compel his supporters to say
yeah yeah maybe I shouldn't vote for at
this point like honestly
well I mean you you have a good case
there but I mean there's also some
independence you know I mean I think
it's actually his chances of being
elected are very very thin right yeah I
agree it is and so but I mean you know
you might have some independence the you
know feel feel different or my or you
might have a dynamic that happened with
Bill Clinton that Bill Clinton who had
very soft support on the Left a guy who
got into the presidency with 45% of the
vote
uh you know with the the constant
dogging of him around what I think most
reasonable people would see is like
small-bore stuff motivated some of his
support thanks for the conceivable
conceivable it happened it would happen
in that it would motivate Trump voters
we you know you and I can argue with
that back and forth wouldn't we're not
gonna know the truth Trump voters would
never buy into a persecution narrative
right exactly
but I voted any than that even if I
stipulate that we you know that that is
an open question
what is not an open question is there is
no way the Senate will convict him you
will not get that conviction and so that
conviction isn't going to come in the
second term which with this so-called
second term what you're saying we have
to be ready for the second term they're
not going to have Democrats on a house
67 votes into in 2021 either so how is
that good at least a function at least
at least the threat is you know has some
has some theoretically ability to
mitigate his actions well I I can tell
you how Trump perceives the Democrats
right now he thinks they're weak and
spineless for taking this this tact and
that's the way a lot of people on the
Left do - including aoc to leave and in
ill Hanna Omar in their rights they are
weak they're afraid of their own shadows
and there's no reason I agree with you
we should be doing a lot more oversight
and you know and I just think that you
know I just think that the oversight and
in the the possible impeachment should
start happening and it should it's
happening it hasn't well it's happening
it's slow he's our the the new Congress
has already been in in office for two
and a half months and who was they
brought up they brought up John you've
got a higher staff it's not like there's
there's like teams of Democratic
investigators who have been waiting
without taking any work anywhere waiting
for these committees to build up like
you literally have to build a staff like
you like there's like there's there's
not like people just waiting who are
like Democrat you know sharp demo
you know lawyers who are gonna be
staffing and investigators that are just
like on day one are gonna be there and
you can't hire them until you start
because you have no budget I mean it's
only been 60 days not even it's been 60
days not even 60 business days so I mean
I like
I'm not I'm not defending the Democrats
on this I just think that it's like a
little bit premature to say that there's
no investigations happening I mean just
the Oversight Committee with with Cohen
spurred investigations in New York City
right and I hope by Vance you know we'll
put a place in his history marks by
actually indicted Trump I mean he can do
that and you know he doesn't have to
answer to a bar and in bars gonna
obstruct everything I think you've given
the Krait the right take on on bar and
it's sickening to see all these people
that are saying Oh bar is gonna stand up
for the rule of law he's gonna do
everything that is possible to obstruct
this I agree with you but but good
corrupted director but he's not gonna be
able to look he's not gonna be able to
have control over the Southern District
of New York there's just no way I just
don't think so I think it's just a you
know generally like they they operate
you know with a lot more independence
than a lot of other play other but look
let's let's have let's put a pin in this
conversation and let's let's reconvene
on this particular conversation not your
calls because I want your calls to keep
coming but this conversation for like
two or three more months I will I am
quite sure you will get more and more of
this stuff as we go on
I mean yet Nadler the other day coming
out basically saying you know Whitaker
was tied into conversations about Cohen
all this stuff is happening the one
thing that they're all doing I'm quite
convinced this is trying to schedule
more and more oversight hearings I think
that's I think we're gonna have so many
oversight hearings John that we're gonna
have to change the name of the show to
the majority oversight hearing report
maybe not I appreciate the call well
we're working on the title but John I
appreciate your I me too
I'd write them all right thank you
