[Music]
never any accountability let's get to
this clip of the ever odious Jamie
diamond Jamie diamond whose Bank was
involved in every aspect of the 2008
crisis which eliminated trillions of
dollars of wealth because of Wall Street
greed crimes and incompetence including
things by the way that like this insider
trading thing some of them were
definitely legal they were legal because
Wall Street paid off both political
parties to make corrupt practices legal
and Jamie diamond thanks to a pliant
credulous press and people like Barack
Obama who insisted on calling him smart
somehow emerged from his obscene role in
not only the 2008 crisis but the whole
political system that led up to the 2008
crisis unscathed he still still the CEO
of a city and there's a talk in the
financial press any type of serious
financial press certainly real great
economists like Professor Richard wolf
everybody should be subscribing to and
watching all of his videos that economic
update his work is excellent
indispensable that we might be heading
into another recession soon here's how
the CEO of one of the most important
financial institutions in the world JP
Morgan thinks of the possibility of
another recession and to his credit he's
being honest here all the big bank CEOs
here are quite positive on the outlook
for the economy but even a recession
could be good for JP Morgan's share
price here is their chairman and CEO
Jamie Dimon I don't look at a recession
as a bad thing I mean it's bad for
America it's bad for the people
unemployed it's using opportunity for JP
Morgan and so I don't sit there and say
oh my god this terrible or give me down
and they say okay what are we gonna do
to do even more do we want to do and so
I think there will be opportunity to
downturn to which hopefully we'll be
prepared for so at post 2008 global
meltdown over 95% of the gains of the
quote recovery have gone to less than 1%
of the population people literally in
the couple of hundreds like the already
criminally overcompensated Jamie Dimon
and this is the mindset it's not wrong
and he's totally right yeah we have
money so when goes south we'll be
able to buy cheap we'll be able to
buy cheap maybe we can get into the
slumlord business more the exactly take
more of the economy wherever is
dismissal everyone else in the country
is pretty outstanding
we should put Jamie Dimon out of a job a
hundred percent and then to gone to jail
he should he should all of the Wall
Street people should have gone to jail
and she still should go to jail him in
particular yes yeah Checotah there's a
old majority report clip where a Sam and
Toby discuss a elks Perrine appearance
on CNBC where CNBC one wasn't entirely
sure who they were booking I think got
it very very good
I believe that got him a a lifetime ban
from the network right for not
worshiping you've got to do this this
absolute grotesque scumbag Jamie Dimon
