I just want to post put this up
looks like the milk shakings have made
their way to the United States Delhi
kind-- I think he's in New York
representative yes
Ilhan must go a truck and this guy
through a chocolate milkshake over the
side of it all right yes Dov Hill is a
he is a local state rep who is in I
think I want to say Crown Heights maybe
or where is he
I thought Williamsburg a Williams art
Williams ultra-right far right but like
he's ultra-orthodox but he's a power
broker I mean he delivers he he I think
is a democratic caucuses with the
Republicans or something to that effect
I can't remember quite but he's always
been a problematic and obviously playing
on the idea that in Williamsburg there
is a vested interest in Ilan Omar in the
house is a little bit of a stretch if
you unless you start to contemplate the
idea of anti-muslim thought and here is
a here is a young man who is deciding to
forgo his milkshake for the sake of
making a point no it's just a picture is
the picture nice I do think I it's nice
that you can walk around with a
milkshake and feel patriotic now like
you're ready to be a patriot I mean I
would like to see maybe somebody market
maybe that's what we should be doing it
maybe that should be awesome Murch
majority report milkshake yeah if you
have a dairy company and wanted us to
brand your milkshake that's right it
doesn't have to be cold it could be like
a protein drink I feel like that way you
could keep it and the key would be the
packaging because you want to be able to
carry it around in your pocket and then
when you need to just rip off the top
and not a big open top and just rip off
the top like a like a rip away bag
almost and then almost there should be
like a function like when you can
we zit so you can make it a projectile
right yeah now apparently I should say I
just want to say really dude from
apparently has written a piece saying
that the milk shaking is a metaphorical
is that it assassination attempt I don't
know if he's addressed the egging which
would probably be I mean the milk
shaking would be according to him a
handgun oh here it is it's symbolic
assassination attempts this is a tweet
may not be violent any more than jokes
about attempted rape are violent but a
healthy political culture allows no room
for either now that's not true because
the issue about rape jokes is not about
a political culture but it is about
actually a one-to-one it's not symbolic
at all it has real import to the culture
and David Frum decides that the milk
shaking may be a symbolic assassination
attempt but it's not it's not an attempt
it would be a symbolic assassination
right because the milk shakes are
landing but the fact of the matter is is
that there is no damage to the political
culture no material damage to the
political culture that people make a
symbolic protest there is real damage to
the culture when people start to make it
acceptable to joke about rape like it's
not a big deal because that implicates
how people react to it how society
reacts to it from a criminal standpoint
how it reacts to the perception of
victims of rape and two women broadly
that the idea that they would be raped
is just not that big of a deal
as opposed to the idea that people would
be
milkshake that we shouldn't have
immediate respect for any perspective
that's out there now look this goes both
ways I think it's perfectly legitimate
and and I said this yesterday for
leftist politicians centrist politicians
political figures I mean if if the right
wants to milkshake me for whatever
reason I think it's I think it's a
legitimate form of protest now it won't
make any difference with me
I've been milkshake like here's how you
know it's not the same if someone shot
me it would be a real problem but if
someone milkshake me no one would care
no one would report about it the only
place you would hear about it would be
on this show and maybe if somebody else
you know whoever milkshake me would have
a video of it but no one would care
because there's no symbolism because
it's not it doesn't it's meaningless
it's a meaningless gesture so the the
the analogy is not apt and here is a
perfect example someone on the you know
Center left not getting milkshake but
egged which in some ways is more violent
because it's actual involves physical
touching that's worse and here's how
people get past it in a way that even
though they've been symbolically
assassinated here's how they get past it
this is 2012 2012 Ed Miliband
doing an interview gets egged and I
remember when David Frum was so upset
about this at the time incidentally but
God yes he's been on a whistle-stop tour
of the places where Labour did well
yesterday and he's stopped off here in
Southampton it was a stunning victory
here by any standards for labour what
you put it down to I think it's a couple
of things first of all we ran a very
good campaign we talked to 30,000 voters
since January talking about Labour's
plans on jobs apprentice
housing the things that matters are
people we've also got people I think who
thought with all right sorry about that
obviously not not one of my fans
but hey con we've we've obviously got
people who who you know came to us
because on jobs on apprenticeships on
the things that matter to their oh my
gosh for a guy who's just been
symbolically assassinated that's how
adults deal with it and of course when
that happened to Ed Miliband you never
heard about it because it wasn't that
big of a deal because it's an empty
gesture when you AG somebody who the
vast majority of people don't feel their
ideas are breaking the norms that
inhibit people and yesterday I
interviewed a a an academic psychiatrist
who's done a lot of clinical research on
implicit bias that exists in all of us
in terms of race in particular and the
one thing that changes the implications
of implicit bias which we all have at
all times is on the conscious level what
we accept as norm as being allowed that
you can have the same implicit bias in
January as you do in June but if the
social context is different the
implications of that bias and how it
plays out potentially harms people or
discriminates against people is very
different and so the idea that when you
milkshake a fascist or when you
milkshake a billboard that is symbolic
bombing yeah is is is is really a hate
message is somehow problematic is just
simply wrong and
is just more defense of a of basically
positions that reinforce the right just
down the spectrum a little bit so well
it's also only a big deal when people
make it out to be a big deal right and
the right is in in power in this country
in every way that matters but they run
on aggrievement so they have to have
something to feel like aggrieved and
attacked over whether it's milkshakes or
like gay characters on TV wait I'm
confused is somebody else making my
aggrievement point I felt like I might
have heard somebody say my point about
aggrievement IV for years the the the
milk shaking is a great substitute for
any type of actual violence anti fuzz
the real fascists right there you go
well I mean look those milkshakes could
be delivered by anybody just it's people
who just who are you know find some of
this behavior offensive and rather than
being violent they want to say you're
what you are doing to society is outside
the norm I'm going to outside act
outside the norm and instead of drinking
this delicious milkshake I'm going to
spill
