[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report ladies
and gentlemen in many ways our next
guest needs no introduction
however I will give him one as soon as
we play this little ditty and man
Kindler calm I'm gonna head there right
now
oh it's up oh my god and the world's
greatest picture of me um I will had
that sweater bet Michael had told me
that year Oh
this morning it was down is the website
back up yeah the website is back up and
I know it's back up because I'm in the
room where someone says and I like this
part of it Kindler on the other hand
ranks among the worst I am Oh what it's
in the chat room you're in high rank is
one of the worst says salvatore Eppolito
i but only I am Oh in his opinion wait
you have a chat room is that right no
your chat oh yeah Andy Andy Andy does a
disastrous practice which you see
literally while he's supposed to be in
the moment with us dunked basically
making fun of Dennis Miller essentially
or making Jew jokes he insists on
watching those the the the YouTube chat
which is not no no I want to see what
you look like I can't see Michael but I
can
see I can see you selling my the oldest
Jew I see Sam I see a picture of myself
there you go there you go it is funny
when people add the like in my honest
opinion
it's like really anything that you're
behind like Kimber the Grand Baron of
semen like screen username we are
anonymously making dumb comments all day
it's not in your honest opinion okay
yeah let me be free perfectly blunt here
as the bong rip master not funny by
hottest apiece hey I owe it to my Monica
thousand spiders crawling all over me
completely honest with my opinion of
antica well I'm glad to see your website
is back up and because it was down today
and whose website yours Andy Kindler com
it was when I had clicked on it this
morning it was not opening Andy oh my
god your links are there everybody if
you like a website where nothing ever
changes where everybody knows your name
with the dates from 2005 or still
featured one can't do better than that
now wait a second what is this whole big
phony studios in association with
straight-to-dvd enterprises presents I
wish I was bitter is that is that new I
never noticed that on your site before
if you think 2006 is new alright no it's
not it's not nobody's funny and I'm
gonna have another album coming out it's
called hence the humor that I've been
sitting on for three years because I
can't get anything done and you know
what I talked about yesterday in therapy
I talked about the fact that I cry often
because I wanted Obama to be perfect and
I realize he's not perfect so me so I
cry about it maybe I am an Obama BOTS
Wow
when did you come to this realization
about Obama yesterday oh no well what I
did what I'm doing I mean not to get
serious but most people think this
section this segment of the show is
serious is I have been struggling with a
the fact that I grew up in a family
where everybody had to be perfect
everybody to be perfect if everybody
wasn't perfect
that meant they were eat they were
terrible so when I used to go on when I
used to go online people go above the
world criminal the bellies were I
couldn't take it but now I'm realized
that I do love Obama
he wasn't perfect he wasn't a war
criminal but he wasn't perfect and who
is perfect you know Andy I I mean I hate
to play the Sam role here but if we're
being really technical on a legal level
it was no no no I have to be able to
hear this you're saying he isn't well
chromis I appreciate your take on it
hey any president by definition Andy
it's okay it's just like it's no it's
possible you know that I didn't mean it
was actually okay I'm helping let's take
one thing at a time here we're burying
the lead because award lines of burying
the lede now sell out cedar we all know
that that Obama is a war criminal we're
burying the lead because the lead is
Andy's you know needed everything black
and white is that basically what I'm
hearing that's exactly true I know so
when I would argue with people and
especially my family when it was an
argument to the death if they could
point out something about the person
that I didn't let this wasn't just about
a bomb this is about like if you realize
in 1968 Andy Kindler supported Hubert
Humphrey for president a 12 year old
Andy well so wait a second second so I
mean who supported Humphrey / Kennedy
and the only time up you heard Kennedy
was dead well no but there was a lot of
people that supported RFK before he was
assassinated and II know I was against
the people supporting McCarthy like my
parents not against them but I thought
Hubert Humphrey was a reasonable guy and
how about vietnamisation of the war I
didn't believe that all right
alright so wait a second wait a second
we need to get back to now we're getting
confusing by bringing in more presidents
and presidential candidates yeah yeah
but just in terms of a dynamic you
everything is black and white
you're either you're either good I mean
and this is I mean because I think to a
certain extent this is also a problem
that we have broadly in society right
thank knew on writings are a little bit
different but yeah I mean I had a very
similar problem as far as like you know
if someone is upset with me I don't know
how to deal with that that's exactly
that I have that in in spades and hearts
right so you either like you don't know
how to just sort of sit like oh that
person's upset okay I'll give them time
to get over it either has to be a
full-on fight or or nothing right and
that comes from my the way I was taught
that was just raised I was just raised
that way there was no difference in
myself and I love my family I hope
they're not listening but there's no
difference between your behavior and who
you were as a person your behavior
define if you were acting badly you were
a bad person
they didn't mean to do it but it it hurt
okay so so you so you came to the
conclusion that Obama is not the best
and no that's not but you know here's
the thing
I still love Obama so I can i still love
Obama
I think anybody's going to be president
tomorrow has to make decisions and those
decisions are going to be easy I hate
those decisions but they're gonna make
it they're going to make a decision and
they have to make a decision about
drones and all this kind of stuff so all
Shakalaka English Syria I thought maybe
we should have gone in on Syria
something like that
so I'm so defensive if I if he has to be
perfect if he has to be perfect for me
to like them at all
then I have to make the argument that
he's perfect and that's just not
possible with anybody I see I see so
that's why you were such an Obama bot is
because you had to be because people
would because I would take the bait
online I would take the Cornel West bait
which you know like forget about the
technical discussion about whether you
think
he's a war criminal but that was the
bait you know Oh bother or it's like the
other part of it is like I I believe in
in free trade free trade but I don't
know anything about free trades
really so I sound like I was free the
free trade because then people think I'm
a right wing person but I believe in the
concept of free trade but I'm so scared
to say any of my thing is because if I'm
if people then think I'm conservative
whatever the thing is it just gets like
you can't have a disc you can't live
really someone can you have that way
you're thinking that way all the time
well alright so Andy you've come out now
it's a hardcore conservative no Supreme
Court no money for poor people in
general hey Andy Andy were you would you
say that you left for the party or the
party left you you know what I spoke at
David Gergen last night and normally I
hate interesting points I was at a
Landmark Forum retreat with David Gergen
and we were not allowed to use the
bathroom for 12 hours and by the end of
it I agreed we should phase out Social
Security
it's triangulation such a dirty word oh
my god
why if I said if I disappointed you
somehow I always am worried there's
another thing too from therapy I'm
worried that Sam cedar either doesn't
get me he doesn't think I'm one of the
world's greatest reference comedians
it's not true I do know but there's
nothing just nothing you could do that
would make me feel good about myself if
I'm in the mode of if Sam has to love me
everybody else will love me
I have to let it go a yeah but you know
you don't let that go because you can
always assure yourself that I do love
you I am getting much better anything
and that I'm a very important person I'm
the only important person when it comes
to your consciousness whether you're
loved
absolutely because of our multi-year
deal I
never knew that making a exclusive deal
to appear on a like a show like this
would not involve money that's the thing
I'm careful is a five-year deal I can't
go anywhere else I can't go on the Rubin
report well we I noticed that you were
on Dave Feldman's show the other day I
mean that was why you're going on my
text is he - right Wayne yeah Feldman is
it's just yeah oh I would say at this
point no Feldman's getting good
Feldman's Feldman's Feldman's pulling
you know Andy I gotta tell you not only
in addition to insulting Cornel West one
of our most prominent important
intellectuals and leaders in the country
and coming out as a virulent reactionary
the fact that David Feldman could
basically be your brother now he is
moving further to the left every day
does not bode well for the next time
you're bothering Chris Cuomo my friends
oh my god Chris Cuomo oh my god Chris
Cuomo here square Chris come on let
people's us you don't get it I get it so
let's get after it he just teaches he is
our teacher now Chris Cuomo our teacher
we're gonna get after it let's get after
it
when when you go into therapy yeah you
does your does your therapist say like
Andy I feel like did you go on Sam's
show this week the damn show I feel like
some of our work has been undone no no
but when I tell her about things that I
do on Twitter she told me that six
months ago after some when I had a war
with someone named like razor blade and
Apple or loves to cereal whatever these
people are robots she said what do you
get out of it Andy what do you care that
that's it I hope I hope you told her
everything with that I hope you told her
everything well no I mean not get it was
getting into feuds or like the worst did
you know that three weeks ago I actually
made an error that I was almost crying I
thought the Federalist Society and the
Federalist website or whatever the hell
it is with us
people for like three hours I was one of
those people on the internet who was
thought they were right about something
wrong oh I think I saw that and people
really got off I went after you and you
really got defensive about it nobody up
no eventually I apologized because I was
so wrong I've looked up
I googled something hey who owns it to
these two people owned by the same if
you google are these two people on by
the same people as you'll get - that
goes you bet they are Google Google is
Barack Obama war criminal I'm seeing yes
yes yes oh thank you google I said am i
right
all I said was am i right days again
yeah that's what's so nice about Google
I'm right that Barack Obama's not a war
criminal and Bob is right that the Jews
control the banks to go to Yahoo now oh
really is it we got some oh boy oh it's
old okay yeah we got a video of Chris
Cuomo driving a car before crashing it
in a drag race
here's Morgan getting hit by I'm looking
at your calendar and it's updated I
think I think if it's I mean it just
could be a coincidence
because it has a June date and a July
date and maybe it's just from a
different year but it appeared by the
way I call them when I go on tour in
June in July I spell a je w + e a je w
ly of course
but you're both in Canada are you not
allowed to perform in the States anymore
no I just can't get any bookings in the
States oh I'm allowed to sure no one
will book me oh another one's your
binational if you're not allowed to make
money at a comedy club you're being
censored is that right never one Kathy
Griffin used to say I've been I've been
banned from David Letterman no you
haven't
he just doesn't book you that's what it
is I was banned from Letterman it's like
yeah I was banned the entire time did he
was on no you weren't
I wasn't you weren't popped right yeah
yeah how would you call that I was
blacklisted because I didn't do comedy
Andy Natalie what's happening with Ben
shipper I mean bench peer do we have
Dennis Miller do we have any Dennis
Miller I just started looking I started
looking recently because I didn't always
going to be in the show until I realized
that I forgot to give you my number
yeah did we do do we have any Dennis
Miller is there any Brennan no I
couldn't find any right no I I'm sorry
look this morning Michael I looked at
just conservative comics you know like
there's a conservative Comedy Tour but
they don't have any dates right now why
is that you know why they don't if you
go to their website it's pretty
hilarious it's a awesome
these are saying they got new dates
coming soon who was a conservative
comics oh you guys called the deplorable
'he's a comedy show tour for
conservative thinkers chronic supporters
and good old american deplorable you get
the joke there they're taking what you
call them and they say yeah yeah we own
it we're racist it's really that's
really where we're we're we're taking
the racism and we're owning it that's I
had some press yeah come over to our
house with the racist yes yes it's true
I can't argue addictive Polo's in this
Seth
though with that you can't argue with
nicht apollo's new set that's pretty
good well I like Victor Paulo so I can't
even talk about it except uh because I
know there's there's problems but he's
an old friend and so what's happened
it's a bad because i zoom in' that is no
no no it was really funny funny it's
probably just an uptight sjw Andy it was
really really funny oh we got it oh
you're joking with me oh no no no no I
mean I felt like I was somewhere in 1989
it was remember I did the young comedian
special with Nick DiPaolo and he was a
very funny calm oh you know what
he's been a friend of mine but I don't
know anything about the recent stuff and
that's what I that's the new Andy oh I
haven't heard about these negative
things you know and Apollo said though
and as he said he said I'll tell you
this you know like white guys get no
respect anymore which is why Barack
Obama was president but in the spirit of
bipartisanship he's not a war criminal
that's so he did say oh
we got 12 minutes of him with Bill
O'Reilly apparently Miller did a an hour
with bench bureau and then reconnected
with Bill O'Reilly we could watch a
couple a little bit of that oh I
definitely want to watch Jamie reunion
Jamie's going to my life I know I'm
sorry I'm sorry you should go this is
the reunion looks festive I have an
older group older YouTube group I can
talk to
let's from the old days let's it let's
watch this okay Oh Dennis Miller's new
deal is that what they're calling it oh
I see okay very good
I sent out a fleet to find him and I
have I found it but first before he
comes in I got to do all this stuff
ready so Miller has a podcast on
would want and it's called the Dennis
Miller option I guess you could opt out
with giving you see I yeah alright so
uncensored take on current events
politics pop culture anything else it's
on Noah's mind joining him on his
no-holds-barred I guess is a list guests
from across every spectrum along with
his guy Friday Christian black you know
what I like about this right I feel that
it really does feel like these guys are
old buddies okay somehow they buried the
hatchet and now you know and and
O'Reilly giving them some good-natured
ribbing you know what I feel
uncomfortable with a little bit and I
actually like most of this so far it is
very good-natured there's a little part
of Miller that is like this is all
really fun but it's like if you stay
just this drunk we'll have a good
segment but if you get more drunk I'm
scared right also sounds like he's doing
this in his basement
the but good one pocket every podcast if
you want to see him live he's gonna be
in Connecticut at Foxwoods on April 26
then the next day up in Medford
Massachusetts outside of Boston on 27th
and then in Austin Texas on May 1st so
here he is live from Santa Barbara
California the podcast King Dennis
Miller so you got a guy Friday I guess
you've always wanted that Robinson
Caruso correct well three years I know
you've gone into a more funkier quasi
retired state where you're wearing Dinty
Moore lumberjack shirt I know but I
remember a day when you add that
personally
you had that perfectly knotted Windsor
and we stood astride the cable news
world like a latter-day Colossus of rock
and nobody will ever match it by the way
but but I I never refer to you as my guy
Friday I mean you were equal footing
with me I mean I gotta have a talk with
this Christian black guy okay now I the
green new deal is sweeping the
conference big ban they put the horn in
the order who deal the green
New Deal I want Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
to hear the Miller New Deal go well
first up bill I would say they're
obviously d'Alene claimed the FDR's
lineage right and I was thinking if FDR
was alive today after he'd put 120,000
sino Americans or Japanese American
sorry into in such a internment camps
plus you mix it in the fact that they
would call him a hack industrialist
today it's so funny to me that FDR would
be considered at this point by people
like AOC and Cory Booker and Kamala
Harris to be some sort of hack moderate
and hot streak list the villagers in
Frank I'm trying to think of like why
you would see say aoc Kamala Harris and
Cory Booker that's a very offensive I
really right that's that's that was
right because on the merits like FDR if
we updated FDR to 2019 he would
obviously be to the left of Harrison
Booker what is the shared trait a
picture of them all it is just a strange
like of all the candidates that you
would mention at this point in the race
it's just weird
it's just weird I like I like history
based historical it's like Dennis Miller
gets to play by the standards of the
forties I'm a pretty progressive Billy
okay Chris Matthews called
a couple weeks ago call Kamala Harris
the hard left
it's hard left
yeah super hard let's super hard
fortunes too well that's funny to me
that they would use classic FDR
terminology listen I would only listen
one extra coda in the new Green Deal and
that would be that I would have to use
some sort of meat thermometer to catch a
little heat coming off alexandria
Cassio's Cortes his head off her brain
before I took anything she said
seriously because right now I think that
is a flatline electroencephalograph I
think she parrots exactly what she
thinks young people want to hear I
think she makes any sense and listen the
way they do it bill it's so funny to me
they use fancy jargon but you know in
some point they are advocating we go
into the agricultural community and
moderate some of the co2 discharges
there and then also that we at some
point do away with our travel and
retrofit all buildings now if I go back
in and say do you realize what it would
cost to retrofit every green building in
a matter every building make it green in
America if we did away with air travel
if we had a kid function as a fart caddy
to walk around behind towels and catch
it how crazy that is as soon as you say
it they say well we didn't say it quite
that way that's in essence what they're
saying and it's absolutely insane but
they don't care Miller you see in the
Miller New Deal
I would expect a responsible analysis of
the world's predicament and then if you
did give me some crazy thing I boy you
want it I said no you're out of your
mind you're you this but the press is so
enamored with this green new deal but
I'm gonna make a prediction right on the
no spin news tonight Miller in four
years perhaps to miss Cortez will not be
in Congress you know where she's gonna
be running for the White House
co-hosting the view I can almost
guarantee this is tickle them it's not I
mean it's not as fun anymore when
they're both basically in their basement
where the starters it they both do they
both sound horrible on their actual show
but they're coming from a bunker
doesn't it sound that way to you like
they haven't they haven't done any sound
deadening in there I mean I don't know
what the I may not I may have to pass on
the the Dennis Miller New Deal I don't
know if it's gonna be we're actually
gonna get it but it is sort of
fascinating how these guys just
completely focus on a very narrow band
of what constitutes Democrats I have a
very very very very elaborate weird and
frankly confusing way of just calling
somebody stupid bill Oh
he also said he feel like he oh he
accused somebody having fancy jargon is
that his entire
Dumon three three years from saying
indubitably I do I definitely wanted to
we're gonna have to dig through the
bench pero Dennis Miller stuff to really
dig just to compare the speeds yeah well
I'm on the hunt for a funny right-wing
comedian I'm ready to sit I'm out at pjo
war steven crowder see now that's why I
know I'm out of the loop I don't know
steven crowder is and I'm feel bad about
it he's like Nick DiPaolo this is
another guy regardless who you think of
his politics on tonight funny
[Laughter]
big-time I can't even do he made an
Obama isn't a war criminal observation
because he's to room temperature for
that by the way Dennis Miller you could
just say somebody's room temperature and
that works instead of like a heat off of
their brain
flatline ever talking about I thought
when he said that he was gonna connect
that with global warming like I gotta
tell you one thing that is in
contributing to co2 emissions
bop-bop-bop
but instead it just trailed on for the
convection oven
choo-choo-choo I gotta come up with a
way of saying that she's stupid but I'm
too I just don't have the energy you
guys it's a fleshie down all right well
a cephalic gram over he's so angry
especially what since three months ago
that he said he's going away from the
politics yeah exactly yes he's more
angry now than ever I just I googled him
to see and he it was literally it was
the exact same like you know title like
you know good comedian decides to wade
into conservative politics now he's
saying you know what I'm doubling down
we're doubling down on my insightful
various power political humor I was
gonna stop talking about politics but
then I realized there was a lot of women
who are getting a claim in the
Democratic Party so I had to continue on
it that people who are not necessarily
white so I could no longer be happy with
anybody who I respect his still friends
with him I'm gonna have to call anybody
I know and cut them off is that what
you're doing not really because it's
like people like you know like people
who were friends like Dana Carvey they
don't they tried to I'm sure that
everyone I'm sure there's nobody who's
actually friends with him he's such a
horrible human being inside and out now
how often do you talk to Nick DiPaolo I
know you know I haven't talked to him in
a long time and many many years in fact
I'm literally doing that thing where I'm
not gonna side watch what they're
talking
is it real how give me a one to ten
scale well he is the cover of his album
was him giving the finger to a bunch of
black lives matters people can't wait I
really got to have these next cover your
next cover
 you black lives matter I check and
make sure none of the dead though right
well that his first cover he was giving
the finger to one of the activists who
was shot I think by the cops and I would
say not a good choice I would say so he
apologized and he said I just found the
images online and hereif otoshi opted to
it's now all women of color I think but
they're doing a character you don't get
it he's doing a character yeah you know
what was great about Nick is that he
would maintain character even off-air
true I'd say come on you're killing me
Nick yeah you just do his character I
told this story when we will talk about
it and then when we I cast him in beat
cops back in like 20 years ago right he
had said maybe it was a morning
hee hee hee was moving back to New York
from LA he said to me and I said why is
that and he's like because you know they
won't give any parts to white guys out
there to make the pollo like hide you in
a bathroom or something when you were
doing like a comedy sketch comedy set
somewhere and some like Klansmen
attacked the stage is that what happened
well I admit that did did de pollo
were you in NICTA Paulo ever in a
situation where he hid you while some of
his potential brethren were out to get
you at a comedy club is horrible well
III why do I sound like I'm on trial
you're not you don't sound bad in this
example Andy I'm just curious let's hear
it Andy give it to me again cuz I didn't
hear it come to me I heard a story
recently that Feldman couldn't do a show
I forget where it was but there was
literally like enough local Nazi
activity whenever this was that the
local promoter was like no you're not
it's not safe for you not safe for the
club and so I'm wondering if if were you
and Nick DiPaolo ever in a situation
maybe the comedy club together both
doing sets and a certain part of the
audience maybe was not as charmed by
your heritage and your abundant
expression of your heritage and Nick
DiPaolo told his buddies to stand down
and that's one of the reasons you're so
fond of him
Lepus jew he said the jews okay Lebanon
say cuz I see because I feel like Nick
DiPaolo seems like actually a very nice
guy in that way so I could totally see
Andy's know him I know him from back in
the day but I never was in the same I'm
now denying any and you know I used to
think he was I mean he was funny but I
don't know what I'm sorry and throw him
under the bus based off your description
are they right yeah I just Kurt what
sobs Jay you know
all right well listen Andy so now what
so and I like I like what I do it I
could I do a mediocre set and I go
that's it that's all the time we have
the food wasn't very good and the
portions were small there's no better
joke than that joke and the food is so
today hey Sam you never asked me how I
am
how are you Andy
don't ask oh no no the bunch of
middle-aged Jewish ladies around for
lunch remember that one Andy yeah and
the way that comes up to the table and
what does he say Michael is anything all
right
hey the Jewish kid goes up to his father
he goes he goes back I borrow 50 bucks
in the father goes 40 bucks how can I
give you 30 bucks if I had $25 you think
I give you 15 now you won't get $10 or
I'm not giving you a dollar
[Laughter]
$20 I don't have 30 you think if I had
$25 I'll be given if I had 18 high
dollars Andy oh we got demonetized
what's that we got to monetize Andy the
extra monetizing us Andy so if people
want to catch you they just need to go
to Calgary Canada is that right I'm
going to be yeah I don't forget to
listen to my podcast which everybody's
talking about it schools thought spiral
with mean if you like one Jew you'll
like two Jews there you go it gets a
super spiral Laurie yeah I love you so
much and thank you for letting me bare
my soul today yeah no I was very excited
to hear that I'm glad you opened up with
this Andy I'm glad it didn't get too
much we got to save some I'm glad you
weren't too real I hope yeah I'm glad
you didn't get too sincere with us Andy
and always a pleasure love you buddy I
love you guys
I have a great weekend love you Andy
Kindler ladies and gentlemen Andy
Kindler
