[Music]
come from hey Sam this is Dawson from
Minneapolis Dawson from Minneapolis
welcome to the program
Thanks I've been listening since the
2016 presidential primary but in the
first-time caller you started listening
about you know to be honest kind of
funny I was looking for a clip of Trump
and I stumbled upon an M R video and for
like a split second I was like annoyed
that there was commentary like I just
wanted to watch the video but the more I
more I listen a little more I kind of
became a fan of the show I've found that
down exactly my experience in my
personal life - okay that's funny um so
yeah I have a question about organizing
in sort of arrow with what's going on in
North Carolina and stuff but since you
mentioned Laura Loomer and Ilhan Omar I
wanted to just clarify for listeners
that like Ilhan Omar her her base her
constituency is not conservative Muslims
it's actually largely young progressives
like people that I went to college with
are all her like highest level campaign
staffers and stuff and actually there's
a little bit of resentment from the
conservative Muslim community because
one of the first things Han did was come
out as like a hijab' refugee woman who
very much supported the LGBT community
which was appealing to me because like
you know I'm a straight person but
ethnically identify as gay so I thought
that that was a that was a good thing
that she did but um yeah so my TV wins
like what does that mean ethnically you
identify as gay it was a joke I was
referring back to that on your show oh
yeah thank you Bureau Ben Shapiro is
there are you talking about that oh yeah
yeah I was I was hopefully that one
wouldn't wouldn't drop like a lead
balloon or whatever anyway so my
question is basically so it seems to me
that like the scam that kind of they did
in North Carolina
all of the things that it occurs to me
as like an organizer that you could do
to prevent that type of fraud would
impact organizers ability to like
legitimately use the absentee balloting
process to basically go to folks get
them to sign up to vote absentee and
then assist them to the process
especially especially if those voters
are in a community that you know either
English is a second language or like you
know like in organizing in the Somali
diaspora here like it's really
imperative to do that absentee balloting
process and when you do that the only
thing that's stopping you once you have
the information contained on like an
absentee ballot application and using
that to vote for them is like your own
morale you know code that says that you
won't do that
so I guess my question for you guys
would be what do you propose is like a
policy solution to this type of all
election fraud that like wouldn't
disenfranchise voters and organizers
ability to get out the vote you mean in
terms of like absentee ballots yeah or
in general just like you know a lot of
the work that we do as organizers is to
do to legitimately get people to either
get them to the polls or to fill out
absentee ballots and a lot of the dirty
tricks is just kind of up to what the
organizer wants to do or not do or want
you know the risk that in organizer
wants to take I see what you're saying
so in terms of picking up the ballot at
the absentee at the home and then
transporting it is that where the so
it's a the process goes like this you go
and you you identify a supporter you
have them so on an absentee ballot and
then essentially submit it for them
knowing that then they'll get the ballot
in the mail and then you go back and
make sure that they filled up their
ballot and if they want you can send it
for them or they just say that they'll
basically send it themselves but the
information that you collect during that
process is enough information to go and
like let's say you change the address
you want about to be sent to like you
know some campaign office and then you
could with that information if you
wanted to get that ballot filled out for
them and submit it and then the church
means like that's basically they did in
North Carolina my I mean I can tell you
that
III don't know how it's done in North
Carolina I can tell you in New York that
I often vote by absentee ballot because
I'm out of County yeah where I'm
registered and the elector of the
electoral commissioners I don't think
they would send multiple ballots to one
location I just don't think that would
happen my experience has been like they
there's been times where they said like
this signature doesn't look like the one
that we have on file now you know that's
it's a rural situation there and so they
maybe you know have the resources or the
time to be a little bit more specific
but but I I definitely think that there
is some obviously some problems with
absentee ballots the way that they're
done and securing those right but I
don't know if there is a blanket fix for
this because there's no consistency in
the way that any of these states do it I
mean that's part of the problem frankly
is here's how I would start like I don't
know if I know the the answer to your
specific question I am aware that there
are in certain circumstances questions
as to like a secure chain of of control
or whatever you call it for the ballot
but here's where you would start
you need to make voting a federal right
and then once that happens the federal
government can normalize the process
across all the states and come up with a
solution for the problems you're talking
about that will be that whose
implementation can be judged according
to a set of actual standards across the
country so right I don't I'll have the
specific solution but I know the process
that has to happen and I know the way
that that process needs to start and
that is we
need a federal right to vote and we
don't have one and right the gutting of
the Voting Rights Act goes in the
complete opposite direction that we need
to be headed to so I completely agree
and I guess I just have one more comment
on that which is like you know prior to
this story breaking the kind of
narrative has been like okay on the Left
people are concerned about voter
disenfranchisement and on the right
people are concerned about voter fraud
and so if you're like a you know
somebody who's like especially dedicated
to being fair minded you could look at
that and see if it's kind of like you
know two sides of a coin but now with
this North Carolina situation that
battle theory has been dismantled
because you know the right has shown
basically a willingness to commit
election fraud in order to achieve their
own end of course but but but you know
look I've done many interviews over the
years about about voter ID and I would
say in 20 percent of them at least the
there has been a comment from that
person like if you're going to you know
the thing that really needs to be
secured is absentee ballots and right
and you know because there was a certain
amount of integrity in discussing the
issue the the Republican Party this
whole voter ID thing is a new phenomenon
it is 15 to 20 years old and it is a
response to a concern on their part that
they are going to lose based on
demographics and look they're right I
don't know if it's because of
demographics but if you look at like the
actual vote tallies of the past 20 years
midterm on your elections there is a
very clear trend that Republicans are
losing in terms right now how people
vote them it's just the bottom line
and so you get all these things to
mitigate that gerrymandering voter
suppression etc etc I mean this has been
a long-held tenant of the Republican
Party Paul Wyrick I think it was right
was a Paul Ryan could the other guy I
can't I get them confused said
specifically Republicans do better when
less people vote yeah appreciate the
call Dawson
yeah Poe Wyrick I don't yeah everybody
to vote was it Paul wiring but see the
the direct mail King what I call the
googoo syndrome good government they
want everybody to vote I don't want
everybody to vote elections are not won
by a majority of people they never have
been from the beginning of our country
and they are not now as a matter of fact
our leverage in the election quite
candidly goes up as the voting populous
goes down hmm there you have it
oh he co-founded the Heritage Foundation
moral majority free Congress foundation
American Legislative Exchange Council
mm-hmm and continues the hosts weekly
Wow yep
extensive good work he's like the David
Day in a fascist he just used that now
for everything
