[Music]
should we go is this just we just have a
picture that right there's not a video
of Scott Walker's Venn diagram oh yeah
it's just a picture Scott Walker the
this guy is just a horrible human being
he just signed a I can't even make sense
of what this Venn diagram is supposed to
be now
Scott Walker just signed the law by the
that was passed by the Wisconsin
Assembly and Senate that essentially and
North Carolina had done this before
Republicans they are just incredibly
anti-democratic and and I mean there's
really no other way to put that and you
know I was I was starting to think about
the the debate I had with with Adam Koch
Esch who was a perfectly nice guy and he
was upset I watched one of his follow-up
videos and it was okay I mean it wasn't
you know wasn't terribly dramatic but he
was really upset that I didn't have any
first-order ethics that shaped my
perspective on what government should
function as and apparently the the the
idea that government should provide as
much benefit as possible to as many
people as possible was was not
sufficient for him I mean I think it's
it's sort of like a like a religious
fundamentalist saying like okay well
that doesn't that doesn't count because
it doesn't mention
you know like your perspective on on
first order doesn't count cuz it doesn't
mention God like well okay but I don't
believe in God and so you know I mean
I'm just using an analogy there but the
libertarian ethos this notion of freedom
and you know the non-aggression
principle really doesn't in any way the
words democracy small D democracy never
come up in what libertarians talk about
in at the end of the day if you go down
some of those roads and I and I've
rarely gone down those roads and I know
we don't live in a democracy we live in
a republic in this I get it but
theoretically
when we talk about American values
democracy is supposedly one of them I
mean certainly we have killed a lot of
people around the world in in an effort
to make them more democratic and as far
as things we celebrate his sport
historically the expansion of democracy
is one of those things ostensibly it's
one of the things that make us you know
super special yeah and the reason why
I'm on the opposite end of the political
spectrum from out of kokeshi is I
believe in more democracy over the
economy as well as the political
government and and I think we all do
here Jamie goes even further down that
road but you can really see like you
know a lot of times he was seeing all
these like op eds now where people like
it the Republicans don't really seem to
care about democracy and if it wasn't a
hint that for decades they've been
talking about how they want less people
to vote and for at least a couple of
decades not quite a full on two decades
there has been a an active campaign to
disenfranchise voters like a an
institutional campaign to do that I
think that came up in the early aughts
like we're going to impose a new set of
voting restrictions and I should say
conservatives you know we're doing this
from well at one point
we don't even count our our slaves as as
humans we want some goodies if we count
them but we're not gonna give them any
rights it's not really democracy and
after that in the Jim Crow era things
like you know a poll tax things like
literacy requirements to vote those are
all institutional anti-democratic
mechanisms that disenfranchise not just
black people but also poor people right
I mean a poll tax poor people of any and
all races and then you you come up into
the modern day where they start to have
these voter IDs and the you know even if
it's like we won't accept a college
student IDs will take your gun permit
that'll be fine and if you want a
driver's license that's okay but we just
we don't have DMV offices in your
neighborhood sorry about that it's gonna
cost you another day or two s worth of
work if you don't get fired to actually
be registered to vote nevermind to
actually vote so there is a huge deep
abiding anti-democratic sentiment within
the conservative mind within the
libertarian mind within the Republican
Party and Scott Walker embodies all that
it embraces all of that we saw it in
2011 when he attacked public sector
unions there and the health care despite
the fact that nobody wanted him to do so
they didn't vote for him to do that we
see it amongst the Republican Party in
Michigan when they applied and and they
even though there was a referendum
against the emergency manager law they
overrode it and brought you Flint the
disaster that was Flint as a function of
that in North Carolina we saw the same
thing when the Democratic governor was
elected
the Republican House and Senate in the
lame-duck session
stripped away prior authority that that
Democratic governor had and and other
institutions to increase democracy and
here is Scott Walker has just signed a
bill doing the same thing and then comes
up with what purports to be a Venn
diagram and I for the life of me I can't
understand what it is now none of the
powers that he lists appointment
Authority administrative rules Authority
budget Authority veto Authority
line-item veto Authority executive order
Authority I I don't I don't think he
knows what a Venn diagram is a Venn
diagram is supposed to be here is a set
of of rule of attributes and where you
know that are in Group A and Group E and
a Venn diagram merges those so that the
ones that are within these sort of what
do you call that shape like an overlap
like a an oval I guess an oval o sharp
edged oval those are where there's
overlap those those are powers that are
in both camps and I can't even make head
nor tail of what he's done here which is
probably effective because essentially
what it does it strips the Evers
administration of a huge amount of
thority in terms of redistricting and in
terms of appointing people and in terms
of the budget it's really horribly
anti-democratic small D and it's
disgusting and I I mean one would
imagine and they're set up these
anti-democratic measures are set up to
retain power and until Democrats fully
grasp this that that's what the
Republicans do and begin to emulate
not in shrinking democracy but in
edifying democracy so good for the
Democrats and I hope they follow through
on this in announcing when they take
over that they're going to pass various
forms of voting rights federal voting
rights they should go further they
should re reestablish the section 5 of
the Voting Rights Act I mean on and on
and on but they need to go further with
this and obviously the Senate has to
follow up if they get the Senate back
with things like card check allowing for
more democracy in the context of giving
people the opportunity don't put up
false roadblocks in people's opportunity
to unionize give more protections for
voters create a mode of voter
registration as a federal law that is
you know one of the things but these
things which will both edify Democrats
but all you need to do to to for
Democrats to edify their power is to
expand democracy because we see this
time and time again there we just went
through a midterm election where there
was 10 million 11 million more votes
cast for Democrats than Republicans now
granted you only saw that reflected in
the house you didn't see that reflected
in the the right way in terms of state
houses in Pennsylvania in Wisconsin in
Michigan in Ohio where you have intense
gerrymandering where Democrats win the
majority of the seats and win the
majority of the actual vote and then get
trounced when it comes to seats in
Wisconsin I think they won 56% of the
vote and the the numbers in the and the
Senate and the house or something like
65 to 35% represented by Republicans to
Democrats I mean anybody can tell that
there's a problem there and so if the
Democrats regain some type of operator
no power they must pursue a whole host
of Democratic small D measures because a
that's a an important value in a vacuum
but be it also helps them retain power
against anti-democratic forces here you
have Ron de santis saying that amendment
4 which calls for the reinstating of
voting rights of 1.5 million ex-felons
in Florida and De Santis of course needs
to stop this from happening because he
believes it's going to hurt him at the
ballot box and so he comes up with this
idea that state lawmakers must approve a
an implementation bill that he signs as
opposed to just like there's no
implementation bill needed here the
executive can say hey all those people
on your voter list when you look them up
and it says can't vote ex-felon just
allow them to register period end of
story that's all that needs to happen he
could do that he has the executive
authority to do that
he is slow-walking this and hoping that
something goes wrong and it's incredibly
undemocratic now the Democrats are have
a new gerrymandering plan in New Jersey
and they're trying basically to
gerrymander like the Republicans did but
it's not quite the same right like
they're putting it up to a vote and I
think there's some major differences
that beauchamp misses in this you're
putting it up yeah we should actually
read it more but but it's a problem
regardless of who does it but putting
out but having independent rewriting of
districts and
all you need is to be Democratic and
Democrats will win that's just they
there are more Democratic voters than
Republican ones that's just an
undisputed fact by people who would vote
for Democrats that they could vote and
that's true too but I can take you know
if I proportion portion different parts
of the country in such a way then yes I
can come up with areas where there's
more Republicans than not but the
reality is if done in a fair way and
fair by being just 50/50 proportioning
Democrats are gonna win the vast
majority of elections yeah this is this
is a first principle right people should
be represented and democratically
represented in government and just
because expanding those rights gives you
partisan advantage doesn't mean you
shouldn't do it right
and the fact that any Democrats are
either not doing anything about this
issue or actively making it worse should
say something about how not all
Democrats are the same not all Democrats
are good come
