let me just give you a sense before we
go into the fun half couple months ago I
don't know when it was four or five
months ago three or four months ago I
was invited to politican and I am you
know I am of literally ambivalent about
that conference because it in many ways
just makes politics about entertainment
and I mean we do a show like that but we
try and maintain some integrity that we
try and be entertaining but we also try
and deliver stuff that is is meaningful
and to to center a conference around
political celebrities rather than let's
say you know policy people or activists
seems to me to be a little bit dubious
but the other part of that is I'm also
aware of the space in which we operate
and the reality of and where we operate
and many people watch this show on
YouTube and frankly the right is
influencing a lot of young people on
this medium and so my sense was all
right well maybe I can if I if I go I
can get into a debate with somebody and
show some young people who are watching
videos so I know a lot of lucky young
people do that and this is where they
get their political education and I did
not want certain voices out there to
have that whole space to themselves and
present a perspective that is I think
wrong and dangerous and unhealthy for
the country and have no one challenged
it and so when they asked me if I would
come I said yeah I will if I can debate
someone and I was trying to think about
who I would want to debate and the first
thing that I want the first requirement
was like I want them to have
a YouTube following because that means
that their status is you know very
largely supported by audiences and I
want to reach their audience now of
course I threw out Dave Rubin and I was
told that he's not coming and which was
a smart move are kicking in right
competition would start kicking in and
there was other I think at one point
they said what about my lo Yan innopolis
was one of the first people they wanted
to commit when I was like no why would I
bait this guy no one cares about him
anymore no one watches him be able to
beat him for politican 2016 well exactly
exactly I mean the the point being that
my agenda was to separate someone from
their audience in some measure not the
entire audience is the you know portion
of it that might be get about and so we
went over a couple of people and we we
finally realized like oh steven crowder
he does that thing where he goes to
colleges and tries and makes college
students look bad because they don't
know supposedly what he knows in terms
of politics and so I said Crowder and
the people are like great Stevens
interested in a debate and it all looked
good and then at one point like they're
writing me back and they're not
mentioning Crowder anymore and I was
like hey what's going on with the debate
with Crowder what day is that gonna be
and they said can we make a can we have
a phone call with you now here's the
thing in this space when there's a phone
call they you know people don't want
emails released right and I was told on
this phone call that steven crowder
ghosted literally stopped responding to
their emails and decided and i think the
quote was
pretty sure the quote was somebody got
cold feet that's my cup Crowder is his
mind after all no there was also and and
I was like well and she said something
the person I spoke to said something to
the effect of like his team or something
he's in his crew and apparently his dad
is his manager or something no thank you
and and so now I think it was smart of
steven crowder to avoid debating me at
politican yeah he can't just go up there
and put on a tutu and say Stalin it's
not gonna work site wasn't what he has a
sign out here all right let's get let's
take that out nice try but he has as you
can see he's sitting out there he has a
sign this has changed my mind I would
like to invite steven crowder
to come on this program and I will
attempt to change his mind or I will go
on his program an attempt to change his
mind or I will meet him anywhere at
nearly any time at my expense to have
the opportunity to change his mind with
the one stipulation that we record it on
video with sound so steven crowder if
you are 1/16 the man that you proposed
to be you purport to be I am I am
issuing you a very specific challenge to
debate you if it's if I have it wrong
that you did not chicken out from
debating me at politican like shake it
out so much that you decided not to even
attend then we can obviously very easily
come together and debate on any topic so
I will host you on any time any platform
in any way to debate
and I guess well here look because
Steven I know you are watching or
hearing this and everybody else knows it
too there's no way you're not aware that
I've issued this challenge now you knew
it was coming when you backed out a
politican because you were afraid of
debating me and here it is so you know
where to find us majority reporters at
gmail.com if you want to get us an email
or you can tweet at me and I will of
course follow this up with a tweet to
you and I imagine you know I don't know
if you'll block me or mute me but I'm
sure somebody's gonna get you the
message so Steven we'll see you soon
