[Music]
here it is well yeah let's let's get
back to the point about the this story
in The New Yorker about a an Israeli
private Israeli spying firm essentially
I don't know what else to call it it's a
private Israel arrived at spying firm
that's what they dubbed themselves as a
private Mossad they are apparently
allowed to work with impunity in this
country as long as they don't beat
anybody up but they have been sending
intimidating emails and flyers and
trying to silence critics of of Israel's
they they broke up when the mauler
investigation started because apparently
they were it's somehow involved in some
ways peripherally with the Trump
campaign I think the kondal it was Newt
Gingrich not surprising yeah and and
meanwhile this is all center around we
had a Senate bill that I think passed
that said or did it pass or they get it
they kept pushing it that basically
criminalizing the any type of like
articulated support for the BDS movement
which was you know to divest or boycott
any states have already done this New
York Texas we saw that that terrifying
story of the speech pathologist in Texas
who lost her job a couple months ago
right and and the idea that Elano Maher
was was in some way speaking out of turn
its bolide by a lot of the facts that
come up and but fortunately for those of
us who are concerned about anti-semitism
Scott Perry from Pennsylvania a
Republican representative from
Pennsylvania's 10th district basically
sets those of us who may be critical of
Israel straight other things be careful
about the parsing which seems to be
happening where you can say that you're
not for the government
of Israel but you for the for the Jewish
people the Jewish people form the
government of Israel be the State of
Israel is formed by the Jewish people
and in Durham aligning the the
government and the State of Israel at
the same time they are they're congruent
they have one in the same they are the
Jewish people and I think that's the
biggest thing we can do well it's a
pretty anti-semitic comment I mean it's
an anti-semitic comment it also and also
you know I think probably accidentally
indicates that he doesn't think that
there is a democracy there in Israel I
should tell you that we as Jews do not
get together and get to vote on the
government Israel I am Jewish I have not
been able to vote in any of these really
elections since well really since the
mid 60s I haven't been able to vote in
any of those elections here's the guy's
incredibly ignorant about what he's
talking about but is Jew splaining to
people well and you know and let's be
real oh this is who the Alliance is
built with from modern Israel I mean
this is who Netanyahu's friends with
these are the all of the far-right you
know racist parties from la cude on left
I mean I I think we got to be even when
you look at like gosh what is it Yosh
kateed the Yair lapid's party labor I
mean these are center-right parties do
you have like Moretz which is liberal
and they're totally marginalized right
and then you have you know like joint
list which fell apart but a couple of
like Arab and socialist parties that are
on the left so you know the Israeli
government is really foreign policy has
really cultivated aligning with these
people and it's funny because when
people like Olmert and Barak said we
can't sustain having an apartheid state
and that's like their word not mine
although I do also use that word they
would say it's untenable in the long
term because even just specifically
American Jews care about things like
civil rights and people like Netanyahu
were like well that may be true but
there's a whole other set of people
right we can strike political alliances
with to do whatever the hell we want
that's right
we don't need American jewelry if we
have American evangelicals American
evangelicals or a European neo fast
right I mean you know or or or frankly
you know just China or Russia and other
countries that just generally are like
not wanting to talk about sort of human
dignity questions let's go to
governments phones calling from a 6-4
