[Music]
speaking of sickening we have one more
clip from the California Democratic
convention we played that John Delaney
clip is that his name
that is now the third time I probably
said John Delaney's name he's worse
dining on Twitter all day today I bet
now I wondered when John Delaney got up
there and I still wonder about this this
doesn't make any sense to me and you
know Brendan tried to explain it to me
but I don't know why you would go up
there and say the thing why would you go
up and say medicare-for-all is bad
policy and not sort of roll out your own
like idea or just like why even say
medicare-for-all is bad policy why not
just come out and say here's a good
policy like as if there is a big it just
seems to me to be like tin ear ism like
even if the vast majority of California
Democrats in that room are not
socialists are not socialist friendly
although I think you probably are not
following California democratic politics
very well if you're not aware that at
least some of the more vocal people are
at the very least would see that as some
type of knock on Bernie wily why go up
with that within and fly that banner if
you're trying to appeal to sort of the
more conservative Democrats are they
really like do you really need to like
that's the way you burnish those
credentials it seems very strange to me
the only other reason I could think is
like it's the only way they get
attention it's one of the things that
I've learned the only reason we're ever
talking about everybody's doing the
thing where they just redefine Medicare
for all to be what they want it yeah
it's a tension economy and that is mean
why else would we ever talk about
Hickenlooper Delaney they're terrible
politicians if bad
policy there unfathomably boring why
would we and so here is Hickenlooper
trying to get on the majority report
socialism is not the answer I was
reelected
I was reelected in a purple state in
2014 one of the worst years for
Democrats in a quarter century I was you
know if we're not careful we're going to
end up helping to reelect the worst
president in American history we should
not try to tackle climate change by
guaranteeing every American a government
job hold on hold on Wow you know what
it's an IV slot that's what it is he's
gonna get 1% of the vote but he wants
another talking head job yeah maybe
that's what it is but and maybe he
believes that but his it sounds like
he's more suited to run for something in
Colorado now John from San Antonio get
mad at me but I mean it's just I just
don't understand this if you want to
come across as the sort of like positive
candidate just to lay out a positive
agenda but the you know we used to call
this hippie punching back in the day and
it's why why you would do that as a
candidate makes no sense to me like you
need the argument is we need to appeal
as to as many people as possible so I'm
going to stand out there and argue that
punch you I'm gonna start my speech
saying that we need to get as many
people as possible by dissing some of
you that just doesn't make any sense it
just doesn't make any sense immediately
lose parts of the crowd right exactly
like I'm going to prove to you that I'm
going to prove to you yeah here's here's
a looper I just said um I just it's just
striking to me though because they're
they're doing like a bad version of the
famous you know bad thing that Bill
Clinton did to humiliate Jesse Jackson
what sister souljah
but like that was actually like I'm just
not talking morally here but like it's
one thing to sim
luckily take on a powerful individual
like Jesse Jackson that represents
something
Bill Clinton didn't just go up there and
say oh yeah by the way the rainbow
coalition right he'll suck like he did
alike you know I'd be there that's just
bizarre I don't see the root of even if
you're challenging an audience to say
I'd like your vote you're all a bunch of
idiots I have totally different values
it's even more specific than that it's
like you shouldn't call people idiots
you idiots this is a guy doesn't do
politics well here he is on Chris Hayes
program people together right the
question I always ask is like what what
sort of magic do you have or what what
trick have you figured out that everyone
else hasn't right the Barack Obama I
think everyone agrees is whether they
liked him substituted a lot one of the
most talented politicians in recent
memory had a huge mandate had huge
majorities right and Mitch McConnell
basically did everything he could to
obstruct him like in what universe does
John Hickenlooper not encounter the same
problem well I think that in in part
it's Who I am
you know I'm probably the one person
running for president that never ran for
student council and high school do you
really think like your personality is
such that Mitch McConnell is gonna bring
stuff up to a vote because of who you
are no no Mitch McConnell's is the
exception and when we took on the NRA
and these would be popular destiny he
controls one of the two legislative
branches of the United States Congress I
understand that you certainly have to go
talk to him just so that the people that
follow him and respect him wouldn't feel
diminished but in the in the end you've
got to do what you've got to do to get
stuff done and I think you know both as
a small businessperson I spent 17 years
as an entrepreneur and a small business
person you learn different skills of
negotiation and you build relationships
in ways that other people don't look at
look at Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan
they hated each other at first right
they were at each other's throats and
yet in the end over a period of time
they came to know each other and they
got big things done right but tip
o'neill and Ronald Reagan and in my
colleague in the our previous wrote a
whole book about this is very good book
I'd recommend you know it's just a
different political era right the
polarization of the two parties hasn't
settled in you still got Southern
Democrats who are sort of traditionally
there's all sorts of structural things
in 30 years that have changed and I
think the argument the people on the
other side of this sort of debate have
right is that if you go into these
structurally polarized politics thinking
with a 1983 model you're gonna get
you're you're gonna get the four white
with you you know I'm not using that
model I'm using the model of human
nature and and when I ran for mayor in
2003 though I can't again good for good
for Chris Hayes in just sort of like
just very politely saying like you've
got to be kidding me the only part that
wasn't polite was when he really
emphasized to like hey you're 1983
couldn't even give him 1990s constant
right all the world but the two things
that I thought were great there besides
the obvious was that one you know was
the well I am white subtext and then the
second one was did you see with like the
tiniest bit of prodding that's actually
not different than what Bernie Sanders
would say it's like sure like I'm
politician of course I'll open like no
one is running even the most aggressive
candidacy saying I'm gonna go in and
just you know offer bills and not speak
to anybody in Congress and not you know
attempt to move through things through
Congress like every single person is
aware of how literally the logistics of
the place works so when he got pushed it
was like yeah well I mean I literally
will have a meeting with Mitch McConnell
he's the Senate Majority Leader it's
like yeah I would imagine any president
will have be in the same room as Mitch
McConnell at some point buddy it's like
if that's your his I mean rewatch that
yeah there was a time though I mean that
that I think there was a lot more
sentiment amongst you know the
mainstream media that like boom that
seems very reasonable you're gonna go in
and sit down and have a tete-a-tete with
him I mean it's it's a bizarre frame
that is really anachronistic and you
know the other thing Joe Biden said this
too right and
I think it was a real missed opportunity
and maybe it's one of those situations
where it's like you know the prisoner's
dilemma nobody wants to take this
opportunity but it was a real missed
opportunity for some of the candidates
to not do not essentially say wait a
second Joe you're saying that you're
better than Barack Obama like you're are
you are you what are you saying here
that you could do this better than
Barack Obama blew it in other words I
mean if without the Republicans you're
gonna be without Donald Trump you're
gonna be able to go in and deal with the
Republicans in Mitch McConnell so you're
saying that Barack Obama was bad at it
just because that's one of the two
things that I think has to happen for
Joe Biden to drop in the polls one and
maybe even not even need to be separated
cleaved from from Barack Obama but to a
certain extent and he has to be shown as
being vulnerable and they should find
this clip specifically if Harry Reid
going right to the edge of after
praising Obama I think in very authentic
terms because you know Reid's a
conservative Democrat he had some
disagreements with Obama but he said
Obama's the best president I ever worked
with I believe was the quote and then he
said but I really tried hard to convince
him that he could not basically make
deals with these people because of who
they are and the host I think was
Axelrod was kind of like you know are
you saying that some of it had something
to do a race and Reid basically it was
like you know I'm gonna answer that in
such a way where I can't explicitly I'm
not gonna just say that but yes
absolutely 100% and I think if you have
you got a quote from somebody like Harry
Reid that spoke to race Obama's
leadership quality and why that
approached failed and you'd read it to
Joe Biden and said what do you think
about this quote Joe it would be very
effective on like all three grids of his
argument bless me Father for I have
sinned
