so alright put this tweet up will you of
Donald Trump and this is happening
Tuesday night Trump tweets out that I he
is pleased to inform you that I will
address the nation on the humanitarian
and national security crisis on our
southern border Tuesday night at 9:00
p.m. Eastern I think he gave a clue this
morning as to what that was about but
wait let's just scroll down because I
think Phil Henry yeah Phil Henry got a
good job lying about Syria withdrawal
the done deal with North Korea losing
billions of dollars in business with a
Chinese to the Russians and selling a
humanitarian crisis where it was once an
invading horde of terrorists Phil Henry
got there first
good for him but this I think clip from
Donald Trump on the White House lawn
today or yesterday this morning no this
was over the weekend over the weekend I
think gives you a sense of where the
administration is going they're going to
try and declare some type of state of
emergency on the border it's hard to
know what fiction they're gonna present
but you can bet that Fox is going to go
deep into the archives for video footage
to cover this but here is Donald Trump
on the White House lawn talking about
the potential of declaring a national
emergency and I suspect that's what he's
gonna do
Tuesday night
I may declare a national emergency
dependent on what's going to happen over
the next few days we have a meeting vice
president pence and a group will be
going to a certain location that you
know where that is and they'll be having
another meeting I don't expect to have
anything happen at that meeting but I
think we'll have Gorgias the vice
president but I think we're going to
have some very serious talk come Monday
Tuesday Wednesday we have to have border
security if we don't have border
security we're gonna be crime ridden and
it's going to get worse and worse yeah
so he is you know this is gonna be a big
test for the the media I think you know
they blew it on the caravan as far as
I'm concerned the there should be
Universal except for of course Fox just
outraged I mean this is this is I don't
think as bad as lying the country into a
war in Iraq certainly not as bad in
terms of the implications of it this is
just a this is just gonna be a pretend
thing where Donald Trump figures out how
to get five billion dollars for his
emergency he's gonna build a couple of
you know miles of steel not the concrete
slats wall slats walls wall slats
whatever he's gonna you know jibber
jabber mentioned but the this you know
every single person in the media should
be basically holding the other
Republicans to account because that's
what this is really about Donald Trump
is just you know he's a loose cannon and
the only people who can stop them really
her in the Senate in the Republican
Party so all of those people need to be
held to account they won't be but that's
what should happen really it's insane
it's a little bit insane
