[Music]
let's hear andrew yang you know I mean
look to be fair do yang I think that
he's probably running to promote the
idea of of a ubi and and I think in some
respects also helpfully demonstrates
that a ubi can go one of two ways not
always necessarily the way that we'd
want it to go on the left his reasons
why Milton Friedman was a big fan of ubi
nevertheless you got to expect
particularly if you're in the second you
know if you make it to the top tier of
the debate right there's been 1215 legit
candidates who have been jettisoned from
the island at least of the debates you
got to be prepared to answer some
foreign policy questions and here's
Andrew yang responding to questions
about what he would do in regards to
foreign aid and Israel um so in terms of
the money we're giving to an ally like
Israel my first instinct would be like
why would we reduce it you know and so
so certainly if I communicated something
else like that's not the the idea at all
there are certain relationships we have
that to me we need to rebuild and
strengthen and I would suggest that our
relationship with Israel is one of them
you know you'd have to look at in a case
by case and say like what's happening in
terms of our bilateral relationship with
a particular party but my my zeal is to
try and build strong alliances and
partnerships if someone's been working
with us for a long time they should feel
like they're being rewarded for that
frankly and then if someone has an
interest in working with us we should be
open to rewarding not to but for each
country you know like you'd have to look
at what's going on at that time and what
the lead-in has been so when it comes to
laying
in Israel that's being taken even though
it was granted to certain Palestinian
families by the UN how do you feel about
constricting Israel almost to prevent
that from happening and constricting
political influence by American leaders
in Israel I'm not sure I understand the
question I'll answer it more generally
which is like my stance on this is that
it's going to be hard for the United
States to constrict like an ally or
really just about any of its partners in
a decision that they feel is central to
them and I don't think that's our
priority it's not that we're somehow
giving people AIDS that we can then
twist their arm about things that you
know that they find important I gotta
say this seems to be a complete
fundamental misunderstanding of what
foreign policy is first off he perceives
our relationships with other countries
as if we were business partners and that
a we don't have any national security
interests be that we don't have any
guiding principles or that we hope to
essentially you know even pretend to
promote around the world I mean look if
you know we hear a lot that we need to
support Israel because it's the only
democracy in the Middle East now I think
that is a pretty dubious claim in terms
of it being a democracy or at least
depends on how loose you want to define
democracy but if that is the case well
what's the point we want to promote
democracy and we want to promote
anything else we want to promote
democracy in Palestine do we want to
promote democracy in other places the
idea that we don't as a that the United
States has not attempted to constrict
allies
I mean all countries but allies their
behavior that's just absurd that's
exactly what you do try and get their
their policies to align with yours I
mean I just want to elaborate one is
that this is actually basically the same
thing that he said essentially to Mehdi
Hasan when he was given an opportunity
at foreign policy questions several
months ago so I don't think it's
definitely not just that he doesn't know
what he's talking about it's that and
frankly look he's a corporate centrist
Democrat from Manhattan it's not
terribly surprising he'd have a la cude
nic position and that is the other thing
that I do want to say do you really not
understand that that question I think
about Palestinians being disabled I
think he understood that / that's my
point
I mean I'm going back to this Mehdi
Hassan interview he's got a right wing
position on those issues and I will say
it's absolutely not terribly it's
certainly the same as everybody from the
delegation from New York they all
basically say the same thing
even if they nod at some point towards
vaguely acknowledging the obscene human
rights violations there you hear their
all time oh you can't do it Israel you
know if you pressure Israel they'll get
even more scared like some type of like
you know cornered animal or something so
I I think you know Andrew yang does in
fact like a lot of other issues it's
very odd that he doesn't feel a need to
even just say like hey I'm basically
running on one thing he wants to say
that he has viable positions on other
things and usually when he was viable
positions and other things there too the
hard right you know particularly on
these types of foreign policy stuff so
you know that's just reality I'm sure a
lot of people will get freaked out by
that but that is what it is
