[Music]
so Joe Biden still leads in the polls
though there's a new poll where Joe
Bernie Sanders has finally overtaken him
in New Hampshire but about time if
you're a New Hampshire person and you're
listening to this and you're not
actively working to get Bernie Sanders
elected you need to stop listening to
earn this often get going for Bernie but
the sander the Biden campaign has also
been saying basically the that Iowa is
not make-or-break I believe is the kind
of indications that are coming out which
is a very bad sign if they're doing that
this far out from the caucuses it's so
far loses Iowa New Hampshire this is
really an entirely different dynamic I
mean look South Carolina is a very
strong state for Joe Biden and I
wouldn't count him out
and in fact I still just because I want
to be cautious about this because I
really do think people were kind of
naive about his appeal coming out of the
gate and underestimated it if he has a
decent debate performance tonight
there's the narrative for the next
several weeks because he's been getting
beaten up on for a long time he hasn't
looked good if he can pull it together
like your analysis should not be
predicated on the fact that he's
definitely gonna collapse unfortunately
that's not true
as much as we all very much want it to
be true that being said I mean you talk
about like the establishment is held
together by glue and gum the fact that
Joe Biden who really clearly might not
be physically mentally up for doing this
in addition to having a decade's long
terrible record in all of the key issues
as well as things like the bankruptcy
bill they are still talking electability
as just on a performance level that
becomes increasingly questionable here's
a Richard Haass he's the head of the
Council on Foreign Relations and they're
talking with the Morning Joe team about
the electability argument and to either
Elizabeth Warren or Bernie's
the other possibility is Joe Biden does
really well and for Democrats that is
the best bet because it's gonna be
pretty hard for an Elizabeth Warren or
Carla Harris to establish that comfort
level with perhaps the people who voted
for Trump who need a place to go who
won't do it again they'll vote for Biden
I'm not sure that vote for anyone else
in the Democratic field well you know so
the hope for the Democrats the best hope
is that Biden gets it gets really strong
what Donald Trump's team thinks is even
if they don't vote for Biden right yeah
they will stay home thinking well Biden
isn't a quote Socialist Biden is not
gonna take away my family's health and
Trice Biden is not going to make us
comfort like find a new competition for
our children Biden is not going to
destroy their lies
illegal immigration all of these exhibit
so they go I'm not gonna vote for the
guy but I can't vote for Donald Trump
either the guy is just acting too crazy
I'm gonna stay at home and would be one
of those scenarios right whereas with
Elizabeth Warren they believe whether
it's were those of a Florin or Bernie
Sanders they will actually motivate
people who were skeptical on Trump yeah
to go out and vote and I think a lot of
Democrats certainly behind the scenes
agree with that analysis coming up a lot
so I have no doubt that Democrats behind
the scenes believe that analysis
Democrats who thought that you could
shudder think for another thing for
progress blog basically replace it with
scabs and nobody would notice there's a
lot of people who would talk to Joe
Scarborough and backgrounds who are
identified with the Democratic Party who
are more out of touch with reality than
Donald Trump and I just want to say I
mean this projection and I look there is
no question that there might be some
people who get freaked out by the
socialism word there's a ton of areas
that Elizabeth Warren is vulnerable on
including ones that she should be
vulnerable on and
ones that are frankly just massage me
but this is like the quintessential clip
of the projection of the proof of the
media class with normal voters the
people who flipped from Trump from Obama
to Trump that are not either just become
right-wing reactionary crackpots and are
now Republicans or people who are
totally disaffected which might be a
thing I the key distribution of a couple
hundred thousand people maybe even less
in Wisconsin Pennsylvania and Michigan
voted for Trump and the pill and the
polling bears this out if you get into
the details of the polling because of
promises on economic questions and if
you look at what the center is in the
country even what the center is in the
United Kingdom for God's sake it is to
the right on social issues to the left
on economic issues period these people's
assertions are their own psychological
needs and projections this is what they
will do but unfortunate but but
fortunately for us Bernie Sanders
doesn't need to win Westchester he
doesn't need to win the MSNBC greenroom
he needs to win Michigan and
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin which he is
better positioned to do than any other
candidate
besides possibly joe biden and joe biden
can be picked apart for voting for every
single trade agreement that has
decimated these states for voting for
and pushing through the bankruptcy bill
that has gutted millions of americans
lives and for various other key
corporate assaults on the very people
that these delusional moronic crazy
ghouls claim to be speaking for yeah we
can Joe here's a hot take has no more
international value than diamond took
far less entertainment fell oh
absolutely I just want to add you know
we all we've been going back and forth a
lot about whether people all voted for
Trump out of racism or economic anxiety
right and I think you know probably on
balance it's more racism but the people
who did vote for Trump out of economic
anxiety are all in those swing
stays and I would hope if someone can
speak to their class interests in the
way that Bernie does and show how much
Trump's promises are garbage that they
can they could come along and it doesn't
mean changing on any of these social
issues it doesn't mean that the
Democrats are going to get more racist
it it means that we're going to speak to
their economic interests and say we
don't want any of that other nonsense
none of them are talking about
compromising in fact of course Bernie's
put forward strong issue okay on things
like civil rights but they're a really
important thing to mention because they
only go with what will depress turnout
if you look at the maps of this counties
that went Obama to Trump in terms of
donor base it's Bernie small dollar
donations from counties that went from
Obama the Trump Bernie dominates in
terms of donations and also I also want
to mention that there is the X Factor
that Biden does not have which is all of
the people who don't normally vote all
of the people who did not turn out last
time around who could maybe be persuaded
to turn out this time around if somebody
speaks to their economic interests and
those people are by and large poor
they're by and large less white than the
people who currently vote so hopefully
Bernie has a case to be made they're
absolutely
