[Music]
calling from a 508 area code
dude are you calling from Central Mass
I'm calling from Omaha but I'm
originally from whisper this is what's
the mic Oh what's the mic what's up how
you been I'm doing well how are you so
uh I had a interesting thing I was on
Facebook today and I got this sponsored
site that I should check out called the
intellectual dark web community what are
you doing on Facebook bro what are you
doing on Facebook brought you like
sitting on Facebook like I have like a
rational response to you and whatever
and now you add words are all messed up
yeah I guess I don't know what happened
but somehow I got locked in the
algorithm so I have actually gone on to
the IDW community site wait I don't
understand how can I do that if it's
actually the dark web how do you get
there you have to hack it no idea did
you say I think they sucked me into the
matrix what's the password
did you know the password you know I
think they're trying to talk to gene I
got many miles to go yes where these
ideas the password is hierarchy good
passwords ideas except the B's
capitalized like you never remember that
Seabury to get add so I I was I was
actually just calling to ask if you knew
about this and and to say that if you
did I think it's malfeasance that you
haven't told us about it for about a
year now and I've not heard about this
dude sent a link sin delay I think we
not heard I need to be strategic about
this but we need we do need some of the
fans to set up sleeper cells on that and
just just reconnaissance senator stop
being strategic is to use the phrase
sleeper cell and look forum
well if they won't know who it is but we
know it coming guys but seriously
sleepers first of all I Got News for you
the way that we get into that thing is
by doubling around behind it through the
doc doc web and then once we shoot past
it into the doc doc web we come back
towards the light and just get into the
doc web and that way that's the way that
we yeah we get them from the rear god
move coming from the daka web do it from
where I stand on your doc web you gotta
get back
exactly you call that a doc web your doc
let web is like daylight it's like any
the racist thought experiments I did on
my web I'm in the super doc laughing
this is so much doc why you found it out
so now you can create your own the in
the intellectual backhoe web editor I
don't even see race cuz it's too dark in
here deck in here I thought everybody
was black I'm just feeling around
send us a link at majority reporters the
gmail thing I will definitely I want to
say one thing though there is a group
there's a bunch of groups and they're
all like Jordan Peterson's fans Ben
Shapiro fans Joe Rogan fans you know
that's the that's the name of the group
yeah but my favorite one is the Oh
where did it go the Dennis with a Prager
University alumni
give that person a call hello
you know what the hello you know what
the dennis prager alumni the you know
what the Dennis Prager Diploma looks
like a bill you just watched a couple of
YouTube videos get a confirmation that I
paid uh call me by my bike my pcs got a
comedy professors the Holocaust buyer
down what happened
