[Music]
em cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program a system history professor from
UC Berkeley and author of accounting for
slavery Kaitlyn Rosenthal welcome to the
program Kaitlyn it's great to be here
thanks for having me
so okay now this is there are some
business terms in here and you you at
one point my understanding is were a
McKinsey consultant and and have written
on the that aspect of of business
practices so let's just start well how
did you how did you come to write about
this and then I want to just make make
clear a couple of terms that if we were
all consumers of business theory we
would note off off the bat but tell us
first how you came to write about this
topic sure right out of college I worked
as a consultant for McKinsey and company
and when you're the most junior person
on a team they're you're the person who
gets the spreadsheet and you spend a lot
of time crunching the numbers to figure
out how you can help companies be more
profitable and so I spend a lot of time
analyzing data about people who I never
met and people who I was gonna never
going to get to meet and the decisions
that I was helping people make
nonetheless had a big impact on their
lives so I went back to graduate school
interested in the history of how data
developed over time and how data changed
the way people thought about businesses
as they got really big and when I got to
graduate school I first started studying
the history of northern textile mills
because that was where I assumed the
story would be kind of from my
undergraduate history education it was
all about iron forges and textile mills
and then I quickly realized that the
biggest businesses of the early 19th
century are actually slave plantations
in the West Indies and in the American
South so I started to look at their
records and was really surprised to
discover that some of them collected as
much or more data as
the factory counterparts that I had
assumed would be the center of the story
and so it is that and so all right so
let's with that stated that there is
this sort of almost in some ways a loss
history of of this of of these business
practices we talk about let's I guess
introduce it this way to a certain
extent there's a theory or a narrative
anyways of mutual progress that that in
some way slavery was a hindrance to
capitalism and that as capitalism grew
and these type of business practices
grew it was sort of emancipating
in some respect but it really turns out
to be not the case yeah that's kind of
the narrative I found to be a prominent
as the consultant just a kind of an
assumption that creativity and
innovation go together with advancing
freedom you know that the coming of
capitalism is all about free labor and
what I find is something pretty
different which is that the north and
the south were advancing together and
this is in some ways something
historians have known for a long time
but there haven't really been business
histories so we haven't seen how these
practices have unfolded in a in a
business setting there's a management
scholar who actually described this as
the denial of slavery and management
studies because he said if you go read
even history histories of the South you
don't even have to go back to the
archival records which is what I did but
to begin to understand how advanced and
sophisticated some of these plantations
were and this scholar bill Cooke argues
that this is kind of so easy to find
that it counts as denial so what I did
was to go back into the records
themselves and ask how they compared to
the management milestones that we
usually associate with the rise of
American business so the book is not
about like the average slave holder it's
about the people who would have been in
our business histories already that kind
of Carnegie's and Rockefellers of
American slavery who but for the the
terrible and brutal nature of their
business would probably already be part
of our national story because they were
so innovative
and in fact their innovations were far
far more prominent and durable than we
we commonly understand yes they're using
what I structured a book around the big
milestones of modern business history
which include things like what people
call the M form corporation but it's
basically like a modern organizational
hierarchy and also the accounting
innovation of depreciation and those are
things that both were appearing on
plantations relatively early and in the
case of depreciation you have only the
most innovative corporations using
depreciation until the late 19th century
and planters are using it to depreciate
people from the 1950 1950 to 1850 okay
yeah that was now we're getting into the
sort of the terms and as we talk about
these milestones and business histories
this is where I think we're going to
need some or I certainly am going to
need some extra extra help so when we
talk about let's start with first the
idea of of depreciation how is that used
in in and well and I don't think it's
changed really in business parlance in
in in a couple hundred years maybe or at
least 150 years but explain to us what
depreciation is so that we can
appreciate no pun intended what what it
means in this context certainly so
depreciation is when you have a big
fixed cost like a Boston I'll just give
you the example of the railroads because
that's what the canonical example
usually is so a railroad and railroad
tracks and locomotives cost a huge
amount of money and you make that
investment usually all at once but as
you're calculating your profitability
you want to figure out how to spread
that investment out over time and wear
and tear means it's going to decline in
value so you take your train and you say
it's worth this much today and then you
figure out how to value it over time
which has implications both for your
profits and then today it has big tax
implications so that was less so at the
time so it's a strategy for figuring out
the changing value of long-lived capital
assets as alpha
Chandler a famous business of sharing
calls and he says complex long lived
capital assets are their origination of
depreciation and so on plantations I
mean the most complex and long-lived of
capital assets is a person and people
are unique because unlike most factories
and machines
well we're people are unique for lots of
ways I mean which we could talk about in
a minute but they enslave people
appreciated in value as they grow older
grew older as they learned skills as
planter invested in what we would call
human capital then they their value
peaked in their late teens and 20s and
then already into this their 30s people
are beginning to depreciate and decline
in value as they get older and so what
does this tell us about the way that I
mean so what does that mean what does
that tell us that that that these
depreciation this this depreciation
perspective was applied to human beings
because we don't see that in modern day
worker or even in contemporary workers
who were actually paid right and had the
freedom to leave did we so we know it's
this is like a yes and no of course we
don't depreciate people in the way that
planters did in that the same kind of
productive way that assumes you have
power over someone
but of course human capital is a huge
part of the ways business think
businesses think about strategy and
planners didn't call it human capital
but they clearly do calculations of
human capital and they assess how
they're changing over time to make
business decisions and to figure out
kind of what - how to allocate the
people who are the capital that's the
basis of their business okay will you
explain that term to us - human capital
I mean what do we mean by that in in in
business parlance and then how is that
used in the context or not used but I
guess assessed in the context of of
slavery because it seems to me that on
some level the whole key to slavery from
the perspective of the plantation owners
is that this is not human capital this
is more or less these people
our slaves are more or less like the you
know the the things that till the land
or something they're just they're their
machinery so you know when we talk about
human capital we talk usually about
investments and skills like businesses
might train someone to increase their
human capital and plantations are
interesting because they do DC the exact
same thing I have Ledger's from the
British West Indies that have something
like 20 different occupational
categories many of which are skilled
like a skilled blacksmith or a skilled
Cooper who made barrels and even within
those skilled categories you have
enslaved people who are the head person
within that category so they're also in
charge of being managers now today
businesses worry about losing their
human capital and planters didn't have
to worry about people quitting they had
to worry about people running away
escaping from the plantation they had to
worry about about death but they have
many of their planned problems really
radically simplified but to get to your
other point what's interesting is that
planters are at the one teaching
treating people as skilled labor but at
the same time you know the record I just
described that has those 20 occupational
categories is immediately followed by an
identical record for livestock either
that instead of the categories of labor
you have sheep and mules and categories
event so people are being treated really
as animals and machines but also
planters understand that what makes them
so value is the fact that these are
people so they're able to do both kinds
of accounting and move back and forth
between them and so when we talk about
the way that they treated human capital
I guess and and also you know this
concept of depreciation with the workers
as if there are a piece of equipment
they bought I mean what where does this
where how does this implicate I mean
we're these like founding these
practices are do they end up becoming
like the building blocks of modern-day
capitalism and I guess
business practices so the story I tell
is not exactly an origin story you know
when I first started writing the book I
didn't really understand what a big deal
slavery was I mean sort of sounds silly
to say that but I only slowly began to
understand how fundation alas the
American economy so when I first started
writing I was looking for you know the
single link that was going to show that
Plantation slavery influenced northern
scientific management and I did find
some links but not really a smoking gun
that said this is the foundation what I
uncovered instead is the fact that the
northern southern economies and also the
northern and the Caribbean economies are
just deeply intertwined for the whole
150 years for a capitalism ISM is
emerging so I came to think it was sort
of I was asking the question wrong if I
was looking for the single link because
really what you have is two economies
that are intertwined
all those textile mills that I thought
the story was going to begin in are of
course weaving slave grown cotton and
these people are in communication all
the time so it's not really about one
length it's really about the whole story
being more complicated and that I mean
and I think there's been there's been a
lot of them and we've we've interviewed
over the past couple of years several
historians who have gone back and sort
of reassessed the the import of cotton
frankly and I guess maybe other you know
tobacco but primarily cotton in terms of
of driving the economy not just of the
south but of the north as well and so
was there sharing of back and forth in
terms of business practices I mean the
gist of it is it's just that really that
the how how sophisticated these big
plantations were run which I guess is a
surprise because because because why
well so it's an interesting question how
surprising is this I when I was a
consultant I used to joke that you know
insights needed to be surprising or
resolve controversy and the interesting
thing about this fact is that people
either find it super surprising like
they had no idea because they really
believed that slavery was backward
from an a perspective of innovation or
they find it totally unsurprising
they're like I never thought about
business practices but of course knowing
what I know about slavery I'm a so it's
a kind of a disco it's like a litmus
test for where we are in our national
conversations about slavery which is
that some people have begun to get it
and they start to read about plantation
business practices and it's still really
tells them a lot to see the granularity
of how they innovated with violence but
the most illuminating thing is that a
whole other set of people our finest
stuff totally shocking um the idea that
a planters were using basically paper
spreadsheets to calculate the output per
person in a very similar way to what we
do now
so the shocking part is is that there is
some type of presumption that exists
among some people that slavery was
somehow a I guess an aberration in some
way and that it was a function of the
the the the people who would have slaves
were not business people they were just
there was something anomalous I guess
about it but in fact it's really part of
a tradition and almost in some respects
sort of seamlessly slides into an era
where people aren't slaves right I mean
like how much of our business practices
that we have today in terms of
management techniques and control of
workers is if not a descendant of those
of those practices but at very least you
know looks very similar to those
practices so I mean a huge proportion
like if the the book talks about the
standardization of forms it talks about
the way we developed our hierarchies it
talks about this question of
depreciation which is linked to the
whole question of human capital and it
also discusses productivity analysis I
mean you'd be hard-pressed to find
another big area where data science and
the
have kind of art totally different so
those are I mean some four of the main
innovations and the plantation is there
for all of them
now you're right to say that you the
plantation isn't necessarily the
foundation but it's the part of the
environment from which these practices
emerges emerged and they're all kinds of
things that just look strikingly similar
so if we go back to the topic of
depreciation there's two ways that
people generally talk about depreciation
a straight-line depreciation and a
mark-to-market depreciation these were
chatted a lot about during the mortgage
crisis because which way you chose had
implications for how valuable people how
things were straight line is just that
you depreciate the same amount every
year so you say I have something that's
worth $20 and you just reduce it a
dollar every year mark-to-market says
each year you look to see what the
market value is and you changed that
market so there's a planter named James
James green Carson who for all of his
slaves he has a formula and he values
and saved people from zero age zero to
ten with a straight line doing
straight-line depreciation they
increased by fifty dollars the first
year of life because if you surprise the
first year you're likely to survive
longer than twenty-five dollars for each
additional year but then when he gets to
ten he says look the diversity of these
people means that values diverge and so
he starts marking them to the market
value which changes over time and can up
and down from year to year the market
value depending on what skills they have
maybe the good it's a what yeah what
skills they have but also how the market
prices are changing because the value of
slaves over most of the antebellum
period is going up so the value of
slaves in nineteen sixty is is a high
value they've proven a very good
investment for people both because of
the labor that they're extracting but
also because the market value of slaves
has gone up now depreciation at that
time there was not a function
it wasn't something you did because of
of taxes it was because to determine
just what are my profits and what are my
assets right at that time as a as a
plantation owner exactly
you have the planters I've seen
calculating depreciation
want to know how much money they're
making from year-to-year and not all of
that is coming in cash a lot of it's
coming in the form of their investments
so they calculate the value of those
investments over time there's a famous I
mean not that famous but a relatively
well-known quote from Thomas Jefferson
where he suggests that people should
invest as much as they can and save
because in addition to the labor that
they give you they also appreciate like
about I think he says 5% from
year-to-year
so you get both the labor and capital
increase and I guess if you also might
be doing this to show to a bank I mean
you could you know at the bank you can
get a loan collateralized by slaves so
you might be taking this to show to a
bank I know that's not you know I know
that's that's a scholarship that has
been done that pre-existed but but but
tease that out for us because I mean
this is I guess theoretically as I sit
here talk to into this microphone I
bought this microphone five six seven
years ago or eight years ago let's say
it cost four hundred dollars the this if
I needed to get a loan and wanted a
collateral I don't know how much I could
get based on this microphone but this
this microphone would function as
collateral or the video camera or the
computers theoretically I guess they
wouldn't have that much value but so
this is another difference between
exactly the same thing but and say
people were super valuable and they
could be moved from place to place and
used to collateralized loans to buy more
land to buy more people and so their
value to a plantation owner was not just
in the work that they produce but the
potential work they could produce or
value they could produce I mean
absolutely some of the most horrifying
records from plantations are like slave
trade and not did not sometimes patients
on slave traders have values for a woman
with her first child and a woman with
her first child was especially valuable
not only because of the child but
because
what this is a woman who is fertile
she's gonna reproduce again and this is
a woman who's gonna survive childbirth
because she survived it before so she's
being valued based on her own potential
labor but also on her potential
reproductive labor and the labor of the
children who are going to be enslaved as
well so planters are forward-looking
thinking about how assets are going to
grow over time
