[Music]
now with all this said about Donald
Trump doubling down and people have
expressed in the past like I don't think
he's gonna leave and I've got to say
I've just poo pooed that a little bit
because Donald Trump and what army but
of course the way that you would fight
an election would be to say that it was
somehow rigged or that it would somehow
illegal or whatnot but you would need
obviously not just private attorneys you
would need some force of the US
government well yesterday for some
reason bill Barr decided to wade in on
this and by this I mean like the
president coming out and saying that
those for Congress women hate America
here's the way that bill Barr would
basically say the exact same thing that
Donald Trump did which to me signifies
that the idea that this guy came in to
protect the institution of the
presidency was BS he's a movement
conservative he's there to protect
Donald Trump period end of story he
figures this is a way maybe that he'll
get super wealthy in a way that he'll
put a bunch of movement conservatives on
the court god knows what else it is play
this my concern today is that under the
banner of identity politics some
political factions are seeking to obtain
power by dividing Americans yours and
they undermine the values that draw us
together such as a shared commitment to
our country's success this is the
breeding ground for hatred and we must
reject it very surprising you talk about
Trump that way well look what what do
you think he's saying when he talks
about identity politics right that's a
code word for
it's brown people it's black people it's
women speaking out what does he say
about not sharing our shared values of
America wanting America success in other
words they hate America which is exactly
what Donald Trump had just said so make
no mistake about it bill Barr is Donald
Trump with a brain and they've always
had a you know I think Pompeo is is the
analog at Secretary of State they are
they actually you could look at these
guys as like the up market channeling of
the exact same message and they always
echo his worst statements on foreign and
domestic policy and they always do it in
a way that you know is the line designed
for the cover you're talking about but
those two I think perform a similar
Public Relations function it's it's
amazing but the the problem with that of
course at the end the day is that you've
got a guy who's in charge of the the DOJ
