[Music]
speaking of sadness let's talk about Jim
Jordan the the guy who refused to act
upon reports that one of his fellow
coach it was it a coach or somebody who
worked with the team doctor was
attempting to mama last may be
successfully molested some of the
students and athletes on site I mean
sexually assaulted oh it was over 1500s
by this this team doctor I didn't
realize there was a systemic oh this
just came out Oh a new thing came oh
yeah this came out in just the past 20
hours the universe the university rather
Wow
they did a report there was 1500 of
these sexual assaults by this doctor and
apparently some of the students told jim
jeffords having uh Jim Jim's efforts Jim
Jordan Jim Jordan Jim Jordan and he
apparently didn't do anything about it
he was pretty upset that people's 10,000
hours for covering for the president's
crime yeah anyways that almost has
nothing to do with this clip because Jim
Jordan is on the on Jake Tapper show and
he is trying to promote that what they
are calling they haven't settled on name
yet Kaukauna obama gate to call it
secretary of state gate the callin ik
gate gate Biden gate hunter Biden gate
hunter gate they haven't figured out
what they're gonna call it yet because
they're still in the writers room
trying to come up with a good hook might
have gone to the gate well one too many
times it's true gate well maybe what
I'll just call it Obama gate
he was black but here is Jim Jordan on
Jake Tapper show trying to push some
type of narrative and tapper is pushing
back because there's no evidence beyond
what we know that hunter Biden was hired
by this gas company in Ukraine because
they hoped that he would influence his
dad and it didn't work at all
at least in this narrow circumstance and
tapper pushes back the things you really
think they very people wait a minute so
what did you learn the president profit
lawyer had to come I think that you came
here and leveled a bunch of accusations
and allegations about hunter Biden I
didn't I just said the facts 50,000 a
month he was paid by a foreign company
yeah he was hyper yzma but joe biden was
trying to get a prosecutor who was not
pursuing corruption fired it was some
more amazing that was a sixth you guys
will go through to defend what you've I
spent accused of things in the last year
and two would be more sensitive about
throwing out wild allegation not like
I'm throwing out the facts
Dede what the prosecutor was not
pursuing corruption that's why the
entire West wanted him fired including
anti-corruption activists in Ukraine I
don't understand what you don't get
about that I like it
Jake Tapper there walks off and feels
like he's now earned like three
disparaging remarks of Ilan Omar and all
right next block is the fact that
Rasheeda to live exists on the case
against Trump but it's I think one of
the the reasons why you want impeachment
is because it emboldened and puts the
the Bush administration on the defensive
so that when they come out with stuff
like that
Jake the Jake Tapper's of the world have
more room to push back on their fictions
that they're going to promote we're just
heading into this election year I mean
this is what the this
is what the game plan is and this is
it's helpful to see very helpful to see
I mean it would be even more helpful if
the news would discuss substantive
issues that affect people's lives on
multiple levels so that was never gonna
happen in the first place so Jamie it's
not like that seeing preempted
yeah the report on the implications of
expanding Medicaid in Michigan as
opposed to oh yes now they're not going
to do that yeah now they're not gonna do
that one cuz they had to spend their
time with that yeah no I mean yeah it's
I think it's we know what what happens
on cable television largely
