meanwhile um I should have locked it up
the first time Kevin McCarthy was on was
on 60 minutes on Sunday night he alc had
a had a tweet about this which was I
thought pretty on point said do people
remember how much my interview on 60
minutes was was covered with a fine
tooth comb to find out like where ever I
slept up here is the leader of the
Republicans reduced to a babbling fool I
don't think she'd I don't thought
directly quoting her much props if she
actually tweeted that but it's pretty
close we can't play the video we're only
going to play the audio here because of
of the sensitivities of certain networks
but here's Kevin McCarthy apparently too
busy like I don't have to read the
whistleblower complaint cuz I know what
my answer is gonna be regardless of what
it says but sometimes that strategy dust
doesn't work out for you here he is with
Scott Pelley Scott Pelley giving him a
quote that apparently Kevin McCarthy was
not aware of what do you make of this
exchange president Solinsky says we are
almost ready to buy more javelins from
the United States for defense purposes
and president Trump replies I would like
you to do us a favor though you just
added another word no I'd like you a
favor though yes it's in it's not a
transcript when I read the transcript
president insky brings up a javelin is a
protection for anti-tank something that
President Obama would not sell that
President Trump did to protect Ukraine
how do you expect the president's
defense to roll out going forward the
defense of what well there's an
impeachment inquiry yeah there's an
impeach inquiry going forward impeach it
probably never would move forward have
the speaker waited 48 hours to have the
transcript we vote on important things
every day but there are certain votes
that are
different than others sending men and
women off to war this is the most
difficult day a member of Congress would
ever make I'll ask you again
how does the defense of the president in
your view roll out from here why would
we move forward with impeachment there's
not something that you have to defend
here you say the president has done
nothing wrong
I take that to mean that you find it
appropriate that the president asked mr.
szalinski for an investigation of his
Democratic rivals question before the
House of Representatives is to impeach
the president based upon a phone call
that the speaker never even heard mr.
leader with great respect to you and I
apologize for interrupting but these are
the White House talking points that were
emailed to the Congress earlier this
week and I was it appropriate for the
president to ask for investigations of
his Democratic rivals with another
foreign leader I've never seen one
talking point from a White House I'm
talking to you based upon the most
important facts we have the
whistleblower wasn't on the call the IG
inspector general didn't read the call
but you and I have all the information
we need the president did nothing in
this phone call that's impeachable we we
have all the information we need except
for I didn't even hear the part about
him saying a favor though honestly like
I had to watch that thing multiple times
and I'm not even sure right now to be
fair how they edited that but it feels
like honestly it feels like one of those
like what are those machines like this
where you where you load up someone's
phrases yes and you just press any
random button so the question has
nothing to do with the answer that was
an email the speaker hasn't read it was
the visual this was about to have a
McCarthy just show they totally confused
and flabbergasted by the whole thing
another benefit of this process as
interviews like that indeed and that's
not gonna be good for Kevin McCarthy
