so Philip let's start this conversation
with the concept of rent-seeking
I feel like over the past I don't know
five or ten years this concept has begun
as it has gotten a lot more prominence
not just in libertarian circles but also
in some liberal circles tell us tell us
what this concept of rent seeking is hmm
well it Peaks back to the 1970s when a
guy named Gordon Tullock sort of came up
with it it's the idea that there's some
forms of income that come not from the
fact you might have built a better
mousetrap or provided some honest labor
but rather because you've got Congress
or some other organ of government to
create a rule that allows you to reap a
windfall profits or rents in this case
as they're called so an example might be
if the government granted you a monopoly
said that you know from now on all boy
ballpoint pens can only be made by you
you would therefore have no competition
in the ballpoint pen market and you
could charge monopoly prices for Beaupre
pens and so that would be an idea of one
seeking and that's a perfectly
legitimate idea that there are all kinds
of ways that government does favors to
corporations for example to a particular
government policy that allows them to
prevail over their competitors in recent
times as you say this effect this
concept has been expanded to the point
that it's being used as a weapon against
people that little people who want to do
things like improve their standard of
living through securing some kind of
occupational licensing zoning all kinds
of other things that where it's miss
applied these days all right yeah and
before before we get to that
misapplication contextualize for us
let's say
a a drug patent right I mean at one
point at one point it is there is a
maybe a practical justification for it
you know some type of payback but then
at another point oh and I guess maybe
this is temporal or in correct me if I'm
wrong on this then it does become more I
guess rent the air if you will I mean
what we just unpack that for us oh
that's a great example a patent is a
form of Monopoly right it's a temporary
monopoly that the government grants to
an individual now there's a positive
case for why the government should do
this in some instances it is within
bounds and incentive to innovation right
if I'm going to go to all the trouble to
invent some new better mousetrap it's
good that I get rewarded for my efforts
and when I am rewarded people are
rewarded for their innovation presumably
get more innovation that's the thought
behind why we need some patents and that
goes all the way back to Thomas
Jefferson there's nothing inherently
evil about that idea but if you extend
patents so that they apply to things
that they shouldn't apply to like you're
patenting things that are just found in
nature or you're extending the life of
patents too many generations after
you're dead your heirs are still
collecting on this patent that was
granted - well it's hard to argue
anymore that that's serving any societal
interests and yet it is causing a
redistribution of wealth to you the
patent holder so that would be a classic
example of rent-seeking
a tariff can be another example right if
the government passes a tariff all of a
sudden domestic producers have an
advantage that they didn't have before
and can charge higher prices and they
could before as the government has
eliminated much of their comp
tition from abroad so again there may be
positive some reasons why you society
would benefit from having a particular
tariff or a nation would benefit from it
but it also can be abused in a way
that's just crony capitalism so
rent-seeking isn't good or bad in itself
but there are good examples of Renzi he
and bad examples I mean that's it that's
exactly where I wanted to get to and I
think to a large extent that is a lot of
what you're arguing in the context of
the the case for small business
collusion so talk to us about before you
actually make that case what it what
does that mean I mean where do we see
small business collusion before we
assess whether it is something we want
to encourage or not mm-hmm well a
classic example of small business
collusion would be a farmers co-op so
what is a farmers co-op farmers get
together with each other and they form a
collective or cooperative organization
whereby they coordinate with each other
how much milk they're going to produce
and what they're going to do with the
milk right and they might build their
own Creamery and make cheese and and
other dairy products and by doing that
the farmers improve their lot in life
because when they come to market with
their milk it's they're no longer just
coming to market as an individuals of
this highly perishable product trying to
sell it to some large corporation on the
other side of the negotiating table
they're coming together as a cooperative
as a whole bunch of people who have in
some sense cornered a part of the milk
production in some part of the world and
that improves their negotiating power
against the big agro businesses that are
buying the milk so that's a that's an
ancient and in much revered form of
cooperative capitalism and it involves
collusion of a kind right it involves
people conspiring with each other about
what the level of production is going to
be with the level of what their price is
going to be so that's a form of good and
positive collusion if you think that
it's good that we have small-scale
family farmers it's that's one example
right all right let's talk about
licensing is licensing like I mean
dentist or let's say you know barbers is
that a form of small business collusion
and and if if if not why well it it can
be and it can be a good thing right if
with licensing in some instances is a
clear public purpose served by having a
licensing requirement to come in to some
particular occupation so once upon a
time you didn't need to be have a
license to be a doctor and we had lots
of quack doctors and it was a clear
public interest in creating some
credentialing system for doctors other
cases get a little murkier on what the
you know immediate public interest is
with plumbers you know it's good that
your plumber comes over and he knows
what he's doing so he doesn't cause a
flood in your basement with barbers well
there's some public hygiene argument
about why it'd be good for Barbara's
house minimal skill sets so they don't
spread dandruff through the population
right it also helps the consumer to know
better like who to buy from because it
saves you time if you know that this
barber is licensed that tells you
without you having to do your own
bedding that this barber is like
minimally competent to cut your hair so
that's good but there's another form of
licensing that's often criticized which
is like well we're just we're just
putting up this license requirement in
order to limit the supply of barbers or
limit the supply of taxi drivers or
limit the supply of dog groomers or
something like that and that um is
supposed to be and some people telling
this example of a
Regus rent-seeking because what you're
doing is you're using public policy to
create a barrier to trade that allows
you to make more money than you would
otherwise right and part of what I argue
in this piece I've just written for the
Washington Monthly is actually not so
fast some of the kind of of collusion
among working-class people to raise
their income is not really any different
in kind than their coming to form a
union together so if you think about a
hair braider Ziff hair braider is each
individually petition their government
to get a occupational licensing
agreement such that you can't be a hair
braider without having this license and
they therefore raise their income as
hair graders that's supposed to be a bad
thing and some people's telling but if
all these hair braiders work for a
single corporation as employees and they
got together and created a plan they
conspired colluded to form a union no
one would say well that somehow
illegitimate or will cause poverty or is
you know something is evil as something
to be deplored it's not it's a union but
we have this weird double standard in
their aim in our head yeah double
standards right so we have well filled a
long history of let let's take a break
right there when we come back we'll go
forward is to just you know why that
what is it the basis of that double
standard and why we should push back
against it I'm Sam cedar this is wearing
a fire radio I'll be right back I'm
talking to Phillip Longman from the
Washington Monthly on his case for small
business collusion
