India and Pakistan have exchanged fire
across the line dividing the disputed
Hamal Amalia in region Kashmir on
Saturday and Sunday killing nine
civilians and soldiers according
authorities in both countries this is a
report in The Washington Post it was one
of the deadliest consequences this year
of the line of control the highly
militarized frontier where soldiers from
the two countries regularly trade small
arms and artillery fire the barrage came
amidst attention increase between the
two nuclear-armed rivals so just to set
this up a little bit as we've been
covering and we know a couple of months
ago
the BJP far-right Hindutva government of
Narendra Moni
scrapped the provision in the Indian
Constitution going back to the days of
Nehru which allowed for essentially a
certain degree of cultural autonomy in
Kashmir I apologize if I'm
mispronouncing that Kashmir already has
been for decades maybe the most
militarized place on earth and regularly
the Indian military subjected local
populations to significant really really
horrifying and systemic rights abuses
and I won't actually spell them out here
but people can look them up and very
very very very vicious stuff and then
you have a small part of Kashmiri that
is owned that is in possession of
Pakistan and this is another source of
tension between Pakistan and India I'm
assuming everybody knows that it was one
country before partition right and
partition after independence from the
British Empire partition happened it
created Pakistan as a Muslim state
almost theoretically a Muslim democracy
but one to sort of protect the identity
of Muslims there has been a
long-standing conflict in India between
a tradition of pluralism that reflects
the unbelievable sort of diversity and
democracy of India and then a far-right
current that is rooted you know like all
fascism in turn
imagined past and actually borrowed
freely both from Israeli nationalism and
Hilarion politics when you go to the RSS
the RSS is the paramilitary non-pom
governmental organization that basically
is an umbrella for the BJP political
party of which Modi is a part of you go
back to 2002 Modi at the very least
negligent almost certainly in my opinion
complicit in a mass murderer of Muslims
that took thousands of people's lives in
a matter of hours so this remains the
most likely place on earth for there to
be a nuclear exchange the Pakistanis
definitely have supported terrorist
groups inside Kashmiri
areas and they definitely even going
back to most horrific aliy the attack on
the Oberoi Hotel in 2018 we're a group
of Pakistani government basically went
through the streets of Mumbai
machine-gunning people to death then
took over the Oberoi hotel and just
tried to basically kill as many people
as possible that was almost certainly
conducted with the support active of
Pakistani intelligence so this is the
context of what's happening now and even
as we have this playing out Narendra
Modi is still globally feted he recently
was rewarded recognition from the Gates
Foundation for in fact a very successful
initiative he oversaw in India for clean
toilets across the country it's true and
a success of the government just wall
air Dhawan is ethnically cleansing Kurds
it would be a weird time to you know
award him for like in a successful anti
smoking initiative that would be the
pretty direct analogy here's a photo I
don't know where this was taken Tony
Blair who was taken in hell Tony Blair I
mean look Tony Blair was the point
person for Haqq liberals in the United
States who will had all the same blood
lust but just didn't want to support
george w bush because the guy was so
stupid and Tony Blair came along and he
pronounced the Arabic names correctly in
his Regency drama
accent and he made the human rights case
for the invasion of Iraq the human
rights case to remove Saddam Hussein an
invasion that culminated conservatively
in hundreds of thousands civilians
deaths soldiers deaths displacement
civil war everything else Tony Blair has
worked for the Saudis for I believe the
Kazakh government he's advised general
al-sisi he is nothing more than at home
in the world of oligarchs and dictators
in his post Premiership here he is with
Narendra Modi
Condoleezza Rice John Howard the
Australian Iraq invasion backer some guy
I don't recognize who's the guy between
Howard and uh rice do you know that it
gates I oh yeah Robert Gates the former
CIA director under Joe under these
people call themselves and Henry
Kissinger this is the JP Morgan
International Council yes you didn't yep
tony blair immediately went on the JP
Morgan board I think he also I think he
also advises a Hennessy moay so he's all
of these banks should be nationalized
all of these banks should be
nationalized and all of these people
should be I'm not a prison abolitionist
lock them up
Lock them up lock them up if that's not
a curse name and image I don't know what
is sorry I should have I should have
warned everybody but story before
showing a clip of Damien I needed a
trigger warning right
