[Music]
there has been a lot of reporting on the
sexual assaults that that have taken
place in around the border and amongst
the children who are housed at these at
these facilities to basically stockpile
immigrants I don't think that's what
Donald Trump is talking about but look
at how sympathetic he is to two
immigrants
yes southern border it's 2,000 miles
down from our southern border
I wish Mexico would stop them but they
have their own difficulties frankly I
understand that we're working along well
with them and they are doing a lot of
things to help us with asylum and other
elements of what we're doing but mothers
who love their daughters give them
massive amounts of birth control pills
because they know their daughters are
going to be raped on the way up to our
southern border think of that true story
told to me by the Border Patrol so true
and so said think of how evil that is
think of how bad it is those caravans
you look at those caravans and some of
phenomenal people but in those caravans
you have stone-cold killers you had the
interview done by some innocent person
who I think is that yeah okay so instead
of Donald Trump saying hey by making
these people undocumented by by by by
forcing them to rely on smugglers and
allowing them to be exploited once in
their country in our country the
solution is not to help
these people but it's to make it even
worse I guess so that they don't do this
there's a story today about police
officers in El Salvador who are fleeing
the country because of the level of
violence there they are being targeted
and they are fleeing the country because
of the violence even if decades of our
foreign policy in Central and Latin
America wasn't at least one of the major
proximate causes for this level of
violence today when you have mothers
even if we take everything he's saying a
complete face value mothers who are so
terrified of their daughters being raped
that they provide them with birth
control they're still willing to send
them north because of how dangerous it
is in their countries right how can you
come to any other conclusion other than
the humane thing to do is to let them in
to this country and give them asylum
like how can you calculate and say like
look at the horrors that these people
are willing to send their children into
that's how horrific their current
situation is and so our response is what
I mean he's telling them the story
because he's trying to make it seem like
these people don't care about their kids
that's what this story is about he's not
showing sympathy or empathy with these
people he's trying to make them out to
be some type of animal and they are
lapping it up at CPAC and we're not
talking about somebody who has an am
talk show you know in South Carolina
you know the South Carolina and Georgia
and you know the worst parts of Florida
I'm talking about the president United
States fits right in with that CPAC
crowd
you
