[Music]
let's start with with this John Bolton
is gone we had mentioned this on the
show yesterday briefly and because the
word just got in that he was was gone
and in the main like this is a great
thing for the country and for will peace
now I don't give Donald Trump a lot of
credit because John Bolton would not
have had to have been fired had Donald
Trump never hired him right but be that
as it may it's a good thing he is out
for folks who didn't know you know and I
think hopefully mostly people know John
Bolton was considered to be so out of
control in terms of his war mongering
and just general disposition that a
Republican Senate in 2005 maybe it was
maybe it was 2004 refused to confirm him
as an ambassador to the United Nations
he ended up getting there was a what do
you call it the bush did a recess break
or I should say a recess appointment and
got him in there for a year it runs out
after a year now for whatever the
Supreme Court wants Barack Obama became
president basically said oh yeah there's
no such thing as recess anymore that
doesn't exist but back in the Bush era
Bolton was a recess appoint and so the
guy's a lunatic and nobody wants to own
him and nobody wants to be a part of it
and here is Tucker Carlson misinforming
the John Bolton was one of the neo cons
who was promoting the Iraq war back in
2001 to up into three and then you know
was certainly cheerleading the efforts
afterwards he was
part of that whole cabal of of neo-cons
and here is tucker carlson who I will
tell you may have personally not cared
about the Iraq war when it was happening
but was on television
cheerleading it cheerleading the run up
I know that he would he would go walk
out of that CNN studio have a couple of
cigarettes say I don't care about this
but when he was on television he
certainly was cheerleading for it and
here he is again well in one fashion or
another miss informing his audience if
you're wondering why so many
progressives are mourning Bolton's
firing tonight it's because Bolton
himself fundamentally was a man I mean
I'm wondering what progressives he's
talking about there is there you know
there were I mean you saw these tweets
right they think Nancy Pelosi is
progressive because she's from liberal
San Francisco and as a woman and speaks
indeed and she tweeted out something
like John Bolton is a man of honor and
the president blah blah blah which of
course is just a sack of crap they the
the Democrats are trying to make some
hay with low information voters
suggesting that you know they're the the
administration is in total disarray now
that can be true and john bolton going
is also good can be true simultaneously
what's weird about this first off this
is the day before 9/11 one of the
architects of the Iraq war you know and
and biggest advocates after 9/11 strange
also you know this is a former colleague
of Tucker Carlson's is it Fox I mean
that I find really strange the dynamic
between you know pulling back the
curtain between the Fox argues and who
Trump is taking his cues from right I
mean yesterday we saw Brian Kilmeade get
an on-air text from Bolton saying the
president essentially the subtext of it
saying I resigned the subtext being
Donald Trump is lying about what
happened Tucker Carlson is part of the
sort of like the Pat Buchanan school of
conservatism which is much less
interested in in in Foreign Affairs and
imposing democracy at the at the end of
a gun like a John Bolton is and and and
all I can tell you is that in 2004 at
the I guess it was the Republican or
maybe was the Democratic National
Convention in Boston a guy comes up to
me on radio row they didn't know
anything about Air America at the time
and he said you guys are liberals is
that right and I was like yeah yeah well
I I'm not with this crew in the White
House I'm a pap you can in conservative
you know these guys who were all doing
these wars they're all Jews oh right and
I was just like but so let's hear did
Tucker explained to us now all
progressives are upset about John Bolton
tonight it's because Bolton himself
fundamentally was a man of the left
there was not a human problem John
Bolton wasn't totally convinced could be
solved with the brute force of
government that's an assumption of the
left not the right don't with the
mustache fool you yes John Bolton was
one of the most progressive people in
the trumpet ministry well I don't know
what problems he's talking about I mean
John Bolton was you know his whole
portfolio was foreign affairs
I don't know that Republicans have been
restrained in their involvement in
foreign affairs I don't know if he's
been aware of the fact that you know
we've had multiple wars in the past two
decades but initiated by Republicans is
he doing a weird somersault where he
defines interventionism as progressive
it's big government it's like his idea
of big government is any spending that
enhances the budget of the government
whether it's and then he's equated that
with progressives saying
well progressives like big government
not understanding or of course he knows
he's very sophisticated knows this that
expanding the word budget is not
something that progressives yeah I mean
I don't know how you look at the biggest
part slice of our budget and say that
which is driven by Republican interests
and to be fair at times too much
Democrats go along with it but it's
certainly driven by a Republican agenda
and but there is Tucker Carlson once
again spreading the truth to his
audience good for him
