[Music]
you're calling from an eight one seven
area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey Pete my name's Matt I'm calling I'm
in North Dakota but I'm from Texas
and uh no offense to Matt but I I hate
North Dakota well sir what are you doing
there fated what are you in college
oil stealing our oil we're dealing there
Texans usually do some active military
okay yeah mind your P's I might use Matt
yeah yes serving our clam bastard well
what's on your mind
ah thanks for calling sorry you're in
North Dakota Oh
oh yeah no worries so I've been reading
more and more into like economic
theories about like how the state is
involved in in our economy and are you
guys familiar with Mariana Matt ceccato
yeah a little bit she's good
okay yeah I was gonna see if you guys
should have her as a guest one day
because I've been reading her book and
the entrepreneurial state it's a really
good book her and also Linda Weiss
she wrote America Inc innovation and
enterprise in the national security
state but uh I've been getting more and
more interview I mention you second
books there's one more time Brendon do
you mind getting that down what was the
second book question mark or America Inc
question mark innovation and enterprise
in the national security state it
actually that one focuses more on it
builds more into how the national
security apparatus is uh involved in
these economic ventures and right
whereas matza kados more about like
changing the narrative about our how we
take risks in our economy yeah and a
method of tackling you know
Green Revolution as far as state
intervention which I mean she's not
really a socialist by any means you know
she's a cheese capitalist they're both
capitalists but I think it's interesting
that they're you know so focused on the
the changing of the narrative yet still
holding to these these ideas of like
profit motives and whatnot and I'm like
well if you like it you know a hundred
percent all right I'm not I mean I'm a
socialist but I I think everybody should
read and take ideas from every source
possible no I know Maria matzo Coto is
is really interesting I think actually
to be honest we did a couple years try
to get her on the show and it couldn't
it just logistically didn't quite work
out but that's somebody definitely put
back on the list and also I would look
up on um related to this there's just
about a three minute clip on YouTube
where Mark life who's great you know the
economists at Brown he explains what
Brazil under Lula and Dilma did in the
matzah kouto model actually in terms of
using state investment to spur
innovation and then put the you know
redistribute the rewards actually maybe
we could find that it's only like a two
minute clip we could play it maybe you
got anything else Matt oh hell yeah yeah
yeah I just wanted to feel like I missed
the the libertarian colors I wish I wish
we could get more libertarian always
been because I love hearing L debate
with them I actually got a chance to
talk to my local representatives his
name is Jonathan Strickland this was
like a couple years ago I wanted to talk
to him about climate change and kind of
like how we could tackle it with this
particular method and one example I used
that I thought was kind of effective
kind of got him thinking a little bit
was the whole like cars how cars work in
our society and how the government
invests in in highways as opposed to you
know public transit I know there's a lot
of data that goes into how public
transit could definitely be a lot better
in that regard
I wanted to really get him on that on
the libertarian front from his from that
perspective and I told him like you know
the when we invest in highways and stuff
like that I mean we're really making a
commitment to you know less choice in
our in our in our economy as far as what
type of transportation you're going to
take you're you're basically telling
people you're going to increase the
amount of state security like more
highway patrols more seatbelt laws more
just more laws in general that have to
regulate this type of Transportation and
then also I kind of throw it through and
they're like there's a lot of propaganda
that has to convince people you need a
car you really need a car like luxury
and you know all this stuff and and in
school we learned a lot about how
advertisements are basically the perfect
example of logical fallacies though but
I don't want to get too nerdy on you I
don't think you could I've worked in the
brand strategy space buddy under what I
don't think you could have worked in
brand strategy no I think you're totally
right I mean that there's good not only
the logical fallacies there's a there's
interesting literature on like I think
they call it the manufacturing of desire
and and when advertising shifted from
just sort of like saying what a product
did to selling emotional experiences and
yeah I mean I I think there's definitely
I don't want to I don't want to turn it
into like a lifestyle thing that you
know obviously to deal with big problems
there needs to be major changes in
policy and institutions but there's no
doubt that I mean there's just patterns
of consumption that we have that I'm not
I'm not a hairshirt
person and I think if you've ever lived
with any type of even mild serious
material deprivation you want people to
you know have nice things and live a
comfortable life 100% but I think Daniel
Bester's right like I don't know that
you know does the this everybody
constantly ordering everything on Amazon
is that compatible with this sustainable
world is that compatible with you know
not totally
grinding workers I don't think so I
really don't I think there doesn't need
to be some real changes in how we
consume and I think definitely if we I
mean that's a one of the remaining four
all of the huge problems of New York in
terms of gentrification and
expensiveness and all of this not having
to have a car here it's massive it's
huge and hugely positive benefit on
everything from ecology to social life
to your personal health so no doubt
about it yeah and I think one thing I I
get from you you listening to you guys
is uh more about the social cultural
aspects of these issues and I really you
know appreciate that because if I just
focused on this whole like well the
economics of it all you know that then I
don't think I would have a very very
good grasp on these concepts so I
appreciate you guys the show appreciate
you man thanks a lot hopefully get out
of North Dakota soon have a good one
do you get did you find that Blythe clip
it's kind of interesting if you just put
in mark Blythe Brazil it kind of speaks
to what he's talking about it's like a
two-minute clip it cuz I can't explain
the matzah kudou thing as well as he
does in that clip yeah that's it this is
this is sort of what she's getting what
needs to be doing there's only to do
when Brazil's being do it which is
awesome so this is like when Brazil is
doing awesome this is several years ago
um so quick primer on Brazilian
political economy for years and years
and years they had one of the highest
Gini coefficients in the world or
incredibly unequal and it a problem
because wealthy into a concentrated
meant that the people who make effective
investment decisions decided that their
own economy was too risky because it
would either be run by the military or
run by the communists or run out its own
so they would take the money and they
would put it in steady bunk which is
nice and secure and you get a lesser
rate and a ton but you don't Mar because
you want everything anyway so that's the
way it went on for years and years until
it got to a point where basically you
had to spend so much money on private
kidnap insurance and mining your house
against the people who would try and
kill you that they did a deal with a guy
called Lula Lula we stood on the Workers
Party so the guy running the Workers
Party the lefty guy comes and basically
does exactly as I said at the bottom of
that slide democracy is our second
students for
stop skimping on the payments so they
did a strategy whereby they got bien de
as the Brazilian National Development
Bank to bunt their lending portfolio by
the way is twice the size of the World
Bank to subsidize domestic corporations
so that they could multinational so you
got companies like Embraer look at the
aircraft company is a big cement company
others there are no globally successful
corporations because of our expansion
bankrolled by the Development Bank what
they do is they tax the companies on the
roundings abroad
bring that Bakken and they sell
something called bolsa fam√≠lia which is
the welfare state that Brazil never had
this is squeeze the income distribution
like this at the same time as it's gone
up which enables the Brazilians to
finally build a middle class it empowers
the middle class in a disempowers
international hand line loaning a lease
so what you end up with there's a little
flex you do with domestically high-end
Treasuries to keep these guys happy but
what you've actually done is to engineer
a kind of new development or welfare
state which is actually being great for
brazilian growth and has actually
brought down a Gini coefficient because
of this everybody wants to buy Brazilian
assets which is why the reals going up
and their export dependents or the
freaking out so what they've done is
they've put in what capital controls on
inward investment and usually the big
fear is you know you put your money and
they put up capital controls you can't
get out oh it's expropriation they are
doing it totally different they're like
you want to come here dead easy pier
transactions tax on a deposit because if
you're not coming in for the long term
forget about sitting here rounding high
interest rates just because you can't so
they make it difficult for that money to
come in but as a growth node in a big
country it is happening on the left so
the reals going up the economy slowing
down but what they've done over the past
ten years I think is not sure or
remarkable so yeah that's and you know
that's I mean and and some of the stuff
that they investigated and tried to
leverage there was there was for sure
corruption in some of those enterprises
but that's the model they built and it's
very analogous to how she talks about
using the state for innovation they had
that also had big implications for a
public health expansion as well in
Brazil and that was probably like in
2012 and 2013 when everybody's
recognizing the immense success of this
model and unfortunately instead of
democracy being asset protection for the
rich the rich and oligarchs and Brazil
decided to just go back into a coup mode
because they could not deal
with this this sort of arrangement
because I think for probably for some
legitimate concerns about things like
crime but mostly because of just pure
class hatred and resentment of having
like afro-brazilians and governance as
an example that was another major thing
that the Workers Party government put in
place okay
