so obviously a lot to talk about we have
a guess we will we will at the very
least what we don't end up talking about
today we will cover tomorrow we'll have
a news day but some of the most
despicable video footage I think I've
ever seen in some way it's despicable
because it was just so calm and creepy
this is Mike Pence vice-president United
States with I think Tom Tillis and
Lindsey Graham maybe one other white
senator male senator going in and
touring the facilities at their
concentration camp and it is stunning
and after a while you start to wonder
like why would they release this and
then when you note that it's only men
that they're showing they're walking in
they're overseeing a cage full and I
mean full of men from Central America
who at the beginning of this basically
said they haven't had a you know they
need showers like they're not good
there's no hygiene here and it's eerie
because they don't the the vice
president the centers don't seem to have
any reaction to it they just are sort of
overlooking it almost like it like like
they're chattel and it's also what is
eerie about it is part of that is
because they don't go up and say well
how is it going there's no sense that
they're looking at human beings it looks
like they are looking at animals or some
commodity it's really really creepy here
it is
[Applause]
posit I mean just like you know like
Pence's not even doesn't even seem to be
looking at the people he seems to be
looking at the guards and you could see
behind pence over his right shoulder
there's there's there's a guard on a
sort of an elevated tower and he seems
to be looking at the towers and the
agent the officer whatever you want to
call him next to him says that they are
looking to see if there's a rowdy one
and they pull him out here does
[Applause]
[Music]
watchtowers up here the watchtowers help
us pick out anyone that gets rowdy
[Music]
and then they the men appeared it to lie
down I guess to show them that there's
no room for everybody to sleep in these
things and they're lying down with these
foil blankets am i understanding about
these foil blankets and maybe someone
can correct me if listeners know any
more about it but my understanding about
these things they're great if you're in
a cold-weather situation because they
completely trap the heat but they're not
in a great situation if you're not in a
cold-weather situation which is my
understanding why they're keeping it at
60 degrees in there because you start to
sweat very quickly with these things if
it's not cold enough in there but of
course if you don't put it on you're
freezing and you're lying on a cement
floor and here's the point we look at
this and we go there they're exposed how
can they do this how could they show us
this how could they show us the the
inhumanity there that is not a bug folks
they want their people to see this
that's why it's just men because they're
savvy enough to realize like well kids
children that may be a little bit too
much because there are kids and children
there's no reason to believe they're in
any better situation than these men but
when they show 380 men in what looks to
me to be like half of a basketball court
behind a cage in there for 40 days no
showers when they show men to their to
their people to their constituents
their voters are happy they're happy
they like it
it makes them feel good makes them feel
like their government is doing something
it's disgusting
it's disgusting I mean and I don't know
how far it goes this is just a weird
it's just a weird moment - well it's
more than obviously but it's a very
strange moment to experience where you
start to see this type of stuff and
where does it go
like this is the new baseline right
we're and I don't late and here's the
bottom line like I don't know
well look we didn't have this level of a
miseration that we were causing with
people I don't know that we've ever had
it at least in the modern times we had
internment camps with Japanese during
World War two Obama deported a lot of
people record numbers I don't think we
had anything like this and at the very
least we certainly didn't have images of
it and that may be a failure of people
like myself and may be a failure of
journalists and may be a failure of
politicians that we didn't have that
awareness of it but it certainly wasn't
that bad when the Trump administration
changed the and I've mentioned this
before and Jim McGovern congressman from
Worcester Mass said that there were
decades on Twitter of us asylum and
immigration law upheld time and time
again by US courts protects children and
families seeking safe haven in the
United States these laws comply with
international law treaties and
agreements the US has signed frameworks
been upheld by past Republican
kradic administration's including during
periods when the number of migrants
coming to our southern border was two or
three times greater than what it is now
then in 2017 trump terminated the family
case management program that even ice
admits was 99% effective and having
these families appear before a court
we've mentioned this in the past these
people in the past would be released on
essentially probation or probation or
parole and would have to return to the
courts because our laws say we must
grant them a hearing and we have not put
the funds in to have hearings in as
expedited as a manner as as Trump would
want or as the Republicans claim they
want they didn't do this when they
control government folks totally and 99%
effective and having these families
appear before court the program cost
taxpayers about $38 per day per family
in comparison detaining families costs
hundreds of dollars per day so even if
you're not compelled by the humanity or
the inhumanity of locking these people
up this is this is a policy that is not
designed to save of America anything
other than I don't know I guess in these
people's minds they're white the the
purity of the white culture well I mean
I was listening to a Ronald Reagan's
re-direct podcast and they did a good
job pointing out and you've alluded to
this already that part of the reason
they're spending more to be cruel is
because they like the propaganda value
of that cruelty they want those images
shown not just to their people but down
in Central America but the problem is
you just can't top the the difficulty
that these people go through in their
own home countries it's just uh it's
just amazing but you wonder like at what
point now that the baseline has been
risen at what point like at what point
do just people sitting in Brooklyn would
do something about it I don't you know I
don't mean you know vote for somebody
better or get on Twitter like I don't
know there are people out there there
getting arrested trying to block these
things I spoke to people in Philadelphia
who are some of these interviews will be
on Ring of Fire I think we'll play them
eventually on the show people who are
protesting like private detention
facilities there's one in Pennsylvania
there's three in the country for
families to in Texas and one happens to
be in Pennsylvania and you can shut
those things out and the analog would be
like you know drug companies saying
we're not gonna use our drugs for
capital punishment but I don't know I
wonder how bad it has to get until
you're like wait a second I gotta sort
of like contemplate a whole different
set of potential responses at this point
yeah i tweeted i retweeted a thread or
two from some immigrant justice
organizations on things people can do to
get involved and help people can head
over to Jamie's Twitter feed for that
