maybe we should play that little homage
that I did for you
recently this is a clip I got a phone
call in the office I work at the on the
studio is where my desk is and I don't
know if folks have heard about these
fake IRS calls that people are getting
this is Agent Smith they're very upset
you're going to jail like immediately
that's to you John thanks here this is
in between this is ad we pick up at the
tail end of one person I was talking to
and then I get on the other and like the
first guy had introduced himself as mr.
mark Benjamin you'll hear him he doesn't
sound like a mark Benjamin I don't know
what a mark Benjamin sounds like but
probably something like this
[Laughter]
that was mark thank you for holding the
light your call has been transferred to
another dealer supervisor you are
speaking with officer Rosenthal with the
batch number one seven one zero six
three
I believe I'm talking to you mr. John
Benjamin yes yes you are yes marginal
officer must have explained you are now
the pavement what do you owe the IRS
know how to okay I'm sorry he didn't say
a number let me just say in my own
defense this was clearly a function of a
new accountant that I have and I'm going
to fire him immediately
I understand mr. Benjamin this sort of
time I believe he has played you about
your case the lawsuit which has been
filed against you and about your arrest
warrant no he did not
I had no idea there was an arrest
warrant I obviously look I'm a voice on
some major cartoons I can't possibly be
arrested what can I do to get out of
this
see mr. Benjamin exactly the reason why
we are getting arrested while you're
getting arrested
it's because the reason why you're
getting arrested is because when I
always always follow suit against US
citizens they even apply they even apply
for CP 5:03 notice that CP 5:03 notice
an investigation arrests over
and first of all I have to tell you and
I I philosophically believe that income
taxes are theft
so I I don't even subscribe to the
notion that you have the right to tax me
but I understand if I'm I understand I
have to compare to your loss
what do 2700 it may be fixed over well
that's for me is it's virtually nothing
I mean I stream this
all right yes I understand mr. Benjamin
see today itself if I already gave you a
charge to resolve this case would you be
able to come up with this total amount
today till today do you need it today
well of course it's cash would cash me
okay if you have to make two years how
would I get you the money
mr. Benjamin you aren't gonna send this
money to me your Anna pay this amount to
the IRS at least IRS official official
website okay explain about the payment
procedure that you have to follow let me
just be clear let me just be clear this
will get the charges dropped if I pay
the money has been pressed against you
that charges will be dropped out
immediately okay PDF file is something I
committed thank you for doing that when
the guy said mark Benjamin the only
thing I can respond with oh my god I'm
John Benjamin did you say that's it I
did in the clip yeah but that won't
we'll post on the YouTube channel but
that's funny John I'm glad you're here
did my yeah you didn't mean me just say
that was funny but that was funny
oh that was very sweet of you those good
stuff anyways just get off the hair are
long gone yeah it is pretty amazing now
get to the rings oh yeah I'm going to
right now it's actually terrible because
I'm I've been held a lot of black dust
and it's pouring black mucus out of my
toes I'm like I've now black lung
disease from topic its vitamins
okay well John
