[Music]
not ignore this Alex Jones apparently
still doing a program and I imagine he's
doing quite well he with it however he
is losing legal battle after legal
battle with the some of the parents from
Sandy Hook they already have access to I
think some of his financial records
right and they just won access to one
other sort of like information on the
inside to this is a way to determine you
know what some of the his defamatory
practices but meanwhile apparently he's
very mad at Joe Rogan and we're getting
a lot of wait can I ask cuz we did this
the other day on the MBS and I think we
should do this year too I mean maybe we
should play it first but I mean just
generally speaking like whose site like
whose side are we on here I am on the
side of the American public which I
enjoy is quite a libertarian candidate
on the side of the American public well
I mean I yeah I'm enjoying it so I don't
know that I'm on either of their sides
Frank all right very political answer
I'm backing Alex Jones on this one
because he's fun cuz he's fun
I mean I like Rogan to of course I'm
glad there's a fight and people know
people know Jones is bad
yeah they don't right the thing is I
don't think Alex Jones is going to point
out the with the things that are
problematic with Joe Rogan all right
what is that clip I didn't I didn't see
that that clip was just an old clip yes
it'll Joe Rogan still has hair in it so
it's a pretty early in his show and what
was it what was he saying Media Matters
Joe Rogan appeared to be going on some
sort of riff about how he went to a
movie theater in a largely black
community and he called it Planet of the
Apes
he went to see Planet of the Apes right
and then he said it was like Planet of
the Apes cuz there were no white people
there what
just like pretty hard to misconstrue
yeah you know it's one thing to have a
certain sense of humor or not be
dictated by PC culture but we also need
to draw certain lines basic humanity
right exactly
being about out Jones not necessarily
the the best messenger for this but here
it is nevertheless and and and and my
understandings Alex Jones got mad
because the guy from Twitter was on Jack
on Joe Rogan's Jack Dorsey and so and
and Joe Rogan didn't know enough of why
Alex Jones got kicked off Rogan let
Dorsey skate on the idea he asked him
why Alex Jones was kicked off of Twitter
and Jack Dorsey said I'm not really
familiar with the details and that's
what he is a notoriously softball
interviewer let's let's hear yeah so
this is the let's hear how exchange and
and it's just not gonna happen I'm built
for war Joe yeah I don't act like a
tough gal all day I'm just I do the war
you understand so the war so the threats
don't matter to me
the though I'll still be your friend Joe
I'll never talk to you again I'll never
come on your shell again I'm going to
destroy you
I understand it now I'm gonna get you
I'm coming for you
you understand that what do you think I
am what do you think I do
very foolish posit for one second who
does Alex Jones think he is what does
Alex Jones think he I am Batman
Hulk Hogan Batman trying to expand body
positivity by introducing the notion
that some of with my physical type okay
pay the clay crusader alright excuse me
I'm having an asthma attack it's just
completely impromptu completely
impromptu the in fetta means supplements
I'm taking or actually causing an acute
pain in my abdomen but what is thinks he
what I mean I'm curious like if
if Joe Rogan doesn't know who alex jones
is money he does
I think Jones gets into his credibility
slits okay info warrior things out so
you've chosen your bed sleep in it don't
give me anymore pleasantries I want war
should be lying in a give me your
attacks
everything should be lied lie in your
bed now you understand the shape of
things that's good now you'll understand
I don't get my hands politically around
your neck
closet oh yeah I love how careful he has
to be now right like he's being very
sound legal advice I am completely out
of control but I will politically I'm
speaking in metaphors now explicitly
because so that for there's no
litigation opportunities here I'll
destroy it but if we around your neck
metaphorically I'm gonna strangle you
from a metaphorical standpoint not like
of a political way under your neck and
all your tough-guy craps gonna end real
quick because we've taken down Hillary
and we've taken down the globalist and
we're gonna take down Soros and we're
gonna take you down
Monica's God nevertheless I still can't
quite figure out what's camera we're on
yeah okay good down because God wants
purity God wants things hot and cold not
lukewarm God wants me to wage war God
told me destroyed your Rogan yes sir
Jesus I will do it no more games
whoa
[Laughter]
[Music]
until political commentary shows just
merge with pro wrestling well I think
he's already happened ahead of the curve
on that the I love the idea that God is
like mmm Joe Rogan yeah that's what we
got yeah I've been looking at the
podcast rankings on iTunes and I think
it's time I want to do - I want you to
destroy my guys getting a little too
comfortable there's another part which
is awesome where he's like oh you're
tough guy and I know you know the UFC
was owned by the Mafia I already knew
that everything you know I already do
that you're not telling me nothing I
don't know God spoke to me you know what
amazing that that Joe Rogan has jumped
to the top of the list above the globe
list well the reason is because it's
because Joe Rogan is - Alex Jones what
pod save America is - this show that's
right that's exactly right and I also
love the part where like like Rogen
literally has to say just like it's not
helping that you're making stuff up dude
I'm not a CIA age I mean let me just
take this opportunity to go like
positive America coming for you we have
been told to destroy you politically
politically who are going to crush you
politically and I know how you work for
Obama he's connected with the financier
is very cool that did Brock Obama at
Citigroup if you guys should be put
together for a podcast cuz we will crush
you politically metaphorically speaking
gas Christian Gillibrand the tough
question as a diversion because you're
selling out Medicare for all we already
know the chorus we know the script it
was written a long time ago when the
time comes we will make no excuses for
the terror politically I'm gonna bury
your watered down green New Deal six
feet under in the discourse medically
yeah the total lack of God told me to go
after you
my absolute not lack of non lack of
belief integrator deity electing me to
test all your secular humanist ideas
told me to go after you all right let's
move on rosalie guys you're not helping
us get there all right let's move
