[Music]
there have been reports before we get to
this there has been reports of major in
fact record forest fires in Brazil and
within the Amazon rainforest
there have been 73 thousand fires so far
detected by Brazil sprays a space
Research Center
it's an eighty three percent increase
over the same period in 2018 now here's
the weird part these the surgeon
wildfires has taken place since bolson
ro took office in January he has vowed
to develop the Amazon for farming and
mining he has ignored concerns about
this from the international community
because of course the Amazon forest is
one of the premier carbon sequestration
entities that we have in the world
bolson ro was asked about the spread of
fires this from Reuters he brushed off
the criticism saying it was the time of
the year or the Kumada which is the burn
when farmers use the fire to clear land
however the space agency I n PE which
has the satellite images said the large
number of wildfires could not be
attributed to the dry season or natural
phenomena alone there's nothing abnormal
about the climate this year or the
rainfall in the Amazon region which is
just a little below average said an inpe
researcher people frequently blame the
dry season but that's not quite accurate
he said the dry season creates the
favorable conditions for the use and
spread of fire but starting a fire is
the work of humans either deliberately
or by accident
here is just some of like the footage
and we got to just credit this Abdi Riza
there you go and watch watch some of
this footage it's pretty nuts this is on
Twitter there's no audio there's no
audio it's someone just driving by I
mean it's just vast stretches and it's
hard to know I wouldn't put it past
bowls an hour I mean would you put it
past him to go out send people out start
fires here and there and there well it's
even even I wouldn't put it past him but
I mean it's even the alliterations he is
telling people like as an example trying
to pass their versions of
stand-your-ground laws or saying that
like police should be able to shoot kids
and favelas with it which already is a
major problem so it's like what you're
doing is sending a signal I mean a
couple weeks ago an indigenous leader
was murdered I think by people looking
to mine gold you're basically telling
corporate interests and large farm
aggregate like shot you through this no
problem shekels are exactly this map
looks just horrifying yeah and he also
fired a you know the head of the space
agency exactly I was talking about this
who was talking about this and basically
refusing the false estimates actually oh
no big deal according to that tweet it
only provides 20% of the world's oxygen
yeah there's two main as Vijay Prashad
was explaining this last week there's a
site in Papua New Guinea and Amma and
the Amazon and those are the two those
are like the fulcrums of our global
climate and you have an administration
and this is also the idea of removing
protective its status for indigenous
people as well so this is a ethnic
cleansing story let's go to a 509 area
code
