[Music]
come from an eight six four area code
who's this I got maybe one or two more
calls to you eight six four eight six
four once eight six four twice go on
next one come from 501 area code who's
this where you come from
good afternoon mr. cedar my name's Blake
I'm calling from Arkansas we spoke
before hello Blake
what's on your mind well I thought that
you were talking about was pretty
interesting to me with the school
lunches do you guys did they include how
many kids were in the Cranston
School District no I find it I find a
cross-reference that with the forty five
thousand in negative balances what what
so you think that that they should be
funded for free but that was that was
your proposition right in New York City
for instance the all lunches are free
okay so those are negative balances for
people that pay for their lunches and
don't get them for free as part of you
know I don't I don't know I don't know
if those are people who get reduced
lunch I don't know if there are how much
you know what their standards are for
free lunch in that school it could be
people in Cranston who can afford lunch
but just haven't sent it in I don't know
it could be any of those but I say free
lunch for everyone so that there's no
stigma associated with getting a free
lunch you just that's part of school
what the children are they aware of who
gets what
oh yeah man do you ever know what's one
you must have kids right I do okay so
you must know that kids I don't know how
old your kids are but kids are the
she's probably yeah okay your she is
it's a sheik yeah alright dude speaking
is a guy who has a 13 year old daughter
get prepared for just how mean kids can
be but yes you get a free lunch and the
other kids don't you're the kid who gets
a free lunch and it gets a lot worse
from there in terms of like the way
you're stigmatized without doubt without
doubt okay okay so so your idea was for
everything to be free and it's not my
idea it's not my idea I mean they do it
in New York City
it wasn't my behest but I think it's a
good idea okay so parents who decide to
pack their children's lunch they can
they would have to know as a taxpayer
they'd have to fund something that
they're not utilizing that what you're
saying yeah do you intend to send you
know what what is a dollar a day or no
cents a day or a dollar fifty a day like
whatever message does that send to a
child
Blake that a parent wouldn't do that for
them Blake hold on
yeah do you intend to send your kid to
public school at this point yeah all
right so you know the dynamic is not
hopefully not long-term okay
hopefully not long-term I mean because
that implies to me that maybe you don't
have the either the private school
option or you don't have the cash for
the private school now when your
neighbor kind of might need to try to
try to try to get a small home school
okay are you trying to get small one but
when your neighbor comes up to you and
goes hey Blake why am i tax dollars
supporting your kid going to school for
free what are you prepared to save that
person they have a problem with their
tax dollars supporting my child I would
say to them I wish we had a different
such a situation where we could get
better education through other means or
a Brett enforcing every yeah well Blake
I guess we may not that in the quarter
gets me a phone call maybe what if he
says that your neighbor said it again
well in other words you can say I wish
for we
had a different world but that dynamic
is the same dynamic you had a problem
with in terms of lunch and you know to
send the kid to school more expensive
than just the lunch right the brown we
were talking about lunches not the
education system in general well we're
talking about lunch in schools on the
back of which things one at a time yeah
well Blake we're talking about lunch in
school right and I'm talking about a
relationship when people who
relationship between people on society
very low effort well low cost and low
low low cost and low effort maybe from
your perspective but I mean you know you
don't want to get into a pissing match
with somebody who looks at you and goes
wait wait it's pretty easy to set up a
home school thing just do it near 4,500
square foot home like me know there's a
lot of government regulations and red
tape and permits and licenses hire
somebody to take care of all sorts of
stuff you got to get through this hire
somebody to take care of it hire someone
full-time to take care of it if you
cared I mean if you cared but you don't
have the money right but we're so super
wealthy yeah we look at that and go come
on man don't care about your kid now
don't care about you kid you got a car
right dollar a day is we want for Bowl
to $10,000 in a year well wait you got a
car don't you Blake yeah what kind of
car do you got it's a truck okay a truck
what kind of truck a lot of money for
that what kind of truck your floor would
you get a Chevy Chevy what hmm
Silverado a Silverado that's a $30,000
truck isn't it
no humbles 14,000 brand-new 14,000
Brooke it's just a work truck okay so
it's just a single cab is that your only
car you have two vehicles where do you
take the kids moment
well you don't take the five-year-old
than that here do you put her in a car
seat in that front yep
you do mm-hmm okay
all right so you got $14,000 truck why
spending all that money on a truck why
don't you get used one dude put $10,000
into getting I mean this is what they
had rebates on it well I don't care they
have rebates on it ten thousand dollar
charge a purchase ten thousand dollars
cheaper than fourteen thousand you have
four thousand dollars left let me see
you see my point here though right Blake
that I could see here in judgment you
haven't you're having this huge long
conversation about like you know all the
governmental things and you're asking me
about my truck and I'm talking about a
dollar a day for your kid's lunch like
you can't do that we're going out to eat
anywhere you can barely you could
probably barely manage that oh well
producing food in bulk well that's right
I mean that's why we have school lunches
but right and you're making the argument
that a dollar a day is not feasible I
guess I don't understand I don't
understand where this is coming from Sam
I mean if you have children you're
responsible for them on some level
aren't you well dude you're going and
spending our tax dollars and sending
them public school
why don't you homeschool them why don't
you put them in private school I just
why don't you be responsible Blake
instead of going out and getting a new
Silverado because there's supposedly a
rebate on it just gonna leech off the
taxpayers and then you're gonna say
we're subsidizing you we're subsidizing
your trunk purchase because we're
educating your kids for free man no
you're not yeah why why are you muddling
the conversation here I'm not muddling
anything well here's the question
I've had my truck for over seven years
like what are you saying I live
luxurious or no I'm just saying that
saying that you are leaning on are you a
homeowner or do you rent yes you're
homeowner come on okay why is it that
renters people who rent have to
subsidize you because of that home
mortgage deduction
why do you get a kickback from the
government on your mortgage payments why
is it I don't it doesn't quite it
doesn't qualify enough the the extra
cost don't offset my any deductions that
I would get for you don't you're not
eligible for the home mortgage deduction
yes but it doesn't do any good for me
what do you mean it doesn't do any good
for you the amount the offset does not
bring down my tax liability enough to
offset the cost of the extra filings
what now why is that I don't understand
that
because tax people chart tax people
charge extra money well I mean dude you
can do you my mortgage my mortgage my
mortgage payment is four hundred and
twenty six dollars total okay do you
drive on the roads yeah but he only
drives on private roads that he built
right right because if I'm right because
you're the one who said the the person
who brown bags their lunch and sends
their kid to school that lunch why are
they subsidizing the one dollar a day
lunch of the person who doesn't brown
back and I'm asking you why is the bike
the guy who won't doesn't own a car
subsidizing your roads why is the guy
who's a renter subsidizing your home
ownership why is the pool subsidizing
your kid going to school and we all know
the answer Blake because that's the way
society works it's the only way society
can work people take responsibility for
their children right that is not what
we're supposed to do in society I would
like to think so yes
personal responsibility I mean it's not
you know my neighbor across the other
side of the blocks responsibility to
feed my kids right is it your neighbors
responsibility to educate your kid no
they don't well I don't they pay taxes
to go to to to keep that public school
open so that your kid can go and they
don't have a kid yeah and somebody in
summary and somebody paid for theirs and
surely surely these people in our toilet
current and what you're advocating for
is more and more of a welfare state yes
actually I would not call it a welfare
state because I'm actually asking for
something that's more Universal
everybody said listen carefully it's not
even contingent upon your ability to buy
it it's not welfare
it is a universal service that is
provided very much like the concept of
public school you can go to public
school if you're very wealthy or if
you're not very wealthy and society will
subsidize it even all those people who
don't have children don't want children
don't care about educating even those
people who send their kids to private
schools will subsidize the education of
your kid and my kid at public school
yeah but you don't have a problem with
that you just have a problem where you
just want to keep kids hungry is that
right no that's a typical response I
would expect that for me well do you
have an answer for it I already answered
it I said no well Blake how do you
reconcile this just tell me how you
reconcile this it's okay for you to send
your kid to public school which is
clearly subsidized by people who don't
have children never had children never
will have children you have no problem
with their tax dollars paying for your
kids to go to school but you have an
issue do you I'm sorry you do what yes I
absolutely do all right well then why
send you kids it's public school because
I don't have the ability personally do
hold on one second but you do have the
ability to change the system where the
kids get a subsidized lunch is that it
I'm not changing anything currently
people pay that can and I don't think
that we should lessen that
responsibility the one dollar a day well
they can what do you say to say no in
order to in order to further dissolve
there's all the responsibilities that
people have for their own children dude
what's a big
responsibility providing lunch or
providing education for your kid what's
a bigger responsibility are they kind of
go hand it in well wait a second my
daughter my daughter my daughter learned
a lot of things when I cook with her and
she asked me lots of questions and
that's great you learned hey what's a
bigger responsibility what's a bigger
responsibility I mean you want to do it
in terms of dollars does that make it
easier if you do assess you feed your
kid it's education doesn't really cost
anything wait it cost me absolutely
nothing if the government allowed me to
educate my daughter oh wait a second now
you work do you word it during the day
yep you do do you make money when you're
working and so could you educate your
daughter by taking her to work with you
every day partially part I can't bring
her to work so okay so when you would
educate her would you stay at home and
educate her mm-hmm so would you be
working at that time yeah I could work
something out yeah so you you could both
educators work got some options to work
from so you could see so you could work
at home and give her a good education
simultaneously oh yeah no problems hey
here's a social reproduction question do
you because you think you know kids are
the responsibility of the parents to do
everything for provide the money lunch
whatever do you think it benefits
Society in the economy that people are
having kids and that they're being
educated and growing up to become
workers there's no benefit or detriment
to children generally speaking your
ability to support them so if people
stopped having kids society would
function fine
yeah until there's no more people and
there would be no more society yeah I
don't think I don't think responsible
why should low-income people be
subsidizing society by providing the
service of reproduction and child
rearing and lunch and education for free
I mean people don't have to have kids
and right but but here's the point Blake
we're subsidizing you but you have no
problem with that
no I do I already told you that I do but
not what I mean by no problem is that
continue to do so you continue to do so
so it makes it even worse yeah do you
buy gas I do buy gas yeah okay so you
don't bike everywhere that's correct I
don't bike everywhere
okay sorry would you like it if
everybody could bike everywhere sometime
or if you didn't have to buy gas one of
these days
sure would that be good that's good that
would be cool one day if that ever
happened okay so you guys complain about
climate climate change right and in the
same argument could be made for you guys
what's that what's the argument yeah
Transpo's I I don't I don't agree with
the way our education system is is
currently ensconced let's say and you
don't agree with us being dependent on
fossil fuels
you claim that I'm using the welfare
system by allowing my daughter to go to
public schools hmm I don't like that I
would like that to change but I'm not
saying I am no use yeah I'm not judging
you for using your gas in your car
are you am i you're sitting here and
saying there's a problem there's a
problem of kids getting free lunch it
would be the equivalent of me saying
like I it's okay for me to drive my
pickup but it's not okay for you to
drive your pick
that's what you're saying and I'm not
saying that about climate change
I want a government policy that will
fund our ability to get off of fossil
fuels you see the difference here it's
subtle it is subtle
but I'm not telling you that you need to
be more personally responsible for
climate change whereas I shouldn't be
but you're sitting here telling people
that whatever I don't need is what
people should be more personally
responsible for now I happen to need
public school but I don't need for you
lunch so I'm talking you're articulating
this to us you've had five years to
figure out what to do about your
daughter's education and I don't have
even sitting on your butt or what but
Blake you're gonna send your kid to
public school and you can blame the
government all you want you don't blame
the government for making sure that your
truck is safe do you you know drive
around your truck and go god damnit
government wouldn't allow me to buy an
unsafe truck you say that ever of course
of course you don't course you do not of
course you don't you don't drive while
drive around sick god I wish all these
roads were still dirt I wouldn't have a
problem with that I like I like the road
Sam no I did so so so your your your
idea here is that you want more and more
things to be paid for yes by the public
yep yep then I saw that's absolutely
correct and and where has that gone thus
far the welfare states where these right
where's that guy got more more and more
kids and we've got more and more kids no
no no attaining highest educational
development and lower IQs and more
poverty none of those things that you
just said are accurate but I would all
tied together yeah also more kids are
without fathers and yeah then way by
together then when than 50 years ago
then 60 years ago then whenever whenever
the statistics were ever taken into
account how many kids do you think we're
in school let's say let's say 120 years
ago how much education you think kids
were getting oh wait I misspoke I know
where you going with this I said I said
more kids right rates have also
increased I'm sorry you think the rates
of education have decreased since for
120 years or what what do you what do
you what do you define education as I
mean are you just feeding kids
information or you teach them how to
think critically
I mean what's an education video pal I
don't know if you can say critically and
you can understand and you can be
escaped you can take it when you get
your homes Blake when you get your home
schooling syllabus
I'll prepare can you send it to us yeah
absolutely all right well I appreciate
the call Blake what would you what would
you have to say about my home school I
don't know we'll see I think your kids
should be white listening to the show
every day I would start with that the
first three hours of the day should be
spent listen the majority report
appreciate the call Blake yeah right I
hope his kid watches that call someday
it's part of her education I hope she
sticks around in public school yeah oh
yeah oh we have the kokeshi debate this
Wednesday
