so Trudy your story in Tarbell dot-org
is fascinating and at one point your I
guess your editor your publisher or the
founder of Tarbell wendell potter who
we've spoken to on this program many
times chimes in and talks about how how
how well-versed and how well experienced
you were as a writer and reporter on
healthcare issues and it is fascinating
to read your story of your catastrophic
health event and how it changed your
perspective on what you wrote about and
so let's let's just start with the basic
outlines of the story before we go into
some of the insights that you gained by
being a patient in this system that you
had written about for so long of course
I was a very healthy individual I still
AM because I've made a full recovery
which probably helped me a lot get
through this if I had had some
underlying problem it might have been a
different outcome but for some reason I
picked up an infection my theory was it
was a urinary tract infection that
didn't quite go away and I had to have
two rounds of an antibiotic for it which
I had taken many times over the course
of many years it wasn't something you
know new to my body but probably the two
doses were too many and I ended up with
aplastic anemia which is a pretty
dreadful disease since your blood system
is shot you don't have any cells and no
way to make red cells and white cells
and everything else that you need so my
feeling is that when the blood system
failed then I was susceptible to them
anja and then eventually sepsis and
everything at that point just cascaded
so a year ago this past November
I found myself when Saturday afternoon
on Saturday morning really where I just
really couldn't function and as the day
wore on my husband called got very
concerned and ended up calling 911 and
then the EMS folks came and the only
thing I remember from from them is that
they were real big guys and they
strapped me to a gurney and I remember
thinking I'm finally safe I must have
felt very unsafe as I was declining in
function and health and being wheeled
out of the apartment and that was it and
that's all I remembered for at least two
months I was about so much okay and so
we should say that you slipped into a
coma but before we get to in that day
did you were you had you been diagnosed
with anything at that point and we
should say sepsis I don't know if
everyone is familiar with it it is
essentially an infection in your blood
and my understanding is and I've had you
know someone close to me go through a
similar experience with pneumonia is
that if you get to the hospital within a
certain period of time you know with a
certain amount of sepsis and you get
enough antibiotics at that moment you
know we could be talking about just like
a number of hours would make the
difference between surviving and not
surviving is that is that the case I
know that New York has certain
regulations regarding sepsis and I
believe that the hospitals have to test
for it every so many minutes or every
hour I don't remember the exact
regulation but looking back on that and
looking at the hospital record it was
pretty clear that that was going on
that may have had an effect on the
outcome I they must have been doing
something at that point that was
positive but they did tell my husband
fairly early on in this whole process
that it was going to be touch and go and
that I was very sick and that I really
had very little hope except that they
wanted to give me these
immunosuppressive drugs I think on the
third day I was there and that had to
suppress whatever was left in my own
blood system and then regenerate it and
have it come back and that's probably
was the key to survival in the long run
okay so you you this thing comes on very
quickly you begin to you know I guess I
don't want to say lose consciousness but
begin to get pretty foggy you are taken
to the hospital you slip into a coma for
a couple of months what what happens
then and let's start to try and and work
in I guess what is the as you look back
on this experience obviously you're in
the midst of it well I guess let me ask
you this while you were in the midst of
this experience
how much were you sort of stepping out
and looking at it as a writer of of
health care how much were you just
living it as opposed to you know down
the road then looking back in retrospect
I well for the first two months I really
wasn't conscious of anything but when I
came to and I was at a very different
Hospital in a different state at that
point I just suddenly woke up one day
and I said where am i what happened to
me and I felt my hands and I realized I
could still be a journalist and that was
the first thing I thought of and then
people started telling me what had
happened and my first thought was just
one of disbelief I mean how could this
possibly have happened to me and I was
perfectly healthy but as the longer I
stayed in the hospitals and I had two
months where I
awake and I was able to observe what was
going on I would say it was probably a
combination of both to answer your
question it was it was bringing to bear
what I knew that hospitals generally are
unsafe places and what families need to
do of course my family was on top of it
they knew what to do the best they could
I mean they had people to call they knew
what to do more than most families do
then I started really sort of taking
over my care as much as I could and
objecting when things didn't look right
and I couldn't talk for a very long time
because I had a trach in me to
facilitate breathing and that because of
the difficulty of getting it out and
miscommunication with the facility and
the doctor who was supposed to take it
out and a bunch of stuff like that I had
it in longer than necessary and it's a
very uncomfortable apparatus to have in
you because you can't really coughs up
the mucus that comes with it it's just
very difficult and you think you can't
breathe lots of times
so someone handed me a clipboard and I
began writing my thoughts and my
observations and at first I thought I
don't want to have anything more to do
with this you know Hospital I don't want
to write about it anymore I'm finished
but that lasted about a week maybe two
and then I thought no I've got something
to say and I'm going to keep at this and
I had my notebook so to speak and I just
kept taking notes so I knew what was
going on and was able to record things
that I didn't like and sometimes there
were you know some nice things that I
wrote down - all right well let's take a
break and when we come back I want to
talk more about some of the things that
you've learned from your stay that will
maybe surprise to you even having
had a career in writing about health
care I'm Sam cedar this ring a fire
radio we'll be right back with Julie
Lieberman after this
