[Music]
we'll continue to speak on president
Lula's case and I actually think that
that history there explains partially
why I mean of course Brazil is actually
the largest country in Latin America and
has a lot more power than others but it
still is subject to intense US interest
and interference and you have a
president who anybody with any kind of
progressive or social democratic
politics should be very interested in
because of his enormous achievements
like eliminating hunger in Brazil like
bringing 30 to 40 million people out of
poverty like setting up a independent
and rational foreign policy like
supporting indigenous rights like
supporting good environmental policies
made mistakes made compromises of course
but also a Workers Party that has
natural and organic roots with labor
forces in Brazil and we could see the
coup the corrupt process that brought
Dilma Rousseff very misogynistic process
that brought Dilma Rousseff out of power
in 2016
I need jailing without any material
evidence of Lula they Silva when he
almost certainly would have been he was
he was Brazil's
last electoral line of defense against a
fascist candidate and the Brazilian
judicial system and oligarchs under the
guidance of this horrific prosecutors
Sergio Moro jailed and silenced him in
an election he was winning in the UN
said he should have been able to run it
and the point of this again is that this
actually to me is emblematic of the sort
of alliance of emergent fascism and
capital classes from Wall Street to
local oligarchs also more broadly
generic anti-corruption rhetoric is the
handmaiden of fascism three people need
a much more sophisticated understanding
of corruption there's a shockingly small
amount of actual evidence of Lula's
corruption but if you demonstrated that
the Workers Party needed to get involved
in in various agreements like in 2005
they there was a vote-buying scandal
what that's Brazilian politics you have
to bribe smaller parties to pass your
electoral agenda those things are a
problem structurally they're
fundamentally different than jerub-baal
senarios son potentially getting direct
caste transfers and employing members of
a criminal organization that's a totally
different thing this is Brian Mayer you
have to read him in Brazil wire watch
the reporting that they do at Ellis or
in real news network obviously TM BS
Brian's really important on this and
here he is first explaining Judge Sergio
Moro who is the persecutor of Lula now
the Justice Minister gearing up for a
war on labor unions and writing the laws
that are flooding Brazil streets with
even more guns on his role in the
persecution and suppression of Lula and
then he ends with a really important
declarative statement and look I know
some people get cynical and I understand
but there are Democrats that put
themselves in a progressive position and
want to be understood as progressives
and some really are progressives and
Bernie Sanders has done a little bit of
this Barbra Lee's done a little bit of
this but they need to be front and
center on Brazilian democracy and
freeing lula da silva what Mauro's role
really was there in the his prosecution
against Lula was inquisitor you know the
the investigator can rule on his own
investigation and this isn't the normal
situation in Brazil it's it's not that
common but they allowed morale to do it
well he was going after Lula it dates
back to the Inquisition and so how can
Lula get a fair trial in this situation
he cannot and that's why he's in jail
having no material evidence presented
against him in either of these two cases
so what's next now is there any chance
that Lula could get out of prison
someday or what are his next steps well
Craig the the I am I I'm not a
fortune-teller but in my opinion there's
gonna have to be some kind of regime
change before he gets out of jail
they're gonna do they've still got one
more lava jato investigation against him
for an equally or even more
ridiculous claim involving his Institute
the Lula Institute and a piece of land
you know so even if he wins the appeal
in these first two cases they'll charge
him on this third case and they're kind
of stalling on it to make sure they can
as long as you know sir Joe Morris
Minister of Justice and bull stars
presidents gonna be very hard for Lula
to get out of jail unless there's really
heavy international pressure and we just
don't see that coming from the from the
Democratic Party in the u.s. you see
that coming from center-left leaders in
Europe and apparently there was a new
executive meaning of the Labour Party
where Corbin talked about Brazil and
Venezuela but also much more moderate
figures like zapatero and Ã¶land have
called I've defended Lula and this
horrific imprisonment but look every
single Democratic member of Congress
needs to hear on this it's fundamental
it's both because it's it's
extraordinarily wrong the way this
person is being treated and also because
it is central to a broader struggle
about rights and determination and and
also thirdly it's a it's a grotesque
media failure I'm not saying that the
New York Times needs to report you know
they can talk about the charges they can
talk about broader corruption probes but
they never contextualize corruption as a
systems problem to Brazil and they also
just say he's convicted they never
explained that these court cases have
never demonstrated material evidence
they're based on squeezed testimony of
people looking to get out of jail by
forces who are politically in bed with a
profoundly authoritarian and almost
certainly profoundly corrupt and overtly
dangerous bolson ro government but of
course this is the same near Times
editorial page that endorsed removing
Chavez 2002 again set aside we think of
Chavez that's an objective interference
every single Democratic leader needs to
speak on freeing Lula period
