let's um I think this is worthwhile I
want to play this a Shack sound the
whole way to understand what's happening
in the NBA is really as a speech issue
as corporate censorship China wants the
same treatment that Israel gets as an
example in terms of never being
interrogated on its rights record and
Hong Kong there's complexity of that
situation but the bottom line is is that
people making an affirmative statement
for protests being shut down by
corporate censorship is a market problem
and it's a fundamental problem and even
people like LeBron who I like a lot I've
had a lot of respect for the way he went
out ahead on this was was pretty bad and
here's Shaq who maybe he's got some
right-wing political instincts but props
to him for this
he has American people we do a lot of
business in China and they know and
understand our values and we understand
that values and one of our best values
here in a merit
free speech we're allowed to say what we
want to say and we're allowed to speak
up about injustice and that's just how
it goes and if people don't understand
that that's something that they have to
deal with but you know I just started
with unfortunate for it you know both
parties and then you got people speaking
when they don't know what they're
talking about but
daryl morey was right whenever you see
something wrong going on anywhere in the
world you should have the right to say
that's not right and that's what he did
and but but again you know when it comes
to business sometimes you have to tiptoe
around things but again they understand
our values we understand our values in
here you have the right to speak
specially with the social media we're
gonna say whatever we want to say when
we want to say and the threat to free
speech is market Sam you back yeah I am
yeah there you have it I'm good for
shock definitely I mean I don't you know
he's still tiptoeing around it too but
at least there's some acknowledgment I
mean it would be there's some
acknowledgment that like look we're just
selling out our values and I mean I
think at the very least that's somewhat
helpful although maybe it makes it also
on some level like it's okay it's okay
to sell out your values if the money is
right I mean it's such a
I'm always remembering the the guys was
at the 72 olympics the two black
athletes who put up a black power fist
their careers were hugely harmed in
sports and the and then there was this
another story of the australian guy who
i forget how he did it but he had
solidarity with them and he was done I
mean he was completely kicked out of
sports in Australia and didn't even have
like you know any trajectory in politics
so you know it's suppressing athletes
political expression is a long history
yeah
