here is the fact squad a Jana Presley
now one of the amazing things about this
and this came up and I don't think we
have the clip of this but he wants he
was there trying to sell the idea of
their cryptocurrency which is a you know
like a a method of payment and unlike
let's say like PayPal like he wanted to
he wanted to have it like he wanted to
distort to you could store it you could
save this crypto payment and the the the
guy said the one of the congressman said
what so you you want to do you want to
do it like a bank without any banking
regulation he goes well no I I would we
don't want to be a bank we don't we
don't want to be categorized as base
because we don't want to be a massive
probably right we like to define very
tightly what we want to be on Facebook
and then we would like you to accept
those it's sort of like a vision board
well let's go to Katey Porter just well
she
she talks about the idea that the
there's a real problem with the way that
they're dealing with their content
moderator workers play this I just want
to say I know a friend of Mines wife I
mean I'm not sure she still does this
but she used to do exactly what Katie
Porter's talking about for YouTube and I
think better treated than at Facebook
but this is a horrifying job that also
shows frankly though that all these
companies saying they don't have time to
actually like have humans monitoring
content for quality and journalistic
purposes is Facebook's node is
a great place to work
free food ping pong tables great
employee benefits but Facebook doesn't
use its employees for the hardest jobs
in the company you've got about 15,000
contractors watching murders stabbings
suicides other gruesome disgusting
videos for content moderation correct
congressman yes I believe that that's
correct
you pay many of those workers under
$30,000 a year and you've cut them off
from mental health care when they leave
the company even if they have PTSD
because of their work for your company
is that correct
congresswoman my understanding is we pay
everyone including the contractors
associated with the company at least a
$15 minimum wage and in markets and
cities where there's a high cost of
living it's a $20 minimum wage we go out
of our way claiming my time and
according to one report I have and this
is straight out of an episode of Black
Mirror these workers get 9 9 minutes of
supervised wellness time per day that
means nine minutes to cry in this
stairwell while somebody watches them
would you be willing to commit to
spending one hour a day for the next
year watching these videos and acting as
a Content monitor and only accessing
accessing the same benefits available to
your workers congresswoman we we work
hard to make sure that we give good
benefits to all the folks who are doing
mr. Zuckerberg I was defending my time I
would appreciate it yes or no
would you be willing to act as a car
monitor have that life experience I'm
not sure that it would best serve our
community for me to spend mr. Zuckerberg
are you saying you're not qualified to
be a Content monitor no congressman
that's not what I'm saying
then you're saying you're not willing to
do damn
Wow that is incredible
and he is a monster of world-class
proportions
you know first off the I mean this guy
he's a horror show he's a horror show
and the idea that they would allow that
there wouldn't be a regulation on this
guy for this type of stuff you know this
ship has sailed
he's done the script I was done and if
he better he better hope that either
Donald Trump gets reelected or Joe Biden
comes in there because judge - yes the
chauffeur no one's hotter than him then
boot for him Buddha judge but but the
other thing is is that folks like Katie
Porter Democrats need to suck it up and
understand who's good at this and who's
not and Katey Porter should have more
than five minutes she's there she there
should be half a dozen Congress people
on that committee who say guess what I
cede my time to Katey Porter oh my god
could you imagine Zuckerberg face I was
I was actually hoping for an exchange
with each of you individually I wanted
an exchange of ideas with all of you I'm
stealing a bit of Matt Matt's usual
thunder here but just the rhetorical
flourishes she was showing in there that
she went from you know pitting him down
to say he wouldn't do this job - also
playing into his ego that he's too smart
for it right is like Oh May's
irresistible the part where he's I
couldn't help himself that was the part
where I said I'm a billionaire I went to
Harvard excuse me
Ayana Presley another one no it is she
she a prosecutor was she a prosecutor uh
I don't know her bad I actually don't
think I can temerity I think but just on
the side of she's just good at it right
yeah here she is
first questioning Zuckerberg it's no the
other day he came out and said the
reason why we did Facebook is because we
wanted a situation where people could
respond to things like as opposed to
like a rack
we were so you know we wanted a people
to exchange ideas about a records it was
such a horrible thing that happened and
he here is IANA Presley basically saying
the girls were raving the post they were
already warned yeah here here she calls
BS so mr. Zuckerberg yes or no in your
adult life have you ever been under
banked yes or no I'm gonna go through no
oh wait wait this is nothing alright
number two I want to clean up number
three don't worries we got it look
number three we have both this one was
also pretty great she had yeah I
wouldn't play that one next we'll go to
that one yeah okay we got it
your recent speech at Georgetown touched
upon how you were affected by the start
of the Iraq war when you were in college
and how quote if more people had a voice
to share their experiences maybe things
would have gone differently earlier this
year you announced that Jennifer Newsted
would join Facebook as general counsel
miss Newsted was the chief deputy in the
office of legal policy at the Department
of Justice and in the fall of 2001 it
was the day-to-day manager of the
Patriot Act in Congress according to
John you author of the torture memos
Miss Newsted helped sell Congress on
mass surveillance once already and now
she is advising you how to do it again
so yes or no is the Patriot Act
reflective of your views on privacy and
free speech Congress woman ten seconds
left it's an easy straightforward
questions the Patriot Act reflective of
your views on privacy and free speech
congressman there's a lot in there and
no I do not agree with all of it which
is that exact America that is not what
you're hiring choices indicate and Maya
Angelou told us a long time ago when
people reveal to you who they are
believe that
I'll yield Maya Angelou was a Sikh now
on the Yan list this is another
situation where if she has eight minutes
she can say oh not all of it which parts
of it writes which parts of it do you
write these parts of it do you subscribe
to because I Got News for you
he's lying again he doesn't know what's
in the Patriot Act he doesn't give a
crap not he doesn't he probably wants
that attorney there to know just like I
want somebody who's going to be able to
navigate through and find out what we
can do in this instance I mean it's just
this guy here is Jana Presley now
speaking directly to the issue of the
Mark Zuckerberg Libre which is his
cryptocurrency that he wants to he wants
to initiate launch yes or no in your
adult life have you ever been under
banked yes or no I'm gonna go when I ask
the head of calibra about why people
laughed bank accounts he said he
believed that quote quote unquote
identity is a big problem in quote yes
or no do you agree that authentication
is the major hurdle to accessing the
financial system a congresswoman I'm not
sure I think it's probably different in
different places around the world the
same will bank reports cited in your
Libre white paper finds that almost
two-thirds of 1.7 billion people who
don't have bank accounts say it's
because they lack enough money to open
one so this is not about authentication
this is not about banking costs this is
about a tsunami of hurt the millions are
experiencing because of a 1.6 trillion
dollar student debt crisis because of
rising health care costs and people
having to use GoFundMe pages to pay
medical bills this is because of
the racial and gender wealth gap so
again you represent the power but I
don't think you understand the pain
there's under banking because people are
broke and so let me just ask you this
question yes or no is it free to use the
calibra wallet Congresswoman the Calibra
wallet isn't a service that is available
today assuming we were able to launch it
it will be free so there is no fee
Congresswoman that's the the goal is to
make it so that so there is no fee I'm
assuming the goal is to moving on so big
awesome idea to buy Libre and cost money
to use the calibra wallet I fail to see
how this helps people with virtually no
money
you aren't something to use technology
to solve what is inherently an issue of
wealth at the end of the day you are a
business so what is in the business
interests for you here and do you
believe in what you are building do you
believe in what you were building
congresswoman yes so yes or no would you
leave behind your children's inheritance
and Libra hmm congresswoman do you
believe in what you're building yes I do
and and would you leave behind your
children's inheritance in liebherr i
think it's a fair question because I
think it's you've proven that we cannot
trust you with our emails with our phone
numbers so why should we trust you with
our hard-earned money
 ah he couldn't yeah as I would
have absolutely congresswoman yeah
exactly
I'm going to leave all of it in all of
it yes I think 2-step identification
might actually generate a possibility of
income that had it been anticipated
before any pre information economy
if there was a way to short if if you go
on trade sports and vote and bet on
whether Libra is gonna exist that's
basically I would take the no on that I
think Maxine Waters and her opening
remarks didn't even mention Libra
she just got right into you know
election securities like you suck
welcome here to talk about your new
fantasy business anyways we hate you all
right we've got a magic coupon but well
yeah you got a new coupon business yeah
whatever anyway
