we could end poverty in this country for
you know a couple years worth of the the
defense budget if we were so inclined
but of course we're not because we need
to have a strong military to fight back
on the threat of places like Venezuela
which I know that people are on edge
because of the threat that Venezuela
poses to us as a nation
it was palpable today on the on the
subway the threat of a good example and
we also know that we you know if there
is a Venezuelan Cuban access that is
formed maybe you know who knows they
could in some way you know I guess
disturb the equilibrium with our beach
with their tourism in some fashion if
their beaches become too too attractive
I mean who knows
but here's Mike Pompeo saying that there
is a problem with Cubans intervening in
Venezuela wow that's that's absolutely
right on all three counts it is the case
that central to Maduro security has been
the Cuban kleptocracy they've cut a deal
with the Venezuelans for tens of
thousands of cheap barrels of oil every
day they provided security for Maduro
it's frankly if you're a Venezuelan
military leader it's a bit embarrassing
to have to hand over your senior leader
to the Cubans and say you take care of
him what we've done is we've raised the
cost for Cuba we've begun began that
several weeks back we put on increased
pressure on Cuba there's more to follow
you've seen what the president is has
just communicated we're gonna raise the
cost if Cuba wants to continue this
malign activity and want to continue the
destruction of Venezuela that's going to
come in at an enormous cost to the Cuban
leadership how many of those Venezuelan
generals that Mike Pompeo dreams will
turn on
and Maduro and sign up with Guido how
many of them are going like Oh Mike
Pompeo really hit me where it hurts I'm
feel embarrassed he's right I feel
embarrassed about the fact that we're
working with the Cubans working with our
historical a lie that we rightfully
collaborated with for decades right how
how humiliating how might a foreign
power to resist the Yankees with a
government that survived since the early
60s despite multiple assassination coup
attempts embarrassing so embarrassing I
I I'm going in to resign my commission
right now and sign up for and I love the
idea like look to be talking about and
this is not a defense of Maduro or
anything but just the idea that we are
talking about like how how horrific it
is that this kleptocracy using their
their national resources to get aid or
help from another country I mean I was
being facetious when I said people on
the subway we're worried about the
Venezuelan threat the reason why we care
about Venezuela is because of their oil
it is our kleptocracy that is just
pissed that someone else's kleptocracy
is getting a hold of this stuff and a
little bit of a good example if
socialism works in a country you know
people might get ideas over here yeah
I'm not sure that under Maduro things
are working out that well that it's a
such a great example I think what is
more concerned is just like our mafia
essentially wants what somebody else has
and we're just moving in they took our
turf we're taking the turf back that is
basically what's going on here and the
idea that we would get involved in this
is just like you know far-right politics
in Florida that's another dimension that
you always have to attend to with this
stuff it's filled a extremist X Isles
from all of these countries including
places you know I have
to bring Brazil into this Lula has not
only did not adopt a path of militancy
he literally submitted himself to prison
I mean as he said in his interview last
week he's like look a lot of people saw
this coming
I have a commitment to Brazil so I've
chosen this even though it's totally
unjust so I mean the other lesson if you
wanted to reconfigure it and obviously
this means no difference to the
gangsters you're talking about but like
you had essentially one country with the
youngest social democratic party in the
world leading it following democratic
norms and usually delivering for people
the u.s. undermine them and now they
have a literal fascist in charge and
Venezuela which is followed a much more
confrontational and maybe at times
problematic path but they're resilient
part of the reason they are resilient
too is that for all of the problems if
you look at the pro-government
demonstrations they are filled much more
diverse faces and that is another
element of this and I think that
Venezuela would be doing a lot better if
they had a somewhat sympathetic
president of the u.s. that was not
imposing sanctions on them like much of
the crisis has been externally imposed
Bush Obama and Trump even more so I lift
the sanctions and then we can all see
precisely where all of the government of
a stir or like social democracy because
it's not even really socialist if it's
such a disaster why do we have to do so
many things to make sure that it fails
along those lines of doing so many
things to make sure it fails Pompeo was
on with wolf blitzer yesterday saying
that Maduro would have left now this is
understand Mike Pompeo is on there
because he when he says like the the
generals Venice well should be
embarrassed because the Cubans are
telling them what to do what he's on TV
saying that they're you know that Maduro
was about to leave this stuff is like I
mean this is I let me be I want to be
clear here I don't want our government
of fish
chose to be good at promoting coos but
it is a little bit hilarious to see how
bad they are at this like this is if I
have the savvy to go to know Mike Pompeo
is lying and he wants to make it seem
like Maduro is leaving the country which
would that knowledge would spur members
of the military to jump to Guido because
they don't want to be the last guy on
the Maduro team after Maduro has left
the country they want to go in early
this is you see this dynamic in any
political movement you see it in
campaigns there's a reason why unions
you know if they think one of the
candidates is gonna win they'll jump on
that be a campaign early because they're
gonna give them more influence in the
conversation but it is so transparent
what
Pompeyo is doing here that like I mean
come on dude get go get your CIA guys
that you know at the New York Times to
write an article about it or something
like don't be so ham-fisted as to get
out there and say it on both Blitzer
they're gonna know you're saying it but
here he is trying it anyways
elaborate mr. secretary and what you
said earlier that he was apparently
ready to leave he'll head off to the
airport
Maduro but the Russians talked him out
of that is that right that's right he's
right so you blame Russia for the
violence right now he was headed for
Havana we'll talk about that how do you
know I can't tell you if there's you see
this you see all the open source
material that's out there there's lots
of information we're talking to scores
and scores of people on the ground
civilians talking to folks in the
military were talking to opposition
leaders many many conversations that
have given us every indication that the
the fact that Maduro splain was parked
on the tarmac and he was preparing
himself to depart as a fact so we go
back I mean I got every indication that
it is I mean it he's he's fabricating
this from whole cloth and it is so
naked like this is this is really this
is this is this is this is minor-league
the stuff that we're watching this
bush-league folks Model UN stuff
honestly and but here's the weird part
not only that okay so now the United
States would love it for Maduro
theoretically to leave right I mean
that's their stated position leave get
out of the way let Guido assume the
presidency and Pompeyo feels like oh if
he gets this rumor out there that the
Maduro is about to leave the military
will abandon him but then he goes on to
say this like he's just they're not
doing this well civilians talking to
folks in the military were talking to
opposition leaders many many
conversations that have given us every
indication that the the fact that Maduro
splain was parked on the tarmac and he
was preparing himself to depart as a
fact so you say you want him to leave
the country yeah you don't want him to
stay in the country even if he gives up
power is that what I'm hearing that's
right there there's no way there's no
way that Maduro can stay in the country
in a nation that he has so debt right
what what happened there was another
part after that where he had said
something but I'm so devastated I think
well but there was another line
afterwards where he said something to
the effect oh the are you dude it's
not your country
are you talking to me or you don't know
I wasn't talking to you I was talking to
Mike Pompeo but there's more dramatic
effect if I say it as if I'm addressing
him in the room also like I mean if you
get pushed back from Wolf Blitzer on any
u.s. foreign policy talking point that's
astonishing I think that's the first
time I've even seen Wolf Blitzer even
like raised an eyebrow so he goes on to
say well he was headed for a Havana and
I don't and Maduro denies that by the
way well of course I mean of course you
know because in I mean he'd leave
he'd leave if he wanted to I mean I it's
still unfolding but I read last night
that a Guido said he had the support of
the whole military and then it turned
out to be like 70 people some of whom
were maybe tricked
70 is not the whole
