[Music]
Beto O'Rourke came out with the proposal
would it be fair here hmm he's got a
plan he's got a plan - oh he is not
looking happy whoa all of the carefree
I'm born to do this is not here I mean
this is a great plan if you're getting
ready to go run for Senate in in Texas
and I'll take it on the road and Texas
buddy but here he is I think well listen
to the plan this is for his war tax I am
somewhat sympathetic with maybe the idea
behind this to me the most interesting
idea in your plan was this concept of a
war tax I think that'll turn heads when
people just hear that phrase what does
that mean to you it means that before we
go to war again after we've ended the
wars that we're already in we're gonna
make sure that we understand the full
cost and consequence of going to those
wars it's not just deploying the women
and men the missiles and the bombs it's
their care when they come back I'll give
you an example it took us 40 years to
recognize exposure to Agent Orange as a
presumptive condition for the cancers
that Vietnam era veterans were dying of
it's more than 28 years since we first
heard about Gulf War Syndrome and we
have yet to fully pay the cost for the
research and the innovation and the care
for those who served in those wars the
toxic burn pits in Afghanistan in Iraq I
want to make sure that before we go into
the next war we've set aside a fund a
veteran's trust fund that will pay for
the care of those who have borne the
battle in those Wars 1 it ensures we
fulfill our commitments and meet our end
of the obligation and 2 it might make
America pause before we enter that next
war because we'll fully realize the full
cost of waging those wars that's the
idea write it to make someone like me
who doesn't have anyone in their
immediate family serving actually stop
and think about the cost of what our
servicemen and women are doing right
that's right the wars that we're
fighting today we're asking the children
of tomorrow to pay for we've racked up
nearly 6 trillion dollars in debt for
the post
eleven Wars we've asked the military
service members their families veterans
to bear that cost and importantly they
would be exempted from any war tax but
we allowed the rest of America to pay
for these wars on our credit cards and
have our kids pay it back or crowd out
other funding priorities or even
threaten the security of those who paid
in to Social Security and Medicare their
entire lives it's time to pay for these
wars as we fight them and to ensure that
those families who do not have US
service members who are not composed of
veterans pay their fair share now
there's there's a kernel of something in
here that I appreciate and that is the
idea that you know certainly during the
Iraq war in the Afghanistan war it was
very easy for people to walk around and
not even have any clue that we were at
war that we were creating this much
misery with particularly the people who
lived in those countries but also
amongst our own service personnel and uh
the problem with this is I just don't
think it works I like the idea like look
yes we should fully fund and do more for
people we send to war and having a more
transparency about that cost might might
might in some way implicate the decision
to go to war but for everything else
like households making less than 330
thousand dollars a year would pay 25
dollars those making less than forty
would pay fifty seven those making less
than fifty thousand would pay ninety
eight dollars those making less than 75
thousand would pay one hundred and sixty
for those making less than a hundred
thousand would pay two hundred and
seventy those making less than two
hundred thousand would pay four hundred
and eighty five dollars and if you're
making more than 200 thousand you'd pay
a thousand dollars these are not numbers
that I think are gonna make people say
like wait a second should we invade Iraq
it's gonna cost me ninety eight bucks I
don't think so
like III think if if you really
so yeah I think that the idea that we're
gonna we're gonna pre-fund paying for
our vets is is good if it doesn't
actually in some way enable more war I
don't see why it would necessarily but I
don't think it in any way raises the
consciousness of Americans and in any
way inhibits the impetus to go to war if
you want to do that then say here's my
war tax the war tax are all these
numbers and everybody serves in the
military we're gonna skin' script
everybody we're gonna restart the draft
well we're gonna take everybody from
ages eighteen to sixty we're gonna we're
gonna put in the military you're gonna
serve two years starting now and then I
think if you really are interested in
getting the American public to say whoa
wait a second but otherwise I don't
think it's gonna have any of that other
impact well even if it did somehow raise
awareness awareness of war is not the
problem here because the government
doesn't need the support of the
population to go into war I mean Trump
just said he doesn't even need the
support of Congress so without the
political power behind it it's like a
ridiculous tail wagging dog neoliberal
tax credit solution but you know what
that's all just fine with me because I
see sad bado up on the screen and you
know what I have to say about that
what the bigger the frown the more I'd
be down bait oh call me Wow who knew and
it's it's just as surprising to me as it
is to you guys when did this happen
Matt will you put up my boring gag I
didn't realize I'd never picked up on
this what's going on oh it's going on
and maybe I'd come to a recording of the
anti Fattah if your husband's out
nailing something I mean this is clearly
not happening anyway and I don't want to
actually run for Senate
people in Texas aren't we can't reclaim
this DIY art space as a political
platform and can't reconnect me with
some of you contacts from the punk scene
and early vice prototypes oh I use my
trust fund to forward a whole different
thing that risks the imagination of a
different kind of possibility you're
gonna apply that same ingenuity to
helping the punk scene out you know
we're gonna listen if you gauzy I'll
show you the new spots it'll be great
folks I'm not going to
