[Music]
there is no shame that is no longer a
leverage point here is Kamala Harris
asking bill Barr so this is both an
example of like you know of bar being
completely evasive an example and a
moment where we're going to see what's
going in going forward in terms of what
we can anticipate where Kamala Harris
ass bar if the White House suggested the
DOJ investigate anyone else and here it
is bar has the President or anyone at
the White House ever asked or suggested
that you open an investigation of anyone
I wouldn't I wouldn't yes or no I will
repeat it posit I mean now look he
hasn't forgotten what the question is
he's looking what is the word that I can
have my way what is the flaw in your
question that's going to allow me to
answer this okay continue has the
President or anyone at the White House
ever asked or suggested that you open an
investigation of anyone yes or no please
sir
the president or anybody else seems you
would remember something like that and
be able to tell us yeah but I'm trying
to grapple with the word suggest I mean
there have been discussions of matters
out there that they have not asked me to
open a investigation but perhaps they've
suggested I don't know I wouldn't say
suggests hinted I don't know inferred
you don't know okay I don't know
it's so obvious right I mean you don't
even have to think of course I mean
terms it doesn't need to ask him he
tweets it you know he puts it out on his
Twitter feed it's like Michael Cohen
said you know I mean you don't even need
a code all you have to do is look at
Trump's Twitter feed
what he wants and then and then do it I
mean that's you know that's clearly and
bar seems to be very willing to go down
that road he's made it very clear that
he's concerned about you know the quote
spying on the Trump campaign that he's
concerned about you know whether or not
the investigation into Hillary Clinton's
emails were handled properly he
apparently I mean Trump was on Hannity
last week saying that he was looking
that bar was going to handle this
Ukraine story which is I want to get to
that in a second but let me just stay
with one thing about this bar thing it's
not just the Donald Trump puts it out
there and he knows in the same way that
like Matt knows Oh Digby's on Sam is
gonna want the digby song cued up even
though he never said a word to me I
don't know if I've said to with the
words to Matt cue up the dignity song in
months right he just does it because he
knows that's what I want but this also
is an indication that clearly it came up
in the White House and clearly Barr
knows it wasn't just a conversation
one-on-one with the president there were
other people there that bar does not
fully trust that wouldn't tell this
story otherwise he would have just been
very quick and say no and so he's
parsing this this whole thing that
clearly they're in a room with other
people and somebody is saying there's
this Clinton thing it was never fully
investigated that's why you'd have to
grapple with suggests right or inferred
like I don't know if you could say
that's an inference that I should
investigate it this Biden thing's never
been investigated I'm sure Bernie
Sanders has things that need to be
investigated there's all like every
single one of them has investigations
that you would expect the Department of
Justice would investigate is that an
inference or a suggestion I don't know
well we know how that's done because in
the mower report it's all laid out these
conversations that Trump had with McGann
in which he was telling him to fire you
know I mean he didn't come out and say
fire I want you to fire
you know Robert Muller I want you to
do it right now he didn't say those
words but he said in a dozen different
ways that he wants and gone on and that
he's not the right guy and that I want
you to call Rosen Stein and tell him you
know that that that that Muller has to
be gone and all this kind of stuff I
mean this is how he talks I mean even
Trump is dim-witted as he is knows
enough to talk like a mobster and not
just you know come right out and say it
and of course that's what happened and
and you're right I hadn't thought about
that but you're right because Barr knows
that other people were there and this is
a leakiest White House in history and he
has to be concerned that if he lies
outright that he's gonna get you know
right somebody's gonna spill the beans
and I hadn't thought about that why he
was struggling there because it's easy
enough for him to lie and of course he
is a liar I mean I have no doubt about
it that he will lie I mean this this guy
is a a ranked partisan and has been for
30 years he is somebody who I mean he
predates Trump and he has you know
finally found the perfect environment to
do what he has always wanted to do there
are no there's no resistance any more
within the Republican Party and the
Democrats seem stymied and the public is
confused and this is his moment and
there's a whole bunch of these people
that are in there and Magan was one of
them by the way I mean he was packing
the courts the entire time he was
putting up with Trump screaming in his
face and pretending that hidden Magan
was pretending that he was a hero to the
press and then in the Muller report kind
of comes off that way but he's no hero
the guy packed the courts with the most
far-right extremist judges you could
find for the two years that he was there
he got the job done so there's a whole
bunch of these guys like that in bars
one of them yeah and he's going to be
very formidable going forward because
because he has shown he showed it back
in 1992 when he sicked the DOJ on Bill
Clinton and didn't succeed but he showed
that he's willing to do that and he'll
do it again hey that's the thing is we
there they're gonna weaponize the DOJ
and we already have a hint to this and
in look this we're already seeing it
with Biden I
i Biden I think it's possible of all the
candidates in the in the Democratic race
is my my least desired candidate to win
all right so let me put that out there
with that said there's every indication
that this Ukrainian scandal is total BS
and I am I'm only going by look I don't
know much about what goes on in Ukraine
I'm going by the responses of this woman
Daria Kelvin New York who is the who is
the the the executive director of the
anti-corruption center in Ukraine okay
and this other guy Oliver bulla who is a
his written literally written a book on
Ukrainian corruption and they're both
talking about this New York Times
article that talked about this is
supposedly Ukrainian scandal as being BS
and we know Rudy Giuliani is over there
talking to the Ukrainians saying if you
revive this we will help you in fact it
was in the same story I think is the
Times piece seems to it was and I don't
know why it wasn't the lead of The Times
piece I mean they did do a good job with
the headline saying that the story was
being pushed by Trump's allies but then
they go and lay out this whole you know
alleged conspiracy and then about I
don't know two-thirds of the way through
they mentioned that Rudy Giuliani's been
over there trading government favors
apparently has no no actual authority to
do such a thing but that's what he's
done in exchange for going after Biden's
son and it you know as a as a way to
hurt Biden's campaign it's right there
and the story and I said I'm going are
you kidding me I mean this cuts the lead
in president's personal lawyer is doing
this and there's no reason to believe
that the Department of Justice will not
go ahead and open up an investigation to
give those charges more weight and
regardless of where it's heading and the
idea of like a bill bar being praised
and it you know you have all these my
are Democrats now there was a piece out
there who are like uh you know I second
thought maybe bill bar wasn't such a
good idea and here's the here's the
thing the the Democrats could never have
stopped bill bar from getting a
confirmed but you you know creating the
narrative around bill bar and creating
the narrow is why bill bar got away with
the three weeks that he's had to sort of
to mediate essentially the the Muller
report
