while we're talking about the diversity
of our let's go to Ainsley Earhardt this
was just from the other day on Fox &
Friends you know it's it's not just that
taking time the time it takes to count
all the ballots the absentee ballots in
close races the provisional ballots it's
not just that that is obviously in
self-evidently evidence of fraud because
why would you keep counting ballots
after the day that they were cast but
there's another problem with it too it's
just not and I think part of the fun of
voting and having your voice heard is
finding out on election night we all
stay up really late to see what these
votes what what when they come in and
when these races are called if you
aren't you're still counting votes after
10 days and I understand if it's super
closer that's boy that and it is down
there but if you're still counting votes
if they change it for going forward
we're still counting ballots 10 days
after it kind of takes the fun out of
election yeah well I'm willing to take
the fun out to get it right though
Ainsley right and we ultimately though
when Brian Kilmeade is the voice of
reason dude there is a trend you know
you have a problem there's a bizarre
trend with Kilmeade it's not a bizarre
to know he's sitting there going like
this is the dumbest thing I've ever
heard in my entire right so just repeat
that back to yourself Brian Kilmeade
sitting there and going this is the
dumbest thing of my entire life
he's done that three or four times now
but you're having to but you hate the
thing with regret I didn't kill Mead as
opposed to discrediting Ainsley oh I see
no contradiction I was chart a third way
daddy he's a total
and kill me by standards have kill me
die give him a little credit I'm sorry
like even
like a fourth grader couldn't come up
with that something that stupid well now
why you got to insult fourth grader I'm
not insulting fourth graders I'm just
saying that there's actually like a
physiological lack of development of the
brain of kids that age they have not
been exposed to a you know decades
multiple decades worth of information to
to be on a to be talking about politics
and sort of bemoan the fact that it
takes that long because it's not fun and
it's like that's part of the reason why
you vote
cuz it's fun to find out well we know
she doesn't really believe that she just
can't say we don't want to count the
votes because that would hurt
Republicans I'm not convinced of that I
think she's really really dug creative
it goes into it reminds me of how I'm
you know my family we open presents on
Christmas Eve which is early but I me
and my brother had just worn down my
parents so much and I'm with Ainsley
like I want to open up the belts as soon
as they're submitted what are we waiting
for fun we could probably just do this
much easier with a show of hands but
then we move from the sublimely moronic
to the more consciously cynical and
malignant and then of course I'm talking
about Matt slap on on Fox and Friends
with brian kilmeade now Kilmeade will
entertain this one a little bit more
than Ainsley what's her name Earhart
saying it's just not fun when you have
to count all the ballots well I'm a
airhead folks we said it incidentally
this is the guy who said the only reason
why Michael Steele was named RNC head
was because he was black and then tried
to explain to Michael Steele like you
can't take offense at that man I was
stuck getting triggered yeah stop
getting triggered by that they they were
friends I'm not sure if they still are
but here is a match lap
accusing or claiming that a state
mandated recount in a state that is run
by Republicans constitutes Democrats
test run for stealing elections I know
some of these counties responsibly
realize how close it was
and by goodbye their state constitution
they get they know their recount happens
so they quickly started recounting again
through the machines we know what
happened in Palm County they overheated
and they got to go through again because
one for Senate one for house so it's a
problem so it's gonna be delayed are you
concerned what concerns you most about
this process positive so there it is
like are you concerned and even kill me
realizes like I haven't set up anything
nefarious whatsoever I better make this
an open-ended question assess what
concerns me most about this process is
that at the very beginning is where a
lot of the wrong wrongdoing could have
occurred when the Election Commissioners
didn't follow the law explicitly and say
how many ballots they still had to count
it and then they took the counting
behind closed doors and didn't let
people like you and from the media
it created a question mark in all of our
heads pause it well no there are there
are county electors from both parties
you know that right match slap of course
you do you also know that in the
panhandle of Florida there was a county
affected by a hurricane that contravene
Florida law and allowed people to fax in
and mail in their ballots now personally
I have no problem with that I think the
point is you want as many people to vote
as possible and make it as easy as
possible and had the flexibility to deal
with those type of things but that's not
what match lap it's worried about he's
worried about the fact that Brian
Kilmeade who was not allowed into the
area they were counting ballots like
Brian Kilmeade is in every other county
and district in the country where he's
allowed in there to to watch them count
the ballots
it created a question mark in all of our
heads what are they doing
behind those closed doors and that is
the biggest problem we'll never know how
they handled all types of ballots
including ballots that were illicit
ballots that were not legally cast we'll
never know we're gonna spend a lot of
time in court what does that mean
ballots that were not legally cast what
does that mean
it's the absentee ballots from the
caravan if they if they go what they're
doing now in Florida is you're going
through a mechanical recount if the
margin and the Senate race is after that
recount still within point two-five and
right now it's at point two they will
then do a hand recount and during that
hand recount there's a significant Mundt
a number of under votes in the
senatorial race some also over votes
only the undervotes those are ballots
that are there that do not have a vote
for the Senate but do have votes for
other offices they look at those and
they see did the Machine not pick it up
yet and that's where you'd want you know
understandably because there's a
subjective analysis people around that's
all the pictures we saw the hanging
chads they don't have hanging chads now
they just have other problems apparently
but they're making this up they're
making it up that's really we're gonna
spend millions of dollars we're gonna
waste a lot of time I believe at the end
of this Governor Rick Scott will be a
Senator Ron de santis will be the
governor but what the Democrats are
trying to do here this is a trial run to
figure out what they do in 2020 when
Donald Trump is on the ballot you watch
they are learning lessons that they can
do everything possible to stop them in
2024 that is just bizarre it's gonna
come down to Palm Beach again I guess in
2020
yeah they created a question mark in her
head so that wasn't there before that's
the yeah that's the white news white
news sit down sit down white news you
ought to be ashamed yourself get the
call call screening double slap
devil slappa calm Jakub Ian oh he's
absolutely a Cuvier you got his 23 mu
back and he's pure coop he is pure QB
and he is pig grafted from a mad
scientist in a cave no question
