[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday January 2nd 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
partial shutdown of the government is
ongoing about to get worse for the
Republicans and Trump but nowhere as bad
as it is for government workers
meanwhile Elizabeth Warren all but makes
it official 2020 is already here two
immigrant children have now died in US
custody over the past month in Mitt
Romney kicks off the race for an Oscar
in 2019 with an op-ed in the Washington
Post we should also say louis c.k won't
be kicking off a bid to host the oscars
but may instead be vying for a speaking
role at CPAC trump starts the year with
a third of his executive heads acting
like their cabinet heads meanwhile Trump
CPA on a mission to destroy the
environment to ostensibly protect it
tomorrow Dems to vote on Pago amongst
other house rules and Trump starts to
back up on Syria drawdown will now be in
four months I'm betting it will never
happen easy does it
let's slow down gotta be measured
America is losing its teachers by
driving them away and 2019 will be no
different from 2018 and safaris workers
will get screwed by private equity all
this and more on the first the first
episode of the majority report in 2019
yes ladies and gentlemen we are all here
except for Matt who could not break away
from the frozen tundra in it could not
break away he's keeping it real he's
keeping it real he is in the heartland
of the heartland now of course
Brooklyn is the true heartland of
America everybody knows that it's we've
got a we're we're on a navigable
waterway multiple navigable waterways
and would just we're surrounded by real
Heartland values but Matt likes to go to
the other Heartland which is in North
Dakota i overstate elite exams elites
exactly and where they where guys like
robert kramer was that his name the new
senator from North Dakota yeah man I'll
tell you something I still remember
watching that video of him on a local
television program trying to answer
about Cavanaugh and thinking if people
vote for this guy in North Dakota
after this showing there is nothing that
will ever keep them from voting like
just forget about it the only answer is
to pop you
laid the state and essentially overtake
them and I I like I feel quite strongly
that that you know Matt's been working
on a leftist homesteaders Act to take
region hours well I was just gonna
it was a snow plowing with Heidi
Heitkamp I mean honestly if I'm Tom
Steyer and I'm thinking I'm gonna dump
you know aside from like my own sort of
vanity race but I'm gonna dump a hundred
million or two hundred million dollars
or three hundred million dollars into
this project you know the best thing
might be to just sort of say like 150
grand hundred grand to anybody who can
show me that they vote you know
left-of-center for the past two
elections and you get a hundred thousand
dollars bonus for moving there if you
stay there for you know I'll give you
fifty each year that you stay there or
35 or something like that some program
like a homesteading act but just
privately funded by Tom Steyer and set
up these little communities I think
that's maybe that's why Matt's still
there he's populating the state with red
diaper babies as we speak well I'm sure
Matt's gonna be excited to hear that
that's what we think he's doing I not to
be insulting do not think that that's
what matters to me
I think he's populating the state with
the exhalation of his weight smoke
that's great
I'm sure he will appreciate that just as
much fine yeah I was gonna say Jamie
says all he's doing is its fornicating
and all you said he's getting high so
planning an episode of literary hanging
I think while playing Red Dead
Redemption right I was going to say
getting dry and fornicating he's
multitask I hope everyone had a happy
new year let me say happy belated New
Year to you also happy belated Haitian
Independence Day and we are rested
hopefully you are too because it's going
to start getting crazy again quickly
and you're gonna be busy right off the
bat tomorrow the Democrats will be
voting on a suite of new house rules and
every incoming Congress and both houses
have this opportunity the Senate's gonna
be voting for rules but most of those
rules have already been have been
essentially instituted by the the Senate
because the Republicans have been
controlling it for some time but
Democrats come in they come in with a
new host of rules one of them is going
to be we'd already talked about the the
idea of the rule that if you were going
to raise taxes on anybody but the top
20% you needed two-thirds of the of the
house that was dispatched with there is
a a another rule called the Gephardt
rule which came from Dick Gephardt in I
believe he was the the House Democratic
leader in the late 70s and into the 80s
I can't always think was it this I think
was the 80s through both through Pelosi
actually or maybe the 90s through Pelosi
not the 70s maybe I'm getting confused
but nevertheless the Gephardt rule was
was about basically including every time
that you you know there's two aspects to
congressional expenditures one is they
make the expenditures and that is the
they pass a budget theoretically and
then later in the year there is a debt
ceiling vote which has to happen and
that vote is not to actually expend
money that has already been that has
already been that money is already been
that money's already been appropriated
it is essentially a vote to decide to
pay the bill so you can it's it's not an
elegant metaphor but it's like you go
and buy a new t-shirt and you use your
credit card when you make the decision
to spend the money is when you bought
the t-shirt not when you pay the bill on
the credit card now we have never
defaulted in the history of this country
on US Treasury bills and if you were not
to raise the debt ceiling that's what
you would do however Republicans now
Democrats have time to time voted
against it and they it is a symbolic
vote never really threatening not to
raise the debt ceiling republicans have
over the past now 10 years made a a real
threat to do so which would in many
respects possibly crash the economy the
Gephardt rule basically says when you
expend the money when you vote on the
budget we're also going to tuck in a
thing that automatically raises the debt
ceiling so that this can no longer be
used as a a republican hostage and so
that is in the the new pack of new
congressional rules that's restoring
Congress for the people I have it here
in my hand and then the other one which
is going to get voted on tomorrow is the
pay-go rules and the pay-go we've talked
about it basically says you cannot vote
to appropriate any money
unless it is offset by cuts or raises
and taxes in other words no deficit
spending and in fact you can't even
spend when there's a surplus unless you
pay for it we have talked about the
uselessness of this provision
in terms of retail politics there is no
constituency out there for this the myth
that anybody cared about deficits is I
would hope has been blown away
there is no political salience to this
there's just no value to the extent that
there is all it does is it handicaps an
ability for progressives for the left
for liberals anybody on the left to put
in any program they want it inhibits
their ability to do so does it make it
impossible no but it inhibits it
seriously there needs to be 18 Democrats
who essentially say I am NOT going to
support Pago it's got to go before I
vote on this host of new rules Roe
Kahana has made that number now 17 by
announcing I think this morning that he
would not be voting to support pay-go
here he is with the video explaining why
this row Kahana
representative California 17th and he
explains it people hear the word Pago
they tune out they think it's some
inside baseball technical jargon related
to Congress let me tell you it is a very
important issue it would be unilateral
disarmament for House Democrats to adopt
Pago the Republicans never did they
passed massive tax cuts for the 1% and
they didn't have any spending cuts to
pay for those tax cuts they never do
they don't ever balance the budget
here's the Republican tax reform bill
that emerged from the US House of
Representatives
ran into new obstacles the Congressional
Budget Office reported that it would add
at least one point seven trillion
dollars to deficits over ten years the
president noted today we receive the
largest military budget in history the
budget deficit will balloon to a
trillion by the year 2020 yeah
this is something that Wall Street's
been expecting private forecasters had
said we would be seeing trillion dollar
deficits because of the president's tax
reform bill now that House Democrats are
in charge some folks want us to limit
our policies by adopting Pago here's
what it would mean if we have pay go
there to do something like Medicare for
all to do something like expanding
Social Security to do something like a
bold infrastructure plan or a green new
deal would require us to negotiate
against ourselves we would require cuts
in programs that many of us value in
like we shouldn't do that the
Republicans didn't govern that way
instead of doing the politically
expedient thing in seeking cuts that are
not necessary what we ought to do is the
principled thing we ought to argue that
our policies are actually going to grow
the economy that these investments are
in the interests of the United States
Pago would be a terrible policy it's
exactly the type of weakness that people
don't want to see they want House
Democrats to be bold to offer our vision
and to offer a real alternative to what
the House Republicans did there you go
so now that number is down to 17 it
would be worth your while to call
members of the Congressional Progressive
Caucus hopefully they're in your
district but if they're not do one
that's close to your district call and
tell them to vote against Pago the more
that the the the members of the house
are aware that you're aware of this this
is one of those things that they usually
just pass and never becomes a political
issue at all because who cares I can
tell you that most of the normies out
there and by that I use that term is
just you know people who don't spend all
their time talking about politics well
just about it as far as I can tell
everybody does now but it's nor meet it
so I would say like but but but aren't
you know the people who are
listening to three hours a day of
politics let's put it that way they
don't know what Pago is and if you
explain it to them very quickly they're
gonna be bothered by it because it
completely handicapped it's not saying
that you can't have offsets it's just
that by putting the default this way it
makes it much much harder to get good
policies and promote them and so if
members of the House suddenly realize
like oh people are paying attention to
this now I'm not going to vote for it
that I mean that is that will be the
dynamic so I encourage you do we have a
number we'll get a number where you can
call Congress and we'll put it up under
this video and and certainly will tweet
it out and we'll talk about it in a
moment but you got a nice signal boost
from her girl Alexandria so that's cool
yeah I mean I think you know people I
wouldn't I would be surprised if there
aren't already a couple of other people
who are gonna come out and you know
announced that they're voting against
this but hopefully one of you guys is is
actually googling that a number to call
your Congress a two oh two two two five
three one two one that's your house
member two oh two two two five three one
two one two oh two two two five three
one two one thank you
crack google so that's gonna be the big
fight also you should know that the
Democrats and this is again not
necessarily this is you know again more
politics nothing specifically what we're
going to be seeing over the next year is
the Democrats positioning themselves now
look that's the thing about the pay-go
is that they can't do anything anyways
unilaterally
but we are now setting precedents and
setting stuff up for 2021 with the hopes
that there will be a democratically
controlled House and Senate and a
democratic Democrat and president
sitting in the executive I mean that's
basically what's going on here and this
also defines the parameters of what
becomes the mainstream conversation what
what are what politics are allowed
essentially amongst the political class
which is why it's so important to do it
now Democrats are going to among other
things in the investigations regarding
Trump etcetera etcetera and just the
massive corruption throughout our
government and also you know harassing
the EPA how is it you're justifying
we'll talk about this how are you
justifying putting more mercury into the
air we will talk about how they're
justifying it but one of the things the
a provision in the opening days rule
package is it's authorizing the House
Counsel I mean this is the other thing
resources lawyers for the Congress will
be able to intervene in the lawsuit in
which 16 republican-controlled states
are or formerly controlled Republican
states are trying to essentially find
the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional
they are going to the house lawyers are
going to specifically be weighing in on
the pre-existing conditions feature as
Nancy Pelosi says let's hear it for
pre-existing conditions but hopefully
they will they'll get the politics a
little bit a little bit more
electrifying yes than that and then then
three chairs for pre-existing conditions
but that's basically what's happening
there in terms of the shutdown here's
the deal there are hundreds of thousands
of
workers right now who are not getting
paid well let me let me do this first
this is actually a timely ad for today
if you're trying to drink more water
this year you're trying to stay more
hydrated and this is this is actually
one of those circumstances where I lean
on on liquid IV more when I have been
drinking a little bit
liquid IV hydrates you faster and more
efficiently than water alone with the
added bonus of vitamin C b3 b5 b6 and
b12 that also helps you absorb the
hydration quicker it's not your average
electrolyte drink mix liquid IV it uses
cellular transport technology in a
specific ratio of glucose sodium and
potassium to help your body absorb more
water and nutrients directly into your
bloodstream it can provide the same
hydration as drinking two to three
bottles of water so I will tell well it
contains more vitamin C than an orange
and as much potassium as a banana
the portable powder or packets powder
packets are perfect for throwing in your
gym bag to fuel a tough workouts and
prevent muscle fatigue on nights that I
have been drinking and I have extended
this recommendation to friends of mine I
drink a packet of this I mean that's the
way I use it I don't go to the gym
probably as much as I should but I do
have occasion where I've drank too much
and this has been incredibly helpful
because it's hard to drink three bottles
of water it's easier to drink one bottle
of water I also have found frankly it's
uh it's helping with a little bit of the
bags under my eyes yeah cuz that's
apparently because I've been a little
bit dehydrated hello I mean that's not
they they don't tell you to say that but
that's right found and we actually
actually get complaints in the office
that I don't keep enough of that around
here so
very greedy with it but I've got good
news for you Michael
as you know you love liquid ivy
I do too but right now my listeners and
even my producers can get 20% off at
liquid ivy dot-com when you use my code
majority at checkout that's 20% off of
anything you order at liquid Ivy's
website just go to liquid ivy dot-com
enter my promo code majority to get your
savings and start getting better
hydration that's liquid ivy dot-com
promo code majority don't wait get
hydrated today okay so we have currently
working without pay and this is a
partial shutdown because it was already
a statute passed earlier in the year
that provided for pay for the majority I
think of government workers but in
addition to the hundreds of thousands
who are have been furloughed they're not
getting paid and they're not working
we have 54,000 custom and Border
Protection agents getting working
without pay 42,000 coastguard employees
53,000 TSA agents 17,000 correctional
officers 14,000 FBI agents 4,000 DEA
5,000 fighters who were with the u.s.
Forest Service these are all people who
are paying to go to work essentially at
this point right because they're not
getting paid paying for their
transportation whatever it is a decent
number of these people I would say mmm
good time for you to go find other work
I'm not terribly excited about what the
Customs and Border Protection people are
doing these days but I mean obviously
some of this is necessary but all this
is a struggle I mean all these people
have families these are their jobs we
have
hundreds of thousands of other workers
you're going to start seeing as of today
Smithsonian closing you're going to
start seeing more public parks closing
and not only I mean just contemplate
this the the administration the Office
of Personnel Management last Thursday I
think it was they tweeted out advice to
furloughed federal workers on how to
explain their situation to creditors and
landlords they also gave a sample letter
and it went like this quote I will keep
in touch with you to keep you informed
about my income status and I would like
to discuss with you the possibility of
trading my services to perform
maintenance paint me a painting
carpentry work in exchange for partial
rent payments now banks are well known
for taking like yeah if you've got a
mortgage with us and you'd rather come
in and make some shelves or perhaps
organize our files feel free to come in
this is also hitting with a lot of times
like you had a lot of federal workers
who they don't know when their next
paycheck is gonna come they're not gonna
go expend money of on presents for their
kids they're all the the human suffering
here really just needless suffering is
pretty stunning what will also happen is
there's a couple of thousand federal
contractors you know in in a lot of the
the buildings subcontractors a lot of
federal buildings so you have janitors
security guards people who work in like
the commissaries and they will never get
back back they don't come in these
companies are never gonna give them back
pay many of these workers who are
furloughed right now or who are working
without pay we're talking about eight
hundred thousand total
hopefully they will get back pay but the
bottom line is right now they're having
to go out and they're either taking
loans or they're putting stuff on their
credit card they're never gonna get paid
for the interest that they're gonna get
charged in their credit card the 20%
interest that money's never coming back
the insecurity that they're dealing with
the their that they're cutting back in
real time the stress that their kids and
themselves are probably going through
this is never gonna get returned in
addition to that it undermines the
missions of all of these agencies if
they cannot count on on funds coming in
all their contracts right you're gonna
be putting contractors out of business
you're gonna be putting people out of
business who do business with the
government so this is problematic the it
reverberates and so here's what's gonna
happen probably tomorrow or maybe Friday
the house is gonna pass a budget with I
don't know if there will be 1.5 billion
dollars for uh you know border security
or whatever that means
look they could pass the five billion
dollars and Donald Trump's not gonna be
able to do build anything other than
more replicas of his prototype walls for
the most part because it's it's it's a
drop in the bucket but the bottom line
is if you're gonna give him five billion
dollars for you know to pretend that
he's building his wall get something get
permanent status for Daka
kids get permanent status for dhaba and
that was the deal they had a year ago
and of course Stephen Miller said told
Trump don't don't do it or Trump who
knows but the house is gonna pass a
budget and then it's gonna go to the
Senate and Mitch McConnell is gonna have
to make a decision he's either going to
put that
for a vote and it will pass because
there will be Democrats who will vote
for it he's also got to worry though
that there's gonna add there's a half a
dozen senators who are gonna pretend
Republican senators are gonna pretend
that it's problem right like Ted Cruz is
gonna get out there and this is gonna be
this time shine and Mike Lee is gonna
get out there Rand Paul is gonna say
this is you know I finally have
principles in blah blah blah then the
bill if it passes in the Senate will go
to Donald Trump and then he will
presumably not sign it and it becomes a
pocket veto maybe he will veto it just
to show it and then it goes back to the
house and the Senate and then things
start getting really interesting it will
most likely pass the house but in the
Senate there could be enough Republicans
who don't who are afraid of voting
against Donald Trump who knows
ultimately I don't think this works out
very well for the Republicans but it's
like I say a lot worse for the federal
workers and the federal government and
this is the prop this is the rub this is
why when we talk about asymmetrical
politics this is it because it's a
problem for people on the left most that
the government is hurt and that federal
workers are hurt by this and the hurt
continues and gets worse as you go on so
the leverage is with the Republicans but
Donald Trump is about to own this and
despite the fact that he already
announced that he was gonna Oney he's
gonna own it in a an even more intimate
way very shortly you want to talk about
asymmetrical politics public sector
workers are not allowed to strike in
most states because you know their jobs
are too important they help society run
but the Republicans are allowed to do
the exact same thing if they decide to
it's that's
a lockout right it's basically a lockout
for all those people were furloughed and
it's even worse for those people who are
not for a load but don't get paid
yeah no it's it's it's a real problem I
don't know how you make a you know a
long-term reform to this but that's why
the there has to be a political price
exacted because otherwise it continues
to happen and and we shall see I mean
hopefully that will we'll see a price
paid meanwhile this happened while we
were out Elizabeth Warren she makes an
announcement let's watch part of the
video this is it's four minutes long
right we're not gonna watch the whole
thing but let's watch a little bit of it
Elizabeth Warren has essentially I mean
I don't know if he's official but she
said she's going to launch a splurt or
exploratory committee we be a little
pedantic for a second I've never
understood this and I've been doing this
for a little while now what when you
explore how many people launch an
exploratory committee that doesn't turn
into a run that's exceedingly rare I
would say zero I mean so what is it with
this sort of what is the specific isn't
legal is it something you have to do to
set up certain it's the way that you can
start taking maja okay and the the idea
is I mean there's a lot of theories as
to why she announced now one slow news
days right now gets more attention you
launch the exploratory committee you get
a news hit you announced that you're
going to run you get another news hit
that's the theory I think the other idea
is if she can raise a lot of money it
will scare some people out of the race
that is the other theory and so here is
her video which I guess introduces the
idea that she's planning to run in our
country if you work hard and play but
the rules
you ought to be able to take care of
yourself and the people you love that's
a fundamental
positive one second now I should tell
you that construct was a Bill Clinton
construct I was just gonna say it and I
we can debate the the value of that I
mean better that you're you're using
some type of like folksy phrase from
Bill Clinton then Ronald Reagan let me
put it that way
IDI so you know ten fifteen years ago
that's what Democrats would do they
would put you know they would start
their videos with we can be a shining
beacon you know for the world over is
something and so we're making some
progress but good there should be truth
for every growing up in Oklahoma that
promise came through from me and my
family after my older brothers joined
the military and I was still just a kid
my daddy had a heart attack and couldn't
work my mom found a minimum-wage job at
Sears and that job saved our house and
our family
my daddy ended up as a janitor but he
raised a daughter who got to be a public
school teacher a law professor and a
senator we got a real opportunity to
build something working families today
face a lot tougher path and my family
did and families of color face a path
that is steeper and rockier a path made
even harder by the impact of generations
of discrimination I've spent my career
getting to the bottom of why America's
Promise works for some families but
others who work just as hard slip
through the cracks into disaster and
what I found is terrifying
these aren't cracks that families are
falling into their traps America's
middle class is under attack how do we
get here billionaires and big
corporations decided they wanted more of
the pie and they enlisted politicians to
cut them a fatter slice that crippled
unions so no
stop I'm going to turn the bull loose
dismantled the financial rules meant to
keep us safe
after the Great Depression and cut their
own taxes so they paid less than their
secretaries and janitors it's time to
write the rules for the middle class
after Wall Street crashed our economy in
2008 I left the classroom to go to
Washington and confront the broken
system head-on Elizabeth Warren
apparently not afraid of tangle with
Wall Street is heading into the Lions
Den mrs. Warren goes to Washington you
do we created America's first consumer
watchdog to hold the big banks account
a woman who has warned of another
meltdown if Washington doesn't
straighten up I never thought I'd run
for office not in a million years but
when Republican senators tried to
sabotage the reforms had run me out of
town I went back to Massachusetts and
ran against one of them and I beat it
[Music]
[Applause]
today corruption is poisoning our
democracy politicians look the other way
while big insurance companies deny
patients life-saving coverage while big
banks ripoff consumers and while big oil
companies destroy this planet our
government's supposed to work for all of
us but instead it has become a tool for
the wealthy and well-connected the whole
scam is propped up by an echo chamber of
fear and designed to distract and divide
us people who will do or say anything to
hang on to power point the finger at
anyone who looks thanks praise or loves
differently than they do this dark path
doesn't have to be our future we can
make our democracy work for all of us we
can make our economy work for all of us
we can rebuild America's middle class
but this time we gotta build it for
every alright well I mean I think you
know the the interesting thing about
that video as you watch it is early on
she addresses you know the the economic
plight of of not just you know the
middle class but also of specifically of
of minorities in this country and then
everything else is I think sort of very
it may be slightly different rhetoric
but certainly populist and tone and
attacking the the big banks attacking
the insurance companies and then also
you know throws in some resistance stuff
but you know she flashes a picture of
AOC and you know among other sort of
incoming you know left leftist I guess
at least in the context of the
Democratic Party House members and so I
don't know it's it's interesting because
this is where you see at least she plans
to go early on
and that is I think to attempt to secure
those supporters of Bernie Sanders I
think I let me say I mean I agree with I
think first of all what I like about it
is just reminding everybody of why we
all liked her in the first place and
getting away from the sort of recent
mishap with the DNA thing and reminding
us that she's has a really powerful
record on banks and consumer issues and
that's how she the only reason she's
here is because of great work in that
regard I and and I don't want to get too
nitpicky about rhetoric but I do think
to me like the old Clinton line points
to basically just a bigger difference of
opinion and I think she does with in a
much more genuine populist way have much
more belief in the American meritocracy
than I do and I think Sanders does and
that's an actual difference between a
somewhat more democratic socialist
position and a progressive liberal one
and I think it's actually could be great
if the debate is on the merits of those
things but we shouldn't pretend they're
they're the same or that there is
systemic and I also think ironically
that and I've been banging on about this
but it's true that when Bernie ran in
2016 I loved what he said about
Kissinger and I loved how he moved a bit
on israel-palestine but he had no
foreign policy in fact he said some
ridiculous things about teaming up with
Jordan and Saudi Arabia now he is the
leader with regards to Yemen as an
example so that's created a whole other
justification and if as applied to her
I'd really like to see her remind us of
why she was so good to begin with banks
and regulation and she's got to move
forward on a vision of the world
yep-yep miles beyond any other
mainstream politician on Israel too just
without a doubt and I I'm not a hundred
percent convinced that in this
environment that it's totally good
enough to you know just have it like you
know butter at home guns abroad foreign
policy because I think that people who
did who do talk intelligently about
Obama's legacy on the Iran deal that's a
great way
intersecting the left perspective and
some of the resistance rhetoric and
guarding Obama's legacy and the
racialized attacks on it also Israel
also what's happening across the world I
mean you know bolson armor was sworn in
yesterday I know we'll get to it but the
social media accounts of government
workers are already being combed through
in that country it's a trump wet dream
so there's Elizabeth Warren and sorry
for that image no let's take a quick
phone call
I know we're not in the fun half yet but
I want to do this because calling from a
two one zero
area code who's this where are you
calling from from San Antonio I thought
it might be you John and I saw that you
were you were hanging on the line
calling early today and let me get your
quick first off let me say Happy New
Year's to you what is your sense
Elizabeth Warren I know you're a Bernie
guy but Bernie is yet to declare maybe
well he won't declare what is your sense
of Elizabeth Warren well I'm glad she's
running if Bernie doesn't declare you
know I'm glad that she's going to be you
know somebody who's gonna help to some
degree in a middle-class and
working-class people you know I'm not
totally sold on her you know I'm still
gonna be looking at Merkley and if he
decides to run but you know my my heart
is definitely you know in it for Bernie
and so you know I agree with what
Michael and Jamie both said and I think
that the fact that he put out this this
really great piece in an email yesterday
that was published in a in common dreams
which beta did stated in which in the
new year
it's resolved to fight and this is the
key keywords here like we have never
fought before for a government a society
in an economy that works for all of us
not just those on top you know so I mean
rent bear on this Fox show on December
12 said you know if there's grass
support guess root support I'll run and
in a fundraising email on December 27th
he also said if I'm the best candidate
to beat Donald Trump I'll probably run
that is the truth and so you know
Bernie's consistently you know had the
second-best hypotheticals against Trump
including besides the slate is a Harvard
X poll it had a lead of 10.3% against
Trump and you know I was just looking at
Biden's numbers from 2008 you know he
got one less than 1% in Iowa point two
percent in New Hampshire Bernie received
over 13 million votes so you know I just
think that Bernie is is the real
candidate that true progressives want
and you know also you know Warren has
definitely been hurt by this video that
she put out a you know concerning her
Native American heritage and so I mean
her numbers have really gone down I
think they'll they'll you know rise up
again because of the publicity and I
think it was a smart move to actually
announce early and I wish Bernie would
announce and I also want to encourage
everybody on December 12th there's going
to be organized number 12
no I'm sorry January 12 there's going to
be all these organizing event let me see
what is it yeah organizing for Bernie
calm go to that website and you can
click on find an event I know I've
already signed up for the event here in
San Antonio and you know I encourage
everybody to
to go to these events and you know show
Bernie just how much we want him as a
candidate and because I mean to me you
know he's ready to run he just needs
that extra support from all of his
followers and you know the Bernie
followers are definitely more committed
than any other followers that are out
there and you know and it's all about
you know it's not a I mean I think he is
a you know he is a charismatic
politician and we've had that
disagreement a little bit but you know
it's mostly about his policy and and so
I mean people want people want him to
run and I have to say that you know
great opening on Tago Pago is a big
opening vote AOC has already said you
know that she's she's not gonna vote for
Pago and so now it's down to sixteen
people so I just want to encourage all
of the the best progresses and even
centrist that you know Pago is it really
important go to call my Congress my
congress.com as well to find out you
know how to call and yeah that that's a
big deal I think I'm glad that you
filled it in with some numbers of
details John because I am more of a big
picture person but I came to the same
conclusions as you looking at you know
the larger social forces at play I think
none of the social forces that brought
us Trump have changed substantially
since 2016 if anything they have
intensified and I just think that Warren
would lose really badly at a trump
what's happened already doesn't bode
well for the future wait a second why do
you think I mean look the the arguments
of electability right now I think are
silly
broadly speaking but why why do you
think why do you think Warren
would lose badly to trump okay people
don't only vote based on policy people
vote based on vibe as much as we would
like them to vote based on policy right
and she has a very similar vibe to
Hillary Clinton
that's exactly my editor that's exactly
what she's not channelling oh she's not
channeling the populist rage in the same
way that bernie is but if you want to
talk about policy - I think the only
wiggle room in this election it's in two
places right it's in this small slice of
working-class swing voters who could go
back and forth although if you voted for
Trump I'm not sure that many of these
people are coming back from that but
some and those people want to see you
know policies that help them they also
want to see you know someone with an
angry vibe and some of them are probably
sexist - so that might be on Bernie's
side but also like more importantly you
need to turn out the people who don't
usually vote and that's how Jeremy
Corbyn did it when he he increased the
turnout among young people from like 30%
to like 78 percent or something like
that and those people are more important
okay so if you say that she has a
similar vibe to Hillary Clinton Hillary
Clinton despite the fact of her policies
not being you know not being consistent
listen let's say for a moment the Bernie
Sanders does not run if Bernie Sanders
does not run he's clearly going to
support Elizabeth Warren and the idea
that Bernie Sanders is not going to get
you an extra 10,000 votes in Michigan
and an extra 10,000 votes in Wisconsin
and particularly after what we saw in
2016 and with all the women who came out
and drove excuse me 2018 who drove
record record numbers did it work for
Obama getting votes for Hillary what
Bhama wasn't going out actually Obama
was hurting Hillary
I think with the TPP I think the
national value of Obama was very samal
man I make and but wait a second let me
finish be really but but again the idea
that Bernie's not gonna get 10,000 votes
for for her in Wisconsin and in Michigan
is absurd
like the the margin was so small and
there were so many different factors
that led to Hillary Clinton who I think
was particularly in that time as a
candidate uniquely ill-suited to run
against Donald Trump in that time I mean
I still I still contend that martin
O'Malley would have won and and so the
idea that people I mean look at Donald
Trump didn't even do as well as Mitt
Romney as a share of the vote and so so
you know the to totally discount the
idea that what what people have been
saying for two and three and four years
that Hillary Clinton was a uniquely bad
candidate will somehow that the next
person who is not a uniquely bad
candidate who doesn't rightly or wrongly
have 30 years of baggage like literally
people who made lifetime's of income let
me let me based upon attacking the
Clintons it's I just there's no data to
support this what's may I just offer
another viewpoint that I'm gonna be
hammering at least until we get more
like numbers in and maybe this becomes
like a more tangible argument we can
have about electability I think that
there's a very good chance and a lot of
conditions are in play but I don't think
it's inconceivable that base I won't say
all of them but I think several of these
people could be Trump including ones I'd
really don't like I think Biden would
smoke him I think Bernie Sanders would
smoke him so my argument is gonna be
Bernie Sanders is the best candidate if
he runs and I strongly support him and
none of it is gonna hinge on these
electability it's way too early but also
let's flip it though because I would say
like that's always used against the left
so let me just say I I think anyone
could win so let's go with the best one
I that's exactly right I think at this
point to to talk about electability
particularly when there's no data I mean
there's no data that's that's worthwhile
at all or you know I mean it's gave us
some data what what yeah but that data
is worthless like you can go back to two
years out two years out of any of any
campaign and it is you know who was what
who job was writing job illegally at
this point and it was Joe Lieberman lead
the field and 2000 were this is we're
too far out but also you could argue
that Bernie has more like right now
there's more data that supports that
he's electable but to say that Elizabeth
Warren is not electable is absurd we
will vote against candidates in these
election may I just say more relevant to
debunk is the you know a lot of polling
coming out saying that actually Bernie
Sanders is unusually popular with people
of color and less popular white people
as an example so there's a lot of lies
about a support base we can debunk with
the numbers that are already established
but I I would I want to just move in the
opposite direction and say I think that
if especially if the trends right now
hold with where Trump's approval ratings
are where the economy is going and what
happened to 2018 he probably will lose
and I want to take this opportunity to
nominate somebody who will actually make
fundamental structural changes and not
just kick I can't road with a depressing
centrist DLC for years that won't change
the material condition here you're
talking about and I will say that I
think honestly at this juncture making
the the electability argument is the
most detrimental force to getting a good
a better candidate from the perspective
of the left because the electability is
exactly what you will hear to discount
anybody coming from the left in fact and
John I appreciate the call Buddy Guy I
agree with you John here is a perfect
example right of where the the center is
the so-called center and by the center I
mean really like really the center right
is is going to take this it's all based
upon an electability argument no one has
a sense of who is electable right now
the only the only genuine data that you
can look at is what happened to the last
presidential election what happened in
the midterms what has happened
traditionally the Republican
presidential candidate in six out of the
last eight elections seven out of the
last eight elections has gotten less of
a share of the popular vote and and yes
it is the case that you can lose the
election if you don't get those fifteen
thousand votes in Michigan and the
fifteen thousand votes in Wisconsin and
in Pennsylvania but I will remind
everybody 40,000 in Pennsylvania I will
remind everybody that what happened in
the midterm elections dramatically a
dramatic change there in terms of
swinging back and record number of
Democratic voters so the idea that
electability is a real thing for really
any of these Democratic candidates
particularly at this point I mean you
need to see people out on the campaign
trail and there can be some really
god-awful campaigners but we we haven't
there's just simply not enough evidence
at this point but here is I would love
to be wrong about this
well I look at history though and
right-wing populism is the result
largely of capitalist crisis and that's
not going away I understand to intensify
I understand the capitalist crisis is
going to intensify but the fact is three
million more people voted for a deeply
flawed candidate who was literally up
until the moment of her campaign going
out and speaking to the villains of the
2008 financial crisis I mean there is
nothing we have no analog and there is
no indication that Donald Trump is
getting more popular than he was in 26
in out would increase
it's also likely yes no you're wrong we
just saw the greatest turnout of
Democrats in a midterm election in any
of our lifetimes and since Watergate
beyond Watergate so you're wrong about
that fundamental point there is every
reason to believe that Democratic
turnout is going to be gangbusters it
was a totally impotent turnout I mean
honestly anybody who does anybody like
this dress it was impotent so I mean
that's absurd there I mean look I know
I'm not I'm not trying to I'm uh you
know I'm not being a wallflower here but
the fact is is that every data point
that you bring up actually there's you
know we don't know what's gonna happen
in the next two years I mean totally
right I just think a better driver of
turnout even than warrants very
progressive policies is someone who says
yeah the system is broken it's rigged
against you it's and I'm gonna
change it on a structural level rather
than tinker with it I make it better you
really think that there is a huge swath
of people out there who are waiting for
the word structural as opposed to
everything else you said which was just
in their video the word well what I mean
like like honestly like she hit all
those notes now it's quite possible that
she's not a great campaigner or that
there's other problems that are gonna
come up or that the DNA thing is going
to haunt her
but but but we're trying to analyze here
like you know sort of like what the
situation is with these candidates and I
get it Bernie's better I get that but
the what everything that you are basing
on that Elizabeth Warren doesn't have a
chance right now in 2020 that she is
unelectable when you say she is
unelectable Bernie might be unelectable
- well everybody but but Bernie has
wrong Claire you know right I think
Donald Trump is unelectable probably if
there is to be honest with you
and
and so you know the the the enormous
amount of factors that align to make it
impossible for Hillary Clinton to win
are not going to be involved in this in
this go-around it was an impotent
showing Sam I mean you're
rolling over the truth or you're a
pathetic sorry a pathetically no that
worried aggressive let me let me let me
get back to this argument that we keep
hearing over and over again that the
left is unelectable okay
and in this case is coming from a guy
who just lost his incumbency this is
outgoing Senator Joe Donnelly with a
warning to his party and well let's
listen to it first before I reek Eric
tries what he's saying party about the
Democratic Party you lost in Indiana in
November
McCaskill we just talked about lost in
Missouri Heidi Heitkamp lost in North
Dakota the Democratic Party was already
receding to the coast even more so now
so can the Democratic Party your party
be viable without appealing to the
interior of the country where you live
and we represent well I don't know how
you do that I mean I was fortunate
enough I got more votes in this midterm
than any Democrat in Indiana in modern
history but it wasn't quite enough
because the president came three times
in about the last week six times in
about the last month and a half and said
this is about him and he said if you
don't vote basically you're betraying me
and we have not made enough of a
connection I work like a dog non-stop to
make that connection but that the people
of my state understand that culturally
we want to make sure you succeed that
we're gonna fight to make sure that for
instance on student loans will keep the
interest rate at the same rate as a
housing loan but when you talk
medicare-for-all like i heard on the
panel earlier you start losing the
people in my state when we start talking
about hey we're gonna work together with
the insurance companies to lower
premiums that's what connects what and
so
so wait a second all right this guy
definitely would lose the Trump oh right
right so Joe Donnelly would have us
believe that what the constituents of
Indiana want to hear is not that you're
going to get low like really low if not
no cost insurance that you're not gonna
have to deal with what his constituents
want is that you're gonna work together
with the the insurance country remember
those Trump speech of course I tell you
what it works with the insurance people
now if you went to college not gonna be
more than a home loan right housing
loans here is a Kaiser Family Foundation
poll which states that over 50% of the
people of Indiana and apparently Joe
Donnelly didn't have this poll support
Medicare for all you can see if you go
in there we will zoom in to Indiana
there we go right there
now that's a beautiful turquoise color
and if we go down to the key we can see
that turquoise is over 50% probably
around 50 to 53 percent but it's not
just that first of all this notion that
he got the most votes of any Democrat
state well he's the incumbent it was the
incumbent for six years and I will tell
you that he really didn't do much better
there was another woman Liz Watson she
ran for a House seat in the ninth
district now she lost by 13 points to
her to an incumbent she lost by 13
points to the incumbent but she ran on
medicare-for-all
Donnelly lost by only six points but
then he lost by another four points too
there was another four points from a
libertarian which would have gone to the
Republican presumably if they were not
in the race and there you're at
basically ten points as the incumbent he
loses sir I'm underemployed and drowning
college debt and I'd like to vote for a
Democrat but I'm just a little alienated
by this talk of relieving my student
debt so you could just match it with a
home loan which of course I'll never be
able to afford feel a lot more
comfortable that would connect with me
uh it's all well and good that you're
going to provide for me a basically no
headache no cost health insurance but
what I would rather see is you to sit
down and actually come to a tete-a-tete
situation with some big Insurance
Corporation she said free health care a
point of delivery boom ah where's the
where's the dialogue with Humana yeah
that really connects with me man
what we've just witnessed is Joe
Donnelly's if not you know this is one
of his calling cards that he's going to
for like he's gonna take that interview
and he's gonna take the link and it's
gonna be attached to his resume as he
applies for lobbying positions in some
massive law firm in Washington DC on
health insurance that's he's literally
going to sell himself as being the guy
who is gonna go to these three senators
I I can't think of who they are off the
top of my head but there's three or four
of them that he is going to tell that
partner the law firm I can get you that
one that one and that one
and those are the guys I will work on in
the Senate to prevent Medicare for all
in the event that I mean the one thing
that Joe Donnelly wants more than
anything is a democratic take over the
Senate so that he can get that lobbying
job and stop Medicare for all there's
and I just want to say and Claire
McCaskill same exact deal same exact
deal and Dick Gephardt who you mentioned
earlier there's audio from him from last
year that I think Lee Fang dug up at
some meeting and he was like we're never
gonna let single-payer past period
he's sort of like the prime former
Democratic leadership influence peddler
in Washington right now for everything
not just health care also even like not
recognizing the Armenian Genocide and
one of the great things if you start to
change the makeup of the Democratic
house and in the future of the Senate is
that these people won't be employable
exactly this will be no use there's no
social capital alright we're gonna take
a quick break ahead into the fun half of
the program we will talk more about
these we've got more of this everybody
we're like even Terry McAuliffe now he's
for Medicare for all but he wants to put
the brakes on some other things I mean
they're all all of these surrogates are
going out there they have slightly
different agendas some are looking for
lobbying jobs some are looking for
lobbying jobs and also to support people
who will help them in their lobbying
jobs so it's not just it's not just one
note we will talk about that more in the
as the program goes on Mike Pompeo says
that Brazil is going to be an ally in
their attempt to bring back democracy to
Venezuela and there's nothing like
enlisting a a burgeoning fascist state
to help you bring back democracy in its
neighbor or to literally Telegraph that
that invasion is finally happening
that's incredibly disturbing we will we
will talk about that and more we will
also take your phone calls at six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty we'll take your I am so you can a
I am the show at majority app comm see
you in oh well oh yeah we should do what
do we do you do plugs now right folks
just a reminder you can support this
program by becoming a member at joined
the majority report com join the
majority report calm when you become a
member you get access to an extra hour
plus of content every day and the
occasional special bonus for members
like that
Brandon target off
interview that I did or the debate over
there Straka struck that guy that guy
that doesn't apathetic it's real losing
over his last name the most smug and
condescending that I've ever been for an
extended period of time on camera
dressed in a hoodie I would say I'm just
covering my bases there but so you can
check that out also today is Wednesday
which means that yesterday was Tuesday
but it was also New Year's Day so what's
going on with the TPMS Thursday night
still Thursday night show tomorrow night
oh is that right yes sir Bosh Carson
Cara's in studio we are gonna talk about
his new book socialism in 2019 we've got
some stuff that we've got to cover of
course in Brazil but also in the Western
Sahara bunch of other stuff and then for
patrons the tea MBS boys are doing a
2019 think Tech session so a new kind of
patreon segment that we haven't done
before and you can watch it live
tomorrow night around seven ish NYC time
on our YouTube channel of which we are
on the verge of crossing our first
20,000 subscribers so click the
subscribe button over there and get your
tickets to February 1st at the Bell
House are the the other show is uh sold
out right yeah she's already sold out
January 13th at the Bell house at 2:30
is sold out okay but if you want to see
me because on that show just playing
I'll be at both obey both but you can
get even up closer to Michael he's gonna
be cordoned off at the majority of
[Laughter]
warranty dude we are selling we are
selling extra VIP seats where you could
actually sit closer to Michael and four
and get all of those germs on you we
sell rubber gloves if you want to shake
hands with Michael because Jamie what's
the story with the Intifada yeah so Sean
and I actually took a week off this week
because we were moving and it sucks but
we did put out an episode Christmas a
week that I have yet to plug on here
such a long time ago I barely remember
it I'm just gonna read this little
description and hope that people find it
interesting so on this episode we're
joined by geographer and filmmaker dr.
nerve V McCaw Spock to talk about the
history of the Philippines
it's Maoist insurgency and the rise of
rodrigo duterte we also talk about
amazon redlining marxist geography and
presidential foot-fetish ism the last
part of the episode is a discussion of
nerves work on autonomous territories in
Colombia Mexico and the Philippines that
have earned some form of autonomy after
decades of brutal armed struggle check
it out folks
check it out the Christmas special of
the anti fada and I looked over Jesus
was a nice man but he said nothing now
all right literary hangover Matt's
podcast yes it's really good really
enjoyed i'll keep flogging the democracy
and chains one because I think that's a
book that we should defend and read I
think that's an important book for
understanding how the right works
all right folks quick break heading to
the fun half six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty we'll turn on the IMS
you can get you can IMS through the app
at majority app comm be right back six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
want to degrade the white man alpha
males take our lovely Mike
alpha males are almost as what I am a
total
can we bring back DJ Tanner yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation these
you dance well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
Hawkinson I'm the alpha males Oh psych
almost says what what watch watch watch
watch watch
on the back
the back
a lot of back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black
[Music]
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadis
keeping it 100
[Music]
for the birthday
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought experiment for you the alpha
males
[Music]
somebody needs to pay the price replies
to be around here like I am a total
[Music]
we are back it is the majority report
the fun half ladies and gentlemen of the
show got a lot of spam on the I am of
course because we haven't been here in a
long time and so Wow holy cow
it's all Russian it's a cyber attack
being cyber attacked say one thing about
Donald Trump has got no support and then
of a sudden I get cyber attacked by
Russian BOTS I wonder what that's about
seems a little strange doesn't it I the
only one who uh they've been I think
that seems actually you if you worry you
would not be suspect of that but wait
we've been getting Russian uh spammed
forever no I know but it most of it came
during the it started about two years
ago I did that's true let's go to the
phone come from a330 area code who's
this where you calling from three three
zero
who's this where you calling from Happy
New Year hey is this Sam yeah who's this
alright my name is my name is Nicholas
and I'm calling from I can defile
Nicholas from Canton Ohio
how are you Nicholas open to been doing
great it's nice to finally get get on
the call with you guys Michael my first
question to you all has to do with a
sort of need for a progressive fresh
face I know that in terms of where I'm
personally coming from in terms of
progressive policy positions I'm much
more likely to support senator Sanders
in 2020 because of just to just his
record on a wide variety of different
environmental and economic issues but in
the future do you think that
tulsi gabbard can serve as the
progressive version of obama in the near
future as the progressive version of
obama no I mean yeah I I am a little
skeptical of tulsi gabbard in part
because of of her history of speaking to
front of hate groups specifically what
is it the Hindu now
she's also had some some odd issues in
the past with LGBTQ folks and I'm I'm
I'm just skeptical frankly of her in a
way that you know I also don't think
she's been terribly thoughtful and when
it comes to foreign policy stuff frankly
I mean I I think some of like what she
wants to do in terms of end results I
aligned with like I for a long time have
not wanted to have us to have any
involvement in Syria I didn't think we
could do any good but I'm I'm I'm
skeptical but I think that she also I
just want people to look at the full
history and I'm gonna be more you know I
get why Tulsi Gabbard appeals to some
people I get it but she made her first
national profile by doing these like
concern to all national appearances
about Obama not calling it Islamic
terrorism that was sort of her like
first national claim to fame
she was positively reported on that in
Breitbart she voted against Syrian
refugees in I think 2014 which is to me
a pretty unforgivable vote and she's
also really yeah yeah I mean she you got
to understand Tulsi Gabbard through the
lens of some connection to sort of like
literally Hindu right-wing politics and
it's I I think it's always worth doing a
double check when we talk about any type
of like religious background that isn't
you know dominant right so like there's
conspiracy theories about her and
bigotry towards Hindus and Indians for
sure but there's also just the reality
that there is a far-right Hindu politics
and she's connected to it and she's also
connected she you know has some
questionable relationships with I would
say other right-wing groups and I also
think again I think Sam alluded to it
but I'll I'll really underline it I
criticize every aspect of US policy in
Syria but it's but actually running
interference in some ways bless you for
Assad is just pretty and excusable so
and I think that's also where you get
into like what is a real left
international posture versus just an
anti-american foreign policy one which
we might have some overlap with but
they're different things and I also not
sure you know I don't know that her
criticism intervention is not applied to
a critique of the drone program which
has killed tons of innocent people in
places like Yemen and Pakistan and we
need somebody who's gonna not be you
know who's gonna have an intelligent
relationship to the Muslim world and
criticize Israel as well appreciate the
call Thanks thank you come from a 906
area code who's this where he come from
hello hello hello hello Nick where you
gonna miss again Nick from Michigan
what's on your mind
um I just wanted to come from you guys
we're talking about electability of
Elizabeth Warren earlier and I wanted to
mention I think one of the major
problems that she's actually going to
have is if you take a look at our FEC
filings
you'll see that there's a lot of
contributions from cell packs such as
the Midwestern values pack Oregon
priorities
things like that that actually funnel
money in from Raytheon from healthcare
industry big pharma from Koch Industries
etc and I think she's really going to
have a terrible time trying to overcome
Nash if she wants to position herself as
a as a true progressive she's going to
have a hell of a time send me a link to
some of that stuff that's interesting I
mean I it's it's I suspect it would be
more problematic for me than it would be
for most for most I mean you know
something like Raytheon doesn't surprise
me she's in you know that's their their
it's their home state type of situation
but some of the other industries are a
little bit more surprising and and
problematic but you know and raytheon's
not terribly shocking I mean one of the
deficits she has is a is in his in
foreign policy which I would say is
shared by virtually every other
candidate short of Bernie Sanders now a
guy like Chris Murphy I think is going
to be better on on those questions but
not necessarily on weapons I mean
usually what it would be like well we
could still pay for them we just want to
use them I gotta say I think that though
particularly with regards to money from
weapons manufacturers and bases and
things like that you mean some people
are obviously better than others but
that's such a systems issue and if you
go into anybody's record you're gonna
find Bernie fighting for Boeing jobs in
Vermont you're gonna find Ron Dellums
who used to do the piece budget and was
a DSA person always protected bases in
Oakland so it's like you got to look at
that systemically versus trying to like
find some buddies this or that record
because if you play that game even with
the most progressive you're gonna find
stuff on everybody appreciate the call I
do you agree that we need someone that's
harder to make look like a hypocrite and
clown on because you know Trump will do
that yeah it's hard for me to imagine
that
Trump is in a position to say like she's
taking money from a super PAC that is
actually or she's taking money from
Raytheon like you know it's a bad deal
Donald Trump could have gotten away with
that rhetoric then but I actually think
that look any it the the biggest mistake
that I've seen from from Elizabeth
Warren I wouldn't even call it a mistake
at this point because she wasn't running
for president at that point but if the
Democratic can't like all we hear is
about we need a democratic kennedy who's
going to stand up to this bully and blah
blah blah any Democratic candidate who
gets into that type of repartee with
Donald Trump is doing themselves a
disservice because as soon and this was
the problem which I was saying from like
in June of 2016 Hillary Clinton by far
had a far more substantial resume than
Donald Trump she was if you wanted
someone who had more experience and
really anybody in our government yet
being president and understood what the
job was you could not find one more
experience maybe than Hillary Clinton
yeah maybe Joe Biden hadn't been vice
president but I'm not even sure I'm not
even sure about that Oh
decades in the Senate chair of Senate
Foreign Relations and VP I mean he did
have more but not it doesn't really
matter well I mean she was Secretary of
State and lived every day with the
president and heard every single thing
that was going on for eight years except
for whatever but whatever that's
splitting Harris yeah the point being
that playing on that playing field is
the wrong playing field I believe that
the vast majority of Americans don't
think very deeply about policy but you
could turn the sound off and have the
Democratic candidate challenge Trump on
policy and just the visuals that will
come from his inability to answer will
be beneficial to the Democrat what the
actual policy is is secondary the the
policy resonate
more with the base of the party and
that's important because those are the
people are gonna go out and knock on the
doors and provide you the volunteers
you're gonna provide you the canvassing
and they're not going to make this
mistake again I would hope I would hope
that we don't need Canvassers in the
same way that we used to because we have
algorithms that are gonna tell us what's
gonna happen in these states that's why
we don't need to visit there I mean
there was a lot of things that that
campaign did wrong that are really
stunning just from a best practices you
read that the what happens book right
the by dad a man that normally not her
book excuse me it was another but it was
a it was a you know it was the inventory
but some journalists of like how that
actually happened inside the Clinton
camp I mean the the portions of like
MOOC and I mean and the the the there's
reliance on on the utter reliance on an
algorithm to and data to supplant
actually sending out and Mike from
Pennsylvania told us yeah and it
reflects also a bigger ideological
problem but that's a story for another
day but there is one section in that
book and I mean everybody knows I'm not
a big fan of Bill Clinton but just
taking in Bill Clinton telling Robby
Mook who's only like 34 years old right
like just barely becoming an adult and
Bill Clinton basically is just like it
doesn't feel right out there right and
now you might say to yourself okay he's
older whatever he is a two-term
president he's kind of known for being
pretty good at this and ride moves just
like that's great don't worry about it
right like chill out old man that is one
of the most enraging things I've ever
read in my life but all the people on
the ground who were also telling them
that that they didn't live Robin Robin
looks an idiot he's not gonna listen to
them but even Bill friggin Clinton he
was like the algorithms more important
than your political antenna
alright so getting back to what we're
already seeing in terms of 2020 and in
terms of the Democratic Congress where
you have people who are trying to shape
you know what is what is possible at
this point and I just don't think
that this is going to I don't think it's
gonna work this time I mean I think one
of the things about social media is that
there is just a lot more accountability
and it's much harder to maintain a
narrative in the that bubble and you
know one of the things I think we're
gonna be talking I don't know when it's
gonna happen to greg sargent who wrote
this book that has a great quote or a
great narrative from ben whittler about
the the asymmetry in terms of what
democrats listen to in terms of media
versus republicans but that's why when
you see a guy like Terry McAuliffe going
on a CNN to make an argument about about
what positions you know candidates
should be taking going forward you
should pay attention because Terry
McAuliffe isn't dictating it but
somebody's sending him out there to do
this they freelance too but they
freelance because they think there's
somebody who wants them to say this
so it's both a it's a it's a it's an
audition for a job but it's also a you
know they put this out there I remember
at one point Mark Greene had approached
me about writing some op-ed for Hillary
or something I think back in like 2008
wrong answer lock and yeah and I was
like wrong message wrong messenger for
the wrong purpose but almost everything
else was right and and I was like oh
absolutely not
no don't know why you would have thought
I would have ever done that and then I
saw like four days later Lanny Davis was
super insulted right in the same pool
well no Leigh Davis is in every pool
he's just at the bottom
I'll do the honduran so here's the point
the you should watch this stuff because
guys like McAuliffe they are there for a
reason and here's Dana Bash asking
McAuliffe about which one should we
start oh yeah here it is okay about free
college star where this is number five
you can't be making promises that are
not realistic listen I like the idea of
free college but there was no way the
Democratic Party should support paying
for children of wealthy parents to go to
school I can afford to send my children
to school the federal government
shouldn't be paying for my kids but
there are things we need to do access to
credentialing and apprenticeships to
match the skills or the gem what about
Medicare for all
we all support Medicare for all the
system as it exists yeah but we've got
to figure out how we or it's unrealistic
in its terms of how we pay for it today
but do we want everybody covered under
health care of course we do but
specifically you know what we're talking
about this is an original Bernie Sanders
idea that a lot of potential 2020
competitors have signed onto or you're
saying you're for that I'm saying I
support that everybody in this country
gets access to quality affordable health
care whatever you may want to call it
because the system today and I was a big
support of the ACA but we do need to
tweak it to take it to the next level we
got to fix it mi for health care for all
individuals affordable quality care you
bet I am
the key is and this is why I say
governors are very important because
when we make promises we have to deliver
we have to all right I don't need to
hear the pablum we've already heard the
good stuff yeah I think he does not
support Medicare for all well let's just
do this exercise Jamie asked me if I am
for for for for right wing podcasts Sam
are you for right wing podcast yes of
course I am
I'm for podcast I think everybody who's
on the Left should have a podcast
absolutely definitely so yes when you
ask me if I'm for right wing podcast I
say absol
anybody who's on the left should have
access to a pug yeah should have a
pocket that's that's basically alright
well first off there's two things one is
he's using the same line that Hillary
Clinton did I mean this is this they are
this is basically trying to say we
either are trying to stop a Bernie
Sanders campaign or we want to
discourage it we want to get the
narrative out there this is a picture of
Hillary Clinton saying the same thing
about Donald Trump's kids shouldn't get
a free ride to college
first off let's just be very clear about
this you don't hear that same argument
about Social Security which is a
universal program you don't hear that
same argument about Medicare which is
also a universal program for everybody
over the age of 65 you don't hear it
about so you know that they believe in
universality and you know they
understand that you don't need to means
test Social Security you don't need to
means test Medicare the way that you
means test that is you tax wealthy
people more period end of story
you do the same thing the best thing
that could happen to this country would
be that Donald Trump's kids go to a free
college provided by in every state that
there is a free option the best thing
will happen is then they go to the the
CUNY college that is free so they can
actually be around other people real
social benefits yes world war two of
people coming from different now the
studies on an army I don't think that's
going to happen I think Donald Trump's
kids and grandkids and wealthy kids are
still gonna go to private colleges
they're not gonna take that public
college option but it would be great if
they did and the cost of the taxpayer
would be minuscule it would not it would
we're talking maybe a penny of taxes
annually to support the number of
wealthy people who would take advantage
of this but that would be great that
would be great if we had
billionaire kids millionaire kids going
to school with someone whose parents you
know are are making $40,000 a year that
would be the best thing for this country
that we could imagine when it comes to
college so this but this argument that
we don't want rich kid it's just absurd
it's absurd and if Terry McAuliffe is
for a medicare-for-all then he should
sign on to a proposal I'm sure we can
get a letter for him to sign on but he's
not so you got to just be careful about
what they're saying he's saying he is
okay he wants universal health care
health insurance and that just means
taking the ACA and making it slightly
more affordable in his mind and that's
about it and that's just simply not
enough people are sick of it people are
really sick and as you always say as
soon as you stick in that dishonest word
access then we already do of universal
health care right everybody has access
nobody's blocked from walking into right
it's just I have access to BMW right
it's the sort of fundamentally dishonest
I don't know why you're stopping there
you got access to where those sweet
Tesla's whoa because we don't do Elon
Musk shot us on the show matter of you
sorry I'm just trying to be at but I
just saw one of those that the at the
car wash he's doing a lot of work there
I literally every time we do an Elon
segment you guys really trying his best
from us sorry come from a 606 area code
who's this where you come from hello Sam
how's everybody doing today
very well who's this where he come from
uh this is Joe and I'm actually calling
from the wilds of West Virginia at the
moment Joe from West Virginia what's on
your mind Joe oh there's an issue that's
been coming up in my mind here lately
and I think it's been brought to the
floor by talking about the green new
deal yeah and I just wanted them
Hey can you hear me sure okay here okay
so so my statement is this it kind of
annoys me when people attribute
scientific advancement to a particular
economic system and the reason I say
that is because when you're in a lab
Adams don't ask you what your ideology
is what matters is the kind of resources
and actual objective reasoning that you
use so and I think this is going to come
up during any debate with a green new
deal simply because we have to develop
technology that simply does not exist
yet in some cases particularly on carbon
sequestration or at least not at scale
and I just wanted to point that out
there because that's been sort of a
talking point by idealistic people and
ideological people saying you know
attributing things to capitalism for
instance or the socialism when I would
say that science is agnostic on these
points well but science going to come
it's gonna come up with a green new deal
science is agnostic but science doesn't
happen in a vacuum right it needs
resources and the question and the
question is what system under what
system or policy will provide the most
resources for that science to take place
and correct part of the problem with you
know the way I mean you know we're part
of the problem with allowing let's put
it this way the market to develop this
stuff or to rely on the market to
develop this stuff is that the
incentives are not necessarily aligned
for that stuff to be developed and
deployed as quickly as it would be if it
was a political decision and the
government funded it right I mean that
and I agree I agree with that didn't we
also have a guest on who said that we
actually do have
technology to solve the climate change
problem and the primary hurdle now is a
political one well that to a certain
extent that's true but I don't think
it's entirely true and I say that merely
because you know I'm a scientist myself
and anytime I hear people talking about
big projects that require a lot of
deployment especially on a target that
is I think everybody can agree with this
climate change is a moving target now
where its consequences as well as the
other ripple effects that come out of it
are not as predictable as we thought
because every time at one of these
reports comes up we find out it's worse
and so and so I think it would be safer
to assume that they're going to be
problems that we don't anticipate with
our initial plan which is why we need a
huge research component to whatever
strategy that okay we're going to take
on but I don't understand what what it
is the the the the issue you have with
the the green new deal what well I don't
know I think what's going to happen in
the political sphere is that you're
gonna get a lot of arguments from the
right wing and from the market to say to
pooh-pooh the deal simply because it's
not there's no profit motive behind it
well that's absurd
right because yeah and it is absurd but
that's the argument that's gonna be put
out there and they're gonna go quickly
on it right no I agree I agree but
here's the bottom line is that like the
scientists who are working on this stuff
their profit motive to the extent that
they have won is just that they have a
job and that someone is paying them to
find the solution to this and probably
some may have Commission and so far as
they'll have patents or what not or not
but the bottom line is you're gonna say
like I'm gonna pay you to go into that
laboratory and figure this out every day
they don't care where the money comes
from they're gonna go and figure it out
and so if the government pays for it the
profit is is what the taxpayer wants in
return
and it may not be in terms of dollars it
may just be in like the ability to live
and and lack of costs and externalities
that are saved so I mean I think yes
we're gonna hear this argument that only
the market can solve this but we know
that's simply not the case and in fact
the market has a disincentive of solving
this in as timely a fashion as we need
to the market as an incentive to exhaust
all the potential revenue that can be
garnered by by burning fossil fuels
before it moves on to the next thing
that is like you know that's III mean
it's super obvious to maybe you and I
but maybe not others and also I
appreciate the control real quick a
little bit more broadly but connected to
this listen back to an interview that I
did on this show at Meghan Day called
how capitalism is undermining science
and she wrote a really good piece and
Jacobin that more broadly the the level
of scientific research is undermined by
the market pressures on what should be
objective discipline look at look at and
tobacco I mean it's like a perfect
that's really that's see this gets
that's like the most bleep right pain
but this is also like a guy who at the
Edinboro who did some major breakthrough
in how we understand the big bang and he
did had decades where he just didn't do
anything
he wasn't publishing he wasn't part
because he was working on a big problem
and he was like in today's cycle I would
be fired immediately because the
pressure structure of publishing and
finding novelty and not doing long term
problems is is such that that type of
work is exhausted and that isn't as
immediately relevant as climate change
or tobacco but it also has a big impact
on how we understand ourselves right and
we have that same problem when it comes
to teach art when it comes to social
social work I mean you know becoming a
doctor in areas that is needed I mean
etc etc infectious disease medications
there are political factors for support
for this work and there are political
implications that this work has right
like the right is going around saying
oh these climate reports this science
must be falsified it's a it's a
conspiracy to bring about socialism
because so much of the report says you
know we're gonna have to forcibly
transfer or expropriate a large
percentage of the world economy in order
to solve this problem like they know
what the implications are now they might
define socialism as like anytime the
government imposes any regulations on
industry but they know which direction
it needs to go and but the funny part is
it's both a hoax in which people make
money off of and a way of promoting
socialist yo as Candace Owen says no
greater promoters of socials in the
world than Jeff Bezos and George Soros
there you go they're really doing it in
a secret secret way this is disturbing
is this an acceleration
here is Mike Pompeo he was was he in
Brazil Brazil for the inauguration of
jr. balsan ro this guy Boston ro is by
all accounts a if not a full-blown
fascist a blossoming fascist and here's
a literal thing I mean I just want to
say really quick he's a literal fascist
and the reason it matters is because
this is not even neo-fascism was coined
as a term to explain the 1970s and 80s
Brazilian regime of which he harkens
back to and is a product of so it
there's some who arguing it never really
went away it was all just sort of
dormant flying in like well it's a
little more complicated in that but dead
well I mean no the structures were
dormant so I just want to say like
there's zero like where does he fit in
between being a far-right authoritarian
like all of these pedantic de Bryce I
don't have much time for anyways frankly
but in this case it's like no he
literally is what the coin the term
neo-fascism was coined 'full so Pompeo
our Secretary of State is down there and
you know look one of the things you
really need is first meeting so yes one
of the one of the things you really need
when you're a fascist leader is an
outside enemy
and in this case the United States is
going to be an ally a very warm ally and
I think Michael you made the point that
the the way that the elite in Brazil
rallied around a ball so narrow would
would unlikely to happen with really any
other president sitting in the United
States because Donald Trump made it
perfectly clear that he was perfectly
comfortable with ball so narrow and in a
way that it's very hard to imagine other
presidents regardless of their politics
for the most part I mean we'll see what
Tom cotton does president cotton but the
to be as accepting but here is Pompeo
basically handing up the option of
there's always been as well I mean if
you really need a war here we go we had
the chance today to talk about the
bilateral relationship between our two
countries we we believe that the
opportunity between President Trump
President Wilson now and our two teams
creates a truly transformative
opportunity for our two nations for our
two peoples and we in the United States
are committed to working alongside of
you to do that in lots of areas
certainly in economic areas making sure
that our our two countries businesses
have great opportunities but also deeper
collaboration on the security front as
well mm-hmm the us-brazil permanent form
launched last year provides a great
foundation to further enhance these
opportunities and we know too
we will have the opportunity to work
alongside of each other against
authoritarian regimes around the world
it heralds while today heralds a new
beginning in Brazil it also marked 60
years to the day of repression of failed
policies in Cuba and we had a chance to
make the threats that emanate from
Venezuela and our deep desire to return
democracy to the Venezuelan people as
well I'll close with this thought if we
do this well
we can make the lives of the people of
Brasilia the people of the United States
there you go we're gonna make the lives
better for everybody
through our invasion of Venezuela right
I'm not sick at the table and I mean
this is a guy who's explicitly
threatened that in 2017 when he was head
of the CIA I saw I mean it's it's like
not exactly I'm gonna want to wait until
February of 2019 February time because
we need to be I thought what happened
the Falklands it work really well David
Koch's been on the phones too I'm sure
with talking about before sting the
Amazon and the first products for
georgia-pacific and also that oil the
first steps of that have already been
taken place and it will be like a
genocide of Native America of native and
indigenous people there also he's
already stripped protections in the
Constitution that the Workers Party put
in for LGBT community immediately any
scanning social media accounts of all
federal employees but I have loyalty got
a habit gotta have it but I also think
yes I think that Donald Trump was a huge
permission giver and I also know that
Clinton and Kerry state departments
under Obama or abysmal and doing nothing
to stop what was happening in Brazil
going back at least a 2014 that set this
it's not like the United States has a
great history
no they don't and central we look at the
way that the Obama and into Trump did a
supported law fair and this sort of in
this this quote-unquote anti-corruption
politics which has only been used to
target pink tied leaders it's gonna be a
serious mark on their legacy and it's
already I mean but just the notion that
you could even frame it it's as a
restoration of democracy reminds me of
like the big lie cuz I when you read
like Jean Kirkpatrick sold essay where
she tried to make this fatuous
distinction basically between like
right-wing dictatorships that we support
and left-wing dictatorships that we
oppose but it was all like there's a
difference because one's authoritarian
and one still tell to all this pedantic
nonsense but at least there was actually
an acknowledgement that we're supporting
a bunch of regime
that rape and murdered friends and throw
people out of helico we have a good
reason to do it but we have good reason
this is balsa narrow is a Democrat when
a third of his cabinets military leaders
and they are promising to summarily
execute people on the street
I mean it's the the level of just base
dishonesty is kind of awe-inspiring but
not surprising yeah it also kind of
scares me because it reminds me of one
definition of fascism that I've heard
floated which is when a an imperial
power that is falling brings it's
horrible imperialist tactics into the
core and if we think that the political
class would not do that in the United
States when push comes to shove like I
don't know what to tell you it's
frightening let's go to the phones come
from a six 100 area code who's this
where you calling from hey Sam Mike from
PA how are you Mike from PA your your
your ears must have been ringing because
we were just talking about you oh yes
they were thank you happy new year
everyone happy new you hope you're doing
well
happy new year I wanted to just stand in
awe how great progressive movement is
it's that putting a knife in the back of
anybody who stands up for them for
decades I the Elizabeth Warren stuff
this is real and bothering me like the
discussion today was really a lot of
fields and not much policy like for
example on Medicare for all she was the
second co-sponsor on Bernie's bill so to
say that she would do would lose the
Donald Trump is just like another word
in policy doesn't matter and it's just
personalities I wasn't doing policy
doesn't matter but I also know how dumb
politics are in this country and people
don't always vote based on policy yeah
people don't vote on policy but a lot of
people don't vote on policy but the fact
is is that people tend to vote more
against a candidate and there's all the
I mean Mike you called in I remember
your call maybe more than anybody's in
the day or two after the election when
you said we went out there to do the get
out the vote and we started getting
reports back that we were knocking on
like 1/4 of the doors that we were
knocking on we're voting for Trump and
that should not happen in the day before
the election you should know exactly
who's door you're knocking on you may
not have people there because they're
out doing something but you shouldn't be
knocking on your rivals doors to get
them out to vote right oh yeah I mean
just this year as an example for the
Senate in May and the gubernatorial race
here in Pennsylvania they had knocked
more doors than Hillary Clinton's
campaign in the entire election in
September so like these statewide
elections this year in PA blue Hillary
Clinton's camp and out of the water and
I don't know if you know Bob Casey and
Tom wolf but they're not the most
exciting candidates in the role I love
you know I'm glad that they're there but
you know they're not blowing anyone the
socks off here and so that kind of tells
you where the priorities were and
Hillary Clinton had two billion dollars
spent like nothing on field at all it
was like anyway we don't need well let
me what's more relevant is do you think
that there has been I mean in your only
in Pennsylvania and so it's hard to
assess this but do you think that it's
gonna be a long time before anybody any
campaign regardless of who it is is
going to buy into the idea that we don't
need to have field that we can do this
by big data like I mean because I it's I
mean I the question is you know people
talk about how the Democrats learned a
lesson that to me is the actually like
one of the few things that Democrats
could learn that literally anybody who
shows up in a room and says we don't
need field we need big data
we know that were filled we don't need
big data we just need big data it's
gonna get laughed out of a room I mean
is that do you think that's been
internalized at least in the small
corner of the world that you work in I
mean you know campaign strategy is kind
of the same everywhere oh and the truth
is that everything that Hillary Clinton
did is completely discredited and
everyone literally calls that a terrible
camera doesn't matter if you're a
centrist or a progressive everyone
thinks that was one of the words ever so
yeah I I don't think that you know that
people are going to do the same thing
and especially it was it was ridiculous
and somebody like Elizabeth Warren you
know I just wonder mentally is nothing
like Hillary Clinton
I mean superficially I guess she's in
you know 69 year old white woman but
like she comes from as a single mom you
know working her way up
you ever had a try that's it come plays
out in their message like Hillary
Clinton comes from she was the first
lady got a New York Senate seat that she
moved into New York to run for whereas
Elizabeth Warren was a non political
person who worked their way up and
actually lived the struggle there's no
worries wrong
I think what's very exciting - I think
adopted two perspectives we can right
now which is that most of these
candidates can definitely be Trump all
numbers would indicate that and number
two like why not like I feel so
comfortable we could talk about that I
think that whatever it I think that
that's the case that's probably more
where you might be more with Jaime in
that but the second thing is like I I
think I was awesome to have a you know
okay
there was oh wait where maybe the
reasons were superficial but whatever it
was a clear Obama over Clinton choice
and then in 2016 Bernie Sanders offered
something
lately new in modern politics which is
amazing and it would be very cool in
2016 to have I think in my my estimation
one candidates clearly better than
another but two candidates that are
actually good and have a lot of positive
attributes and then other people trying
to scramble to get onto their terrain I
mean if we play this right and don't
freak out prematurely this could be a
productive debate for once yeah yeah
well I mean I just think I think we
should wait till 30 get in before we
learn fashion I agree I agree
well she's especially because she's
what's gonna be funny is like that's one
of the reasons I'm not bashing her
because basically I'm not playing this
game of pretending I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna vote like if Bernie says he
doesn't run I'll probably be like hey
Elizabeth could you say something about
you know Palestine Yemen Lula Brazil
whatever but like I'm gonna basically
the next day be like yep that's my pic
look well and I don't want people to
feel like it's a second choice that they
should you know feel bad about like no
it's a good pic really great especially
domestically but there's not a lot of
compromise happening there's a lot of
good stuff that could fundamentally
change America like her wanting could
require 40 percent of all board members
the elected by the workers on every
corporate board in America that is a
radical position for American politics
anyway and you know like her stuff on
the environment at her stuff on campaign
pi night you know
the US government produced generic drugs
is about as radical of a proposal now
with that said what is was little
reported is that the the VA does this
already when there are shortages they
will they will actually produce drugs so
you could actually expand that program
to the civilian world which you know
there's a lot like that dynamic to take
things from the VA and just say like
we're doing this already we just got up
scale it I mean I I agree with you I
mean I think that like III think her
critique is not structural
per say but the the actual implications
of her policies I think would go about
as far as as anything Bernie could do
you know like I don't think that Bernie
single-handedly could change the
structure of the US government and I
think that in many respects I think
Warren there's certainly an argument
that she has a she has shown a certain
amount of political acumen particularly
within the context of the bureaucracy on
how to get that stuff done now you know
you might mobilize a new social base
though okay can I just say one other
thing I just want to say in the horizon
though because I want I do actually want
to be very militant middle-of-the-road
on this if it becomes a relevant
conversation like we're actually in the
campaign polling data that maybe he's
legitimate is emerging and we're seeing
how they perform I don't want to go and
it does actually turn out that she isn't
a great candidate and we're in the thick
of it I don't want to go through the
same with Hillary where every
legitimate analysis and criticism is
cheapened into like knockoff fake you
know intersectional politics and every
criticism of her is taken as bad faith
and I'm not gonna accept that either and
also I don't you know I don't also I you
know no no I mean that's cuz that I see
some people setting that I see people
setting one argument to play that she's
awful and trash which is ridiculous
there's a lot of amazing things about
her record and she's great in many ways
and then I see other people setting up
the same sort of dynamic of like oh well
any criticism of her is you know
misogyny and I think that's also
ludicrous like let's have a really
coherent and and honestly like why not
if they're both in there's no reason it
cannot be an actually very elevated
smart campaign between two different
people with two distinct but overlapping
ideologies both in significantly in the
right direction
well you know they're both in obviously
Bernie is the choice and that that's
that at least for my part
yeah but until that happens why we I
mean I'm I really hate when people
hold your fire I agree with you I'm with
you how about not only hold your fire
remind everybody of all the great things
she's done and why people like like I'm
not talking about like I really I'm not
talking about the DNA thing I want to
talk about her record on banks and
medicare-for-all and all that and why
we're so excited for her to be in the
Senate well and the DNA thing is a great
example like that is the whole
Pocahontas stuff is a right wing talking
point exactly they've been setting up
right beginning cuz they're named to
undermine her success story yeah as a
single mom who became total one of the
most sought-after law professors in
America and who transform and who
basically built Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau with her bare hands
yep yes and like that's why they're
doing it and so when you repeat like oh
well she didn't do play it perfectly
therefore I got questions but you're
really thing is amplifying a message
that that you know was bought and paid
for by the right you got to be smarter
than that
and it wasn't a mistake like he did play
a paradox I'm talking about though she
objectively played that poorly and I'm
not going to use that to try to smeared
or undermine her candidacy but like we
can't also not acknowledge reality there
on that specific one I think a better
path talk about it
frankly yeah and I don't want you to
think that I'm attacking her I think
she's a pretty good progressive
I'm just saying there's a reason that
the right does this and it's because
it's effective it's been effective in
the past and like just because like you
know and I know that she has a really
cool populist life story doesn't mean
that the low information swing voters
who vote based on people's vibe are
going to get that but I like George W
Bush came off folksy and he was like a
shitty fail son who went to Yale he also
lost the popular vote I mean it doesn't
matter well no it does matter when we
talk about electability it well he won
because there was a Supreme Court that
awarded him the the president and now we
have a worse Supreme Court and photo
suppression is also getting worse
I agree but my point is is that this
notion of the low information swing
voter I don't think they're fairly I
don't think they're that significant in
this conversation I mean I agree I think
what we just saw normally vote is like
way way my people give me a sense of who
you think can't win when we talk about
who do you think can win the the
Democratic primary but can't win a
general election like you know geez I
don't wanna get myself in trouble here
but who knows I might have to work for
it but when I just say that like you
know I am just not a fan of the Gen Xers
I think they will always like they they
don't have a co here Kirsten Gillibrand
is probably my least favorite she is a
former Big Tobacco lawyer wife of a
hedge fund manager voted against the
Obama stimulus package was a Blue Dog
Democrat and now is on every progressive
legislation and is a blatant political
opportunist with no legitimacy or like
authenticity to her views at all and I
just think that would Trump would eat
her alive I think she would lose you
know someone like books her same story
in The Wall Street the pharmaceutical
money the clearly they're uncomfortable
with the positions that they find
themselves in right and they're doing it
because they can read the polls I do
think they could win a primary maybe you
know but III think they could lose the
Trump I was always bullish on Trump I
was you know I actually think my first
call to the show I said Trump might win
the whole damn thing and like I can't
believe that people vote based on policy
or feeling that have about the direction
of life and the direction of the country
and unless you have something called
here listen to that Joe Donnelly now you
know exactly why you are
can't tell you a goddamn thing hey you
know people want to know that we're
working with the company is Wyatt right
well that's really surprising that
people did not vote for the guy I wanted
to say I mean I I think you're I I'm I
think like so I think Biden for a
certain type of people cross economies
even though I don't think no I see I
don't think you but I don't I don't care
about getting into that debate but my
only point being is I think that's
purely on a vibe certain type of
charisma threshold and his policy is
worse than any of the gen-x people that
we don't like but I think you're anyways
I think you could definitely be right
about it but I think on the other hand
there's a lot of structural reasons that
Trump is in trouble can we also say that
and I don't I just really don't play
this game but I just will say like
anybody that keeps saying that Bernie is
just like another old white guy first of
all it's lame and tired attack and
secondly I'm gonna start calling
anti-semitic yeah a hundred percent
could play at that game
anybody could do that but actually I
know like it's not would be the first
white man my kryptonite you know I
just don't think Joe Biden could win a
primary that's why I prefaced it with
win a primary Democrats care more about
the me to stuff than the general
population by a lot but I will say that
I think Baby Doe a the crime bill alone
Iraq you know what I would love to see
just for my own personal wish
fulfillment would be Elizabeth Warren
slaying him on stage for authoring the
bankruptcy bill that got her into policy
yeah I would love to watch that yep what
are the reasons I like the birth warning
she actually openly talked about how she
lost faith and Hillary Clinton when she
became a senator right over the banks
ago was against that bankruptcy bill
yeah it was over that bankruptcy bill
and how hard was it with orange fought
the Obama administration over things
like Tim Geithner some people forget
it's gone down the memory hole how she
basic
was stopping larry summers from becoming
in charge of the Federal Reserve thank
you like a lot of things that are way
down the weeds wisely that she stopped
also I don't remember I just know that
any any account that you read like Noam
Schreiber or any like account of the
financial crisis or even any
contemporary dis reporting of the Obama
administration it's always like there's
a huge amount of momentum to appoint
somebody from a city or some other awful
person to some financial or regulatory
role and it's always like the only thing
that's been delaying this is Elizabeth
Warren who's pissing everybody off right
I appreciate the call Mike right I have
more thoughts on this but I feel like
we're gonna be talking about it for a
while so yes I'm certainly at least on
my days if you call with this topic
you're getting Street um here's the
problem here's the problem that any
Democrat is gonna have in beating Donald
Trump and that of course is because
Donald Trump is punk rock or so Candace
Owens from the talking points USA what
is it Turning Point
USA Foster Friess and Foster Friess and
Charlie Kirk she was on Fox News
explaining and I'll tell you something
if you do what I do long enough you will
hear this talking point apparently comes
up every ten years ten years ago I think
it was maybe it was twelve now the
Conservatives word the punk rock really
that's all yes the free market Fonzie
was telling us that that dude from yeah
from reason who wears the leather coat
ten years ago conservativism was the
punk rock this is what is this is what
reactionary this is what when Corey
Robin talks about the reactionary mind
it is the idea that conservatives keep
pitching this sort of like new edgy idea
that we should maintain the exact same
power structure that we've always had
they're the only ones bold enough to say
it saying you know we can pull up a poll
here Trump's popularity among young
people 69% of people aged 15 to 26
disapprove of presidents trumped
performance as a president can decide go
back to you wait a minute isn't the
economy doing great now or well first
and foremost we don't pay attention to
much of the polls I mean they told us
that Hillary was gonna win and they were
80% sure and she's not sitting in the
Oval Office last I checked but look I
think that this president particular is
going to appeal a lot more to the youth
generation because something about him
feels very punk rock and rebellious he's
a rebellious president he's rebelling
against the establishment he's rebelling
against the mainstream media and it's
something that we identify with when
you're younger you're sort of in a more
rebellious phase and it's something that
this country needs to rebell against
these socialist principles that are
being taught on the left all right yeah
like all the young people hated the
clash right hate it the
socialist principles that we're all
getting infused with but they just I
don't know where exactly they're sure of
showing themselves those mainstream
establishment socialist principles it's
just Billy Bragg song is about anti-fire
actually reminds me of the who is
America episode that Sacha Baron Cohen
did where he got these three right wing
internet trolls to go like he was
testing to bring them underground that
he's just like in order to infiltrate
anti-fur you need to know girls it's
just like what is your favorite episode
of girls you're going to say season 2
episode 6 but he beats lad who is the
neighbor and he's like hey hey man
what's your favorite episode of girls
just like season 1 episode 7 what is
your favorite that ah hell that would be
a season 2 events which meets a Laird
that Marty comes over and we get to a
whole bunch truck
hmm lena dunham join anti-fog that's
what the funny is that all your croc
wonder how much punk-rock candace
Ellen's lessons do lots there you go
Paul Ryan likes Rage Against the Machine
oh yeah well he's he's total punk rock
alright let's I want to touch on this
just for a minute cuz I don't want it
like just floating around
so apparently louis c.k was doing
stand-up on on Long Island I don't want
to spend too much time on this but and
you know I think I've mentioned the past
it I am you know friendly with Louis and
I consider him a friend I see him maybe
once or twice a year last I saw him was
about six months ago maybe more and but
it was after his me to situation and I'm
not convinced that the stories that were
in that New York Times were were wholly
accurate in terms of what was let me put
this way I think his act his activities
were probably accurate in those but I
don't think that we got the whole story
let's put it that way
nevertheless I do think that he had a
debt that accrued was saying that he is
innocent of anything or was at that time
and I do believe the stories of the
women I think that the way that it was
reported was not necessarily gave a
fully accurate picture but I do also
think that he owed a substantial debt
and I was you know comfortable with you
know that situation at least in terms of
like what what happened to him publicly
at the time though I was also concerned
that you know when you're in that
situation and there's a healthy amount
of narcissism to get that famous that
you need to have and then there's a even
more substantial amount of acquired
narcissism that comes with that type of
fame it is I mean I think it is actually
a recognized affliction acquired
narcissism and part of that part of what
how narcissism reacts to being held to
account for doing things wrong is to
immediately feel aggrieved and my
concern at the time was that agreement
was going to play out in a certain way
there's certainly a market for for
aggrievement for people who don't like
the fact that other people are gaining a
certain amount of respect or prestige
that in some ways it feels uncomfortable
to those people who have had the power
or the comfortability before then I mean
we've talked about this right and so it
makes this clip from some leaked audio
of a performance leak is the right word
but somebody recorded whose performance
and then put it out on YouTube the full
performance is out there and I haven't
listened to be honest with it with the
whole thing although I've talked to some
people who have and said did there's
other problematic aspects but this one I
found particularly problematic because
hey it's problematic in two different
ways one politically and I think it'll
be obvious why politically but this is
garbage
stand up put aside the political
implications of it until some people
find you know some different things
distasteful like you know the stuff at
the end he talks about the Parkland kids
and in and I am
bothered by that because a at least
people weren't making those jokes 20
years ago but the first half of this
when he's talking about trans people I'm
quite convinced that if I was to had the
opportunity to comb through rush
limbaugh over the past 20 years he had
done this almost identical joke or at
the very least this structure and would
the same sort of Fey voice that that
Rush Limbaugh does when he talks about
people who are concerned about things is
it even a joke well it's it's a it's
it's the happiest of material and it
also is well I will break it down
afterwards but listen to it it's it's a
little disappointed in the younger
generation honestly because I'm 51 years
old and when I was like 18 did my 20s I
mean we were idiots we're getting high
doing mushrooms and and
then older people were like you gotta
get your together we're like
you that's kind of excited to be in my
fifties and see people in their 20s and
be like they're crazy these kids are
nuts but they're
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
finger-fucking each other and doing
jello shots you should've dressed me
there like royalty they tell you what to
call them how come you shouldn't trust
me and pay them because I identified
gender neutral okay you shouldn't dress
me as bear because I identify as a
location and the location is your
mother's but it can be I don't know
they testify to Congress these kids
young you should be crazy
you should be unhinged not in a suit
saying I'm here to tell you
interesting because you went to a high
school where kids got shots why does
that mean I have a listen to you
interesting you get shot you push some
fat kids away
[Applause]
now I mean the the parklands stuff I
mean is like you know I think people I
can understand why people would be
offended by it but you know the and I
don't know that I would agree with the
social critique but I think that's you
know somewhat you know it's I think
somewhat within the realm of a decent
joke and in some respects but
potentially hyperbolic yeah right that's
what comedy is and that's what comedy is
but the the trans stuff I think it's
sort of probably if first off the whole
structure of the joke is when I was a
kid 50 year olds would look at us and go
like you're you're messed up
what are your whole set of priorities
are completely wrong and that's exactly
what his bit is he does it's basically
saying like I'm old I don't understand
what you're doing that's what you're
miss spending your youth wait a second
I'm old and I don't get what you're
doing what is it I mean that's what he
said I've always been one of the things
I've always loved about Louise I think
he I do think there's a lot of
self-awareness and most of his material
and that was setting aside everything
else that was astounding to say I don't
get to do what I do now like he
literally just said I don't get to have
that experience that I'm having now as a
50
he's got was like unaware that he's
behaving in that exact way and then on
top of it it's like to go and pick on
like the you know people who are
marginalized by society and then you
hear that guy in the audience group whom
like it is and to sort of use this like
you're you're worried about the wrong
set of things that like that is
literally the voice that Rush Limbaugh
will drop into when he is talking about
such things and it's it's a shame
because it's crappy comedy
tacky but it's also like you really
using and this is this is what we were
talking about with Candice Owens
claiming that Donald Trump is a punk
rock and the idea that this is you know
like this is has like some type of punk
rock spirit to it it doesn't it doesn't
when when you think when you portray
yourself as being a rebel by going after
people who are already losing in society
who are victims of an existing power
structure that has been in place forever
you're not being a rebel
you are simply maintaining the power
structure in a you know in a leather
coat you got from SkyMall that's
basically what's happening there I mean
that's a good you should go over and
hang out with them and help them punch
it up a well I mean it's it's it's
really unfortunate because it's you know
it's it's an unfortunate and it and it
you know it doesn't sound like he spent
a lot of time thinking about the
implications of it doesn't sound like he
spent a lot of time about thinking about
where he fits in in the culture he he it
sounds like he's thought a lot of time
thinking about poor me I'm all alone in
the White House that's basically what it
sounds like a little bit when is it
wasn't it five years ago basically about
like how guys are always up
and like were the problem wasn't that
pretty much it I mean there was a there
was a lot of self-awareness about that
he's also a guy you know who who I think
was proud of the fact of having put a
cast a transgender person to play a
chant a transgender character just
voicing it on its cartoon he had a
cartoon that was gonna come out I mean I
think like the and he was also well he
was a very in a good sense I think he
was equal opportunity in terms of his
ah curry and sort of skewering of
people's you know whatever
I think clearly he always did that
across the board and his politics I
think were obviously on the left but he
was I mean no I don't think his comedy
was ever like not potentially highly
offensive to lots of people but it's and
it was really funny and it was
intelligent like to me construction I
know I really weird is just like you
could make that argument that whatever
you don't like the way that kids are
rebelling today and that your rebellion
was real rebellion I mean it's a little
bit of a hacky promise I think and
unless you you do something interesting
with it at the end but there's so many
other examples in which you could use as
opposed to like hey some of the most
marginalized people in our country who
are literally being killed because of
this literally like being killed who
were literally used as a leverage in the
2016 election right people forget the
trans gender bathroom you know brought a
lot of those evangelicals out to to go
to that as the way to sort of say like
that's why people like this generation
is not rebelling in the right way like
this generation that is actually
incredibly incredibly rebellious to say
hey the gender norms that we have would
have been you know in place and have
oppressed a certain significant amount
of people and have caused people to be
literally beaten to death we're going to
fight back against that we're going to
fight back against it not by taking
mushrooms but by going to the levers of
power and forcing the levers of power to
accept it that's pretty rebellious by
any definition of the term if you want
to say I was an F up when I was 21 and
now I look at these kids and they're
going in suits and testify at Congress
and really doing something now I feel
like even bigger eff up
that's another construct but to
you see that reality and create that
joke is it's depressing committee well
even if it was transgressive to dump on
trans people like that wouldn't make it
good like being transgressive is not
inherently good like they were punk
bands in the 70s who would put swastikas
on their jackets not because they were
Nazis but because that was like the most
transgressive symbol that they could
think of and it was transgressive but it
was bad and dumb and like there are
certain norms of liberal society that
are good and fine and we don't need to
throw them out with all the stuff that's
bad but just like mad it really it
really depresses me because I remember
when he wrote his apology and he said
you know I've spent my long and lucky
career of talking and saying anything I
want I will now take step back and take
a long time to listen and I was like oh
you know what he seems like the first
guy that could maybe come back from this
you know like I think a lot of people
wanted him to what he did was like not
so bad or what he was accused of doing
or whatever and like his whole career
pretty much is about talking about his
own shortcomings and how like he's a sad
fucked-up guy but wants to be decent on
the inside and if he'd played this right
you know if he'd been decent about it
and actually spent a long time listening
and then come back with some kind of
serious you know like hour-long Netflix
special where he talks about all the
ways that he's up at shitty but
like he's trying like I think that would
have been great but he went in the
opposite direction yeah I mean I don't
know if he came back too early or I mean
and and I think you know III it's it's
depressing it's depressing but you know
I think he's still gonna have I mean if
he pursues this line
I think he'll still have a you know
he'll be doing whatever the the alt
patreon that Peterson and Rubin come up
with and he'll be making he'll it'll be
have a career you'll be able to go see
him perform but I don't know that he'll
be able to be in a position to sort of
like do some of the art that he had done
before and I think that's I think that's
a loss me too but I also think that you
know he could have been so honest and so
insightful about it in the way that he
is you know comedians in general like I
think some of the the best comedic minds
don't stay that way throughout their
career it's been you know I think a lot
of times frankly but yeah well when
you're on top it's harder to be an
underdog right that's true visa
why did it folks we're not going to get
to all the calls we have 30 people
hanging online and so I just think it's
unlikely today I apologize
maybe we'll do more tomorrow I'm not
sure we'll see what we do visa
why did Jimmy Dora jump so far ahead in
the subscriber count maybe we could do
just like all calls tomorrow maybe we
should do something like that
a member show remember only show people
do that be Spock
why did Jimmy door a jump so far ahead
in the subscriber count I think they
bought subs when you guys jumped ahead
also I think it's worth touching on Dave
Rubin and company leaving pay try me I
may we'll get to that tomorrow I I
wasn't aware that Jimmy had jumped so
far ahead of us we had we had a lot of
accounts culled and I don't know that
everybody gets that at the same time I
think they just go around I mean we were
getting like thirty five thousand
subscribers a month and then having like
28,000 or you know scrubbed or something
we probably were due for it I'm not sure
we'll see I'm not terribly worried about
it I mean and if I have to go buy fake
subscribers it's Congressional baseball
feds spring training is just around the
corner and after a long day of pitching
and hitting practice I get a good sweat
going I turned to liquid Ivy to restore
my electrolytes
call from Nebraska Happy New Year and
our crew hey Sam do you have your Super
Bowl prediction yeah
Pat's past six uh I'll go with Kansas
City Saints that's football
right uh Adam coke head Sam
I missed you too long man Chris Hayes is
more famous than you and definitely
makes more money but he still went back
to work last Wednesday just saying love
you well he took his vacation earlier
journey Andrew a certain man with a name
similar to myth schmeckt er continues to
describe just this past week Mithra
tweeted that the white birdee bros are
going to lead real progressives astray
in response to a story that trump voters
could lose food stamps good let them eat
Mogga hats oh no I'm just saying about
socialism is we want food stamps for
 - there's no moral
means-testing on any program I'm just
sitting here staring at my autographed
picture of Mark Hamill and shaking my
head majority report Zach hey Sam happy
new year I love you guys to look at
Warren's awesome fair housing
legislation that cuts through one of
America's biggest problems owning look
at that and the eunbi movement in
general I'd recommend interviewing dan
Burrell parole at all right that sounds
pretty good actually I've been wanting
to do more housing stuff and it's tough
to find it's tough to find a experts at
it it's also you know that also turns
out to be like sexy the sexy housing III
I mean that in the you know the way that
you know be a little poly Hazards sexy
housing sexy housing so we're gonna
that's what we're trying to do we're
trying to make the show sex it up a
little bit you actually used to be I
remember you really were the one who
would be like we need more
include Pago in the title you to take if
you don't put simpson-bowles in it
nobody will get it
I'm trying to do nobody's here champagne
communists why as in socialism ever
worked asking for an excuse the oxymoron
for a dumbass libertarian friend
well I think that socialism has worked
it's working like as we speak um you can
look at Scandinavian countries but you
can also look at you know things like
the NIH in in in England if you start
today also just say if you there's just
a fun factoid to add to our arsenal from
Ben Burgess more of the French economy
is under government control than the
Venezuelan one so you mean they're half
go with the I don't you know France is
obviously a mixed market economy but
socialism is working in a lot of ways
there and or go in the other direction
which is like we haven't had it yet yeah
judging from his name I would say he's
not just talking about like social
democracy but like socialism where you
actually get rid of capitalism eliminate
class Society and spread it all over the
world and provide a great life for
everyone and that hasn't worked yet but
we can learn from the mistakes of the
past and we can learn from the
achievements of the past for sure
well great things the you the difference
the way that I would to me the
distinction you know in terms of that
dumbass libertarian I would say that I
think to a certain extent there is an
argument that both of those the ends of
libertarianism and the ends of a purely
socialistic state are are utopian but
there's a every step of the way towards
that maybe never achievable socialist
utopia is significantly an improvement
for for society whereas it's the exact
opposite with Liberty
Terry anism every step towards that
utopianism is horrible for society even
if you could get to that utopia is bad
is a net negative for society in terms
of the helping the most amount of people
well if you really want to blow his mind
you can introduce them to Noam Chomsky
and libertarian socialism because if
he's a good faith libertarian who
actually does care about freedom then he
needs to understand that there are other
things making people on free besides the
government and most people they're
primarily oppressed not by the
government but by their jobs and by
their bosses and when you're when when
you get rid of the state but you allow
capitalists to continue accumulating
money and power then most people aren't
gonna be free feudalism CJ this app
didn't take my first IM anyways hi
everybody hope you had a good break sat
for you're on hi I'm from Washington
State back in 2016 super-delegates in my
state completely backed Hillary Clinton
stead of Bernie Sanders won the popular
vote in the state went nearly eighty
percent to the Vermont senator as one of
the states who enforced faithless
elector laws in the electoral college do
you think would be smart for state
lawmakers in Washington State to pursue
similar regulations for super-delegates
still a trying tying the votes of
senators and legislators to the governor
in primaries to their respective parties
vote tally I mean the number of
super-delegates now I think is my
understanding has been greatly
diminished cup I like at least the third
yeah and I think it's maybe only active
electeds
I mean I'm just not I just think it's I
don't know because I just don't think
it's that important is my session with
super-delegates start well I think look
I think I think it's important for for
the media to report super-delegates
versus a regular delegates but the the
obsession started because they aligned
for Clinton and early on I mean they
also aligned for Clinton early on in
2008 but I remember that I remember when
Obama started pick
super-delegates and they started
flipping and that but that was a
following that was a tale that followed
him just flipping the electorate right
which is what I would do anyways okay
Frankie B hey Sam happy New Year to you
and the crew because you guys have
already done the head first into the
2020 campaign I've decided to up my
patreon to the max level I can only
imagine trying to keep track of the
upcoming election everything else is
going to be a real task thanks for
everything you guys do and sending you
good vibes your way for the next two
years Frankie B thank you so much
appreciate that
apathy steamroller what do you have
against Bernie Sam Josh from Chicago
I'm Bernie 2020 myself and a hundred
percent certain he's running that being
said if he doesn't run Warren will be a
strong candidate every Sanders supporter
should get behind her both are
essentially New Deal Democrats maybe
Bernie as a social democrat however as
far as domestic policy neither will be
one or the other will be dramatically
different the differences in the foreign
policy Department I think that's
probably true to a certain extent
foreign policy domestic policy they
really aren't that different but I also
think there's somebody said for the kind
of opening that Sanders creates to talk
about class politics and empower people
to ask for more gay sex best sex have
you listened to the Lois skit it's
teetering on cringy best parts the only
thing I can really had an issue with his
reaction to political correctness and I
don't think he learned that much at all
yeah well that's what we end up saying
far route Milky Way far out Milky Way do
you think reinstating earmarks would
build a broad enough coalition of
moderates to help pass major progressive
legislation do you think earmarks banned
by Boehner are a net positive I think
there is some value in earmarks yeah I
do I'm not sure though I need to read a
little bit more into it but I think I
think there was some value in that
particularly in the context of wanting
to to pass that progressive agenda
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right new year new Jew Crites I like
your hat Brendan
hook em horns missed you all so much I
listened to old ring of fire episode so
I could hear Sam's voice Maui vegan
regale bird speaking to hate groups she
spoke at the apocalyptic Christians
United for Israel annual conference plus
she has an F grade from progressive
punch yeah I would not I mean look we
get into the general election although
being in New York I can vote for whoever
the hell I want but yeah but Tulsi
Gabbard is not your progressive friends
what kebabs weed this is actually a
Jimmy really living though Kentucky
Fried comrade Sam did you see the
suggestion on Twitter that you should
run in 2020 on a libertarian ticket so
you can be on the Liberty 2020
libertarian primary debate stage wow
that is galaxies brain man that's the
first time I've ever used that phrase on
ironically it's legit galaxies brain
that's a me I they wouldn't be able to
keep you out because they're
libertarians right well of course they
could like Sam next to like some type of
like convicted murderer or something
awfully great oh my god I don't know if
I can even like continue on even reading
Iams after this idea is floating in my
head yeah you're just gonna run and try
to do the same thing that Adam Koch guy
is just trying to do in Reverse Jesus
that would be so awesome so this is our
last show I need to prepare for my
campaign to run for the 2020 libertarian
nomination oh my god it's such a great
idea in so many different ways like I
can't even Wow alright let me do a
couple more IMS before I just like
literally a literal level I melt into a
puddle on my chair and then that sets me
up nicely for the 2022 campaign against
what if I would have I won the
nomination that would be amazing I mean
it's not like it's like a bill well did
you know how bill will be exactly you
just campaign with the Democrat exactly
I look that was but it was so many
things happening in 2016 and maybe it's
just being from Massachusetts I don't
know like the world but just that little
side story arc was another one that if
Trump had not become president would
have just been another like delicious
like as Johnson gets progressively more
freaked out
bill well is just like you know it
actually I'm gonna be oh my god just
that whole little side drama was
hilarious he Beth Rose just signed up to
be able to I am one of my favorite
people ever Sam cedar I'm with you all
Bernie is my number one I want him to
run but it's not too early to strategize
to start having conversations with our
communities through organizing for
Bernie or through other organizations
it's time to get to work the first step
is to let our number one choice know we
are willing to do the work necessary to
run a corporate free campaign Sam do you
actually see these Iams how did the war
on Christmas go for you run Sam my bail
well say Dominica Alan this smaller
point but during the DNA test disaster
Warren kind of proves she wouldn't be
able to handle facing Trump by the fact
that she took his bait during the whole
ordeal and played into his games and
ultimately lost his game and embarrassed
herself dude there is a I agree she
handled it really poorly it was stupid
we hit her but there's also a thing
called self-fulfilling prophecy the
other alternative descript possibility
is she learned her lesson and will
respond more adroitly like I mean I mean
just come on I hope you're right but
like she she does need to learn and
everyone needs to learn you can't own
Trump with facts and logic because he
just doesn't care
no but the the the the the failure that
was not that he was trying to she was
trying to own Trump with I I think
that's a miss reading as to what the
agenda was and miss reading as to why
that was a failure I think like what
they should have done is they should
have made a
much less a big of a deal of it and that
they should have made sure that they had
support from the community she has a
good relationship largely I think with
native population she's done she's
actually sponsored a lot of legislation
but I think they needed to get out in
front of that they my understanding is
it was a bit of a rush job and reading
the the tick talked about it but the
other issue is you don't get into
name-calling with him it is it's the
opposite you stay her strength it's like
you don't run with a basketball team
that is known for running you stay and
you play your game this is the point
where you define your game and she
should only be talking about about
policy and its implications
she should I don't even think she should
be addressing him and she should be
saying like you keep up with me I don't
keep up with you and that's why Sanders
and her have the distinct advantage
because that's another reason that it
would have been a Bernie would have one
thing is just even and we talked about
this at the time just the simple like
there in the debate stage he's a crazy
Bernie crit in his life yeah okay
whatever rock to my plan for how your
life gets better exact back to my plan
exactly exactly and and frankly I think
Clinton theoretically could have done
that too that's why I say Martin
O'Malley uh you know would have won
because I just think that I just think
there was a fundamental mistake in the
campaign among all the other reasons
that you know accounted for that tiny
tiny electoral victory Tulsi Gabbard is
extremely Islamophobic and even though
she votes in favor of LGBTQ issues she
said said she still doesn't personally
support the LGBTQA community and thinks
it's a choice that alone should make any
queer trans or non had ro normative
person immediately wary of her and of
course her far-right ties that you
mentioned Ashta Congo welcome back a
crew hook'em Matt edit Brendan how
embarrassing hook'em random just wearing
the long glance the Texas by the way you
really you think I'm saying like if you
have to hear another progressive talk
about Bernie when
about Warren before Bernie has announced
I'm gonna flip the f out Brock from
Virginia hey mr crew chomskyan a few
others were criticizing the way we're
pulling out of Syria and leaving the
Kurds u.s. selling turkey three point
five billions in missile also doesn't
help I realized this complex issue so
I'd like to hear what more informed
people then me like you guys think about
how we balance anti-imperialism and
pulling out a Syria without hurting the
Kurdish people and we talked about this
100% agree with Chomsky please watch my
special report with Jean Basel on on the
Michael Brooke show YouTube you know you
you you use the leverage of dropping out
of Syria to ensure that there is some
protection for the Kurds at the very
least just because they've been your
allies but I think this is all about
like this is about Trump basically
trying to get air21 to lay off of MBS
and from the beginning like that by air
Dewan and the whole purpose of air
diwan's play is to ethnically cleanse
this area which already happened in
Efrain when the Russians pulled out so
but Turkish imperialism is fine well
that's the thing
are you really anti imperialist or are
you just anti u.s. imperialist and Noam
Chomsky is he also makes this
distinction he's like look of course US
imperialism is the prime issue if you're
American and because the world's most
prime superpower but are you simply just
reflexively anti-american or are you
post to all imperialism's and certainly
turkish regional imperialism and just
mass murder of kurds is one of the most
horrific things in the world today and
it's a I agree with you as allies it
also happens to be a distinctly
interesting and success well yes yeah
I'm not delusional enough to think that
the u.s. actually supports the
revolution in rojava but you know they
got to take their allies where they can
and now they're gonna have to make it a
deal of deal with Assad which is which
is very worse because he's already said
that he won't accept an alternative
military which is how they have their
own power base and I just think like I
find people you know this is like
sitting here
and you know being sanctimonious about
who the Kurds have aligned with if
you're doing that on Twitter your that's
a self canceling stupidity they
literally want to survive they're going
to be killed by air dhawan and possibly
Isis right all right callers we're not
going to get to the phones I promise you
we'll do something special for callers
tomorrow or something figure it out I
got five more Iams here Dave fear wow I
wish the 906 caller gave a city I
thought I was dealing liberal in the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan it's red
here our city is literally trying to
pass ordinances against pot right now
you can't open up a dispensary and
they're trying to pass to be able to
write tickets for smoking it's unreal
Gregory from Oklahoma hey y'all you got
a I hope you get to my call I want to
talk to you guys 405 number I'm sorry
Gregory we're gonna do it tomorrow right
about now I just want to make sure you
got the portrait I did a Michael Brooks
I'm thinking about doing the one of you
next week did you get one I know I'll
look and when our I think the idea
Elizabeth Warren is unlikable as I found
Hillary is nuts every politician engages
in spin with Warren I feel like she's
basically articulating her actual ideas
with Clinton I thought it was rarely
anything but spin except for when she
was attacking the left which do truly
did represent her values
sloop I'm not bashing anyone but Joe
Biden sucks
Glenny Jamie is right for all US ranks
Warren has no charisma Warren doesn't
have to the ripe vibe when she speaks
she sounds like when a business owner
tries to do their own radio ad and the
final I am of the day
[Music]
[Applause]
lead me much like the mainstream press
was in denial that there are future
Trump voters out there I'm finding that
the majority of port crew is entirely in
denial that a bunch of people are not
fans of Bernie Sanders acting like there
aren't a bunch of progressives who have
a legitimate reason to dislike him and
prefer other candidates eg Warren is
getting tiresome you need to entertain
more callers and other guests who prefer
other candidates to Sanders for balance
and accuracy not because it's inherently
wrong to like
Sanders alright folks see you tomorrow
and that's it goes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
choice was made
[Music]
rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
