let me let me let me get back to this
argument that we keep hearing over and
over again that the left is unelectable
okay and in this case is coming from a
guy who just lost his incumbency this is
outgoing Senator Joe Donnelly with a
warning to his party
and well let's listen to it first before
I reek Erica rise what he's saying party
about the Democratic Party you lost in
Indiana in November
McCaskill we just talked about lost in
Missouri Heidi Heitkamp lost in North
Dakota the Democratic Party was already
receding to the coast even more so now
so can the Democratic party your party
be viable without appealing to the
interior of the country where you live
and went well I don't know how you do
that I mean I was fortunate enough I got
more votes in this midterm than any
Democrat in Indiana in modern history
but it wasn't quite enough because the
president came three times in about the
last week six times in about the last
month and a half and said this is about
him and he said if you don't vote
basically you're betraying me and we
have not made enough of a connection I
work like a dog non-stop to make that
connection but that the people of my
state understand that culturally we want
to make sure you succeed that we're
gonna fight to make sure that for
instance on student loans
we'll keep the interest rate at the same
rate as a housing loan but when you talk
Medicare for all like I heard on the
panel earlier you start losing the
people in my state when we start talking
about hey we're gonna work together with
the insurance companies to lower
premiums that's what connects what and
so so we're thinking alright this guy
definitely would lose the trauma oh
right right so Joe Donnelly would have
us believe that what the constituents of
Indiana want to hear is not that you're
going to get low like really
if not no cost insurance that you're not
gonna have to deal with what his
constituents want is that you're gonna
work together with the the insurance
country remember those Trump's of course
I'll tell you how it works with the
insurance people now if you went to
college not gonna be more than a home
loan am i right housing housing loans
here is a Kaiser Family Foundation poll
which states that over 50% of the people
of Indiana and apparently Joe Donnelly
didn't have this poll support Medicare
for all you can see if you go in there
we will zoom in to Indiana get in there
we go right there now that's a beautiful
turquoise color and if we go down to the
key we can see that turquoise is over
50% probably around 50 to 53 percent but
it's not just that first of all this
notion that he got the most votes of any
Democrat state well he's the incumbent
it was the incumbent for six years and I
will tell you that he really didn't do
much better there was another woman Liz
Watson she ran for a House seat in the
ninth district now she lost by 13 points
to her to an incumbent she lost by 13
points to the incumbent but she ran on
medicare-for-all
Donnelly lost by only 6 points but then
he lost by another 4 points - there was
another 4 points from a libertarian
which would have gone to the Republican
presumably if they were not in the race
and there you're at basically 10 points
as the incumbent he loses sir I'm
underemployed and drowning college debt
and I'd like to vote for a Democrat I'm
just a little alienated by this talk of
relief
my student debt if you can just match it
with a home loan which of course I'll
never be able to afford feel a lot more
comfortable that would connect with me
uh it's all well and good that you're
going to provide for me a basically no
headache no cost health insurance but
what I would rather see is you to sit
down and actually come to a tete-a-tete
situation with some big Insurance
Corporation she said free health care a
point of delivery boom ah where's the
where's the dialogue with Humana
yeah that really connects with me man
what we've just witnessed is Joe
Donnelly's if not you know this is one
of his calling cards that he's going to
for like he's gonna take that interview
and he's gonna take a link and it's
gonna be attached to his resume as he
applies for lobbying positions in some
massive law firm in Washington DC on
health insurance that's he's literally
going to sell himself as being the guy
who is gonna go to these three senators
and I can't think of who they are off
the top my head but there's three or
four of them that he is going to tell
that partner the law firm I can get you
that one that one and that one and those
are the guys I will work on in the
Senate to prevent Medicare for all in
the event that I mean the one thing that
Joe Donnelly wants more than anything is
a democratic take over the Senate so
that he can get that lobbying job and
stop Medicare for all theirs and I just
want to say and Claire McCaskill same
exact deal same exact deal and Dick
Gephardt who you mentioned earlier
there's audio from him from last year
that I think Lee Fang dug up at some
meeting and he was like we're never
gonna let single-payer
past period and he's sort of like the
prime former Democratic leadership
influence peddler in Washington right
now for everything not just health care
also even like not recognizing the
Armenian Genocide and one of the great
things if you start to change the makeup
of the Democratic House and in the
future of the Senate is that these
people won't be employable exactly this
will be no use there's no
so capital
