here's one more here's one more moment
from that Joyce Beatty Democrat from
Ohio questions
Zuckerberg on the more diversity and
Zuckerberg Zeva Billiton his life
diversity initiative at Facebook have
you read the report that Laura Murphy
sent to you you've talked a lot about
diversity and you introduced her name
about this great study in her work have
you read it
do you know what the recommendations
were do you know when she issued the
report yes or no I've seen the report
okay tell me what the top-three seen the
right word I have it right here what
were the top three things in a report
you know somebody talked about lying in
this committee I'm only I'm only saying
well one of them was around housing ads
which we've talked about the other was
around setting up a civil rights task
force and who's on the civil rights task
force Sheryl Sandberg is the what's all
right okay we know Cheryl's not really
civil right so I'm trying to help you
here
she's our CEO oh and I don't think
there's anything and I know sure well
about civil rights and her background so
come better than that for me if we're
gonna talk civil rights it's an internal
task force you know who that do you know
who the firm that you employ for civil
rights is congressman ioq I don't how
could you know when you have employed
the most historical the largest civil
rights come firm to deal with issues
that are major this is what's so
frustrating to me it's almost like you
think this is a joke when you have
ruined the lives of many people
discriminated against them do you know
what percentage of african-americans are
on Facebook in comparison to majority
folks do you know what the percentages
are people using the Facebook yes do you
know what the percentages are for
african-americans I don't because we
don't collect the racism
well they it
large center that was sent to you so
maybe you just don't read a lot of
things that deal with civil rights or
african-americans I have a lot of
questions I'm going to send to you that
I'm not going to be able to get through
and I would like an answer because this
is appalling and disgusting to me and I
yield back like I've discovered what are
the chances that Zuckerberg goes home
goes down takes the elevator down to his
subterranean lair and just starts to
plot on how he could take over Congress
yeah I think though I don't even think
you need to wait till he gets inside the
aquatic mansion I think that's camp he's
can't we just buy them there was a
there's a beat there's a clip from
Silicon Valley which is a really good
show where the like the I guess he's
more of a jobs or the guy from I think
Cisco Systems but he's sitting with his
lawyers after getting protested and
somebody like throws of water balloon at
him or something and he's drying off and
he goes you know there was a time when a
man like me could have people like that
killed and he's like times have changed
of course for the better and that he
pauses he goes unless each each loop
goes back to like be really sure that I
can't kill protesters it's amazing how
much Mark Zuckerberg looks like a
student who is lying about having done
their reading this reminds me of it's
like his gen ed requirement for so
should Harvard it's like I I saw it I
think Congress for me you're not the
first african-american authority figure
that I've had to lie to about caring
about this subject
 sorry won't be the last all right
let's try and take
