[Music]
so Bernie Sanders gave an interview with
The Washington Post and it was a 20/20
candidate forum I guess they do one at a
time was with Robert Costa and right out
the gate Sanders had a little bit of an
issue with what how this all was being
presented and I think to a certain
extent this is why Bernie Sanders
maintains such a an ardent level of
support because his critique is in many
respects societal he he's not marianne
williamson who i think you know is
awesome has a critique of of every
single well let me it's not it's not
that all these people probably don't
have some critique of society broadly
but do not see it as political Bernie's
critique is is broader and here is just
a what would you call this a I want to
say like a chuckle inducing or a light
moment of that I would like to thank our
presenting sponsor Bank of America now
please join me in welcoming senator
Bernie Sanders and the Washington Post
Robert Costa
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
senator Sanders thanks so much for being
here
Bank of America really sponsoring this
let's get into the interview there you
go
very very elegantly handled by Kosta
very smooth very not uptight and weird
well I mean I can understand why like
how do you answer that well I think I
think you could well laugh a little bit
and recognize that you're talking to
Bernie Sanders
right but seriously I mean I well I
think that that is not sitting there
Robert is not sitting there if he has a
ready-made answer to that because here's
the thing it doesn't even occur to a lot
of people like why wouldn't we get
sponsored by a financial institution
that is in many respects as an industry
and perhaps even like narrowly to that
specific bank responsible for the fact
that you sitting up here running for
president in 2020 with such wide support
I mean the banking industry a misery did
millions upon millions upon millions of
people and I don't I don't know frankly
if Bernie Sanders even thinks about
running for president in 2016 were it
not for the financial crisis and so I
don't I'm willing to bet that cost a
perfectly nice guy ever looked at that
Bank of America logo up there as he's
you know getting ready for this and
thought wow that's ironic
I think it completely came out
we're and had no he had no way to
process that knowing this is where you
know concepts that sound so highfalutin
but really shouldn't be that you know
this is where ideas from somebody like
Graham Chi about how institutions
replicate themselves and how there's a
seamlessness it's not as crude as just
the money of course money is incredibly
corrupting but there's that cognitive
capture aspect there's just the you
always the image he always uses the
water you swim in right and and Bernie
does offend these people so much because
he really genuinely has a different
perception of the water and and this is
why I think you know to a certain extent
so many people are allergic to Sanders
is because the first reaction I don't
know that Costas had this but the first
reaction that many people would have is
like really are you really gonna
question the whole premise of this thing
right like you're really gonna make me
question the premise of this and people
don't like it
people do not like to have to question
that premises I mean if we turn on Rush
Limbaugh right now if this thing hadn't
broken already and listen to Limbaugh he
deals with it sort of like low end of
folks and I don't mean this you know
it's you it's disparaging Lynne it's
disparaging but it's not I don't mean it
to sound like like oat versus low I just
mean like the less sophisticated version
of this which is when any doubt creeps
into your head I'm gonna tell you that
that doubt is wrong you you expunge that
doubt you don't have that you see the
pictures of the people in the cages you
don't have to think that's wrong now
Costas I'm just using him as a surrogate
I don't know him well enough to even
make this thing but someone like Costas
would look at those the people in the
cages and go that's disgusting right but
because that just offends the
sensibility Limbaugh's listeners he'll
tell them you should not be offended by
that it's perfectly legit but Costas
again just using him as a surrogate are
you really gonna make me
question just our ability to have this
conversation or even like look at a
Chuck Todd right no exam this is the it
could be really bad what's happening in
those camps and we should debate it
spiritedly but I'd love to be in a
terrain where I'm whining about the you
know quote-unquote offensive terminology
that somebody's writing versus the
substance and merits of it and and and
it's just where people draw this line as
to what they're going to actually have
to expend some critical thought to and
it is the idea that a logo is on the
wall is not that big of a deal but the
fact that they feel comfortable
sponsoring it because of what's going on
that there's nothing that's offending
the sensibilities of that Bank enough
that is a little bit problematic and
they also but they're marketers they
know we put our logo over Bernie Sanders
right shoulder it's gonna help us prior
to working at majority report I was a
researcher for vice News's business of
life show which was underwritten by Bank
of America and generally like I I
basically had to come up with all the
different facts that they would throw
out to the panelists and have them
respond to when I was compiling the
facts for the Bank of America one the
feedback I got was a little bit less on
the wide scale financial fraud angle
statistics and more on the personal
finance choices statistics so well vice
they have a bit of a history of that
type of editorial stuff is mine Rupert
Murdoch - alright so let's hear would
that said Bernie Sanders is Bernie
Sanders on stage with Rob Acosta you
should really go check out the whole
forum this is a pretty good format cost
us a pretty smart guy he is right
leaning he was a full-on Republican
years ago God knows if he still is I
imagine less so
but he wanted to discuss Bernie Sanders
about busing in this moment I think is
really important because the again it's
about the meta performance and many
respects Bernie is not having to hide
the ball at all and I think that is
helpful for Sanders Burlington let's
stick with that race point you just
brought up in 1974 you said that busing
policies were well-meaning in theory but
sometimes result in quote racial
hostility what else did I say like tell
me no you gotta there read it read the
whole book I don't have the whole quote
the whole quote is the federal
government doesn't give a about
Africa that is true that's why I didn't
include it okay and Mike White was now
that I don't think anybody thinks that
busing is the solution what is the
solution what I meant by that quote is
that we need to enforce fair housing
legislation I think everybody with your
black or white you want your kids to go
to a great Community School not to be
bused an hour away that is the goal that
we should be striving for and by the way
we've introduced education called
Thurgood Marshall educational plan which
would significantly improve public
education in America and deal with a
very serious issue of the growing
segregation of schools in American
society something that we have to
address very boldly and we should say to
my knowledge nobody else has come out
with a plan to address that problem and
none and can I just add really briefly
among many areas including and I think
he's a hundred percent right and every
single thing he said including some of
the class dynamics of how the things
played in the 70s but his plan does
actually provide for busing as part of
it with federal funds as well I think a
lot of what and and and just to bring
out his point to a certain extent the
idea is that the reason why our schools
are so dramatically segregated is among
is if there's a holistic problem right
that has to do with the criminal justice
system to some
but also simply has to do with that way
that we fund schools and the way that we
have had systemic issues over the years
whether by government fifty years ago 60
years ago or by private enterprise and
banks for that matter much more recently
the way that we allow financing the way
that we desegregate neighborhoods in
many respects by financing and by income
and the idea is that you you you need to
know just going over his his plan is
there's elements of his plan that
directly go to integrating schools with
funding with tripling title one funding
for at-risk schools executing and
enforcing desegregation rules that have
been basically floundering for 50 years
on the books but not enforce exactly fun
school transportation so there's some of
that buses and charter schools that are
for-profit and do not have
accountability to local school districts
and to States or whatever the mechanism
is not all charters are the same and a
and B charters are not the ends they're
supposedly a means to improving the
broader public school education they're
supposed to be green house have you
explained if is there anything I just
want to say really briefly according to
the this is in the route the first thing
I pulled up the four biggest banks in
America JPMorgan Chase Bank of America
Wells Fargo and Citigroup have all
settled lawsuits for discriminating
against black and Hispanic customers
collectively these banks that have
participated in the textbook
finition of structural racism hold
one-third of all deposits in the United
States just adding to the full you know
the sort of grotesque irony of that
sponsor forum especially with the way
Kosta also asking him that gachi a
question which was totally misleading
trying to make him sound like Biden
after we have the setup of yes in fact
Bank of America has admitted a you know
structurally racist wrongdoing in its
own lawsuit settlements what's that
South African concept about the racial
capitalism or white monopoly capital
yeah which is just like acts like it's
the South African thing but really it's
just their did what America did
