[Music]
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Ben mankiewicz who is the host Turner
Classic Movies you can also see him on
The Young Turks from time to time Ben
how you doing man I'm well liked to talk
to you Michael it's great to talk to you
as always
um talk to us about how long have you
been doing Turner Classic Movies no.62
yes yeah yeah my I think I made my debut
in September of Oh three so we're right
at sweet 16 so look at like how do you
what's your what's your selection
process what kind what movies you want
people to check out what movies you want
to talk about well I mean I can
highlight whatever you know I mean like
I'm stuff like this I picked the movies
that I think people will be interested
in but we got a program at department
they here's who doesn't get consulted on
our program your friends and but but my
closest friend at the channels at a
programming show and so I you know they
I've certainly developed enough of a
reputation there for being involved in
the you know so thick and so liked
helping to pick guest programmers what's
gonna work for that but the day to day
programming they're great at it
probably the main reason the network is
successful is as successful as it is is
because they're so good at that
they can you know frame in each night
putting every night every single night
has some little mini festival some
little mini connection they're there
they're geniuses when it comes to
programming over do you think are you
somebody who as a guy in the movie
business are you somebody who's who's
burned out on this whole superhero movie
thing or are you one of these ores or is
that like being a snob and they're
actually great blah blah blah what do
you think no I'm not burned out
I've been cremated I don't I'm uh I am I
was you know I mean I thought Ironman
was really good like the first met
around like 2007 or something yeah yeah
it might be 2007 I think it's a but I
don't even know and it's so I was going
to say it's been a minimum 11 years
since that movie came out and even by
you know the the great Batman whichever
one that was Batman which I don't know
any members of Dark Knight you know um
like I was like that's good but I got it
like I've you know like you know uh the
Heath Ledger was fantastic but I like
it's too he was too brooding Christian
Bale like I need movies that have a
little and I guess Ledger provided the
key but I mean I was largely done after
that I I don't care about seeing
invincible people punch each other into
buildings and I mean that's a little you
know just it doesn't that is
uninteresting and it has no now but that
said I'm also not I am NOT a snob about
it because people I love care about
whose opinions I value enormous ly they
love this stuff
you know a lot of people that I love and
care about but I don't value their
opinions I mean you can make a
distinction right know what I mean about
movies are you care about their right
you know and so you know I I'm I but
it's not for me I don't think it's
really for grown-ups
I mean the movies are targeted for
brought up so I get it some kids who
grew up with that but look man I used to
play you know a stratum attic baseball
dice baseball and I would create whole
seasons I'd replay entire season but I'd
mix it up I'd like combine two bad teams
make him a good team rule DC where there
was no team or where I grew up and then
play a 85 game and I mean a 90 game
schedule and then every day I'd write
down the real major league scores so
that those were their opponents and I'd
have fake standings I mean in that dorky
and guess what I would do it today if I
had time it was really right right
mm-hmm
that was Dungeons & Dragons for a
baseball fan so I get liking something
but my thing hasn't taken over every
billboard and my thing hasn't pushed out
grown-up movies about adults though
that's where the resentment comes in and
everybody in this town out here talks
about that
you know movies either cost a million
dollars or two hundred million dollars
you know there's nothing in the
it'll where you know you spend 40
million dollars and you you make 70 and
people are happy because you made a
little money what I think you know mix
is that maybe you can make a failure
dollar is the phrase this story that I
heard and please correct me if I'm wrong
because I the exten I know movies I
always wondered why is it that in like
the 70s there were a bunch like the
quote-unquote mainstream movies were not
all of them but they were great a lot of
them you had the Godfather movies and
Dog Day Afternoon and Apocalypse Now and
Serpico and those were just like the
movies and they happen to be just these
like really great and I and I one story
I've heard is that you know the sort of
Hollywood bosses were sort of just
completely overtaken by the
counterculture and there was a new sort
of economics there and they kind of were
willing to say hey maybe you guys should
just have some freedom to explore here
because we don't really know what the
hell's going on
and then jaws and Star Wars right sorry
go ahead tell me about your note yeah
you're right you're right that's a
version of the correct of what's correct
say 1967 a 1976 greatest ten-year run
American movies ever because they turn
these talented directors the auteur
theory here that they let these
directors make their movie and they got
out of their way and that's what left
you with starting with the 1967 this
amazing year of Bonnie and Clyde and
Cool Hand Luke and in the heat of the
night guess who's coming to dinner in
the Graduate all the way through I think
1976 I wouldn't I wouldn't include jaws
and the list of where things went wrong
that's still part of what things weren't
right that was Steven Spielberg making a
great great movie it just made so much
money over the summer they were like
let's do this again it really ends with
Star Wars like 77 that's the and and I'm
not knocking Star Wars that but that's
when the economics changed you know 76
still had rocky all the President's Men
Network you know three unbelievable
movies vital movies for people to see
especially network and all the
President's Men for people who care
about the media and politics but so that
run where directors
Scorsese and Friedkin and Bogdanovich
Coppola Hal Ashby Norman Jewison where
these guys have the the ability to go
make their kind of movie make it their
way cities were met you mentioned you
know Dog Day Afternoon you know about it
network so that is all over these and
and then that went away as sort of
corporate control took over and it was
happening of course throughout the 80s
where right you know look I don't I'm
not an expert on this but basically to
me companies were like well we make a
little money we our employees have a
nice life and we have a nice life and
that's good enough
and then as sort of conglomerate started
owning stuff and including movie studios
it became no no we we got paid as
shareholders that matters more the
shareholders matter more than our
employees and you know that shareholders
always mattered but there was some
balance right there was some you didn't
think you were gonna get to be a
gazillionaire because you were a base
stockholder and some of these companies
you just thought sort of I'm protecting
for if something goes wrong I'm
protecting for my retirement so I don't
have to work until I'm 70 you know
culture shifted in America and it
started and then it began affecting
movies and some of these guys then went
out and lost a lot of money on these
movies right like when the auteur theory
doesn't work you spend a lot of money in
the movies terrible right but you're
right it gave us these you know in
Coppola and
three years makes the Godfather the
conversation in-between about electronic
surveillance which is another movie
everybody should see and then the
Godfather to I mean it's unbelievable
what that guy just tore through my room
you know Mean Streets taxi driver yeah
taxi driver by the way also 7676 of all
the president's men the rocky network
taxi driver you know that's the unbelief
that is the unbelievable start yeah
that's crazy yeah was there was there
like a little sort of I don't know the
history obviously but then there's an
idea that in the 90s there was a little
bit of an indie push back and some of
that like all admit I'm not a huge I
don't remember the guys name even but I
was never into like clerks and that
those movies I never I just because to
me I just didn't find them particularly
Kevin you can't you're wrong about
clerks it's brilliant but wrong about
clerks i know i'll rewatch clerks a man
i was probably why probably watched
clerks through a haze of what clerks was
joking about meaning marijuana so you
know I don't know but I think but then
you know I do I do actually i rewatch
pulp fiction recently and I actually I
mean you know it's definitely not as
cool as I thought it was when I was a
teenager but it actually is still a very
interesting very funny very bizarre and
cool movie so what was that sort of like
what was that little kind of opening
there that happened in the 90s and then
what happens to that I don't know I'm
not an expert to tell you what that was
about you're right in recognizing that
it happened I mean I think basically you
know it was a look these are creative
people I mean the more reason I love
living out here is because I think the
you know the most talented artists in
the world are here and you run into them
in coffee shops and when you play poker
you know when you play softball give you
an idea what I imagine the perfect life
is poker and you get coffee and you talk
about sports movies and politics and
what out then literally I could die it
you know mold
I'll take 92 die happy you know that was
the focus of my life I've got some of my
best experiences of actually starting to
understand LA as a town has been sitting
with a Ben mankiewicz maybe also a
Michael Shore and just just yeah just
talking it's great I mean I'm from DC
but I love it out here 20 years now I
and I I just I mean I defended I hate
when I get right now I'm like in New
Yorker who you know like how you guys
are you know about the city and I I just
love it here and oh the New York is
terrible it's being ruined by Russian
oligarchs and Michael Bloomberg
destroyed every last vestige of it and
but the Blasio can't save it because
he's not left-wing enough so no trash at
all you want there's plenty of people
from Ohio who live here now and they're
terrible by the way I spent last weekend
in Columbus Ohio at the 25th anniversary
of another movie from 1994 Mansfield
Ohio but I stayed in Columbus the 25th
anniversary of Shawshank Redemption
another great 84 movie The Shawshank and
pulp fiction better than Forrest Gump
which one you know won Best Picture
how embarrassing and um and so Columbus
Ohio great town great great town I had
no idea I'd never been there
I already I'm kind of in love with I
believe it and that's a great sort of I
think that should be a signal to the oh
hi in transplants here at - mm-hmm go
back to what's great god oh that's
what's great I I know I don't know why
I'm picking on Ohio specifically well I
mean I think it should be kind of
obvious but but much love particularly
if you're a patron of TMDs from Ohio I
the can we just take a second I do want
to talk about Trump for a minute before
we get to the recommendations but I
actually I don't know if we've ever
talked about this on air I think we've
talked about it in person I haven't seen
the new Tarantino movie yet I just don't
I don't even remember the last time I
was in a theater I want to see it at
some point but I really hope that people
will all see Jackie Brown like I think
Jackie Brown I rewatched that recently
and I am amazed by an amazing movie that
is anyways go ahead I have a great
Jackie Brown story so I so I interviewed
Tarantino for fertility for the Young
Turks like uh I don't know two years ago
when he was do when he had the hateful
eight out and he wanted to come in he
wanted to see me super with honor and I
was sure that I was gonna be a part of
the extended Tarantino entourage like
the twice a year at a party at his house
like I get an invite like no we're gonna
get a meal but I was positive anyway
oddly that that didn't happen but it was
a very interesting conversation and one
of the questions that I asked him that I
was determined to I said what do you say
to a Tarantino fan whose favorite
Tarantino movie is Jackie Brown and he
looks at me and he goes well I I'd say
he's not I'd say that person is not
really a Quentin Tarantino fan
well I'm not really quitting Tarantino
fan that man because that movie I mean I
like his movies he's fun whatever but
Jackie Brown is fantastic it's on a
different magnitude he was I mean I
don't I won't go that I mean I love a
lot of his movies and I think his movies
are always fun and I really only dislike
one and I dislike I didn't like the
second Kill Bill movie I loved the first
the second one seems like a bunch of
sword fights but the but you know and
I'd Reservoir Dogs Pulp Fiction
inglorious basterds there's some movies
I I adore including I mean I really like
the eight boy oh well so you are I am
but yeah but Jackie Brown is my favorite
Tarantino movie and I think it's largely
perfect and I've seen it easily ten
times and I you know all these great
actors just delivering these perfect
performances because the script is so
good so I think he's wrong and there's
it's by the way I mean I in my movie
Twitter world I have a political Twitter
were full movie Twitter world because of
this new Tarantino movie Jackie Brown
was getting a lot a lot a lot so so it's
not no one thinks of it in first and
foremost in his Canon I can't believe I
said that
but it ought to be there it's uh it's a
great grace time from a great book
Elmore Leonard you know if you've run a
lot of the brief moments that yeah yeah
if you're not looking to you know there
may be a moment in your life when you're
not reading about the political and
economic history of Pam panamanian
migrant workers if you have that moment
in your life you should read a bunch of
more or less so I actually did read rum
punch
I read rum punch back in the day and
there's another there's another vote I
read it cuz I liked the movie so much
but there's another Elmore Leonard book
I don't remember the name of it but I
just remembered this scene and this is a
stretch here to try to recreate it but
it was one of the funniest things I ever
read because it's basically like these
two guys are sticking up a supermarket
in Michigan and in very Elmore Leonard
fashion entrepreneur and in super Elmore
Leonard fashion basically like
a very old lady is shopping and she just
does has no idea what they're doing so
one of the robbers is in a position
where he basically has to like check her
out like that's the most efficient thing
to do and you know these guys are you
his main protagonists are never like the
actual monsters so they're not gonna
kill her
so they gotta like bet her groceries and
and get her out and she's so rude and
disrespectful to him and just nasty and
so he's his his like his coup de Gras is
he basically like he tells her that her
coupons are invalid and it's just like
it looks like a giant moral victory for
him before they like leave the place
throw whatever small bag of cash they
took it's so funny a version of that
singing is in out of sight which is also
brilliant brilliant literally made the
next year after Jackie Brown based on a
lot more learned book I love the site
almost my favorite movie not the best
movie but it's perfect to me and there's
a scene where Ving Rhames has got to
steal a car so he can bust your
exploding out of prison an elaborate
plan they have and he this older lady is
wheeling her groceries out to the car
and he stops and he says oh man won't me
help you with those and she says well I
didn't actually help so don't expect it
for to 'ti right and so instantly you're
on his side
and he goes oh that's okay ma'am I'm
just gonna take your car and it's this
great but it's just like the coupons is
this little moral victory for a criminal
who you're rooting for and that's what
he does is get you know always there
there's always terrible evil but it ends
up being the cool criminal trying to
take down the truly violent dangerous
yeah I decide is actually another
amazing movie another good wreck I
wanted just for a minute
and actually in Michael Wolf's first
book which I did read and I totally
defend uh when he describes Steve Bannon
as an Elmore Leonard character that's
great perfect description like Jesus
what do you think about us having a new
King of the Jews Ben I think it's great
I think it's great I think we've lacked
leadership to sometimes tell us what
you know right how to behave who to vote
for you know I mean it is I mean it's
you know we're laughing because the
ability to maintain shock is God I mean
a couple days ago when the King of the
Jews was talking about Kashmir right
the Hindus I mean he's really the way
you got Kashmir had a lot of different
names and you got Muslims and Hindus
they don't like each other very much big
problem probably - I mean I mean it's
enough right there not to reelect
someone if he'd done everything else
right like he doesn't know anything and
he's not interested in anything and you
know he learned that that day and was
like I'll repeat that you know like well
yeah I mean he like went on Wikipedia
and looked up Kashmir didn't know
there's no way he did right that's why
somebody I was promoting the CNN CNN the
last bunch of Sunday's has been running
a series of movies by the decade and I
was on last Sunday to promote it and
they played a clip from 92 of Errol
Morris that's great they had a me
award-winning documentarian interviewing
Donald Trump and for some reason he
asked him about Citizen Kane and rosebud
and Trump's like well you know rosebud
know they don't really know what it is
they don't you know but it worked and
one knows why they picked it it was my
grandfather's name for my grandfather's
bicycle that's why he picked it my
grandfather rode says until the weekend
grandfather wrote Olie
I'm sorry no your grandfather okay I'm
so confused by Trump's lies that I
honestly was confused for a second okay
sorry go ahead Adam and so one of the
great shames has been that Trump one of
the great change has been the Trump so
you still there yep good we'll have you
yeah yeah um thank you yeah
one of the great chains of my life has
been that the Trump's favorite movie he
says is Citizen Kane but as I was
listening to him talk about that in
rosebud it's like he doesn't even know
that it's a sled in the movie and it
suddenly hits you you know that movies
whatever is an hour and 52 minutes long
it's inconceivable he watched it start
to sense right
like you want to say to him it's a slide
it burns in the end symbol of his lost
childhood not it you don't have to be a
you know there's no genius and figuring
out what happened there
so I had a nice line at least as we're
talking you know I said that's the
president talking about there's things
that are unknowable but they're all
knowable you just have to read a book
[Laughter]
I remember that clip I actually played
that it's I I know that we played that
at some point it was and he's like he's
like he's like well I mean it's it's
rosebud and you you go for things and it
it's funny because it's like not only is
he clearly not seen the movie but it's
like the part of Trump that is the
bizarre thing about Trump is that on one
hand nobody is like Trump and he's
utterly bizarre and then on the other
hand he's chameleon like and so that was
the phase of his life where he was
trying you know he's talking to oral
Morris so he needs to show that he
actually has a deep New York
intellectual streak so he's doing all of
these kind of like he hasn't seen the
movie and he's also trying to really get
like you know I mean materialism doesn't
equal happiness
it means it's deep that's right yeah
yeah but I mean he is so incapable
pulling it off it is and it reminds me
you mentioned our mutual friend and
along with those two be on Turks jank
user and Michael Shore they're you know
they're my two closest friends out here
too my closest friends in the world and
and I lived with Michael I've lived with
Michael twice in my life once for a year
and a half but also when I moved to LA I
stayed with him for the first three
weeks I was here so I was getting my
feet and and it was I recall then but it
must have been a couple years later went
early on in the apprentice run um I said
I was wide watched it a couple times
that I was like you know I like this
apprenticeship I don't thing about
business but I actually kind of learned
things from it and I think he's like
he's there's not a typical host but he's
he's good it's fun right the way he
fires people is fun and I like that
thing
yeah I team maybe to episode and Michael
says to me I'm essentially quoting him
and this has got to be out of two
thousand four or five the latest
something like that he goes no I'm not I
don't watch I'm not gonna watch I don't
want you to watch
he's the worst person in the world he's
a horrible racist
he's a ignorant he doesn't know what
he's doing and he's perpetuating some
great fraud and I literally hate him
more than any other person and you
should too and I was like oh Jesus I was
like easy Michael whatever yeah okay
great Trump's the worst person in the
world
yeah sure Michael was on it and he was
on it early well there's some stiff
competition man I mean I guess if into
well with my reading habits I would have
said yeah I hear that but guys you got
to check out this obscure senator in
Brazil called junior bolson ro because
that guy's only are our world view that
you know I was just talking to somebody
else real quick about you know when I
went to Cuba somebody who'd been to Cuba
yeah recently a filmmaker and he wants
to make a movie there and we were
talking I was talking about when I went
during the Elyon right
I went 99 or 2000 right and and you get
there and you think you know I know my
dad wrote a book called Combe Fidel and
my dad was not so much a supporter but
mostly thought this was on the US for
screwing up this relationship forcing
his hand and they played baseball every
day there I know they're 90 miles away
they shouldn't have been aligned and if
we'd been a you know a decent country
and not paranoid we we would have
supported that revolution as as all
decent people should have so anyway I'm
telling that story but I remember when I
went there I still had this image
because I the manner I grew up the you
know this is sort of a reckless outlaw
place and we had to sneak in right you
know and they asked us do you want your
passport stamps and and then you get
there and there's things that they're
messed up their guards on the corners
and they want their citizens to tell on
each other right so then the horrible
horrible part and it is well but you get
there and you're like Jesus there's ten
thousand Canadians here right there's
people from all over Europe like they
don't care like this isn't about
we're the crazy one right in that regard
right Canadian think you know how they
got here they did a flight from Toronto
and then they land and they told their
friends I'm going to Cuba on vacation
right and they were Swedes and and we
was to be bye-bye producer and I we met
these girls they were having coffee with
him and I'm trying to speak Spanish and
and I'm like you want to leave and
they're like well there's not a lot of
opportunity here we'd like to go and I'm
like you want to come to America and
they're like no no we want to go to
Spain they speak Spanish right you know
and they have helped um we are used to
have no good healthcare here yes we're
not the federal right but that is
amazing that that that he would have
that reaction because I just think a lot
of people I mean I I never really paid
attention to Trump one way or another
like I think The Apprentice was a little
bit I mean that was a little bit back in
the day and then you know he was this
racist buffoon guy during the Obama era
but it also was just like yeah whatever
like this guy is just some like 80s
loser who cares and Obama to land a
great wine at the White House
Correspondents Dinner you know it was a
right right that's right he was just he
was a caricature a figure to mock right
actually what shifted me and I mean this
is maybe still - you know my mom maybe
maybe just a defect because I still find
him very funny at times but what shocked
me I remember when he finally declared
he was running for president was that
his first inner I mean first he came out
and made those races despicable comments
about Mexicans and that was obviously
the engine I mean he gave you the two
engines of his campaign he gave you fake
economic pop the three fake economic
populism the core of racism and
xenophobia and then the third one was
that he's funny and I remember uh he was
he was going on Bill O'Reilly and he was
just talking nonsense about like well
I'm gonna go into Iraq and we're gonna
get the oil and I mean actually not
nonsense in fact he was basically
talking what we did just in his own dumb
way and O'Reilly like well you know you
keep saying George W Bush was bad but
you sound you sound a lot like him and
and Trump just looks at me as like yeah
I'm a little bit smarter and I remember
just quick she's hilarious
I actually had no idea that this guy was
funny until he started doing this I
thought he was just a disgusting jackass
which he is but I didn't know that he
had this ability to kind of flame people
and if any guy I don't know that he
knows he's funny i I don't know it truly
doesn't matter right I think that was
part of I think you've touched on part
of the reason why obviously that he's
connected with some people because there
is this you know completely fake
authenticity to him right and most
people who are funny or smart you can't
be funny without being smart oh that was
always my belief and I don't think it's
I still think it's incredibly hard to be
it's incredibly hard to be funny without
being smart but he is proving it because
no one no one can think he's bright
enough to have this job except you know
I guess you know maybe you don't I mean
all of the leadership class of the
Republican Party and the wall street
right I'm legit Republican the the
notion that I'd be like man so George W
Bush and and I'll these bees are last to
this is what we this is what we put out
there a man the Oliver the tax cuts
that's all they care about I share one
theory with you because I don't there's
like one one thing that I don't
understand cuz I've been wrong a
thousand times like that they just I
think Mitt Romney is the perfect example
of what is wrong with the Republican
Party because you're gonna I think agree
with and yeah I like this there is this
is a guy with who has zero political
risk for the rest of his life right I
get you may want to run for president
again but even that I think doesn't
count
he just won he's not up again until 2024
it's inconceivable that if he spoke out
really against Trump not just spoke out
but acted out like I'm not gonna support
him politically I'll even go against my
interests because he must be stopped we
have to take a stand we have to take
this party back whatever that means they
still be yeah they still wouldn't get
Carrick so want to cut benefits for
people who need the most but
you take that stand um and he is in no
danger of losing even if somehow in a
poorly attended Republican primary in
2024 he got beaten to the right right by
some praised from pused
he run as an independent he Joe
Lieberman it he's Mitt Romney's most
famous more but on the planet he'd still
win and we all know we think by 2024
what he would do today would be seen as
heroic and the media would play him as
heroic as the one guy who took a stand
the principle guy who took the stand and
I he it's a freebie for Mitt Romney the
worst thing that happens to him is that
Harry Reid
dureena Mitch McConnell strips him of
whatever important committee assignments
he has I don't even think he'd do that
because he's MIT Romney so it is a
freebie for this guy to take shots at
Trump and the upside is a media hailing
him as a hero and even he won't do it I
just took my answer is that and this has
been my position a hundred percent from
the beginning is that it's all there
might be a few stylistic differences but
the reason he won't do that is because
he supports this agenda I mean I just
think that's the bottom line I don't I
don't think there's there's no daylight
I mean you can run through the list of
what they and and also I mean you know
we can game it out maybe but the bottom
line is is that he's the president and
he's unbelievably popular in the
Republican Party so maybe but I don't
think I mean certainly look MIT Romney
is not gonna be the guy who's gonna want
to take any extra heat but I just think
the bottom line is is that we we can't
separate Trump from the Republican Party
it's the same thing no yeah I agree I
know I took no one no real right
thinking Americans would disagree with
that I would want cuz Mitt Romney like
all these guys and I don't blame him for
this he has an ego and he wants to be
president again that's his best path
it's a freebie and it's a freebie but he
had all never again to a Republican
primary though I mean if you ran for
president after getting owned no way
that Donald Trump they're going to put
that guy on Rush
more for that party they love him yeah I
yeah I don't know I mean I whatever by
2024 we're gonna I'm certain that in
general they we're gonna have a
different competitor by 2024 well we
might have a different census but the
Republican Party is gonna this is gonna
be you know there's gonna be some like
state auditor who says that uh you know
like black people should be retro
actively stripped of their citizenship
back to like 1670 whose will run for
president I mean I critical box gonna
have a hand raised saying I will
faithfully execute I mean that's
horrified oh no the elected president
but I just cuz I I think the bottom line
is is that if you look at the Republican
trajectory and you read you know
democracy in Chains which to me is like
the best book on understanding how the
Republican Party works they have they
they have gone all in and Trump is kind
of intuited it in his own kind of dumb
way which is like we're not going to
expand their base and what we can do is
even though we have a narrow base we
represent the interests materially of
the most powerful people in the world in
the country not you know the average
Republican voter but there's still vast
majority of ultra wealthy people that
fund us because at the end of the day
our policy set is for them and then
we're gonna combine that with a nativist
xenophobia and if we can make the courts
restrictive enough peel back the Voting
Rights Act enough do this terrorist
immigration policy enough maybe we can
engineer the electorate enough where we
can just sort of keep I mean look
winning races that we lose the popular
vote on but we just get the map right I
mean I think you know that's what they
do that's the plan and so they're yeah I
do think a guy like Kobach I mean
because of his actual connections the
white nationalist and so on you know I'm
sure people like Paul Ryan and Mitt
Romney what would like a little bit more
plausible deniability and maybe an order
or two of separation but on the merits
it's all the same and you know I think
the popularity of Trump really shows
that you're obviously you're right I
mean there's no because because guys
like not even guys they're better guys
but a guy like Romney doesn't do it
right I got you I just
I'm still I still find him to be a
perfect test case to prove your point
essentially so that's the so yeah
obviously you right now democracy and
change is that an Elmore Larry book
actually you know honestly do you know
Elmore Leonard could have picked some of
the characters from that book and it
would have been actually very funny I
think you're farming great what do you
have some more I mean we've already
given so many great movie and book
recommendations but do you have any any
movie recommendations to leave aside
like we mentioned network so I don't
they're a bunch of people listen the
majority of port no network see dealt
with it's worth three say so I'd see
that work again I see at cartoon movies
from nineteen two movies from 1957 great
ones that again some people probably
face in the crowd where you realize that
Andy Griffith can act but Joel Berg
script Liat is a movie that there's a
trump-like
character I mean not just a trump-like
character i glenn beck's white
characters and O'Reilly like character
and it's amazing and perfect and you'll
you'll be stunned that how prescient
that movie is sweet smell of success 357
about sort of how easy it is what access
how access corrupts its access to a
columnist but it works on us like the
the sacrifices you will make the
principles you will give up to get in
with the most important powerful people
in the world it's that it's the best
access movie maybe ever made and then
like you know another seventies movie
three days with John doar like a you
know what inside the CIA just it's the
great it to me it's the best government
overreach paranoia movie because it's
also kind of plausible right right like
it's not the head of the CIA it's not
officially the CIA but it's enough guys
there to to get something awful and
dangerous done in the name of cortical
protecting America from running out of
energy but those are you know all of
those to me oh and I mentioned another
one the conversation and the Coppola
sandwich movie in between the two
Godfather's about what we can do with
electronic surveillance and
primitive back then but it is it holds
it holds true today and the world we
live in now that movie seems
particularly chilly
those are all and I'll throw one more
Billy Wilder ace in the hole 1951 game
battle reporters sort of what what how
the media can go wrong and pursuing a
story that'll raise their profile also
uh all those all those were perfect and
great and everybody will look go watch
good movies
go read Elmore Leonard I'll grab a
Elmore Leonard book if I can before I
fly to Chicago tonight matter of fact
yeah there's I mean you can't go wrong I
mean just there there there's twenty
centers that are nearly nearly perfect
Ben mankiewicz you're awesome
watch Ben and Turner Classic Movies
catch them sometimes on T YT Ben thanks
a million as always thank you Mike okay
take care man
