I don't want to dwell too much on this
but you know there's a lot of headlines
and there's always the impulse to you
know I mean I don't even know what it is
maybe it's just as simple as it's a
counterintuitive take that will create
clickbait but the Washington Post says
televangelist Pat Robertson claims
Alabama abortion bill is extreme and has
gone too far now what does that make you
think when you guys read that headline
what's your first thought it's too crazy
even for these crazy conservatives Wow
they've really gone too far this time
they've really gone too far this time
even Pat Robertson is terrified that a
twelve-year-old rape victim might be
forced to keep the baby or face criminal
charges even Pat Robertson gets that
right Matt what what do you what did you
keep take from the headline same same
sort of reaction do you guys want to go
to the tape I feel like Jon Stewart here
you know we do have tape of what he
actually said or in fact if you read the
body of the text will you go to what
he's actually saying I think Alabama has
gone too far they've passed a law that
would give a 99 year prison sentence to
people who commit abortion there's no
exception for rape or incest it's an
extreme law and that they want to
challenge Roe versus Wade but my humble
view is that this is not the case we
want to bring to the Supreme Court
because I think this one will lose so
that's a strategic argument he might be
right on strategy but this is not a
moral objection to a fundamental assault
on women's sovereignty and I really
think at a time we were talking about
putting doctors for performing a
procedure in jail for 99 years and you
are absolutely terrorizing women in
these states across the country it's
just not the time for the dumb
counterintuitive clickbait what's this
Ben Shapiro
he doesn't have the strategic concerns
that Pat Robertson lately really the guy
from the intellectual dark what the New
York Times cool-kid philosopher that
really smart guy because he uses
Jerusalem and Athens and his book know
if you believe that a human life is a
human life in the womb the fact that he
grave wrong was done to initiate the
creation of that life does not mean that
the life itself is of no value there's a
logical distinction between the evil
that was done to create the life in the
first place and the presence of the life
now that the life is present that's why
I've always been in favor of an
exception in case of serious danger to
the mother and that would include mental
health a woman is going to go crazy and
harm herself for example if a woman is
going to to be so depressed that you
become suicidal then abortion in my view
becomes an option because now the more
the mother's life is in danger well he's
trying to create a back door out for
himself
and not like that leads to any weird
awful incentives yeah yeah right I mean
that's yeah that's an even more that's a
whole other totally disturbing catch-22
for yeah I mean this is and again I mean
ultimately you know I don't know I I
just think it's you know these things
are settled legally and I know that Roe
is written in a way you know because
sorry to go all postmodernist here but
law is constructed law is a political
project that is not a natural thing that
has descended from the sky but we have
made a basic political moral judgment
that woman's capacity to control their
own bodies their own sovereignty their
own life trajectory is going to
supersede the potential of life I think
really I mean the potential of a human
life and again I mean you know there's
no we're also in a time here where the
president in Fox News is literally going
out across the country lying saying that
people are actually suggesting that
fully born babies can be killed
so ben shapiro suggesting that to here's
yeah sure
and you stake her life against the life
of the human life in her womb alabama i
think by the way does the right thing
from a pro-life perspective when it
comes to rape and incest concessions
with regard to rape and incest have
always been sort of a stop to public
opinion rather than a principled stand
about the value of human life they also
opened the door to the argument okay
well if you are saying that a human life
is not a human life if you don't want it
to be a human life then why wouldn't you
extend that to cases other than rape and
incest it's also worthwhile noting that
the left tends to point out arguments
about rape and incest because those are
the most emotionally resonant cases in
which people who are generally pro-life
would say well maybe an abortion should
be on the table
yeah i think it is pretty emotionally
resonant that a twelve-year-old girl in
Ohio might be forced to keep her rape
this child in a way that might totally
physically overwhelm her body because
men have voted to control her
sovereignty I think that is actually
pretty emotionally relevant to sentient
human beings even even very flawed human
beings if you have the most basic
capacity to think outside whatever sort
of bizarre religious you know isolated
empathy free fanaticism that Ben Shapiro
is living in I mean it's like he needs a
like a guidebook like here's a
Psychopaths guide to what is emotionally
resonant right right and again look Ben
Burgess will be releasing a tape in a
few days where he sort of explains the
logical fallacy of asserting you know
basically a continuum fallacy right like
because frankly and I'm sorry to get
kind of gross here but I mean if you
want to go on a continuum fallacy and if
you want to follow the logic of what
bench Bureaus saying masturbating should
be illegal right like that literally is
a you're you're getting rid of and and I
don't want to be gross here but like you
know you're you're
your exposure disposing of something
that if it meets another thing can
create a person so you could even call
that discarding human life it's human
biology
it is literally human biology so what we
do in a sane world is we make a
distinction right like and again I I
don't think that this is I do think that
this argument is actually one that does
need to kind of be foundationally built
on different politics and different
value sets but like the way he is able
to do too by the way and then articulate
to his young fans such an incredibly
totalitarian horrifying policy as the
one in Alabama but you know because you
know you've walked by a tree on the
street in Brooklyn does not mean you're
in a forest right like if you want to
just talk on like a continuum fallacy if
you think that an embryo is the same as
a delivered baby you're not able to make
basic distinctions in your mind so he's
using you know a fast voice and
quote-unquote logic to draw an insane
equivalency and and collapse basic
distinctions that any person using an
empirical sort of guides that would make
you know and it is also great I think
asan made this point on Twitter
like you know that this is sort of like
the end you know if you if you see the
IDW x' roots an atheist YouTube it goes
from you know complaining about
evangelicals and certainly of course
having endless Tantrums about Muslims to
you know having a guy I'm sure been I'm
you know I'm sure mr. Paine uh Sam
Harris I'm sure he probably opposes the
Alabama bill but he'd be willing to have
a you know calm dreary conversation
about bench bureau but one of the
leading lights of supposedly all of this
sort of logic Lorde stuff supports the
most totalitarian bill imaginable and
you know
I'll just say I think these points are
generally stupid one way or another but
uh Iran abortion totally publicly
available
