[Music]
all right let's talk about three
different tales of abortion views of
abortion contraception Bernie Sanders
and this is from a report in Newsweek
how many different areas of key policy
and I'm not gonna let people take this
away from Bernie Sanders it's become
ridiculous it's either somebody actually
saying like no you should have supported
the Reagan backed death squads and lack
of independent determination for people
in Latin America in the 80s which you
should not have and people should remind
themselves that you know things like
opposing the Contras and having at least
some understanding of why the
Sandinistas come to power in the 80s was
of course part of the left and people
like Sanders but people like Chris Dodd
and John Kerry were profoundly critical
of Reagan foreign policy there in fact
why did iran-contra happen because the
Democratic Congress in the 1980s made it
illegal to formally fund the Contras
that's why the Reagan administration did
it with illegal arms sales and funneled
the proceeds back to them so Bernie
Sanders right on civil rights right on
Vietnam right on an income inequality
right on the 1980s in Central America
wrong on some things but let's be real
there's a lot of consistency of right
here and wrong on some things evolving
on others here's another one he was
totally right about Newsweek a nineteen
seventeen seventy two article surfaces
showing that Bernie Sanders backed
abortion rights a year before Roe
Vermont independent senator Bernie
Sanders backed abortion rights and
ridiculed male dominated legislators
governing women's bodies in a 1972
article surfaced Wednesday the
commentary reveals another stark
decades-long contrast between he and
former Vice President Joe Biden's
progressive stances
Thank You Newsweek that's exactly the
way I was gonna frame this segment
Sanders told Vermont's Bennington banner
newspaper in September 1970 two months
before the US Supreme Court's ruling on
roe v-- wade that abortion procedures
should only be concerned between their
woman a woman and her physician the
article cites several letters the then
Liberty Union candidate for governor
wrote to a local named newspaper calling
for the abolition of all laws dealing
with abortion drugs and sexual behavior
it strikes me as incredible that
politicians think they have a right to
tell woman that she can a cannot do with
her body Sanders told the Bennington
banner in September 1st 1972 this is
especially true in Vermont where we have
a legislature which is almost completely
dominated by men I'll just note because
there's still this you know aggressive
ludicrous propaganda campaign waged
against him as somebody who in spite of
having impeccable credentials on this
area specifically you know if he doesn't
phrase a response exactly according to
the tick-tock in Chuck Todd interview
you know people flood him but this is an
unimpeachable commitment not only to the
right position on this issue but even of
course to the structural misogyny and
ludicrousness of of men in fact even
having anything to say on this issue
outside of women and their doctors now
back to Biden for a second back to
Newsweek Biden who was a Democratic
senator in Delaware from 1973 to 2009
stated Wednesday that he still backs the
1976 Hyde Amendment the measure
prohibits the federal use of funding for
abortion except in cases of rape incest
and when a mother's life is in danger in
1977 when Biden voted against a measure
to allow Medicaid to fund abortions for
any victim of rape or incest despite his
opposition the exception passed in a
year later Biden again voted against the
same measure to protect the woman's life
at risk in a 1972 article entitled
abortion up to conscience not government
Sanders says Sanders relays the
brooklyn-born politic for menthe
politicians progressive stance that
liberals will be slow to embrace for
decades and bortion this is Sanders is
an issue which brings out deep feelings
in people and I respect the feelings of
those who opposed abortion on moral
grounds I feel over that these people
should not be allowed to impose their
sense of morality or religious feelings
on other people who hold a different
opinion perfect exactly now jumping
forward a little bit more and we will
get to that sound in a second but I also
just want to say that it wasn't even
just abortion that Joe Biden along with
things like school integration we could
pick any period when we talk about Joe
Biden's record we could talk about the
role of drone warfare 'he's the role
whatever role he may have played in the
obama administration's economic policies
and putting major cuts to Medicare and
Social Security on the table during the
Obama administration we could talk about
being in the Senate writing the crime
bill supporting the invasion of Iraq
writing vicious bankruptcy legislation
which Elizabeth Warren got her start in
public life fighting against but now
we'll just go retro and we'll go to his
70s and 80s stances against abortion and
uh his is an imposing civil rights but
it didn't end there because according to
a new report in the intercept all the
way up to being a vice president in the
Obama administration quote Joe Biden
sought to repeatedly undermine the
Affordable Care Act's contraception
mandate working in alliance with the US
Conference of Catholic Bishops to press
a broad exception that would have left
millions of women without coverage
Biden's battle over contraception is a
window into his approach to the politics
of reproductive freedom a function of an
electoral worldview that centers
working-class Catholic men over the
interests of woman the issue has been
causing his presidential campaign some
comfort on discomfort on Wednesday
Biden's campaign clarified that he
remains a supporter of the so-called
Heidemann a provision that bars federal
money from being used
fund reproductive health services so
let's actually we'll get to the to that
clip next and make it two segments but
these are the two leading candidates in
the Democratic primary right now one
candidate who has a hundred percent
voting record every step of the way in
every aspect of women's reproductive
freedom and choice and sovereignity
opposes the Hyde Amendment which is
horrific in terms of its impact on poor
people in his and totally class-based
warfare politics who wrote a column not
only having the right position but
identifying the sexism of the counter
position in 1972 while presenting it
respectfully which I'm sorry and in an
electoral sense in no way a policy sense
is still appropriate and correct this
guy is running for president he's one of
the options that's Bernie Sanders then
there's Joe Biden who in 2019 supports
the Hyde Amendment that is incredible a
commitment that is a genuine reactionary
streak that isn't even expediency we got
to give him that and then a whole media
infrastructure of people who have an
irrational bizarre hatred of Bernie
Sanders and are gonna say like well you
know when he endorsed full abortion
rights and vigorously condemned and
we're not even gonna mention and he
didn't even mention actually used his
fundraising list to raise money for
grassroots organizations fighting the
assault on women in places like Alabama
he uh he he paused and cleared his
throat before he condemned the Georgia
legislation so that proves that he's a
total Pro Joe Biden no Joe Biden's no I
mean you know hey he was it was the 70s
man you know sometimes you oppose busing
and Medicaid exceptions for women's life
being in danger give me a break
look if you want to support your body
then that's fine whatever but be real
about what you're supporting and stop
making up about Bernie Sanders
because not only it's like not only are
you lying about his position now and
through the 90s we even have a freakin
deep 72 column before roe v-- wade just
give up the go
stop yeah I mean I will say there is
that the constituency of people who were
doing that to bernie last time around
don't seem to like joe biden very much
either right like there is a
constituency of a sincere liberal women
who care more about gender that's the
lens through which they view the world a
lot of the time because they have an
income level such that that is the
primary axis along which they experience
oppression and the last time around they
really really just wanted to have a
woman in charge which i get it totally
but given these two choices i don't
think they're gonna back biden i think
they are backing a lot of other
candidates at this point in time
including elizabeth warren comel harris
at all and it'll be interesting to see
where they go to as more and more of
these candidates drop out of the race
because joe biden absolutely does not
appeal to these people he's making his
claims to a socially conservative
constituency and he's like when he jokes
about like the me to stuff or whatever
that's what he's doing he's playing to
that this is really i mean i just just
yeah i mean and to really underline like
i just just for this i want to keep it
super focused on that like the hyde
amendment stuff and the votes on
abortion in the 70s are you know this is
not on you know it's not I know it's not
rock Sherrill and going into arguing and
undermining not only was it wrong on the
merits and the policy with Obama the
Obama administration even on an
operative you know real politic level
used the contraception issue enormous ly
effectively in Obama's re-election yes
