[Music]
because Joe is really posturing as he's
really posturing as like the guys guy
right like the hardhat Joe hardhat
middle class Joe
yeah middle class Joe here is uh where
was it where was this where he was
speaking this number three oh wait oh
this is the the announcement video where
did you the now today all right let's
hear the announcement video today he is
in Pittsburgh talking to Union guys he
is officially kicking off his campaign
at the Teamsters Local 429 in Pittsburgh
do you know where he was Thursday in the
unofficial kickoff he was in
Philadelphia at a Comcast fundraiser now
aside from Comcast being a wretched
company there was a longtime Biden ally
they're bundling money a guy named
Stephen cozen this comes from ever Eric
Levites in New York Mad Magazine chosen
is the chairman of chosen O'Connor that
is a a big law firm they help people
recover from bankruptcies and medical
debts
you know why the social service you know
what they don't owe surprising you know
Mike elk over at the payday report the
payday report noted on Wednesday that if
you go to Couzens O'Connor's website
they have a breakdown of what they do
for their clients labor relations and
disputes so in other words you got to
imagine Joe hardhat his best bud
probably protects unions fights on
behalf of unions and oh wait a second
ooh no actually this is weird it's the
opposite kozo no Connor represents a
broad spectrum of private and public
sector employers in labor relations and
disputes in other words they fight
against unions for our unionized clients
we handle unfair labor practice
proceedings in grievance arbitrations
negotiate individual multi-employer
collective bargaining agreements prepare
for and respond to picket lines strikes
lockouts and other economic campaigns
and work with employers during union
election campaigns ha
help them more effectively establish
unions in a hostile corporate
environment right
we also help employers avoid
unionization through positive employee
relations and regain non-union status
when employees indicate they no longer
wish to be union represented so in other
words their union busting law firm
Scranton Joe scrap and Krupp C I want
you to lose your life because you got
hit by a car and I hang around with some
of the scummiest law firms on planet
earth but hold on he also likes to write
and script here we go his hairs his
campaign video Charlottesville Virginia
is home to the author of one of the
great documents in human history
we know by heart
we hold these truths to be self-evident
that all men are created equal endowed
by their creator with certain
inalienable rights we've heard it so
often it's almost a cliche but it's who
we are we haven't always lived up to
these ideals Jefferson himself didn't
but we have never before walked away
from them Charlotte Hall is also home to
a defining moment for this nation in the
last few years
[Music]
August of 2017 we saw Klansmen and white
supremacists and neo-nazis come out in
the open they're crazed faces
illuminated by tortured veins and
bulging and burying the fangs of racism
chanting the same anti-semitic vile
heard across Europe and the third
and they were met by a courageous group
of Americans in a violent clash in
Surrey
and a brave young woman lost her life
and that's when we heard the words the
president knighted States that stunned
the world and shocked the conscience of
this nation he said there were a quote
some very fine people on both sides very
fine people on both sides those words
the president United States assigned a
moral equivalence between those
spreading aid than those of the courage
to stand against it and in that moment I
knew the threat to this nation was
unlike any I had ever seen in my
lifetime I wrote at the time they were
in the battle for the soul of this
nation well that's even more true today
we are in the battle for the soul of
this nation I believe history looked
back on for years of this president and
all the embraces as an aberrant moment
in time but if we give Donald Trump
eight years in the White House he will
forever and fundamentally alter the
character this nation who we are and I
cannot stand by and watch that happen
Oh God I here we go come on man it's the
montage now I can tell asylum but I want
to mine I want to remind Joe Biden that
one of the things that Donald Trump
embraces is anti unionism that Joe Biden
apparently has no problem at least
accepting money from some of the biggest
anti-union fighters in the country one
of the things that that Donald Trump
also embraces would be the harshest type
of relationship between creditors and
those in debt in this country which
apparently Joe Biden has a history of
[Music]
dismissive misogyny you know acting as
if women are simply props for you in
some way like stacey abrams or elizabeth
warren or frankly heather hire had their
hire his mom does not appreciate her
child being basically reduced to joe
biden's pitch for why he should be
President
of course it's never far from your mind
and your heart did you did former VP
Biden call you about this I got a call
from him yesterday at 4:30 in the
afternoon that was the first time I had
ever spoken to Joe Biden or any anybody
related to his office or anything What
did he say he's I was trying to remember
how the conversation started
I remember we talked a lot about
bereavement because you know he's lost a
son and a wife and daughter and we
talked about how forming a foundation
helps you survive but that's really all
the kinds of things we talked about I
think he said something about it would
have reached out sooner but I wasn't
sure how you would feel and I commented
yes I noticed you didn't mention her
name because you hadn't contacted me so
we sort of acknowledged that that much
you wish that he had mentioned her name
not particularly
it's not about her the issue is about to
hate
it's not about Heather yeah and so
what's he calling for your approval or
to make sure that you were okay I mean
what was the upshot of his call probably
to make sure I was okay apparently there
were rumors swirling that I was
devastated and traumatized and none of
those things were true so in other words
Joe Biden is on a tour right now to make
sure he doesn't mess up and appear as if
he was invested in these questions maybe
a little bit more than he was maybe just
a little bit more than he was I I mean I
I happen to think you know Joe Biden
right now I think is basically at the
top of of the the most of the polls at
this point but I have a feeling a lot of
this stuff is going to catch up with him
here is a Joe Joe Biden's non-apology
to Anita Hill and apparently Anita Hill
well we'll read what she said afterwards
you know for as long as I have I don't
know why it took you so long to call her
I wish I had happened earlier
well III tell you what the deal was
I did not since I had publicly apologize
for the way she was treated and publicly
said it I publicly had given four out
credit for her what was the contribution
she made to change begin to change this
culture in a significant way that what I
didn't want to do him and I'm like I
didn't want a quote invade her space I
didn't want to get in the situation
where this became and then I went when I
heard all this about the and it was
legitimate expecting a call while every
time the phone rang why we and so I I
spoke to some leading women advocates on
this area and saw someone newer and I
said could you see whether she take my
call yeah and
grateful she took my call you know I
think what she wants you to say is I'm
sorry for the way I treated you not for
the way you were treated I think that
might be a little closer well but but
I'm sorry the way she got treated the in
terms of I never heard say it if you go
back and look what I said and didn't say
I I don't think I treated her badly I
took honor opposite what I couldn't
figure out how to do and we still
haven't figured it out yeah how do you
stop people from asking an inflammatory
question
okay so there's Joe Biden saying I did
nothing wrong when I knew there was
three other women who would corroborate
at least that type of behavior of being
a victim of that behavior and I did not
bring them in front of the committee I
did nothing wrong
when I let her out there to dangle in
the wind knowing that there was
corroboration I did nothing wrong
everything is in the passive voice this
is a guy who doesn't get it what would
be so bad for him to say what you got to
ask yourself is it just sheer arrogance
this guy's willing to do just about
anything to become president is it just
sheer arrogance or is he afraid that if
he show he apologizes that he's kowtow
too much to the people that he wants to
appeal to it's one of those two things I
don't know which is worse a more narrow
point is as a chair of the committee
wouldn't you've been as in a position to
as an example like he said he doesn't
know how to stop the famine Tory
statements if you watch that clip of
particularly Arlen Specter just like
terrorizing her and trying to completely
eviscerate her character in life he
wouldn't have been in a position to step
over him and say hey you need to
reorient your life questioning here you
can ask a question you can critique you
can defend your witness but you're just
using a national forget national
platform you're using this hearing to
just
you know personally attack her and
potentially even in danger or life you
can't do that I mean when he have been
in a position to do even the narrow
metric that he just set for himself I
mean you now you're asking him to to
ignore Senate comedy and well I mean is
that we're a criticized woman raids
fellow well that probably was it right
III wouldn't he just set that standard
for you yeah he just said I just what
can I do about those comments my
understanding as chairman of a committee
you can actually do a little bit or one
of your colleagues starts terror we
couldn't look back on TV and see that
you yeah you may have been like you were
like hey wait a second like even if you
couldn't get them stopped like show some
measure of Defense this is disgusting I
object to it
