meanwhile President Trump addressed
where was he for the c-span talk
president Trump was at the young black
entrepreneurs meeting or addressed them
in in Washington DC is this or is this
said and he made a heartfelt call for
unity at this White House event and then
well he just slipped up and then well
the people in the audience started
yelling Soros and lock him up
every citizen benefits when we stop
foreign countries from cheating our
workers that's what they've been doing
you know they call deposit okay so let
me just tell you what my assessment is
what happened here he had a prepared
speech that he was giving to an
entrepreneurial group the young black
entrepreneurial group I would be willing
to bet we can't tell from this camera
shot but I'd be willing to bet if we
were to look at the audience the
percentage of young black people in that
audience would be under 35 percent at
this young black entrepreneurial event
and he went off script he was supposed
to be talking about economic innovation
and about entrepreneurs and about
challenges from overseas and he went off
script and because it worked so well for
him in Wisconsin he just want a little
taste of that again take it from the top
every citizen benefits when we stop
foreign countries from cheating our
workers that's what they've been doing
you know they call globalists they like
that they like the globe I like the
globe too
I like the globe - but we have to take
care of our people we have to globalist
yes
oh you unbelievable that was the call
for unity
I like you're a famous Trump supporter
sent 12 bombs to members of the
opposition I like Jews but we got to
take care of it I love thee O not just
the opposition party but also Soros the
guy who was cheered I lock him up I like
that we don't need to we sent a bomb to
send him a pipe bomb they'll have up
unbelievable that's a 2020 slogan and
then they got this guy who looks like
you should be in the caravan and they're
saying he's a fan of mine ms-13 don't
believe it folks
oh he's from the Philippines I think the
salty air yeah well whatever this people
Philippines day and you don't know that
his family was from the Philippines I
think I think via Honduras
