so there's a weird account on Twitter I
don't know who's behind this weird
account I don't know that we need to say
no I'm not gonna say what it is I'm just
I mean telling him where it where this
person's coming from I don't need to I'm
not gonna say the name of the account my
point is is there's a lot of theories
about it and the most persuasive theory
I've heard is from Brendan Sutton pretty
bad lefty which is that it's a Bernese
coms director who is unearthing
brilliant clips that show that Bernie's
had consistent positions for a long time
like maybe they're just trying to get
this all out before he announces and
also make him look awesome and also make
him look office awesome this is Bernie
Sanders this is he was running for
governor of Vermont in 1986 and he
explains why he's a socialist mrs. kunen
mr. Smith lots of the capitalist
economic system they're not running as
capitalists they're running as Democrats
and Republicans socialism to me means
democracy with a small deal I am not
affiliated with a political body I am
independent who happens to be a
socialist I am outraged about the system
that we're living in when you have
corporations and millionaires and doing
it as dominating the entire society and
as a socialist I want to see a radical
redistribution of wealth and power in
this country so the average working
person the average farm the average
woman has a fair shake we're not getting
that socialism to me as a philosophy but
I'm not affiliated with any particular
socialist money that's begging to be
made into a thug life meme video and let
me just also say really briefly you know
for people who concern trolls in 2016
about him calling himself a socialist
and saying like oh well why not just you
know use a less threatening word a blah
blah and and I'm mostly I'm actually you
know I'm not invested in verbage
arguments mostly but that's a pretty
great example of why it's great that
he's been steady with his democratic
socialist self designation because
that's who he is
you're never gonna be able to ace him on
a video like that because it's steady
state
Slovo talks about democracy I've long
thought that's something in America we
have we've long lost and we you know
we've never really had it fully for
everyone we know this but the idea that
we've have a decision to make how are we
gonna do it should it be the guy with
the gun who decides should be a guy who
says God tells him that he is the right
way no it's skip all that the best way
is probably to vote on it like generally
speaking like this is how sophisticated
humans make decisions in advance
political bodies and Bernie Sanders is
talking about socialism in a way that I
mean whose knees with me because I love
the idea of expanding democracy to all
people down yeah and demanding democracy
to the workplace to most people can't
vote on what their boss does how cool
would that be that would be I would be
very cool I'll be delicious
