I want to play one more clip and then
we'll get back to the phone the
ionization of this empty-headed chuckle
oh no I was actually a different to
empty-headed chuckle I was talking about
all right may we'll play two more but I
want to see this talking points turning
points I should say turning points us
Josh Marshall good I mean turning points
USA I have it's the whites country one
of the things with these guys that are
really great is they are so on Brant it
is always hammering their core brand
proposition this is an internal like a
corporate retreat for turning points USA
and they've brought on Benny Johnson he
is a is he a writer no no he is a
turning points USA official if you
recognize the name you'll recall that he
was at one point a BuzzFeed editor
BuzzFeed politics editor butts the
politics editor and it turns out that he
was plagiarized a lot of the stuff and
so turning points said oh you sound like
our type of guy cuz we talked to college
students a lot and so things like
plagiarism you understand the call the
college experience and so we're going to
hire these late at night yeah right
keyword in the search so we're gonna
hire you as because we understand being
the plagiarist you are we understand how
what your perspective is on doing you
know a lot of work the busy work so
we're gonna make you chief what is this
position now a creative officer yeah
we're gonna make you chief creative
officer so you can come up with
different ways of plagiarizing things or
something like that but here he is this
is what's they call this a little too on
the nose this is the opening comedian I
guess is this a comedian or just like
sort of impresario okay as this somebody
this is the the the emcee of tonight
a turning point we know how to get the
best the best people I got to tell you
ladies and gentlemen without further ado
the one the only Betty Johnson
okay are we going to talk over that
because we don't want to get caught they
played someone on yeah yeah yeah you're
good
[Applause]
[Music]
amazing oh my god I've never seen so
many white people in one room this is
incredible that's the best that is the
best he says I've never seen so many
white people in one room that's
incredible and they start cheering and
it's not a joke they're confused because
they're like wait a second are we
supposed to cheer for that or they don't
know they can't it's one of those things
where it's like oh I can't even
acknowledge that he made that joke
because it's so planned and then I guess
apparently they're doing some type of
documentary about him or something with
that camera phone yeah yeah but that's
gonna be a very inspiring shot like that
and porn is what away it's disgraced
public figures
