so Matt when we broke you basically
outlined some of the court cases that
are in front of the Supreme Court that
maybe the straws that break the camel's
back who is in that instance of the
camel then there are various camels but
they all might conspire to sort of jump
on board to the notion that we need to
have some serious reform with the
Supreme Court people have floated the
idea of court packing personally I I
like that idea as a as an opening gambit
but I worry that that can be reversed in
a way some people have suggested term
limits
that's part of some of the other
solutions but people to judge came out
with a plan written by two law
professors in a forthcoming Yale Law
Review article tell us about that plan
and why you think it fails and then
we'll discuss yours well you know
although I have my critiques of the plan
I do think it's it's an interesting one
it's from law professors Dan Epps and
Ganesh retirement they are only a alarm
via that one possible approach which
they call the bounce bench approach
would be to expand the court to fifteen
justices five of whom would be dominated
by Republican presidents and and fit
that ideological mold five of whom would
be you know chosen by Democratic
presidents haven't said that bolt and
then five extra ones who would be you
know not affiliated with either party
they would not have life tenure they
would serve for a single one-year term
and they would sort of be chosen by the
other ten justices collectively in a
sense that as a name implies it would
balance out the political divisions on
the court and what happens if those
other those ten justices can't agree on
five well that's a really a question and
it sort of speaks to to what I think are
some of the downsides of the plan under
what they outline the court would simply
suspend its activity for the term they
was not hearing in cases and and the
court would simply you know pump it Pump
the ball down the
down the course that seems to me to be a
recipe for for constitutional disaster
especially if the justices while the
justices now seem to be generally
honorable people when it comes to you
know how they function as individual
justices this would probably not be
workable in the long term we would see a
lot more hyper-partisan choices because
we're will be Raya fiying the political
ideologies of each justice and it would
really open up to sort of maximalist
strategies like we see from Mitch
McConnell where either you accept my
point of view on these specific judges
or we simply shut down for the term you
know I think that it's an impressive
effort to sort of rethink the court but
I think it's it would prove unworkable
it's actually implemented I'd be
interested to know if that plan also
includes sort of like financial
incentives for those judges and I'm not
being facetious here my understanding is
that part of there is a there's a theory
out there about the the court packing
schemes that that FDR had was simply a
way of getting the Republicans to
reinstate pension payments for justices
which had been suspended and they found
that when they did justices were far
more likely to retire now you know the
economics of things at that time we're a
little bit different I imagine as a
former justice you could get hired in
certain areas in a way that you couldn't
have in the past but I would imagine if
those ten justices get half pay or 1/4
pay if they don't do any work that that
term they might be more inclined to seat
people but with that said it would put
more pressure I guess on those who
didn't have a high net worth and that
would also I think not be terribly good
for American justice so with those
problems there tell us about your
proposal well you know I I also you know
I've been thinking about sort of the
future of the court and in structural
problems and one of the things that
really came to me over over again was
that the problem is also
oh the confirmation process not only
because it has been pretty corrosive for
the court general but also because it's
undermined faith institution itself so
what I proposed is is expanding the
court of thirteen justices and sort of
rather than going to you know breaking
all new ground you sort of go back to an
original principle which is how the
court was first structured back in those
days there were six appellate circuits
and each justice would ride circuit one
of them they'd hear appellate cases you
know the four courts were fully
developed and they sort of had a
responsibility to that location now we
have eleven Circuit Court of Appeals now
plus Washington DC that would give us
twelve justices and the Chief Justice as
a thirteenth one you know because even
numbers would be awkward the key change
is not only expansion but also the
change of selection instead of Senate
confirmation for the 12 judges from the
circuits they would be chosen at random
by the lower courts from within the
membership of the lower courts consult
and so so literally when you say at
random like so literally like we're
going to put all your names in a hat and
we're going to pull you out sure you
know the Chief Justice could put on on
national television if you wanted to but
the point of that is is to sort of
reduce the political friction that
surrounds the court and also ensure that
there isn't as much gamesmanship as part
of it you know we've seen for the
judicial wars over the past thirty years
that there's an escalating cycle of tit
for tat where you go to Robert Bork
Clarence Thomas - you know Antonin
Scalia and Maryland this would sort of
break that cycle and I think it would
also produce a court that is less
ideologically rigid because you're
drawing for a much broader pool of
applicants and would sort of reduce the
political heat surrounding confirmation
battles because as we saw with Brett
Kavanaugh publican senators writing less
willing to to nominate him and to
confirm him to the highest seed in land
if it wasn't such a politically
precarious moment if he was being
appointed to a lower judgeship and all
the information came out they would show
much less pressure to abandon him and I
think that would be healthier for the
judiciary as a whole all right so I have
a couple
questions one is won't it in your system
won't it then simply transfer the stakes
that are involved with the Supreme Court
down to the circuit courts in other
words if I know that I can you know I
have I can put 10 of the 11 judges on
the DC Circuit Court let's say the odds
when we pick out of a hat that we're
going to get a super conservative one
are are going to be higher if I'm a
conservative how do you deal with that
problem or is that just like no system
is perfect yeah I think part of it is
that no system is perfect as we've seen
from Mitch McConnell's gamesmanship even
while design systems can break down if
actors are acting in enough bad faith
what gives me hope in that question
specifically though is how Republican
senators have behaved with some of the
lower court nominees put forward by
Trump you know the Senate is basically a
judicial confirmation list show right
now and yet we've seen Republican
senators be able to beat involved all
the departments they agree with many of
them but certain nominations when they
come forward or are considered too
heated too precarious too divisive they
do reject those I think that would you
know make it easier and get some cover
for four senators who are you know more
moderate than their colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to sort of weigh
against these in a way that is not a
life-or-death national political
struggle okay so lastly we have about a
minute left here how is this
constitutional if the Constitution says
that the Senate must confirm these
judges how can you do it by lottery
particularly you mentioned in the last
segment about these partisan
gerrymandering the Supreme Court is
expected maybe to rule that even state
legislatures cannot outsource this to
independent commissions that they need
to do it so I mean well how do you get
around that well the answer is as it
probably would not be constitutional to
this by legislation and you need to do
it by constitutional amendment but I
think that face between a threat of
Democratic presidents pursuing court
packing which would
dror the institution itself and
something that's more fair and neutral
and straightforward and still give
republicans and measure of influence in
the process I think that that would be a
preferable option and I know it sounds
kind of far-fetched but I would hope
that you know Republicans realize that
the best way to to win the judicial wars
is to end them entirely Matt from your
mouth to God's ears I appreciate the
time today fascinating idea thanks so
much
