[Music]
let's take one more phone call and then
we'll take some items and get out of
here come from a three four seven area
code who's this where he come from
hey this is Jonah calling from San
Francisco Jonah from San Francisco
what's in your mind yeah you know I
watched a video the other day from
Michael I was talking about Sam Harris's
kind of reaction to the mass shootings
and kind of what did what a joke he is
but uh you know I was thinking about how
everyone is sort of like doing the whole
debate Sam but I think you guys should
expand that to the whole IDW crowd cuz
in my opinion they all seem like cowards
and none of them kind of want to mess
with you or Michael so this you know
whole debate Sam Souter you coward I
think you should expand that for the
whole IDW put some pressure on them and
see if any of them will step up to the
plate yeah I mean I've I've certainly
you know August I think we all take a
little bit of a vacation from that maybe
but yeah I think that is going to be
more of that I mean the idea really
again is is to is to just make it you
know and we're gonna play this interview
with Caleb Kane during our vacation that
I that I did actually about a month ago
now where he basically said the way that
he sort of was prevented from smiling
further into his into sort of the
alt-right universe online was when
lefties got into the algorithm and by
debating them and to the extent that we
can't get into the algorithm by debating
them we can get algorithm adjacent by
presenting as if we were debating them
exactly and that's basically it that's I
mean you know that's a little bit
painting with a broad brush but that's
largely the strategies to basically say
we're not going to allow you to have
unfettered unfettered pipeline to
deliver your toxic stuff to to the
American ute as it were and and and
you're right I appreciate the call I
mean if they're not going to engage
happily have the engagement but we're
too rude or we're too not nice or we say
things that shut down conversation we
should that's racist like that's racist
we should have a cage match with all of
them I would love to see yeah I agree I
mean I any of them they don't want that
seems like their conversation still
continues though of their conversation
well I'm just the ones they've had with
the same people over and over exactly
like I don't think that shuts it down
that much
all right folks that's it
