both Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren
both attacked the protection of of
billionaires first here is Bernie
Sanders on taxing billionaires play this
one and you introduced your wealth tax
which would tax the assets of the
wealthiest Americans you said quoting
you senator billionaires should not
exist is the goal of your plan to tax
billionaires out of existence
when you have a half a million Americans
sleeping out on the street today when
you have 87 people 87 million people
uninsured or underinsured when you got
hundreds of thousands of kids who cannot
afford to go to college and millions
struggling with the oppressive burden of
student debt and then you also have
three people owning more wealth than the
bottom half of American society that is
a moral and economic outrage and the
truth is we cannot afford to continue
this level of income and wealth
inequality and we cannot afford a
billionaire class whose greed and
corruption has been at war with the
working families of this country for 45
years so if you are asking me do I think
we should demand that the wealthy start
paying the wealthiest top 1/10 of 1%
start paying their fair share of taxes
so we can create a nation and a
government that works for all of us yes
that's exactly what I believe now
technically the question was actually do
you think we should tax billionaires out
of existence and the short answer to
that is yes I can see to a certain
extent I mean I think the fact that he
doesn't feel comfortable just saying
that yes I think is probably a function
of a like a diseased society that we
have on some
well we're you know like there would be
some type of offense like what wait a
second you can't that's so wrong it's an
affront on freedom to to tax a
billionaire out of existence to where
there would just be a hundred
millionaire first of all it's just a
bizarre like threshold to say like is
where freedom lies right I mean the the
idea that we would have confiscatory
taxes is for some reason well first of
all all taxes are confiscatory on some
level but one that is aimed just to to
be confiscatory is also about keeping
maintaining some like remote and very
remote semblance of political equality
and the ability to allow the the the
directions our society moving to be at
least remotely determined by all the
people who live in society I mean we
have seen the damage that can be done by
billionaires based upon even their best
of intentions even if I don't believe
that Bill Gates didn't see an emerging
market in schools and therefore I mean
and and I don't know whether to believe
that or not but let's just assume that
every single dollar that Bill Gates
spent on reforming education quotation
marks was spent with the purest of
intentions and he was able to divorce
the way that he well he's not able to do
that for the purest of intentions they
spent seven hundred and fifty million
dollars a quarter billion dollars on
enhancing school education by doing that
they convinced a lot of other money to
follow suit they convinced
an entire country to pursue these
notions of high high-stakes testing of a
way of measuring value-added to teachers
and at the end of this experiment after
literally school district after school
district pursued grants and whatnot
after the entire country in many
respects changed their perspective of
how to assess education and what to do
with it they did a study the RAND
Corporation is that what is rand is that
they're one of the they did it and at
the end of 2018 maybe it was or the end
of 2017 I can't remember and they found
that their experiment was an absolute
failure and in fact that the rand said
we should listen to educators more and
we should basically do what they've been
saying this whole entire time it was a
big oopsie it was barely reported in the
press if at all I mean I remember when
we were talking about it and III was
certainly looking around is anybody
gonna even acknowledge the fact that a
billionaire was able to take our entire
education system and drive it into an
iceberg and then just walk away go on
like my bad I tried that tried gonna
give me proud points for that on to the
next thing if you do not if you have one
person or three families or five
families who have the ability to change
the direction of of policy in this way
it is not only incredibly undemocratic
but more often than not will be a
complete disaster because it will not
bring in a sufficient number of people
who are involved in that area and you
get disasters like this this is why I do
a slight tangent on Bill Gates new New
York Times piece very conservatively
reported Bill Gates went to great
efforts to minimize his relationship
with Jeffrey Epstein
well okay but that's that is not as a
tangent I said that told you it's
but I think it's worth it's worth noting
but the the bottom line is is that and
then of course you know from a political
standpoint I mean it says there's no
difference there political I mean that
is that is a political standpoint that
is a just a broad swath of society that
was just driven into a people's feedback
limescale interrupted in addition to all
of that stuff being true as I've said
time and again billionaires aren't
billionaires because they worked a
billion times harder than everyone else
they're billionaires because they got
other people to work for them and they
exploited them and other people's work
made that money and it's not asking too
much to get some of it back I I totally
agree and that is like a fairness
question on some level but even if even
if we had an example of a billionaire
who somehow well they can't right I mean
I'm basically saying like if we had the
ability for Dino for someone to fly if I
had wings I would be able to fly but
it's not just a question of of fairness
in whether they deserve the money or not
because of course no one it's not
possible for someone to deserve that
money you get it cuz you're lucky I
don't even feel like I deserve the money
that I make doing this nobody deserves
anything nobody nobody who's in Syria
right now deserves to have lost their
home nobody deserves to have their their
their their their parents or their
children killed
I mean workers do deserve the fruits of
their labor well I look I think to a
certain extent of course but I mean
there's no there's no question of
deserving there is there's a question of
fairness but this notion of deserving
the bottom line is society it is
dysfunctional for society it is
anti-democratic and it is dysfunctional
to allow people to have this much wealth
which inevitably allows them to have an
outsize amount of political power and I
think the different messages will
resonate differently with different
people
I know I respond better to this is
what's gonna be better for society and
some people might respond better to
these stole something from you
and we're gonna get it back right and
it's look and and you know we're we're
we're sitting on a time now where
there's a report whether for the first
time ever workers are paying a higher
tax rate than investors and owners play
this this graph the first time ever and
understand and this is a function manual
siya's and gabriel zucman of university
of california berkeley their new book
triumph of injustice present data that's
showing in 2018 labor income was taxed
at a higher rate than capital income for
the first time in modern US history the
proximate cause of the shift was the
2017 tax cuts and job act which
dramatically slashed taxes and corporate
profits and on estates both forms of
capital income is according to their
analysis they note however that the
trend has been happening for decades
driven in part by the large part by the
same forces that have pushed
billionaires tax rates below bad of the
worker working-class from the 40s to the
80s the average tax rate on capital
exceeded 40 percent while labor paid
less than 25 percent since its peak in
the 50s however the average capital tax
rate has been cut by 20 percentage
points at the same time the labor
taxation is risen by more than 10 points
driven by the upsurge in payroll taxes I
mean this is just absurd and understand
what this also represents is not only a
tremendous amount of you know obviously
of unfairness and instability we're
giving capital so much free stuff right
like all the services that they use all
the features of society that have worked
so well for them in allowing them to
accrue that much wealth they are getting
at a discounted rate and we are paying
for it like they say there's no
free lunch they're getting a free lunch
and we're paying for it and look that's
the way society works well it's a
snowball effect right the more money
they have the more power they have the
more power they have to amass even more
money indeed indeed but they also been
set up we have a you know since 1980 you
can see it right there I mean the graph
is right there even in maybe 1970 mid
70s you can see that the context is set
up there and of course I can accrue more
money you give me free stuff
I will crew more money if I give you
guys all here free and somebody's gonna
send me you know half a dozen of audio
editors and video editors that send it
to me for free more free services this
office becomes free guess what I'm gonna
do I'm going to amass more wealth and
I'm gonna do it wrap more quickly and
I'm gonna do it more efficiently and I'm
gonna be able to increase the rate in
which I acquire more wealth because I'm
getting free stuff
it's what capitalism is
