[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday May 13 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority reporting
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
civilizing torture an American tradition
with W Fitz
Brundage also on the program today
Trump's trade war with China coming to a
head but it's nothing like real war says
Tom cotton also 44 states sue generic
drugmakers and price fixing and the
Supreme Court rules against Apple a
massive antitrust suit over the Apple
Store to continue meanwhile Joe Biden
increases his lead bado launches 2.0 and
the Senate Democratic prospects
seen to be in
danger because so many of those
potential candidates are running for
president meanwhile pentagon diverting
1.5 billion dollars for trump's wall and
chuck schumer's big 2020 gambit outlaw
robo calls and the heartwarming tale of
a South Carolinian Republican lawmakers
being attacked after retelling of her
rape in the course of an abortion debate
Saudi tankers supposedly sabotage off
the UAE coast Chelsea Manning may be
headed back to jail as a new grand jury
convenes investigating Julian Assange
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen welcome back it is
Monday everybody's here except for
Michael Michael has the cold that's
going around this office I thought I had
allergies and now I'm starting to think
that maybe I've had a cold yeah I'm not
sure I think I got your cold try taking
some claritin I've taken claritin in it
and it sort of helped I think I might
have caught the same allergies
unfortunately there's a lot of that
going around tonight folks
big green New Deal rally aoc bernie
others and I believe that's taking place
at Howard University I'm not 100% sure
about that but I imagine it'll be
streaming online should be exciting it
will be at Howard University and it is
being organized by the sunrise movement
which of course is that group that
occupied Nancy Pelosi's office at the
beginning of this Democratic or I should
say congressional session
and all that happening with this sort of
backdrop as you know Joe Biden the other
day said he's developing a new climate
change plan that is going to be more
more moderate try and strike a balance
between telling the world not to not to
get so hot and us doing something about
it he's gonna try and he's gonna try and
meet nature halfway and see if nature
will compromise a little bit global
lukewarm and yeah he's gonna basically
say why be so so hot why not be a little
bit less hot I put his hand on mother
nature's back there you go he's gonna
say maybe I can make you calm down honey
exactly maybe I can help you with some
of that tension and then and then he's
just gonna saw we'll forgive me father
I've sinned and but here is Biden now
folks the reality is his lead is
expanding and in really across the board
I still contend I mean nothing's changed
in the past four days five days that I
made this contention last week that by
September Democratic voters will have a
different sense of Joe by who Joe Biden
is I mean people just aren't largely
paying attention to this race largely
and the idea of a guy who's already been
vice president under extremely popular
president sounds very very appealing
particularly one who is like a guy you
apparently want to have a beer with and
but I have a feeling and maybe this is
hopeful this is more aspirational maybe
than it then it should be but that as
folks get a better look and they start
to key-in when we start to see debates
and we start to you know maybe even by
the fall bye-bye I guess late September
tober that people will have a sort of a
more sophisticated understanding of who
Joe Biden is for instance you'll recall
because this happened months ago so
people may not remember it
but in 2018 the Democrats had the
largest victim it'd term victory that
has ever been recorded in terms of votes
and the biggest issue that people ran on
and I think it is as in a mistake to
just assume that it was just this issue
frankly I think people were it was a
referendum on Donald Trump and there was
a lot of disdain for Donald Trump but
the vehicle in which Democrats made this
case was through the notion of health
care and about 50% of the candidates
were running on Medicare for all others
were were running on some variant of
expanding health care access to people
and affordability to people and I
imagine that Joe Biden's going to do the
same but this is a guy who clearly is
not terribly keyed into this issue
listen to his explanation as to why we
shouldn't have a Medicare buy-in I mean
I
this explanation as far as I'm concerned
covers a Medicare buy-in it covers an
expansion of Medicare for all it it
basically it's a bizarre reasoning but
apparently he feels this will suffice
here's Joe Biden being asked about
health care what do you say to calls for
some sort of universal health care or
something like Medicare for all from
some of the other people running all
right no IIIi think they're they're well
intended I think that mean it is and
it's
I'm not but here's the deal right now
you have 16 you have this overwhelming
number of employers for pain in a health
care plan
why let them off the hook all of a
sudden they don't have to pay anything
what happens then - this whole thing
about profit and the rest I mean it
should be part of the compensation if
you have it what well I mean this is one
of the biggest problems with our health
care is that it is tied to the employers
and I guess his argument is you're
letting them off the hook although taxes
would go up on employers they would end
up paying more in taxes to pay for
Medicare for all if that's what he's
really concerned about I'm also really
impressed by Joe Biden's sense of what
the argument is with corporations having
too much power and too many tax cuts in
his reference of profits and that stuff
yeah no idea what the hell he's talking
about there I mean I I totally get what
he's saying and it is nonsense I mean
that's the worst part about this this is
not a gaffe this is somebody who thinks
that the argument should be the
responsibility of employers to provide
health insurance as opposed to the
government everyone complains about the
notion of being stuck at a job you don't
want to be stuck at because it provides
you health care everyone complaints we
use the biggest refrain we used to hear
when Joe Biden was running for president
was that every GM car 16 hundred bucks
of it was a function of health care that
they had to pay this is just absurd it's
it is bizarre and to the extent that Joe
Biden you know has basically shielded
himself I think from a lot of a lot of
direct sort of interviews and reporting
and questioning about his policies this
should be one man that is just a
remarkable thing to say considering the
fact that many of his vote
it's come from the fact that he's so
experienced I mean this is a guy who
clearly has not even engaged in the
issue I mean of all the issues you can
come up with about about Medicare for
all to argue that it somehow lets
employers off the hook when we all know
they're gonna be paying more in taxes
but that that's the problem as if
Medicare for all the desire for people
to have health insurance that is not
only affordable but easy basically just
getting health care as if that desire is
rooted in attacking businesses is
basically adopting a conservative
right-wing frame and turning it on its
head in a ludicrous fashion I mean it it
is it is beyond silly and and it's this
type of stuff
why I think Joe Biden ultimately is
going to falter and it really is just a
function of of whether his understanding
of policies and his desire you know his
uh what he his prescriptions for the
American public end up becoming more
widely understood by the general
electorate so we shall see but I'm
shocked by that stuff he had to think on
his feet right had come up with
something that sounded kind of populist
and he was scrolling through the options
in his head like insurance companies no
people don't like those credit card
companies no no no uh bosses yes the
bosses are bad it lets them off I don't
mean I don't think he was thinking on
his feet I mean it's impossible to
imagine that they haven't said like how
are you gonna respond to the fact that
people are confident mean this would be
the day one right it is weird that he
just gestures vaguely populist as if it
doesn't really matter what's his what he
says it's just about tone yeah well he
might be right yeah no he might folks no
need to suffer through another sleepless
night thanks to calming comfort by
sharper image the luxurious weighted
blanket is made with supersoft Velveteen
material and designed with high density
comfort Phil to promote a
of calmness Plus by applying an even
amount of pressure over your body common
comfort helps the production of
serotonin and melatonin and mimics the
soothing feeling of being hugged for a
restful night's sleep I will say this it
is still unseasonally cold in New York
City and I have to say that I have a
confession to make
I'm happy about it I like to sleep in
the cold I like a cold weather sleep
I've been keeping the window open and I
can still use my calming comfort blanket
so I get the full effect
I get that weighted feel which makes me
fall asleep faster makes me stay asleep
and it really is a revelation of sorts
cuz I'm also the type of person who
likes to sleep on a couch because I like
that feeling of being like a little bit
you know what do you call again a cocoon
and this gives me that as well
the calming comfort weighted blanket
comes with a 90 day anxiety free stress
free best night's sleep of your life
guaranteed from sharper image now our
listeners can go to calming comfort
blanket calm that's calming comfort
blanket calm use the promo code major 15
at checkout and receive $15 off the
displayed price again that's calming
comfort blanket calm promo code major 15
because you can't put a price on a great
night's sleep
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
major 15 and folks while you're working
on your stress know that stress is a
worldwide epidemic we work longer hours
we're inundated with the constant news
cycle believe me and we're more
connected than ever before stress is a
part of life it can easily affect our
overall wealth and help be a well being
that's why we're parting with calm the
number one app to help you reduce your
anxiety and stress and help you sleep
better more than 40 million people
around the world have downloaded it if
you had to call
dot-com / majority you'll get a 25% off
a comprar Miam subscription which
includes guided meditations on issues
like anxiety stress and focus including
a brand new meditation each day sleep
stories their bedtime stories for adults
they're designed to help you relax head
to the magical lavender fields of
southern France with Stephen Fry or
explore the moonlit jungles of Africa
with Leona Lewis they also have soothing
music and more all completely developed
to help you sleep right now majority
report listeners get 25% off a calm
premium subscription at calm dot-com /
majority that's CA LM dot-com / majority
get unlimited access to all of comms
content today at calm calm / majority
get calm stop stressing all right we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back professor of history from UNC
Chapel Hill Fitz
Brundage on his pulitzer nominated book
civilizing torture an american tradition
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at UNC Chapel Hill W Fitz
Brundage author of the Pulitzer
nominated book civilizing torture an
American tradition fits welcome to the
program glad to be here so this your
book is both a history of of torture as
practiced in in this country and I guess
even before it was in fact the country
and the mechanism in which we have told
ourselves that it hasn't happened in
many respects but let's start with the
with the earliest examples of the use of
torture in colonial times I guess what
what stands out as one that is archetype
Oh for you well I think for me what's
our title is incident I talk about an
episode that happened actually in in
what we would now call French Canada
because it's an interesting moment when
we see a European settler in this case a
Jesuit priest involved in a dialogue
with a Huron Indian about the
appropriateness of torture and the
reason I think it's such a rich moment
in the history of the subject is because
the Jesuit priest was trying to
discourage the Huron Indians from
torturing an Iroquois Indian who they
had captured as was a practice in Indian
warfare and there was the North American
Indians had an elaborate kind of code if
you will a kind of etiquette about how
to apply torture and how it was done
when it was done what was expected to be
the behavior of the victim of their
torture that's part of warfare
well the Aeons response to the Jesuits
as well you torture right and the Jesuit
says oh yes we do torture but we only
torture in these circumstances and you
can see in the brief dialogue that we
have it's not even a dialogue the
account that we have a back and forth
between Indian trying to figure out okay
why is our torture bad but your torture
is okay and simultaneously the Jesuit
trying to work out in his mind an
argument for why Indian torture is
barbaric
whereas European torture is not barbaric
so the reason I bring this up is because
it's a moment when we see the Europeans
being confronted with a different
culture of torture and trying to figure
out how they can that is how Europeans
can persuade themselves let alone
Indians that they are in fact a superior
more civilized people and it's the
working out of that how it is that
Europeans or euro American settlers
invaders convince themselves that their
culture of torture is somehow not
antithetical to civilization that I
think is a very interesting moment in
the history of the evolution of ideas
about torture and and the and the Huron
and you right and or that indigenous
people here anyways their torture was a
mechanism to essentially in some ways
sort of almost to reset a captive so
they could live amongst them sometimes
although sometimes it was torture to
death and and I guess here's the the
simplest way I would describe the
difference of course I'm talking about
the eye if you will the idealized notion
of torture in these societies right we
can be sure that there were instances
where these events didn't follow the
idealized
Norm's at all but in European society
torture ever since the ancient Romans
had been assumed as a means by which you
could extract the truth from a human
being you could use it to force them to
tell you what they would say what would
be the honest truth because the mind
could not prevent the body from telling
truth so in the European mind there is a
relationship between bodily pain and
truth whereas for North American Indians
torture was a way in which one society
of Indians one Indian nation could
convey its disdain for its enemy and
simultaneously the victim of the torture
was supposed to through his extreme
ability to absorb torture was supposed
to reflect back his disdain for his
torturers so there was a a very
different purpose if you will to the
action of torture now you would say from
an outsider what's happening in both
instances is a human body is being
subjected to horrific forms of bodily
torture and so superficially torture is
happening to both bodies but for very
different purposes and Europeans often
found the Indian if you will dialogue
between the torturers causing pain and
the torturer victim trying to mock the
torment that he was suffering they found
that to be barbaric
whereas Indians found the idea of what
Europeans were doing is to be
incomprehensible and what was it I mean
I don't want to jump too far ahead or I
want to be able to go through a couple
of these sort of the the developments in
terms of
the the legal strategies and the I guess
the the rhetorical strategies in which
to sort of allow this justification for
torture but but what was it that
ultimately about that European or was
there more of a sense with the the
European introduction of torture and
what ultimately became sort of the
American Way of rationalizing it was
there more a sense that there needed to
be a rationalization as in terms of like
we need to we we need to be able to
justify this are you you know a unique
justification for our torture as opposed
to from indigenous people who saw this
as part of a you know a part of the
relationship that they had with their
enemies yes and I think you're spot on
that and it's it's the European
rationalization of torture was tied to
many different concerns one concern of
the Europeans was of course that they
were working out in their own minds to
their own satisfaction the
justifications for the kind of
expropriation invasion decimation of
American Indian societies so part of it
you could say is a rationalization but
it was also I mean there was a and I'm
not trying to to mitigate at all this by
saying that there was simultaneously an
effort so to speak to elevate this to
something more than just simply a crude
land grab which of course it was but the
rationalization of course was that they
were going to Christianize these
people's if they could be Christianized
and of course they would also be
civilized and that was the the notion
somehow that the Europeans were going to
be the bringers if you will they were
going to disseminate the civilization
was a usually powerful idea because it
made the colonization and the invasion
something more than just simply a
military
but tied to that the same time is that
not in the case of French Canada is
talking about before but for many of the
Protestant Europeans who are coming to
what is now the United States they also
had this powerful association of torture
with the Catholic counter-reformation
with the Inquisition all of the stories
about the dark dark violence of the
Spanish Inquisition throughout Western
Europe and so their association with
torture as well was as a kind of
tyrannical despotic act so there was the
torture that they knew in the old world
that they associated with the crushing
out of true faith and as a kind of
backward reactionary form of violence in
their minds and then there was the
barbaric torture of Indians on the
frontier and so they were trying to
carve out if you will a space where
torture they were not going to be
engaged in the torture of the barbaric
Indians as they saw them nor were they
going to replicate the torture they
associated with for example the Spanish
Inquisition where does well let's let I
mean let's go into let's move a little
further on the timeline because I'm
curious as to one of the things I that I
thing that I find fascinating about the
book and just about the the sort of the
tracking of of how torture has been
rationalized over the past 250 years at
least in in in this country is it it
seems to be a subset of other
rationalizations right that and I wonder
you know as we talk about the sort of
the the the the the imperial project i
guess of early settlers and taking
indigenous peoples lands and then
slavery made all of this there's there
seems to be sort of a similar muscle
that's being worked in terms of of
justifying it and establishing and other
and and whatnot and I wonder like we
which comes first
the the sort of the the sort of the I
guess the manifest destiny and therefore
when we do these things or is it sort of
has to be created in retrospect that's
boy that's that is the 64 million dollar
question and I wish I could tell you
that I had a really cogent answer to
that but instead what I'll do is the
what I honestly think but I have to work
this out with you in conversation and
that is that I think it's not so much
one came first as much as they that is a
kind of rational rationale for engaging
in for example torture extreme forms of
violent coercion one hand in hand and
evolved consignment aeneas with an
impulse to to take advantage of
circumstances and what I mean by that is
sometimes the action is driven by people
who honestly are not concerned with
these hi questions of the morality of X
or Y or the justice of labeling Indians
barbaric or not so for example in the
case of the so-called Paxton boys who
were a group of central Pennsylvania
euro-americans who massacred Conestoga
Indians shortly before the American
Revolution I think that was I mean I
can't get into the minds of those men
but I think their their rationale was
fairly overt simple outright racism
against the Conestoga Indians and in a
desire to remove them from the colony as
retribution for other Indian actions
elsewhere what is important about the
response to them is then how people who
are not we're not
present at the massacre weren't
responsible for the massacres
then made sense of it so I guess that's
part of what I would emphasize here that
there are actions on the ground that may
be motivated by all of the crass and or
complicated motivations that any human
may have but then when the larger
society discusses the their actions and
put comes up with a rationale for it I
think the ways in which that rationale
are laid out is a very important part of
the story so there's almost like Cohen
centric circles of and in the the the
the need for rationale maybe increases
as you get a little further away from
the actual action itself from actually
perpetrating the action because it
becomes a reflection on your society at
large yeah I think that I think that's
very well put and it especially becomes
important for those people who are in
positions of authority or positions of
influence who are trying to articulate
whatever the mission of this society is
whether it's in the case of someone like
Benjamin Franklin he's trying to elevate
he was a critic of savage I mean or as I
said use that word a very stern critic
of the Paxton boys very eloquent in his
case he's somehow trying to speak to
other Americans by which I mean other
colonial euro-americans as well as back
to England and to Europe to reassure
people that yes we can create a
civilization here we are not going to be
savages and then as you get into the
1800s you have I guess differing context
is for which torture and this type of
you know physical and mental punishment
is is is justified in the context of of
prisons it's perceived as rehabilitate
and and I think one of the important
points about that notion of somehow
physical crime
physical coercion can be part of
rehabilitation is that it sets up a
logic which is an incredibly powerful
logic which persists in the imagination
the American imagination to the present
day and that is sometimes we need to
physically coerce people to do what's in
their best interest even if that means
we have to do things that may appear to
some of us as equivalent to torture and
they were perceived to be equivalent to
torture in that era whether it was 24/7
isolation which they tried in at the
turn of the 19th century and they
discovered very quickly it had very
severe mental health consequences but
nevertheless they rationalized that well
that was what was involved what was
necessary in order to produce
appropriate introspection on the part of
prisoners so that they came to recognize
they're wrong ways and corrected their
behavior in other instances there was
the idea that well nothing will get
through the mind of a hardened criminal
other than physical violence and so you
have to use violence to compel a
prisoner to act the way society wants
him to act because he otherwise won't
act that way so in either case you can
come up with a justification for
physical coercion and the interesting
issue is that those who advocated direct
violence to the body from flogging and
through something that was called the
water shower which is sort of like a
19th century version of watering
waterboarding those folks justified that
by saying that only physical pain would
compel proper behavior others who came
up with forms of what we might call
mental torture that didn't involve
physical pain per se claimed that
physical pain was barbaric and that
their methods such as isolation 24/7
from any contact with people were more
humane so in that case you can
see whichever tactic you chose you could
make the argument it was preferable how
did that contrast with the perspective
of physical and-and-and punishment and I
guess mental to a certain extent of of
slaves I mean it was there even that
level of rationale or was it just simply
it's my property I can do what I want
well yes you're certainly right about
that per first off that's the the idea
that slaves are my property was a not
only was it a legal position a legal
tenet but it was also a little kind of
practical widespread belief that slaves
were really beyond the conscience so to
speak of other humans we didn't have
that is we who were not enslaved had no
obligation per se to be concerned about
the plight of slaves and of course that
began that idea began to break down in
the in the late 18th century as a result
of the American Revolution and other
influences but it was still a very
powerful idea and a legal principle
through until the time of the Civil War
and so I think one of the really
enormous challenges were for opponents
of slavery abolitionists was to somehow
convince Americans that in fact it was
possible to torture a slave and it it
seemed self-evident perhaps to us today
that that would be the case the enslaved
were human beings but if you start from
the premise that in fact the enslaved
are a baser form of humanity whether you
believe that on the basis of racist
racism or you believe that on the basis
of some idea that somehow Africans are a
more primitive form of human beings all
the rationales that white Americans came
up with you could then justify the idea
that was somehow the enslave don't feel
pain the way we do or
enslaved are so primitive that we have
to use these methods or they are
enslaved so they have no rights that we
are obligated to recognize which is
pretty close to what the Supreme Court
ruled in the Dred Scott decision in 1858
so for the challenge for especially
african-american abolitionist I think
was to establish at a very fundamental
level that they were human beings and
suffered pain and had a conscience that
could be tormented the same way white
Americans suffered pain and I mean and I
my sense is is that the following the
war in the story of Andersonville
because what's interesting about this
story to me is it seems that prior to
this time at least in terms of
broad-based American psyche right that
people who are tortured are either not
people as you've talked about with the
slaves or are a special class of people
who have you know broken the law and are
outside of like sort of normal societal
bounds or something like this but in the
context of Andersonville it seems like
that that desire to I guess you know not
have to confront what lives within our
society somehow really that muscle
started to really flex yes I think
you're you're you're right and that I
think one of the extraordinary acts of
poet erasure of historical erasure or
amnesia is about American Civil War
prison camps and we could argue
endlessly as many people have those who
are interested in this topic and there
haven't been that many actually we could
argue endlessly about whether
Confederate prisoner of war camps were
Union prisoner-of-war camps or whether
union officers or union administrators
wanted to treat Confederate prisoners
cruelly or vice-versa we can argue that
all we want but what we what we lose
sight of or have lost the sort of
collective memory of is that there was
enormous suffering during the American
Civil War and prisoner of war camps and
both white northerners and black
northerners and I should say white
northerners black northerners and white
Southerners believed that there was
rampant intentional cruelty in these
camps and if there wasn't into where
there was intentional cruelty on some
occasions but even apologist would
acknowledge that there was horrific
conditions in these camps and the
curious thing is we don't recognize that
this was a moment in time when the if
you will the kind of veil was pull back
and a merit white Americans in
particular could have seen that we that
is we white Americans are capable of
doing extraordinarily or allowing
extraordinary hardship and cruelty what
do other whites and that's that was a
moment in time that Americans could have
in essence looked at themselves in a
mirror I mean there there were other
times when they could have as well but
they could not have escaped that it was
white Americans who allowed this to
happen or did this to other white
Americans the I mean what's interesting
too about Andersonville like on one hand
one would think like okay well the
reason why we don't hear stories of how
Confederate soldiers were were
essentially subjected to what a would
amounted was tantamount to torture is
because the Union Army won and they get
to write the history but but
Andersonville is is the AH is is is the
opposite where Union soldiers were were
we're treated to what amounted to to
torture and on one hand I can understand
like okay I can see the you know the
President Lincoln or Union Army
officials saying we're not going to make
a big deal of this because we need to
heal the country at this point but it
also is it is remarkable there is a
there is at the very least even if
that's the reason why it's being done it
this I I feel like on some level we're
haunted by this notion of turn the page
right because yeah literally you know a
hundred and fifty years later that's
what President Obama is saying about our
torture program in Iraq yes yes and the
people who are responsible for turning
the page are sometimes exactly as you
said the people you would expect to be
responsible
I mean I'm again not to mitigate what
turning the page meant but one can
understand that after a Civil War of the
magnitude and of the bloodshed of the
American Civil War and you're trying to
figure out okay how are we going to
stitch this nation together you have to
make some decisions on the fly of what
you're going to talk about what you're
gonna focus attention on and one can
understand why some people would decide
that well in the interest of national
reconciliation there are certain things
we're just not going to dwell on like
for example the treatment of Union
prisoners by Southern by Confederates
but there are others who participated
and I won't get in the weeds long here
but just to say that for example one
wouldn't have you probably didn't
immediately think to yourself that well
professional historians played a role in
this em use about prison camps but they
did in the early 20th century into the
mid 20th century professional historians
played a large role in discounting any
evidence of the full horror of the
prison camps and offering excuses for
them and that was driven by impulses
partially internal to the
torkoal profession but it was also
driven by their broader interest of
white northern historians and white
southern historians finding some sort of
common ground where they could agree on
terms about the Civil War and in the
process they decided if you will
much like the national leaders that well
let's just let's just not make a big
issue out of the Civil War prison camps
and then we have this phenomena from and
it stretches probably earlier than the
Civil War but I would imagine the
intensity of people coming out of that
war it makes it much easier for people
in law enforcement to justify torture of
prisoners as you as you talked about
from I guess you know from the late
1800s into the almost up to the World
War two this seems to be fairly rampant
amongst police departments tell us about
that and how it ends for that array yeah
I think the there are many aspects of
American history that they sort of
develop organically and after the fact
it's hard to imagine what it was like
before them and one of them is his
police of course the United States had
local communities in the United States
had very fragmentary if that would be
the proper word police forces of any
kind really before the 1840s and then a
few American cities started to mimic the
British particularly London practice of
having actually professional police
forces but they're really quite small on
the whole and rather ad hoc until after
the Civil War but as you mentioned I
think the influence of the Civil War the
kind of a organizing principle of the
war and the military experience meant
that police forces after the Civil War
became much more professional they
adopted many attributes of the military
in terms of ranks of officers you know
forms codes of conduct etc and they also
assumed a very particular role which was
they weren't just a maintaining order
which is what constables had done in the
past but they were also supposed to
gather evidence to help the state
prosecutor own doers which if you think
about it those we sort of take it for
granted that's what police do but that's
not what police have to do you could
have the two different functions
separated as for example they do in many
other countries of the world so the
police aren't developing evidence so
much as they are maintaining the order
there are others who do the evidentiary
work well what this gets to is is you
could imagine if police are
simultaneously maintaining order and
supposed to also generate evidence this
is an era when in the United States
there was virtually no forensic science
like we see on CSI and really until the
1920s and 1930s so that meant if you
were policemen how did you find out what
happened will you talk to witnesses he
didn't have witnesses there was a
temptation then to look for the usual
suspects and then figure out if there
were ways in which you could muscle the
information out of them so by the 1880s
newspapers began reporting very widely
about various techniques that police had
used one was sweating where you put a
suspect in a very hot room until he
breaks down and will confess then there
was the so-called third degree which
might involve all manner of physical
coercion and then there were other more
elaborate things which were putting
taking someone and putting them in the
presence of the murder victim they
allegedly had murdered make them hold
the murder weapon and various other
forms of what we would now call
psychological duress and these by the
1890s 1900s had become so commonplace
they were referred to under that
umbrella label of the third degree and
newspapers would publish forthright
stories about such and such suspect is
being given the third
agree and this was commonplace practice
up until really the 1930s when as a
result of a series of Supreme Court
decisions the Supreme Court began to
limit the ability of police and district
attorneys prosecuting attorneys to use
coerced confessions what was that there
was a long process was that a just a
development of legal thought or words
there was there was there a a popular
push back on this oh there was
definitely a popular push back and I
think the key to the popular push back
well there are several things that come
together but I think one of the crucial
things was prohibition because
prohibition meant that there was a
dramatic expansion in police activity
trying to you know ferret out ever
whoever was involved in consuming and/or
trading in illegal alcohol during
Prohibition in the 20s but simultaneous
there was a kind of interest
pervasiveness of police surveillance and
that meant that a lot of people had
contact with the police in the 1920s for
doing something that had just a few
years before been legal and these were
people who previously would not have
been subject to police brutality what I
mean by that is now white middle-class
men and women all manner of people who
had exposure to police methods that they
had been unfamiliar with or it assumed
oh well those were methods that were
used for people who deserve to be
treated that way so during the 1920s
there was a real sense that the police
were out of control and I would add to
that Hollywood contribute in its own way
by making all of these movies the so
called gangster movies of the late 20s
early 30s which depicted the third third
degree routinely so there was some of
the mystical quality the mythic quality
of the third degree was was punctured
and instead it was seen to be just plain
old brutal force
I I don't want to I'm gonna skip over
this sort of the extended tradition of
of police torture which you know up
until they found a basically what
amounted to a black site in Chicago a
couple years ago where this practice was
obviously still continuing and you know
we have stories from New York back do
you know Abner Louima and I mean others
but I want I want to just talk about
Vietnam to a certain extent because that
seems to be you know the this theme of
never really addressing these problems
and and and and folks can apply this
dynamic I think to a whole host of
societal ills particularly in terms of
abuse of power by our institutions but
in many respects it seems to me that
what happened with torture in Iraq and
even what is going on today in
Guantanamo on some level or just
institutions where we isolate prisoners
today part of that was our failure to
really address it in in Vietnam even
though we addressed so much it seems to
me about our what what are our
involvement in Vietnam well you know I I
guess I would separate out what happened
in Vietnam and I would I would draw a
distinction I think you're right about
what happened in Vietnam with regards to
the CIA but the army or I'm talking
about the army meaning the broadly the
American military forces I should say I
think the American military forces did
take some very clear lessons from
Vietnam and the case in Vietnam was it
was such a quagmire except try to almost
say that but it was such a quagmire of
of different entities different
militaries if you will engaged in such a
brutal war so that there were the South
Vietnamese South Vietnamese
military was engaged in torture there
was the American military working with
the South Vietnamese Army engaged in
torture then there's the CIA operating
its own programs sometimes with the
American military and sometimes on its
own working also with South Vietnamese
intelligence forces so there were a lot
of different actors there but I do think
that one of the important things that
came out of the Vietnam War was that
within the American military there were
some very very within the Pentagon there
was the emergence of a robust cadre of
human rights international law law of
war specialists that emerged in the they
really took became rooted in the in the
Pentagon in the 1970s and 1980s and I
think what's what is important to
remember about them is it's it's those
officers who were trained in human
rights and international law and the
laws of war who provided some of the
most important resistance to the war on
terror excesses in the George Bush
administration if it hadn't been people
for people for constantly throwing sand
in the gears in the Pentagon I think the
war on terror would have been far more
the excesses would have been far more
pronounced interesting now with regards
to the CIA there were of course hearings
held in 1973 that would extend on into
the excesses of the CIA not just in
Vietnam but elsewhere and there were
efforts to roll back to CIA of course
and that happened briefly we'll say in
the late seventies and into the 1980s
but under Reagan the CIA of course
ramped things back up again and was also
working with all sorts of regimes across
Latin America and in Southeast Asia
during the 1980s and into the 1990s so
that I would definitely agree with you
I'm not sure the CIA ever learned the
lessons one might have hoped they would
have learned after the fiasco in Vietnam
well they certainly didn't I don't think
had too much of a reason to learn it
after Iraq either right I mean we now
have a director of the CIA who oversaw
the torture of at least you know you
know I think documented at least one
prisoner we have I just saw the other
day that guy Rodriguez who was
responsible for getting rid of the the
torture tapes I think that's his name
was was they made it they named a school
after him or something to that effect
something something that was just
literally in the news the other day it
was in passing but he was commemorated
in some fashion there is I mean this is
this seems to me to be sort of the the
you could have laid out the same
theories just by looking on this era
right just expand on that for a moment
well yes I and I think that that was one
of the you know I worked so to speak
backwards from someone would say I was
very present in just about this but I
became interested in this because my
very first research as a as a as a
historian in graduate school was on the
phenomenon of lynching of African
Americans in the American South and so I
knew there was a tradition of not only
extra legal violence but also of extra
legal torture on a on a massive scale
and one that was tolerated if not openly
saluted celebrated by many people so
then when I when I was responding like
many Americans to the photographs of Abu
Ghraib from learning more and more about
the enhanced interrogation
programs I was I was asked myself for
why why why is this how is this
rationalized on what basis could could
we adopt these programs and looking as
you said what I've been struck by is the
repetition of a kind of argument that
well we have to adopt these extreme
methods because the threat to our way of
life is so extreme in the case on the
war on terror it's because we have these
barbaric Islamic terrorists who do not
accept the rules of civilization the
rules of war and they will use any
methods to destroy us so we have to go
as decane you put it to the dark side
that is in a nutshell the rationale that
has been repeated time and time again
for adopting methods that otherwise we
allege we would never do so I think the
fundamental point is we always tell
ourselves we only adopt torture in
extreme circumstances whereas other
people in the world apparently do
torture because it's somehow part of
their innate civilization or their
innate way of government so ours is
always keeping torture at a distance as
something that we don't really do unless
we're forced to do it which is which is
a very convenient way to constantly
restore American innocence to constantly
say that our society is somehow purer
than others I I should say that I just
the the Rodriguez thing is in the new
Spy Museum I guess and he is he is
basically put into a two sides of the
coin about whether we should be
torturing and yet which is but but
literally given an opportunity to to you
know in an interview to say that that
the torture saved lives well I suspect
so he does he actually use the word
torture it is to know of course and your
handstand Tara tation and mess of course
well the other thing that you
familiarize you don't torture we do
enhanced interrogation whereas those
other people they torture what is this
is this uniquely American I mean no okay
so I mean it's not I mean where is is
there is there an element of this sort
of rationale uniquely American or is it
simply this is how people around the
world do bad things they say when we do
it it's slightly different than bad yes
well I think I think you're right
they're there aspects of this that are
definitely uniquely American what I
would say is part of American
exceptionalism is the ways there there's
a particular stake I think for the
American Way of life in claiming that we
are the last best hope
use Lincoln's phrase the last best hope
for democracy and that somehow we matter
more not just now because we're the most
powerful nation on the planet but even
in the 19th century when we were far
from the most powerful nation on the
planet there's idea that somehow
American democracy represents what is
most modern what most progressive most
civilized civilization so it's important
for that ideal of American democracy to
be innocent and pure and constantly in a
state of achieving its its perfection
and torture is unfortunately for those
who would justify it torture is not you
can't reconcile torture with the idea of
a modern progressive innocent
civilization democratic civilization so
I think you're absolutely right that
aspect of it is very specific to the
United States but what interests me
about or one thing that interests me
about torture and
challenged at post and democracies is
tortures of course antithetical to
democracy because democracy is supposed
to rest on the consent of the governed
and it's supposed to rest on the idea
that that fair exchange the full and
fair exchange of truth and of knowledge
makes possible a public that will
consent in the best possible way to
achieve the ends that the societies
pursuing so it will pursue the best for
the largest number of people well
torture doesn't fit into that model and
so I think for any society so I'll point
to Britain the British are very very
proud of their tradition of rule of law
and respect for law in many ways it is
enviable but of course the British were
quite willing to use torture whether it
was in Kenya or Northern Ireland and
have a very difficult history of torture
in the 20th century that doesn't mean
the British have ever said to themselves
you know I mean some have but it's not
as though the British were any more
Willington Americans to somehow come to
grips with the fact that they had a
society that harbored torturers and that
had produced justifications for torture
so I think any democracy is going to be
particularly challenged the way of
course another model of government can
either blame it on those who are in
power or else justified as the means as
a form of as an outgrowth of that form
of government okay so so lastly let me
ask you this I mean if it's the case
that the the practice of this sort of of
the euphemism and the sort of delusion
is not uniquely American but the the
stakes are because our story of
ourselves is so in contradiction to that
notion of torture what what are the
implications of a going from
the the Bush administration where you
know the you know Cheney had that 1%
doctrine where it's like you know and
and and sir the popular culture of like
you know the 24 scenario you know the
stop a nuclear bought two and then in
many ways it seems to me making it
easier for the guy who becomes the
president United States to say we
shouldn't be ashamed to torture we
should do it I mean other people do it
we should we should be we should be
rough I mean literally saying this and
becoming president what are the
implications of that I mean I mean at
some level it makes me feel like at the
very least at least the delusion and the
aspirations provided some type of of
check and without that things could get
a lot uglier yes III think you're
absolutely right i we have
prior to the election of President Trump
we have never had a president who openly
endorsed specifically endorsed torture I
mean didn't didn't make excuses for it
exactly as you said so even a president
like President Theodore Roosevelt who
like the bush administration came up
with all manner of uses euphemisms and
justifications for American violence
during the conquest of the Philippines
at the turn of the twentieth century he
never would use the phrase he was never
going to condone torture because that
was that was a horrible thing in his
mind so yes you're right we have pierced
some sort of we have entered into a new
language when a president will openly
embrace torture and I think one of the
other point I would make building on
what you said is that as much as the
idea of American purity and innocence
can be something that we hide behind it
has always also been a very powerful
tool for the opponents of torture and
throughout the history of the United
States and even into the colonial era
there have been fear
there's opponents of any rationalization
for torture and they have always used
that idea that if we are going to
achieve the kind of civilization we
aspire to build if we're going to create
the kind of democracy we want we cannot
have torture and that that's a very very
powerful concept sort of mobilizing the
core of the American identity against
torture and we can I can point out all
the ways in which it has sometimes
camouflaged torture it has been an
obstacle to to dealing with torture in
all of its forms but on the other hand
it is still one of the best tools any
opponent of torture has to use to try to
sway public opinion but in the current
environment I mean to me it's it's less
that that we may see torture being used
against in the Middle East again I mean
that might who knows that may be going
on right now but what concerns me is we
have the combination of the rhetoric
about using whatever methods we need and
also the demonization of people on our
southern border so I have I am concerned
that we will see more and more accounts
of excessive violence and/or torture
being directed against people along our
southern border and the justification
will be that these are people who pose a
threat to our nation they're some
they're subhuman they're gang members
whatever the rationale is and we will
have heard it before
it's Brundage the book is civilizing
torture an American tradition thank you
so much for your time today we'll put a
link to that book on our page at
majority dot F M thank you very much all
right folks we got to take a quick break
here head into the fun half went a
little long there but fascinating stuff
just a reminder you can support this
show by going to join the majority
report comm and by becoming a member of
the show you support the the free show
and then we give you extra content every
day we try to and its commercial free so
you have all that as a benefit of being
a member meanwhile just a reminder calm
and comfort by sharper images the
luxurious weighted blanket that's
designed with high density comfort fill
to promote a sense of calmness for a
restful night's sleep
calming Comfort weighted blanket comes
with a 90-day anxiety free best night's
sleep of your life guarantee from
sharper image right now our listeners go
to calming comfort blanket calm use the
promo code major 15a checkout to receive
$15 off the displayed price again that's
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
major 15 because you can't put a price
on a great night's sleep
also don't forget just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off
Michael's not here but presumably he'll
be here tomorrow night for the Michael
Brooke show yeah and I think we might be
eating the food bucket tomorrow night
was that right
wow I'm not sure he'd better rest up for
that yeah that's really he's doing the
cleanser every heard of the term mukbang
Sam mukbang yeah I was just introduced
to it it's apparently a South Korean
thing started but it's just people
eating on camera muck is like food and
bang is broadcast apparently oh yes so
we might mukbang okay videos of that at
mission Chinese food restaurant I just
went to the other night yeah that's a
good restaurant a super good
is that like what do you call it that
mrs what is that i think it is similar
to ASMR ASMR it's weird it's weird stuff
that's the parallel I'm drying this
they're both weird competitive eating is
a big thing in Japan well I've been
there I've done that
competitive eating I've been in like a
hot dog hot dog eating contest sure back
in the day rum chugging all of it I've
done all of it folks Jamie what what's
happening on the ante fada
I'm so glad you asked so if you could
not get enough of our 90s episode with
Katy Halper last week we have released a
bonus for our patrons where we do even
more 90s talk with Katy Halper and we
sing a song
so that's fun we also recorded an
episode over the weekend with the
Marxist geographer Sam Stein that I'm
very excited to release this week on
literary hangover we discussed the song
of Hilo though I Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow a very sort of famous poem
that has really gone out of date since
then we talked about maybe why that is
we talked about Edgar Allen Poe being
really racist about Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow and his attempts at writing
anti-slavery poetry which on the other
hand like the abolitionists were like
slave drivers could read this in the
morning and still eat their breakfast
fine so he wasn't exactly a radical so
it's kind of interesting he's an
interesting guy and probably forgotten
because he wasn't bold enough
artistically in terms of his politics so
there you go gotta be bold ah speaking
of bold I wasn't you know I refrain from
asking last week but is it really he
author as opposed to hiawatha that
Longfellow himself pronounced that he
oughta oh so now he's uh despite all
that now you say he is the arbiter
well I that the thing is his creation of
he author it I mean he authored the man
was an Algonquin and Longfellow makes
him in a jib way Indian in in the song
of hiawatha so it's it's very a
historical but I make that point so I
could be hiawatha it could be because I
grew up saying Hiawatha yeah I don't
want to take that away from you thank
you I appreciate that
all right folks gonna head into the fun
half six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty we'll take your calls
don't forget join the majority report
calm
you are in for it alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
and the alpha males are just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
back back I love it alpha males are back
back back almost has one
I am a total
can we bring back DJ Tanner yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation DJ dance
well the problem with those is they're
like 45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough with a break that's
and the
[Music]
the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked alpha males
Oh
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
happy birthday to me
I have a thought experiment for the
alpha males of alpha males
something needs to pay the price of
Class B around here I am a total
we are back it's the fun half just
reading a semi self-congratulatory piece
in the New York Magazine New Yorker New
York magazine yeah by Jonathan Chait
saying that basically saying that Joe
Biden is proof that the Democratic Party
is not as left as we thought and I guess
well I mean I guess we're gonna find out
if you know the real question is and the
funny thing is is that you know he says
the thing that it really teaches you
that Twitter is not reflective of that
and that's true but I think what we'll
also see when people have time to
actually hear Joe Biden speak and
evaluate people I mean the people that
he's claiming are not represented on
Twitter because just as Twitter is not
real life neither is the New York Times
opinions at columns or you know what is
written online that is also far more
narrow than what we're talking about
particularly in May of an election cycle
so it's going to be sort of fascinating
to see where that leads but in the
meantime we are seeing more and more
candidates be exposed and it's going to
be fascinating to see if this stuff
catches up with them and there are
people who are trying to reorient
themselves there are reports out I guess
over the weekend into today that beto or
Roarke is going to be relaunching with a
beto 2.0 which is fascinating which is a
fascinating paradox
because the thing about bateau that was
supposed to be the selling point is he's
new he's fresh and does a born to do it
born to do it
and the idea that you have to do a
relaunch of that is antithetical to that
concept and the idea that you would
label it 2.0 going back to a term that
was old in 2009 2003 vintage exactly is
sort of hilarious but this is also
interesting to watch know because you
have I'm looking at these polls and
again you know it's super early that's
that's sort of the point I'm making
but nevertheless the the they do capture
a moment in time and the polling you
know shows that Joe Biden has opened up
a bit of a lead on quite a lead I should
say on Bernie Sanders and then generally
Elizabeth Warren comes in third and then
Budaj
but then the rest are completely in the
dust I mean just completely in the dust
now this this is a little bit different
and we can get to this in a moment but I
want to just the idea is that you know
you've got someone like Cory Booker who
is now like I don't know is he polling
like three or four percent and so
they're trying to now reorient Booker
tries to come out with a big gun control
reform and it it doesn't really get the
attack on some attention we mentioned it
briefly and it's it's it's a great
policy proposal this is sort of hand in
hand I guess with his criminal justice
reform but it's fascinating to it to
watch these politicians who don't have
a a track record that is as expansive
and as as deep and as consistent as some
others attempt to position themselves in
a way that is both unique but also
against Trump but maybe in the case of
Booker it really is like I'm just gonna
be against Trump maybe to the detriment
of even trumpism which is let's face it
republicanism and here is Cory Booker
and this is reminiscent of Joe Biden
trying to answer why we shouldn't have
Medicare for all because somehow that
lets employers off the hook which is
just a bizarre formulation one may work
but it's bizarre nevertheless here's
Cory Booker with his bizarre formulation
of why particularly in the wake of the
Supreme Court basically today saying
that Apple at least is open to a
class-action lawsuit because of its
control over its App Store that the one
of the cofounders of Facebook has come
out and basically said time to break it
up there is been an increasing awareness
of what the constant economic
concentration does to society and here
is Cory Booker seemingly completely
unable to address this question in a
coherent fashion press Hughes who helped
co-found Facebook has now come out to
say that it should be broken up he says
that it is unprecedented a non-american
to have this much power in one company
where do you stand on breaking up
Facebook I don't care if it's Facebook
the pharma industry even the
agricultural industry we've had a
problem in America
with corporate consolidation that is
having really ill effects it's driving
out the independent family farmer it's
driving up a prescription drug cost and
in the realm of technology we're seeing
small compass small one or two companies
controlling a significant amount of the
online advertising so should they be
broken up when we need them again
I believe in process and we should have
if I'm president I'm States I will have
a Justice Department that uses antitrust
legislation to do the proper
investigations into whole industries
accountable for corporate puzzles so we
think he's just outlined the real
problem that we have and then when he's
asked well should we address it he
basically says well I don't know as if
there isn't been over a hundred years of
experience both in trust-busting and in
breaking up this type of of
consolidation and the contrary where
antitrust has been completely defined
but the fact is is that the process
exists it is completely a function of
political will it is completely a
function of political will the reason
why the Justice Department has not
broken up these companies and has done
very little of this stuff since the 80s
is because that has been the dominant
political will there has been a change
in the perspective of of what
constitutes a monopoly we have the exact
same process the exact same tools as we
had 30 or 40 years ago 50 years ago the
only thing that has changed is there has
been a change in political will and when
that question is put to cory booker he
basically says it shouldn't be about
political will and instead he tries to
make it as if the the increase in
awareness of this problem and the
commensurate political will to do
something about it is whimsical
industries accountable for corporate
consolidation
with Warren's already out there saying
break up Facebook break up Google and
III don't think break up Amazon right
but I don't think that a president
should be running around pointing at
companies and saying breaking them up
without any kind of process here I do I
think it is a massive problem in America
corporate consolidation absolutely it's
about making sure that we have a system
that works it's not me and my own
personal opinion about going after folks
that sounds more like a Donald Trump
thing to say like I'm gonna break up you
guys manure II know we need to create
systems and processes compared Elizabeth
Warren and I I most certainly did not
she's the one that's saying well again
she has let her discuss and debate her
positions I'm telling you right now we
do not need a president that it's gonna
use her own personal beliefs and tell
you which companies we should break up
we need a president that's going to
enforce antitrust laws in this country I
will be that person you know this is
really super suspect because if you look
at the history of people who broke up
these companies they name these
companies the whole point of this into
in some way imply when the question was
promised on Elizabeth Warren that she's
going around because she has a personal
beef with Jeff Bezos or she just doesn't
like the way that Zuckerberg you know
dresses or something
it's very vindictive I mean this is this
is pretty stunning stuff and he is there
is a process but the point is is that
there's been no political will it is
really just a question of how does the
executive branch want to approach this
and he is hiding the ball here here is a
reminder for you why he might this is a
guy who particularly when it comes to
finance had very little problem with
finance but also I think has a similar
problem and I think he just has a
broad-based allergy towards seeing
corporate corporations as fundamentally
problematic that need that that they're
the way
that they exist in our society is a
political choice here he is talking
about Barack Obama when Barack Obama was
going after bain Capital's vulture
capitalism this kind of stuff is
nauseating to me on both sides it's
nauseating to the American public enough
is enough
stop attacking private equity's it was
oh my god see this is how we know that
Jonathan che its argument is
right because if Americans were really
just voting based on ideology and who is
the most conservative cory booker would
be closer to the top and warren and
Sanders would not be second in third
place well I don't know if that's Chase
argument as much but I think he's I
think he's just
I think he's declaring mission
accomplished just a little bit too early
seen green shot that headline folks yeah
III mean because I mean here's the the
the bottom line is the only person who I
think is clearly defined really in this
race at this point is Bernie Sanders
both to his his detriment and to his
benefit put up that that chart and you
can see here this is a date of progress
did a poll which is sort of a
fascinating poll who would you consider
and who would you not consider voting
for so Joe Biden twenty percent of the
Democratic electorate and I think this
is like the well tied for third or
fourth-largest percent say they would
never vote for him but forty nine
percent say they would consider voting
for him which is also the highest and
that's a thirty twenty nine percent
swing Bernie Sanders twenty eight
percent say they would never vote for
him I think that's the highest 36
percent say they would consider voting
for him
the person who has sort of the the you
know the the most room to grow here it
seems like is Elizabeth Warren 13
percent would not vote for her 40
percent would now I don't think any of
these numbers really have a huge bearing
on the chances of someone winning
because the fact of the matter is is you
have so many candidates running that you
can have a candidate who thirty percent
will say I will not vote for and in
under any circumstances 36 percent
considering to vote for is is is very
high but I think Bernie Sanders is
probably the most defined simply because
he ran three years ago two years ago and
it's quite clear what his platform is I
think you know Elizabeth Warren it's
it's clear to us what her platform is I
don't think that she's seen as much Joe
Biden I just don't think that people
have a real sense of what Joe Biden is
running on I mean even if it's like the
the even just the the more partisan
questions of like I'm sorry I think
Republicans or people forgive me Father
I have sinned I think a lot of Democrats
have come around to the awareness that
Republicans are very problematic and
when they become more and more aware of
Joe Biden's positions in the past I
think it's going to become more and more
problematic for us yeah we also have to
remember that he's lost two Democratic
primaries already and just because he's
friends with Obama doesn't mean that
he's going to win I also want to see the
methodology of these of this poll
because a lot of the time like remember
that one where it came to light that
they didn't talk to anyone under 50 well
that was all they only also use
landlines like that ridiculous yeah I
think look the that that poll was was
correct I don't I I mean I don't think
this is a question of methodology on
these polls I mean if they you know I
think it's I think
simply a question of where in May and
there really hasn't been other than just
the brand Joe Biden any examination of
this guy now it's quite possible this
same thing could happen like as soon as
people who see people judge on the stage
they're gonna fall in love with him
but I think that it's I think it's
unlikely that Joe Biden is going to be
able to retain the sort of the the
general well-being we you know or wealth
the general I guess good will of people
when he starts to explain his positions
I'm worried it's gonna end up like
Hillary and Bernie in that there's gonna
be signs that people are responding to
reality with him and as a candidate
being out of touch with reality but it's
not gonna be fast enough to get him out
of the primary and he's gonna win the
primary because he is he's tied with oh
but he's tied to Obama right now and
that's a big asset but still very early
to like I looked at another chart Obama
was way behind Hillary at this point in
time during the 2008 cycle he did not
pull ahead until January of 2008 right
though right and and I think I mean I
think the big thing I don't think that
the the the Hillary Bernie thing is is a
good of an analogy because frankly in
the primary
she was very substantive and I think to
a certain extent
[Music]
she moved quite a bit towards Bernie's
position then tacked back in the in the
general or at least in terms of what was
what what she was running on I don't
think it was a question as much as
people didn't people had a misconception
of Hillary Clinton I think you know
certainly there was a an effect as the
more she ran the there was some element
of like people had a lionized version of
her
when she was Secretary of State it's
much easier to appreciate someone
whether Secretary of State as opposed to
sort of like you know presenting their
ideas about a whole host of things and
so we'll see but let's go to the phones
for a moment calling from a340 area code
who's this where he come from - al
what's going on yeah you know just stay
positive
I am also gonna be going back to the
original items at the end of the year
and you know see how things are doing
and yeah other than that I've just been
watching and I putting names and I
encourage others to do so and any
particular comment today I'm Joe Biden I
mean I raised in the Virgin Islands I
find it very peculiar that Joe Biden and
Jeff seams are always there are always
there and Jeff Epstein has one of our
islands that was actually his the 72
acre Island but I'm just really
hopefully move that so Lane is not the
nominee and well I'm so disappointed in
the Democratic Party is well I think
look you know I think the idea is just
you know let people know around you what
Joe Biden's plans are I mean that's
basically the most important thing that
folks can do right now and I don't even
think you need to editorialize about it
frankly I you know there's a piece in
The New York Times this weekend when Joe
Biden voted to let States overturn roe
v-- wade that was I guess that was
written in about a month or two ago in
The New York Times I mean I just think
that people just need to be more aware
of where Joe Biden stands but and I
think hopefully that will come as we get
closer to the actual elections but
appreciate the college for now hang in
there
let's go to a six one nine area code
who's this where you come from
hi Sam this is DJ in San Diego DJ in San
Diego
what's on your mind DJ um well I have
kind of a two-part question about
impeachment it's basically your thoughts
on the two ways that I'm worried it to
come out so in part one I think there's
a pretty good chance
House Republicans wouldn't config and I
know you said impeach house in the
Senate you meant the Senate I'm sorry
yeah the Senate but they wouldn't
convict and I know you said I'm not an
itching makes Democrats or tweaks but I
was wondering if you have any concerns
that I failed impeachment said kind of
give them a political victory I think
they were after but didn't really get
with the whole Russia mister s and then
the second part is on the chance of do
conduct and get rid of Trump and tens
takes over wouldn't that mean but he
could be in the running for 2020 and do
you think he'd possibly be a more
formidable candidate than champion well
all right let me take the first question
of the second question first they're not
going to convict that's just simply not
going to happen and I don't know that
Mike Pence would be more formidable I'm
not convinced of that but I look you
know to the extent that I've been
hesitant about whether Democrats should
impeach it has been a function of
worrying that a Trump may get reelected
regardless and you might want to retain
that that arrow and your quiver but I
think where we've gone point past the
point where I think they need you know
look people say impeach as if it would
just be we take a vote tomorrow but I
think what they need to do is start the
process
of impeachment and build the case and
hold hearings under the auspices of a
special committee that is looking at it
because then you have increased subpoena
power one that's considered more weighty
by by the courts and I think they simply
have to do it you know you have today
and I appreciate the call let me finish
answering let you go but the this
weekend Chuck Schumer who is the Senate
leader of the Democrats has come out
with his legislation now just
contemplate the world before the 2018
midterms right where most political
scientists will tell you like look yes
the Democrats ran on health care but the
fact is they've run on health care many
times before why was it so effective
this time largely because on the other
side of that debate is Donald Trump so
what is Chuck Schumer now I imagine he's
come out with other things or maybe he
has it I don't know
but on Sunday Chuck Schumer announced
that he is launching a bipartisan push
to pass legislation that would rein in
what he calls
I'm gonna go dot dot dot here what do
you think it is the excesses of the
Trump administration the enormous
corruption the the threats to democracy
the the trade war I mean whatever
whatever you there's a hundred different
things that you could fill in what is
the Senate Minority Leader the one who
is going to save us from Donald Trump
what is he going to propose that we do
in a bipartisan fashion this will really
happen the Republicans ladies and
gentlemen I'm on the edge of my seat
dot-dot-dot what he calls quote annoying
and hair-pulling calls yes Chuck Schumer
has said he has signed on as co-sponsor
of the telephone robo call abuse
criminal enforcement and deterrence the
traced act finally I can see that on
posters for the next couple years which
he said would give federal agencies the
tools and authority they need to
prosecute and fine robocallers he will
work with Congress for Swift patches
passage of the bill sponsored by Senator
Ed Markey and Senator John Thune Schumer
said Long Island and New York residents
received more than a hundred and
seventy-six robó million robo calls in
April alone seven hundred and twenty
million since January one I mean look I
get the fact that the Democrats are
convinced that they they don't want to
be in a position where Donald Trump is
saying you need to elect Republicans
because the Democrats aren't getting
anything done and Chuck Schumer is like
we need to be able to say that we've got
stuff done and we can shoot back and say
we have helped in a bipartisan fashion
to end robo calls I mean is that the
theory that we're operating under here
well everyone knows the greatest threat
to regular Americans material needs is
getting interrupted when you're trying
to have a nice dinner look they're a
pain in the ass there's no doubt about
it but a strategy that is focused on the
notion of like getting the nation's
business done we tried the
infrastructure bill we went there and we
tried to you know make a big deal out of
the infrastructure bill
half our parties calm for the
impeachment of the president but the
leadership is gonna go and we're just
gonna go just same old same old
I'm gonna work on robocalls I mean there
is a muddled message here and you know
chuck schumer is not this guy mike
what's his name again beau de jedge I
can't remember his name
bogey bogus yeah Bogey's bogus Laos key
I don't know if people remember this guy
but this was I don't know 25 years ago
here is here is his here's his logo his
bark cbs2 news
I might focus fluffy and I got one I
mean summer is still living in this
world where he thinks that he is
basically you know a local state rep
trying to help out his constituents he
is the leader of this of the Democrats
in the Senate and the Bailey's his
imaginary family on Long Island maybe
they haven't you know maybe he hasn't
broken it to them yet is it just it's
just amazing to me that this is where
they are placing their resources I mean
great do this and maybe it's just a
press conference that he's holding but I
mean honestly it's also a bit of attack
on the majority report because we may
create content out of those sorts of
calls those robo calls yeah I mean if we
don't get those fake those fake calls
well it could be good news for any
progressive who's running against the
establishment Democrats and trying to
paint them as out of touch i I mean I
don't think anybody's gonna make hay off
of running against this that they're
doing Robo know just more like the fact
that he's not doing anything else well
we'll see we'll see maybe that's my 20
22 column from an eight four seven area
code who's this where he come from dude
I'm so excited about those robo calls
it's a Josh from Chicago Josh from
Chicago you excited about getting them
or having them go away go away yes one
button for provide
Biden's gonna take care of those roll
calls yeah I know in a bipartisan way
actually didn't want to chime in about
this whole the Biden and the this booty
judge thing we relate an incident that
our anecdote that happened to me a few
weeks ago where I was at I was talking
with my cousin and they basically said
that the reason they like butta judge is
it has nothing to do with policy so they
don't care about policy or the policy
isn't what's most important to them they
just care about like the vibe he's
giving off or it's like a philosophy
yeah and I think it's important to
realize that a lot of people don't give
a about policy that's why someone
like Warren is not doing well well the
way to think Barney gives off
hold on words hold on a second okay Josh
let me just first off it is true Buddha
judge it's like Aaron Sorkin has created
this character exactly but Elizabeth
Warren's not doing badly she's doing
significantly she's doing better than
Buddha judge I mean she's probably got
double the polls numbers that he does
now maybe that's just name recognition
because she's a sitting senator but
she's also doing much better than then
Booker and Gillibrand and Kamala Harris
and but I think largely I understand
your point I don't know if it's really
just a feeling as much as it's this
notion of who they think is going to win
but I would also suggest that the value
of policy is not necessarily in the
policy in and of itself it is what is
projected subtextual II when those two
things meet and I will reiterate that
Hillary Clinton during the the primary
she got into policy and I think I think
you know we will see when we start to
get on those debate stages what happens
and it's going to be a function of how a
rest of the questioners are or how
aggressive the other candidates are but
what does someone look like when they're
talking in generalities
next to someone who is talking in
generalities that are tied to specifics
that's gonna be the real question I
don't know the answer to that but that's
I think it's gonna be the question
yeah I mean yes seem do to judge on the
debate stage and people look remember he
was he brands for DNC chair and I he's
not that good of a debater actually um I
think for me yeah it's gonna come down
to that but it's also like how well
these people can dodge this like
and how disciplined I think Bernie and
Warren are gonna and I think they will
be they need to be disciplined in
calling these people out having policies
yep I mean I agree with you on that and
I think there's gonna be a an increased
ability to dodge because you're only
gonna get you know if you've got nine
people they're gonna do like two debates
in a row each time so every time we say
there's a debate in June there's
actually two debates one's gonna be like
on a on a Monday the next one's gonna be
on a Tuesday or something to that effect
where and it's all going to be random so
it also depends on who's in which heat
as it were and what night they're on and
who they're with and which one gets more
of the viewership I mean there's so many
things that are up in the air it's gonna
be interesting to see this but I think
like yes when you're talking in the
spring of 2015 I mean not 2015 but
that's a functionally where we were when
you're talking to spring a year out or
you're an app out from the primary it's
understandable for that people are just
like I want to take I'm more interested
in sort of like the you know I'm not
writing a critical review I'm just
having dinner right now essentially and
I think that's gonna change as people
get close or maybe it won't and then
it's gonna be really sad but I
appreciate the college leadership it's
Mike
come from six one nine area code who's
this where you come from six one nine
what's that okay yeah maybe that was the
same caller I don't know sometimes that
happen
here's another six one nine column from
a six one nine area code who's this
where he come from
hello spam ed from San Diego
edy from San Diego what's going on in
San Diego today I mean it's like the
second or third call we've gotten from
San Diego hey I'm off today so I just
sitting around alright but have you
heard the latest since that Dave Rubin
is using the dogs debate in fact I have
and I appreciate the the call let's look
at the tape right now this is a video
that was sent to us by listener Evan and
I believe it was listener Evan was was
in fact there at a turning point USA at
Santa Clara University I think this is
over the weekend Dave Rubin classical
liberal that is was there with turning
points USA most recently in the news for
having another white supremacist problem
unclear if that was before after this
I'm not sure maybe it doesn't really
matter I mean it's you know once or
twice these type of scandals hit a
organization you could say well II know
there's you know the correlation is not
causation right but at one point you
start to say like I'm starting to see a
pattern here but here is this event
where we're listener Evan came up and
asked a question of Dave Rubin
in college so it's been a while but one
thing that I really liked something that
you talked about here was the difference
between high diversity of bots and
diversity of identity sure now the thing
with a diversity of thaws I feel like
that's a problem you actually perpetuate
on your show because the only time you
really have left we need guests are when
there are members of the intellectual
dark woods just Harris or Weinstein and
they're only there for the bulk of the
time to talk about the regressive left
and so I pretty much wanted to ask you
why won't you have Sam our Sam cedar on
yeah it's recorded okay yeah he's just a
dishonest player who's just lied about
me repeatedly so would you be willing
excuse me
dishonest player I would like Dave Rubin
to saying where I've been dishonest I
claimed that he was funded by the Koch
brothers not directly I was very clear
about this through an organization that
came out of George Mason University that
sponsored his a series of his interviews
and he subsequently conceded that was
the case I now the idea that he would
smear me in this way for simply
reporting on something that was true
ugly is a serious obligation and the
idea that I have in any way slandered
him isn't enough itself a slander now
yes it is true that at one point Michael
called him stupid and I reprimanded
Michael for that and I apologized
publicly to Dave Rubin for it yet he
still refused to even discuss any
policies with me and frankly that smells
like a Dodge so if not me who is
slanderous and a smear merchant and
dishonest
what about other people would you have
on who have differing opinions for you
and all you do is you set up as you
stand in front of a big government sucks
poster is malign the so-called left but
yet you won't have any of those people
with the leftist ideas on your show
it's odd well maybe if you are offered
other people so would you be willing to
have now to be winner contra points or
david pacman or Minsky all these are
progressives who I'm not against having
any of them but I'm not have people that
attacked me first I think it's pretty
obvious if you watch what I did up here
but I don't attack people first they're
happy to talk about ideas you're going
to go up to be person if you're gonna
lie about an insider
but it's just not a monthly there's no
weeding you know I have a certain set of
rules when it comes to talking to people
I think the the fact that he determines
who his guests will be on the scale of
their being a win in it for me I think
is the one of the more revealing things
and the more honest things that Dave
Rubin has said he attempts and look Dave
Rubin is perfectly he is beyond well
within his rights to not have anybody he
doesn't want on his show the thing I
take issue with is the idea that he
presents himself as taking on all comers
that his whole shtick
is to allow for ideas that otherwise
wouldn't be available to people to be
aired and that we can take on all ideas
yet he is excluding the very ideas that
the show is almost built around
maligning because he's going to go on
now to say like if you look at my roster
of people they're all liberal or this or
that who have left the people I will not
have on my show and so he claims to have
this wide array and so all I take issue
with is that claim is that claim I mean
in if you look at the evolution of Dave
Rubin and I like to think that at least
part of our pointing out that the idea
that he was of the left and he used to
support used to list a bunch of policies
in addition to the fact that he was gay
and married which he probably had to
stop at one point because he realized
like wait a second I'm using my identity
as a means in which to show my bona
fides
which is of course contrary to the idea
that he promotes but it was only two
years ago when Dave Rubin was saying
that he was for Medicare for all he was
for a single-payer system and it had to
be pointed out to him that when you talk
about being for a single-payer health
care system and smaller government that
you could not articulate two ideas that
were more inconsistent with each other
there would be no other version of big
government in the way that they're
talking about it because he has no
problem with the military then to say
we're going to have the government
provide health insurance for everybody
because the biggest thing that the
government does now is social insurance
Social Security and health care that
does not involve the military and to
expand that would be even more of that
but let's hear his justification
[Music]
but but also I think your premise is
actually wrong if you were to look at
someone did break this down on Facebook
I don't know how many shows I've done
maybe 500 interviews of it like that
most of my guests actually either
overlap these or are left needs to some
extent so it's like you can say well
Harris and Brett Weinstein considers
himself deeply progressive who's a
professor and ever to sneak the most
lefty College in the United States you
could say well he's not an aggressive
anymore well he's not a resume or it's
not because he moved actually it's
because the left went bananas so telling
me to Eric Reinert voted for Bernie
Sanders you can't tell me he's not a
progressive my guest two weeks ago in
Christakis he is a Conservatives all the
liberal he's in a whole school liberal
so I think my I don't know if there's
our show that has a sort of a flyer that
I've actually never seen it but as one's
respect one more than that I'm sure that
Sam cedar would be more than willing to
have in a respectful discussion but my
phone was not that discredited the
progressiveness of either of them I just
wanted to say that I think you should
have more people on the left that you
would consider to be a part of the gross
progressives well on your show okay mmm
that's gonna stink to have that type of
applause at your own talking turning
points USA event that's sort of
surprising and it is true be completely
respectful and if I wasn't then I would
be the one who validates your entire
claim so this is an opportunity for you
Dave to further your claim I mean you've
asked for these people Rob Reiner
Michael Flint Chelsea Handler Sarah
Silverman AOC Bernie Sanders senator
Warren Mark Ruffalo Stephen King Judd
Apatow Maddow Amy Schumer Lena Dunham
Cory Booker Seth MacFarlane
you would love to chat with some
progressives who can keep it civil but
you notice how he mentions aoc in this
look at this other tweet that he and
Bernie know he sees no one he's going to
be
and the socialist dust has to sit there
and pretend like she knows what she's
talking about that's not being very
civil about a Oh see that's pretty
stunning that's kind of exactly what
he's mad about us for doing now to be
fair those two tweets came almost 10
days apart so it looks like the kettle
is calling someone iron and black I also
like how half of the people he tags our
celebrities who are not primarily known
for political commentary what we mean
half no they're all people who espouse
liberal perspectives on but they're all
they're all almost 3/4 of them are
actors yeah that's what I'm saying
yeah that's pretty nuts that's like I
would like to debate James Woods I mean
I would I'd be happy to but I don't
really think that like you know I'm not
Edmund in the lineage of Edmund Burke
yeah exactly I mean the I mean the fact
is is that there is virtually no one who
is interested in having an exchange with
me that I wouldn't have an exchange with
maybe I have it on this show maybe I go
on their show I'm happy to do that and I
feel like I have a responsibility to do
that you know sometimes the scheduling
issues but I'm open to it
Adam kokeshi you know one point jumped
on said yes what's-his-face who's that
guy whose show I was on the crazy um
brought Brandon no Jesse Lee Peterson
right I went on his show
Brandon Straka wanted to and you know
I'm I'm happy to go because that is you
know that's part of I think our
responsibility if you want it you can
get it whichever Hollywood actor gets to
debate Dave Rubin maybe you can help
them prep yeah well I don't think
they're going to
but I think I think we should some of
them should tweet out to tell Dave to
debate you yeah listen and I am NOT
going to tell people to go to Dave Rubin
events and ask this question I haven't
told anybody to do that it's happening
organically because I think people
genuinely have this question of Dave
Rubin and so you know I just want to
make that clear - oh and one of the
people that he claimed as being on the
Left Erik Weinstein I just looked him up
he's the managing director of teal
Capital his briefing Oh different guy
well no brothers yeah mentions both of
them right but it's you know the bottom
line is he sits there and nods
regardless of who's sitting there and he
does not know what to do when he needs
to actually question and interview
someone with thoughts that are actually
challenging to his that's the issue
basis speaking of safe spaces
the man who whose biographer we had on
this program right who did a biography
of Mike Pence called him the most
powerful theocrats reunited States in
terms of political position Mike Pence
was at Liberty University basically
telling the students there that Donald
Trump a deeply religious and moral man
is is protecting them and also prepared
to go out and as you go into the profane
world where people think that that women
should have sovereignty over their own
bodies and sovereignty over their own
lives
where people think that people's sexual
orientation should not make them
second-class citizens where people think
that people who feel themselves to want
to identify as a different gender are in
somehow infringing upon God's will that
will implicate them be prepared to be
shunned and metaphorically burned at the
stake or in other words to have people
disagree with you
but my message to all of you in the
class of 2019 is derives of the moment
that we're living in today you know
throughout most of American history it's
been pretty easy to call yourself
Christian didn't even occur to people
that you might be shunned or ridiculed
for defending the teachings of the Bible
but things are different now some of the
loudest voices for tolerance today have
little tolerance for traditional
Christian beliefs so as you go about
your daily life just be ready because
you're going to be asked not just to
tolerate things that violate your faith
you're going to be asked to endorse them
you're going to be asked to bow down to
the idols of the popular culture so you
need to prepare your minds for action
men and women you need to show that we
can love God and love our neighbor at
the same time through words and deeds
yeah a lot of people probably wouldn't
really what's he talking about this
notion of Christian oppression in this
country is stunning and the idea that if
you are licensed by the state to provide
medical care let's say or prescription
drugs and your ability to do so
is a function of Licensing by the state
and reliant upon all the laws that are
set up by the state to ensure that the
medicine you're delivering is safe and
whatnot
the idea that saying you can't pick and
choose who you provide that medical care
to based upon who you think are living a
sinful life as if that is some form of
oppression to Christians you have a
choice don't go into that profession
this is this is the the battle that he
is trying to gear them up for well I
think he's speaking of the social sphere
as well because it is true that there
are certain beliefs that certain strands
of Christianity have interpreted to be
the Christian beliefs that are no longer
acceptable in certain places in polite
society like hating people just for
being gay or thinking that trans people
are an abomination or whatever and
that's a good thing well I mean the fact
is is that you can there is no there is
no law that says that you can't have
those feelings if that's what your
religion teaches you and even if you
want to slice it as like hate the sin
and not the sinner but you don't have
the right in civil society to impose
that morality on the rest of us and the
morality of acceptance is not a reality
it is simply the the rights that every
citizen has to have housing the same
access to housing same access to
accommodations and food and jobs and
whatnot and in in frankly we don't even
have enough protections in that regard
so if you want to live in a gated
community
barter your services to your neighbor
that is certainly up to you but if you
want to engage in commerce and whatnot
in in civil society then you have to
accept that your morality does not get
to dictate who gets rights and who's
doesn't even though frankly to a certain
extent we still have that problem but I
don't know I mean you could have said
those same words when they start to
rollback anti-miscegenation laws
meanwhile Donald Trump launching a trade
war with China China supposedly will hit
back June 1st and here is Larry Kudlow
on with Chris Wallace on Fox News
admitting that Donald Trump does not
seem to understand how tariffs and trade
wars work now I think there are problems
with the way that we have set up some of
our business is and I think that we
should have in certain instances protect
certain businesses but Donald Trump
doesn't seemed quite to understand the
dynamic that's going on here and here is
Larry Kudlow having to concede the one
of the fundamental points about Donald
Trump's tariffs it's not China that pays
tariffs it's the American importers the
American companies that pay what in
effect is a tax increase and oftentimes
passes it on to US consumers fair enough
in fact both sides will pay both sides
will pay in these things and of course
it depends it's a tariff on goods coming
into the country the Chinese aren't
paying no but the Chinese will suffer
GDP losses and so forth with respect to
a diminishing
export market and goods that they may
need for their own but the president
says China doesn't have China it pays
the tariffs they may suffer consequences
but it's US businesses and US consumers
who pay correct yes to some extent yeah
I don't disagree with that again both
sides both sides will suffer on this Wow
this is like they're banking on this
notion that that support for this policy
will come from people who are just
excited to see China suffer and really
like you know whose interests are
ultimately being protected anyways right
like Hollywood's ability to get DVDs
that are not that are not being ripped
off I mean this is sort of stunning but
the one say Trump pista now I will say
this to you about Larry Kudlow for the
better part of 30 years maybe more
actually 35 years Larry Kudlow has been
on TV in one form or another talking
about free trade no tariffs it is
fascinating to see someone reject their
entire life's narrative for a gig in
their twilight years I mean he must have
been super bored it really is stunning
to see Larry Kudlow sell himself out
that way
the other thing that's stunning one hand
you have folks like Larry Kudlow who
have ejected all of their even there
into I never you know Larry Kudlow is
answer for everything was to cut taxes
they have no tariffs and whatnot he sold
all that away in about 10 minutes
he's the past though what's also equally
as disturbing is to look at the future
and Tom cotton harvard-educated
Rhodes Scholar Tom cotton who very well
could be someone who runs as for the
presidency as a Republican in the future
absorbing all the lessons of trumpism
but without the lack of brain power this
is the way that the media and this is
what I think is really sort of
unbelievable about this to allow Tom
cotton to get away with saying this
without sort of pointing out to the
American public how ridiculous this is
the reason why we have a media in tune
into a media is for some measure of
skepticism we don't necessarily have
interviewers on the corporate media who
are going to question from a perspective
and we've the BBC has provided us as
some examples of what questioners do
when they're getting aggressive with
politicians but they need to be they
need to have some measure of like of
signaling to the audience like look I'm
an expert at this or at least
theoretically I'm an expert and this
answer is absurd
listen to Tom cotton justify regardless
of what you think about the policy but
one thing if he had some type of
coherent response but listen to how he
justifies the fact that farmers in the
Midwest are gonna probably need a third
bailout he plays the hits like we're
going I don't want to ask you about the
trade negotiations are going on right
now there was just recently a University
of Arkansas study from your home state
that said retaliatory tariffs by China
could end up hurting many farmers in
your state is President Trump
hurting the Americans that he promised
to help so these tariffs are gonna end
up hurting both the Chinese and some
Americans I'll grant you that
I think the ultimately hurt the Chinese
more than they will Americans in part
cause Chinese companies and their
government have
and cheating the United States for so
long there will be some sacrifice on the
part of Americans I grant you that but I
also would say that sacrifice is pretty
minimal compared to the sacrifices that
our soldiers make overseas that our
fallen heroes or laid to rest in
Arlington make that are right about here
those two sacrifices that's right and
then when I'm home in Arkansas hear from
farmers who are worried about opening up
new markets and getting their products
to market but they also understand that
China is a serious competitor of the
United States and wants to displace us
around the world and they look at the
sacrifices that soldiers sailors airmen
and Marines make around the world they
were willing to bear some of those
sacrifices in the short term to
hopefully in the long term ensure our
long-term prosperity and security
deposit what nobody nobody on that panel
is gonna go what are you talking about
we're not at a war with China we don't
have military personnel fighting against
China what is I think about like what
it's Ezz arguing that the this trade war
is going to help our national security
when it comes to things like like grains
and whatnot yeah I keep waiting for him
to make some argument about like soft
power versus hard power and how the
trade war will save us from a real war
with China but that would be like way
too coherent for this guy well I don't I
mean I don't even know if that's I mean
I think he's just simply saying like
this is the way that we project power
and so we do it on the back of our
farmers you know when we do it on the
back of our military personnel they make
more of a Sacre I mean it seems yeah
they're bizarre I was talking to my
mother actually who descends from
farmers in North Dakota and I can say
that I don't think it's gonna be much of
mean much to them that there are troops
now apparently for Tom Cotton's
trade war or it's Trump's trade war and
and I think they'd much rather sell like
the sorghum in their silo and and I
would I would also remind Tom cotton
that we have an all-volunteer military
and I don't think these farmers signed
up drafted but I mean he if Tom cotton
wants to go out there and tell everybody
these farmers are happy but I want to
see the version of what we saw in the
that gave rise to the tea party where we
have somebody on the floor of the
commodities Stock Exchange talk about
I'm tired of bailing out these farmers
why are we bailing out these farmers
they made the choice of going in and
growing this stuff they made the mistake
of doing that and relying on on our
government not to do tariffs and trade
and of course we won't we won't hear
that but let's hear this is the tough
questioning that we're gonna get out of
CTS though or our long term prosperity
and security why not tell them that on
the front end why not tell them this
sacrifice and the higher prices you'll
receive you know you're gonna have to
pay or a part of this conflict as
opposed to saying what's not true which
is the China's going to pay these
tariffs to the Treasury well China will
ultimately be paying a price for these
because Americans may be shifting their
consumption or their investment
decisions away from Chinese products
that have oftentimes been dumped in the
United States you know we have our
Kansans who are benefiting from these
tariffs as well you know and eastern
Arkansas we have one of the largest
steel production areas now in the
country they obviously are doing very
well again I'm not gonna say that no one
is going to make a sacrifice but in the
long term the effort is to make sure
that the United States remains
preeminent as a global superpower both
in the economic and the security yeah
like I'm honestly not sure like how is
that gonna work like can you win a trade
war my guess is they're gonna go back
and they're just gonna be some cosmetic
things and then and then Trump is going
to claim that he won yeah I mean Trump
is on the record saying trade wars are
good and easy to win super easy to win
I'm not even sure what that looks like
I mean it's one thing to support
industries in this country that you feel
we need to have to maintain a secure
supply chain right like I don't know
sensitive chip-making let's say for
computers you might want to support a
there may be national security
and economic security interests in
supporting actively supporting
industries in this country so that you
can secure a supply chain but this is a
real bank shot that I think very few
people actually think is going to amount
to anything so there you go let's I want
to just as an example we saw last week
and I'm sorry that I missed talking
about it but Michael my understanding
did been Shapiro's disastrous run-in on
the BBC where he revealed that his
debate strategy is to accuse the
questioner of left-wing bias but this is
a clip of Nigel Faraj and Andrew Marr on
the BBC and what's fascinating about
this to me is that Farraj uses the same
exact tactic as ben shapiro does and I
don't know Andrew Marr I don't know what
his politics are but it looks even more
ridiculous in the wake of ben shapiro
telling essentially a tory that he's
super liberal and that's why he's asking
these questions but here is a nigel
farage does not want and he is now the
head of the brexit party does not want
apparently the BBC audience to know what
his positions are on a whole host of
topics I still believe that global
worrying about global warming is the
stupidest thing in human history I
believe that if we decide in this
country to tax ourselves to the hilt to
put hundreds of thousands of people out
of work in manufacturing industries
given that we produce less than 2% of
global co2 that isn't terribly
intelligent but as I say here we are
with one of the biggest changes in
politics has ever occurred okay and
you're not even interested do you steal
what's wrong with the bees still want
what is wrong with the BB so you still
want to roll back
gun controls and reuses guns well in
this country this sums it up do you know
I've been going around the country
speaking at pack rallies every night and
you know who's not there the BBC and
from this line of questioning now I can
see why do you still know you're just
not interested I do you still feel
uncommon let's talk about democracy
let's talk about trust let's talk about
competence in politics this is ludicrous
do you still feel that people with HIV
shouldn't be allowed into this country
do I think the National Health Service
is there for British people yes I
absolutely did say you still you still
do do this is absolutely loo because
I've never in my life seen a more
ridiculous interview than this you are
not prepared to talk about what is going
on in this country today you're in
denial
the BBC's in denial Vittoria in labor
parties are in denial I think you're all
in for a bigger surprise on with those
do we have call you can even imagine
have talked about it do you still admire
Vladimir Putin no I've never written
I've had a bit Putin you well you I said
I wouldn't like this which currently is
well a leader you most admired you told
GQ magazine as an operator but not as a
human being I would say well they on the
way for me the whole Khazaria thing not
as appealing me so I don't like I don't
like he was a human being what is your
question what is the relevance of this
you are aware the brexit party which
once I destroy you have is you haven't
asked about a single other member of the
brexit party you haven't commented on
the fact we've got the most diverse list
of candidates of any party fighting in
this alone the Revolutionary Communist
Party right well that's worth discussing
isn't it what have we managed to get
left and right together these things are
really interesting to your viewers not
trolling back the rest here is of quotes
from years ago not asking me what my
positions are you know what I think is a
mistake is to say that the way that I
admire Vladimir Putin or frankly any
sort of quasi authoritarian or
authoritarian leader is to say I don't
admire them as a person I just admire
the way they operate I think you're much
better off going like you know in person
Putin very charming fellow I don't like
him as a hockey player I don't you know
I think he's a nice guy very great with
his pets and his kids and his wife and
whatnot but the whole operating thing
like where he's
you know imprisoning people or killing
people or gotta be tough
that'd be tough that gambit of like is
it true you believe this well I believe
a different thing that is very when you
see it in a row like that it becomes
very obvious yes yes I'm here to talk
about democracy but also yes I just love
the way an autocratic leader were
operates but he's not I don't think he's
a nice fellow that we mentioned this on
the bench appear Oh takedown on Friday
but that's the Motte and Bailey fallacy
have you heard of this one know where
the Bailey is sort of like the little
pasture area and you can go out and play
in the Bailey with your more sort of out
there statements and then when actual
people who might call you on your BS
come around you retreat to the Motte
which is the common sense things like I
believe the NHS should be for British
citizens and that sort of thing you
retreat to the comment the things that
apparently everybody agrees with
commonsensical ii yeah you know I've had
a recent experience with that actually
just on Twitter the other day evolving a
yeah our good friend Michael Tracy I had
retweeted let's talk about this actually
I don't it I wasn't going to but I think
it's well worth it so pull this up but
if you can let's yeah yeah and go back
to Tracy's original go go back a little
further here and then go go here with
the Glenn Greenwald yeah so I hadn't
noticed this Glenn Greenwald apparently
tulsi gabbard made some claim about the
risk of nuclear catastrophes hired the
never do to greater hostilities between
US and Russia and I think she was
talking specifically in terms of the
Muller investigation and Glenn again
returned to as he did in our
conversation but the bulletin of Atomic
Scientists said when setting its
doomsday clock to two minutes before
midnight now click on
the clip there he Clips something that
says the science and security board
hopes this researching of the clock will
be interpreted exactly as it's meant and
an urgent warning a global danger the
time for world leaders to address
looming nuclear danger continuing march
of climate change is low and past it's
time for the citizens of the world to
demand such action is now and then it
goes to another paragraph now let me ask
you this give me your sense how would
you characterize these two where do you
think these two paragraphs this is the
second paragraph nuclear risk has been
compounded by us-russia relations that
now feature more conflict than
cooperation coordination on nuclear Risk
Reduction is all but dead those two
paragraphs take a guess the distance
between those paragraphs in the atomic
the Doomsday Clock pronouncement the
distance in paragraphs yeah say eight
try double 16 15 15 paragraphs away
there was talk about North Korea there
was talk about all sorts of daily INF
treaty etc etc etc there was climate
change and then you get down to
paragraph 15 which is not to say that
that's not relevant it's relevant but to
say that US relations then you also have
to operate now that the u.s. relations
have been implicated by what Rachel
Maddow has been doing as but only the
parts that suggest that Donald Trump hat
was in collusion with Russia not the
parts about Russia actually doing stuff
that they did which is clear that they
did so we're talking about an incredibly
thin slice here and I think this is
incredibly disingenuous but then you
know Michael Tracy I would not even
notice there or even talked about it the
report not mention Rachel Maddow the
report did not mention Rachel Maddow and
then Michael Tracy said when I brought
up this point to Sam cedar he laughed
off as really good scared to mongering
and demanded that I bow before the altar
of Russia gate
I need a poetic not busy myself with yes
with petty little concerns about nuclear
catastrophe like I don't know how much
Michael Tracy has been tweeting about
North Korea but if the concern is
narrowly tailored to the Doomsday Clock
and what it says about how close we are
to doomsday as a function why we're
closer to doomsday the climate climate
change and what Donald Trump is down as
climate change should be why you're
tweeting constantly or then the number
two answer would be North Korea and then
the number three answer would be pulling
out of the INF treaty which is unclear
by policy experts as to who that
actually benefits and then you should
also be talking about how the Democrats
weirdly enough we're adamant that he'd
not do that so the the complaints here
are completely incoherent but that that
argument is is gone but the the bottom
ally what it was you call it
motte-and-bailey motte-and-bailey that's
what it reminds me of like there's you
know to his credit Tracy is all MOT and
no Bailey right or is that vice versa
which is the one where you're out in the
field
Oh Bailey is the field all Bailey yeah
he needs to eat doesn't retreat to the
Motte as well as some other people
that's right that's right alright lastly
Chelsea Manning was on Bryan Statler's
program this weekend she has subjected
herself to real deprivation as a
function of protecting WikiLeaks and
Julian Assange and I do think that there
is a fundamental difference between what
we you know WikiLeaks of
the era when they released the material
that Chelsea Manning had acquired
2010-2011 I guess and what we Keeley's
has become in many respects
they've become far too involved in
pursuing a specific agenda too much
Donald Trump's DMS oh you mean there's
difference between civilians being
gunned down in Iraq and like what
Hillary Clinton had for lunch yesterday
exactly and and look you know I think
that even even in the context of putting
out that the those documents I think it
was really more the mechanism in the way
that they did it rather than frankly
them doing it I mean I understand
they're a they're a an information you
know liberating agency and I think you I
mean I think there's some question about
that but I have very little doubt that
the the cables that they released in the
video that they released wasn't worthy
of news reports and and I frankly you
can look at the era from 2011 to 2016
how many news reports were based on that
information but here is Chelsea Manning
saying that the executive branch
especially Trump wants to attack
journalists and we'll use the judiciary
as a rubber-stamp she is out of prison
because the grand jury ended that was
looking into a Julian Assange there will
be another one that will be started
though they run out their term and then
they bring in another one and she very
well may end up back in prison for the
duration of that term of that grand jury
God oh do you view the prosecution of
Assange as a threat to press freedom I
mean I think that I think that the
Eastern District of Virginia is now
turning into a rubber stamp for all
these different prosecutions
that really are going after you know and
and I think that ultimately what they
really want is they want to go after
journalists like their Billy
the this administration clearly wants to
go after journalists I think that if the
administration gets its way as its laid
out you know in repeated statements like
the the media is the enemy of the people
kind of thing you know
you know that then I think that we're
gonna see that you know national
security journalists and and you know a
lot of press RUP t'v you know for this
administration press we're probably
gonna see you know indictments and
charges you know but perhaps indirectly
relate and the average American commits
a you know there's so many of federal
offenses the average American commits
three felonies a day
so whenever a journalist makes a misstep
I think that they're put on notice now
that the FBI and the Department of
Justice we're going to go after them on
the administration's behalf I don't know
what those three felonies a day but they
could be you know ranging from like you
know taking tags off of a mattress but
in terms of service sorts of things yes
it's quite possible
here is where she explains why she may
return to jail after May 16th and what
about you you're due back on Thursday
yes
another subpoena for another grand jury
yeah what's gonna happen well if they're
asking this that they want they've
already stipulated they want to ask the
same questions so this is not about this
is not about anything new they're not
even asking anything they're not even
asking anything new I've already laid
all of this out so you're gonna refuse
again I am gonna refuse I I don't I
think that this grand jury is an improv
I mean I think that all grand juries are
improper I don't like the secrecy of it
one of the reasons why the what why we
had so much why there was so much
secrecy and speculation and like so much
like ham hand-wringing over the Muller
report was because of the secrecy we
would know we would know far more if we
would just have public hearings bring
the stuff out there and like you know
and I did I testified you know before an
open court with all these journalists
they're like I have nothing new to
provide okay I want to hear any new
again that's the law will you be back in
jail next weekend well I'd be bad I mean
it's gonna depend on art we certainly
have a motion to quash we're certainly
gonna raise every single legal challenge
we have we have very you know we have a
very strong case we had a strong case
previously but now we have additional
evidence as I like what what our case is
so it's up in the air we don't know
if you'll be sent into jail or not we
don't but you know I think that we have
a much stronger case in terms of like
the legal objections which we you know
the the previous judge didn't he refused
to even hear the he he refused to even
hear them or act on the motions he just
simply placed me in contempt and ignored
our our motions there you go
God you know I don't think anyone would
blame Chelsea Manning at this point if
she were to seek asylum in another
country at least until Trump isn't
president anymore or she has some kind
of offered to come back like she
suffered so much already
it's unbelievable to me well but very
brave very brave woman all right well we
have to I'm sorry folks we don't have
time for any more calls we never got to
semi Em's tomorrow we're doing we'll
have a little more time no guests
tomorrow so callers I apologize folks
I gotta run see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was I just got cut
[Music]
yeah clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
