mocked him for his concern about the
rabid left Democrats who were who were
walking the knife's edge in terms of of
creating a a potential violent situation
in our country but to his credit he went
on in that same conversation I think or
he went on to Fox & Friends and in the
wake of the report that the Saudis
basically ambushed a Saudi national
journalist who was a u.s. resident Jamal
khashoggi as he went to the Saudi
consulate in Istanbul ostensibly to get
marriage papers which apparently US
intelligence services had at least some
inkling they were out to kill him he was
apparently either killed or disappeared
in that consulate Saudis don't seem to
care and that anybody else knows there's
nothing that as far as they're concerned
it can be done about it
Rand Paul is talking about pulling
support for Saudi Arabia particularly
there is now a group of bipartisan group
of senators remember last time a support
for Saudi Arabia was up I think it was
53 to 47 in terms of the Senate voting
to maintain support for the Saudis there
were five Democrats if I remember
correctly or himself armed safely Nelson
McCaskill Donnelly Warner and Manchin
who voted in favor of that that sale of
arms to Saudi Arabia there is a
bipartisan group of lawmakers who have
sent a letter to Mike Pompey
cluding senator formerly moderate Susan
Collins Chris Murphy Todd young others
who have signed on to a letter basically
saying and our support for Saudis
blockade and assault on Yemen and here's
Rand Paul making that case on Fox and
Friends and apparently really getting
under the skin of which one was it kill
me kill me kill me the noted scholar of
American and Islamic history kilmeade so
it's sort of Clash of the Titans
kilmeade is long in on the infinite war
stock apparently and so he just want to
hear any of this doc opinion we need to
have a strong national defense we need
to balance our budget but we don't need
to be in everybody Civil War I think the
president agrees with me well the only
problem is when we leave Iraq in comes
Isis if we leave Afghanistan
out comes al-qaeda and then buildings
start falling here so you got to be
responsible don't they the other half of
that Brian though is we went into
Afghanistan we toppled the regime in and
we went into Iraq topple the regime
there and guess what it made it ran
stronger so really we tip the balance of
power in favor of Iran when we went into
Iraq so we have to think of the
unintended consequences of always
intervening and everyone sausage I also
I want to remind Brian Kilmeade it may
be it's quite a while ago he may not
remember but the reason why in his mind
if we leave Iraq and then the terrorists
move in is because we invaded Iraq and I
want to remind him they were in no way
involved whatsoever with 9/11 to the
contrary I mean literally to the
contrary they were hostile to al Qaeda
but it's not like we've defeated the
terrorists now it's a small any of these
places small deeply reminding Brian
Kilmeade feels like reminding a cat
exactly but here let's continue so we
have to think of the unintended
consequences of always intervening in
every one Civil War well we don't always
intervene in every one Civil War
well we're involved in about seven civil
wars Raza I'm going to see like go back
there cuz like Rand Paul almost laughs
at how childish of a response that is
did you say
a like we're a or an did you say a or an
that's I mean that is the level we're
not into every single Civil War such a
liar brand when we went into Iraq so we
have to think of the unintended
consequences of always intervening and
every one Civil War well we don't always
intervene in every one Civil War
well we're involved in about seven civil
wars right now and but okay only seven
right through happens yourselfs teen
yeah it's like not even half so there's
only seven civil wars happening you
yourself just contradicted yourself
exactly and then buildings come down
when people do that I bet you that's
over half of the current civil wars I
bet you were involved in over half those
probably yes particularly the Yemen's
Civil War we just Russia then they're
seventy there's seventeen million people
in Yemen living on the edge of
starvation they had the largest cholera
outbreak well maybe Ron just stop eating
the dizzy rebels well this is because
the Saudis are blockading Yemen we are
aiding and abetting them in the last
couple of weeks the Saudis bombed a
school bus with 50 children we should
not be arming the Saudis in my bill
today will stop sending on that was a
mistake
and what about should we give Yemen to
Iran would that be better no I think we
should understand that the world's a
little more complicated than that Brian
that their civil war there with many
different factions in Yemen and this
isn't our there isn't there really isn't
a single scholar who makes an argument
that Iran has a serious presence in
Yemen or influence as opposed to let's
say Syria but the idea that we would
give Yemen to Iran like okay then what
that's what I proposed in the Iran deal
would you guys like Yemen on top of it
anything we could do it
it ain't your nuclear program and if you
want yeah but just let me know what I
what what is Iran doing with Yemen it's
called a bail of transfer does that make
up for Stuxnet yeah whatever you need
hate Stuxnet was our bad God knows the
goddamn Jill's were involved in it they
got their own frigging Jew country how
about a right of transfer to Yemen Yemen
into a some type of like resort place
right yeah that's with the Iranian
resort coast like UV the Iranian kotas
or will be Yemen right
the Houthis yeah basically the extent to
which Iran has strongly supported the
Houthis is after this started it is they
may be nominal it may be some money but
it's not like they have advisors on the
ground or any serious troop presence own
group that has its own factions in Yemen
and the basically Obama administration
actually did pretty much just say like
hey we get we pissed you guys off with
the Iran deal can we let you just
obliterate and do mass murder in Yemen
if we look the other way and then Trump
of course accelerated it because in a
classic way like the Obama
administration let it happen it was
abysmal but they kept some restrictions
on it in terms of what weapons we're so
like okay guys we're not gonna we're
gonna kill a bunch of people but we're
not gonna kill absolutely everybody and
then with Kushner and Trump it's turned
it and that's I mean I get what Rand
Paul is doing like I understand he's on
the president's favorite show and he's
trying to deliver him a message but like
I think the president agrees with me on
this mm not quite I think the
president's quite on board for the mass
murder of Yemen I think we should get a
hotel in the offing so I mean there's
hotels my hands are tied also Mohammed
bit some buds super he's really cool
super cool did you see the orb would you
see the orb stake and what about should
we give Yemen to Iran would that be
better no I think we should understand
the world's a little more complicated
than that Brian that their civil war
there with many different factions in
Yemen
this isn't our Iran the US and Saudi
Arabia there are many different factions
which simply will continue to lock
simplifying senator no no the Sunnis and
the Shia have been at war with each
other for a thousand years they will be
at war with each other in another
thousand years it doesn't mean we odds
it I love how they're both accusing each
other of over simplifying thank you that
you you said yeah you're oversimplifying
not me
I'm not the one who's over simple thing
you're over you i what i don't like is
is rand paul did fall into the
essentialist it's been happening for
those views but on the other hand it is
amazing when one guy is like well
actually there's a multi-party conflict
here which implicates the saudis but
also the emirates iran has its own
strategic engine talking about all the
parties involved you're oversimplifying
it oh i think LLL meet is
actually saying like it sounds so simple
for you but you know all the names of
the countries
oh yeah it's that easy yeah it's as easy
as just watch how pissy we can watch
it's like yeah sending on that was a
mistake
and what about should we give Yemen to
Iran would that be better no I think we
should understand the world's a little
more complicated than that Brian that
their civil war there with many
different factions in Yemen your this
isn't Iran the US and Saudi Arabia there
are many different factions which they
will continue simplifying senator no no
the Sunnis and the Shia posit no it's
really also uncomfortable I don't know
this but but watching do see and is that
Ashley Ainsley or Ainsley Ashley Ainsley
that would exactly it would actually
just sitting there like just stone face
like not moving like I gotta let kill me
really really really really doesn't like
it they can smell kill Medes anger sweet
yeah exactly they're like oh this is
uncomfortable
cutaway kind of like she have been at
war with each other for a thousand years
they will be at war with each other in
another thousand years it doesn't mean
we always have to intercede okay I
sinner oh yeah okay yeah it's all so
simple for you because you know names of
countries yeah and by the way being
apologized for bombing
the school bus and murdering kids and
literally the Saudis explanation was the
two people that were trying to kill that
we thought were in the school bus
weren't in it so I guess our bad right
there wasn't a blanket like were
horrified that we murdered a bus full of
schoolchildren it was a we had some
inaccurate intelligence that would have
totally justified murdering a bunch of
kids absolutely
