[Music]
where do you think there was but like
when I started it was david broder david
broder was sort of the and I don't even
know if that name means anything to you
but David Rohde Broder was the
Washington Post sort of like the Dean
they I think they referred to him as the
Dean of Washington Beltway journalist
now everything has become so much less
aggregated and so much more diffuse and
not just from you know because of you
know online publications but because of
social media that there there isn't the
idea of a person being but when you look
on the landscape is like are the times
and the post still sort of the
institutions that better the ballast for
this I mean we're like is there that's
the question yep I mean I think
television news is the worst I think
chef Todd is a really well I want factor
here you know I mean the times and the
post they have their their journalistic
norms which inherently obfuscate truths
that the GOP has an interest in
obfuscating but they also do a lot of
really great reporting that does I you
know expose Republican lies and the in
the Trump era everything is there the
corruption the bad se is so transparent
that that you know more than ever before
objective reality has this liberal bias
and the response of institutions like
Meet the Press at least according to one
Media Matters report that I recently
looked at has been to say well you know
the objective facts are so
anti-republican that we're going to have
a panel where we're going to have an
objective reporter but that means that's
basically a liberal and so then we need
to conservatives to sort of balance that
out so you have these these panels that
are
Republican and not just heavily
Republican but Eric Erickson is a
respectable conservative who can come on
Meet the Press and talk like the guy who
wants to throw leftist from helicopters
no see I mean if you imagine what the
left-wing equivalent of that would be it
would be some kind of Maoist tanky or
something rush you can't really imagine
the Chuck Todd isn't going to have on
it's so so yeah I don't I think that I
don't know how influential those
institutions are anymore is the
potentially good news I don't really
know that the audience for Meet the
Press is really getting that much of
their understanding of politics from
that show right to the extent that it is
it's it's not good there must be some
weird data about that because Meet the
Press has had that problem I mean you
know we can say now objective reality is
considered left so we have a non-biased
reporter on and they're supposedly the
liberal or the left voice but whatever
the scenario was ten years ago or eight
years ago or 15 years ago exact same
makeup of the panel exact same makeup I
mean I think it was you know the I think
the joke still is if it's Sunday it must
mean a Republican you know the Republic
you know the panel is all Republican
essentially you know just five John
McCain just exactly I mean now that John
McCain is gone it's it's opened the door
and and Eric Erickson walks through I
guess but I mean it would be interesting
to see if there has been ever been a
sort of an assessment of what of what
exactly Cable News Now does in terms of
like public opinion and obviously it
goes through rightly because when we say
public opinion I mean it seems to me
these narratives are fought like there's
like 15 to 20 percent of the turf is
where the battle is fought over right
like there's like you know the then the
idea is if you can win that if you can
win the majority of that twenty percent
of the terror
of our you know sort of societal
landscape then the other 80% will more
or less come along right that's the
theory here right like I mean I'm just
trying to think of like why I do this
every day and and you know if if we can
move you know 0.5% 0.05 percent of the
broader population you know if we have I
don't know tens of thousand maybe a
hundred thousand people that we can
convince of a certain narrative but the
idea is that it implicates that that you
know most of those people are on Twitter
and the only people who talk politics
are on Twitter are you know listeners of
a daily podcast and then media you know
political media that it shapes their
coverage and then this sort of diffuses
out to the general public I mean is that
do you have a theory about that yeah
well I think that I think that Fox News
is incredibly effective because it you
don't need to opt in to Fox News
necessarily to get brainwashed by it as
the studies have shown you know that in
places where Fox News is added and I
think like it's a fairly low channel
number so people just happen to click on
it more that you see this shift towards
Republicans where you know people who
aren't necessarily all that conservative
suddenly their source of news is
reshaping their minds and it's presented
as fair and balanced or whatever admit
me they don't necessarily internalize
the the partisan then did it but I think
that across the boards with these media
outlets I think like Fox News and you
know obviously in a much more limited
where the majority report I think are
probably most effective in in building
out the the ideological consensus or
views within the partisan tribe but you
know the Fox News has turned a lot of
right-leaning Americans into you know
just nativist paranoiacs
you
proto-fascist and I think that
institutions like the majority report in
like left-wing ve I think potentially
give partisan Democrats a more
sophisticated understanding of of what
what progressive politics is about and
what what they should be on the lookout
in terms of policing the direction
within their party but yeah I don't know
I don't have access to data to determine
how much you know progressive media is
making a difference with that you know
whatever it's small chunk of largely
white non evangelical Midwestern voters
who aren't firmly in one partisan camp
or another what what what is reaching
them I do think I've written about this
before that there is this this problem
for Democrats where Fox News you can
have such a coherent mass it's the whole
networks
it's the coherence and they can they can
demonize immigrants without really
pitching off their shareholders all that
much whereas Democrats what you would be
wanting to do with if you had a
propaganda apparatus that was similar
would be to build up the class identity
of the viewership and you would need to
demonize oligarchs all day every day and
that's just not a that's not really a
viable prospect for a for-profit cable
news company that would that I mean that
certainly you know there was there were
moments during air America's ten year
where that was a bit of a problem where
the the populism would run up against
you know the potential to like how are
you gonna sell this the democracy
alliance which incidentally we never got
a dollar from the Alliance and I'm not
convinced and I think part of that was
also just like radio in and of itself
aside from the the message the medium
itself is highly populist and so the the
tenor and the tone of it and so if I
hear you correctly what you're saying is
that the jury's still out as to whether
I am completely wasting my life I would
say so yes all right well I appreciate
that
Eric Levitz thank you so much for your
time today we got a link up to your up
to that piece GOP is making its contempt
for democracy clear will the mainstream
media as well as your next piece
conservatives are right to write off big
cities Eric thanks so much for atonte I
really appreciate it yes
