before 7/8 area code
who might this be uh this is the
anti-hero to the left you can click see
as the southern Wolverine tapper perhaps
welter weight shift or to say I love it
Jeff from Georgia was the Wolverine
thing a that wasn't a reference to Red
Dawn no no I think yellow spandex and
adamantium claws I know that kind of
thing more what I had in mind
hey man look I'm calling you from a
colony from the heart of Georgia of
course normally I don't spend a lot of
time talking about lectures but you know
Stacey Abrams got tight tight race here
do pull out today or solids basically
dead heaps for 746 hips of my wood good
news
voter turnout voting started this week
is well I saw a huge amount of lying and
pictures of a huge amount of lines
people waiting three or four hours to
early vote to early vote yeah which
people should take is it this is a sort
of double edged sword right like on one
hand it is extremely sad cuz they've
been waiting in line to do something is
the easiest vote to take that long
should be easy and quick but on the
other hand that means the electorate
cribs are motivated to vote according to
polls tube issues they're most motivated
to vote about is health care number one
and number two is immigration obviously
that second one cuts probably both ways
right I think a lot of Republicans here
also very motivated think embraces their
quotas pops yeah they got about four
years ago maybe it was I know that
Georgia implemented a fairly draconian
law about punishing or about either
housing or employment for undocumented
immigrants and you had a year where a
lot of peaches hit the ground is my
understanding how much better
that is absolutely correct yeah how much
how much is that resonated like how much
how much do people have the the memory
of that or was that just sort of like
narrowly felt I mean I think it has it
does resonate some work with some
Republican voters because that is
absolutely true that they did implement
draconian immigration procedures and we
really could not get the labor necessary
to harvest crops that year you know I
live in a caddy a lot of farmland and I
live just stole throw away from her
children too and yeah I know for a fact
that they suffered the legislature had
to reverse themselves almost immediately
it says just as fast as I could of their
part-time a schedule that doesn't matter
but but I think what you know what was
curious about it to me is that I think a
lot of Democrats are also motivated by
gracious that's why there tell people
tell pollsters that sort of reward issue
and in terms of healthcare that you know
ain't nobody excited about broadcast
healthcare play he got a health care
player his health care plan is do less
which is not really resonating with with
people in a way that you expect
obviously problems you know she's not a
liberal sheet she calls himself a
associational socialist about that but
uh you see she really could be a fire
governor thing if they give her what had
at least two wheel para with if she gets
her there the owner is not telling about
elections so there's this time of years
because honestly I've convinced this
last thing I'm saying that you're saying
the Republican Party has become a death
cult they are willing to defend a way of
life that will quite possibly probably
lead to you know massive degredation in
civilization for the entire planet just
so they can have their better cured laws
and their cheap gas and there's seven
dollar minimum wage whatever this
will kill us all
and I you know it's possible the
Democratic Party is this efficient
vehicle
for chage we're all thoughts right right
but but it's also possible that they're
not is they might be a vehicle for
change and it ties with fascism is
really creeping up Otis is more
important ever dot said dole gg-get you
are going to see people not just your
our nemesis whose name I will not speak
but there are others there are lots of
others out there whose vote is about
brands whose vote is about identity it's
a foolish exercise of narcissism don't
listen those people don't care how they
work are you suggesting you both stay
savers even arrested from yard do now
Jeff from Georgia all right let's go
into uh
