[Music]
let's play this clip Nancy Pelosi I you
know I want to be no I don't really
necessarily want to be generous but I
mean I just want to be fair as far as
that I could see an argument why one
wouldn't impeach I can see various ones
and but I can see the validity of an
argument that says like oh this is going
to hurt the re-election chances of
members of my caucus in purple states
and that's why I'm not doing you know
going to do it that argument though
needs to be backed up particularly if
you're the Speaker of the House with an
actual plan to do something in between
now and the election because if you
leave a vacuum for someone like Donald
Trump he will fill it if you leave a
vacuum for someone like bill bar he will
fill it they will fill it with their own
investigations then they will fill it
with their own Republicans who go out
who are completely shameless in pursuing
these things and the only plan that I
could see there I don't know what it
would be may be another sort of like a
type of Investigations or my
understanding is they've passed all the
bills that they had really basically set
up they've passed a bunch of them it
hasn't it hasn't particularly worked I
mean there's a bunch of votes that
they've taken but those votes aren't
going to go away if you need votes to
run on they have them
the idea that you would be in any way
contemplating at this moment what Nancy
Pelosi is expressing at the Peterson
foundation Pete Peterson was Nixon's
Commerce Secretary billionaire from I
think it was Blackrock investments or
something like that he recently died
Nancy Pelosi was was very praise praise
fall upon his death they are basically
looking to raid Social Security Medicare
long term and they do it through deficit
Hawk eree
and they have purchased there are so
many of these summits and so many pp
derson foundation grants and whatnot
that you it's very hard to find
journalists particularly over a certain
age who have not been in some way funded
in some endeavor or another by Pete
Peterson then they all haven't been
corrupted by it necessarily but it
certainly dominated the discourse this
is stunning she's at a fiscal summit
2019
building America's future being
interviewed by Maharajah I do it before
we get into the issues of the conference
I do want to talk about some of the
issues that have been in the news over
the past week you were traveling abroad
and you were Normandy the president was
in Normandy to in he made some comments
about you he was sitting in the American
Cemetery in Normandy and rather probably
the most aggressive remarks I've heard
from the president make about a speaker
of the house he said that you were
nervous he called you a disaster he also
called you a nasty vindictive horrible
person this is not me there's a
president saying this he later went on
to tweet that you were disgraced to
yourself and your family so how do you
react to the press of the United States
calling this calling you the speaker the
house insulting you like that
well what bothers me more is that we're
talking about that instead
how to reduce the national debt now look
I can understand the the idea to make it
look like you're talking about business
and if you don't want to talk about him
say well he's a bit of a child let's
move on to something else what does she
understand that in success what she's
setting up with this there are a million
other things a million other places she
could have been yesterday or today
rather to do that same pivot he's a
child
I don't want to talk about him I want to
talk about infrastructure he's a child
I don't want to talk about him I want to
talk about monopolies in our healthcare
industry I want to talk about monopolies
in our tech industry I want to talk
about health care for Americans I want
to talk about what's happening in terms
of a woman's right to choose I want to
talk about the judiciary I want to talk
about getting wage growth up after a
month where wage growth was stagnant in
jobs fell I want to talk about dealing
with wealth inequality I want to talk
about dealing with women's health issues
I want to talk about the opioid crisis
there are a million things that she
could have brought up in that instance I
want to talk about what's going on with
the destabilization in the Middle East I
want to talk about what's happening with
the dreamers I want to talk about what's
happening where we're trying to leverage
our trade to force Mexico to to have
draconian policies towards people who
are escaping violence a million things
she could have talked about and she's
choosing to talk about the one thing
that in the event her strategy works and
gets more democrats elected that they
will be faced with having to impose
austerity policies because she has
already laid the premise that the real
problem we have is a debt crisis it is
beyond unconscionable
it's unconscionable from a policy
standpoint because we have no more of a
debt we like we don't have a debt crisis
and it's unconscionable from a political
standpoint because everybody everybody
who pays an ounce of attention to this
has seen what the Republicans do they
have done this since the Reagan era they
drive up the deficits in the debt when
Democrats get into office they force
Democrats to cut and to build towards a
surplus and then when the Democrats are
out of power they drive up the deficit
and the debt rinse repeat rinse repeat
rinse repeat specifically how many times
we went from Republican to Democrat to
Republican to Democrat to Republican to
Democrat and did those same things and
we now know that all of the supposed
literature and academic research that
suggested that we were in a debt crisis
was BS like literally a spreadsheet that
hadn't been double-checked Rogoff
Reinhart and Rogoff Rhine art in Rogoff
and identified by a grad student at
UMass just to end her line how radical a
mistake that was yes and everybody had
adopted it and you know Pete Peterson
had to enshrine these guys I don't even
know if they can walk what was the book
called I used to remember that I don't I
don't remember either
so there you uh there you have it I just
would like to add briefly I mean I think
that though that this is where and I was
reading Bosch gaara's book in
preparation he does a good job of
explaining like the elements of
understanding the Third Way globally
going back to the 80s and 90s and how
you know it does fit in with what even
that Nancy Pelosi sound and in some ways
if you there's like the personal
failings of politicians there's the fact
that they're all compromised by
corporate campaign contributions and
then there is the balancing act between
basically having no political conflicts
between one party that's there to purely
indulge capital interests they have
absolutely nothing else to do which are
the Republicans obviously and then a
Democratic Party that sort of like has
to triangulate between preserving
remnants and then helping facilitate the
next rounds of basically austerity and
you know there was definitely in the
eighties and nineties structural reasons
for that and so it's like a question of
escaping that ideologically and in terms
of your donor base but also hopefully
reconfiguring how people understand the
economy as well let's take
