[Music]
let's talk about your good friend Bill
O'Reilly now my understanding is that
you guys started out together in show
business and then your paths diverged
and now he's you've guys have come back
around in many respects he's on Newsmax
TV which I know that you were up for
this lot
and you didn't didn't get it yeah
maybe it was because of anti-semitism
maybe not I don't know but I sure hope
it was so ah this is important stuff
because Bill O'Reilly's talking about
his experience at a Fleetwood Mac
concert interacting with millennium
let's watch a little bit of this because
because real news better talk news max D
hey I'm Bill O'Reilly and this is the
Talking Points Memo last night I was at
the Fleetwood Mac concert City and I
learned something I already knew with AD
Mac was a traffic group it's just
amazing to see a Stevie Nicks 71
Christine McVie mid-70s Mick Fleetwood
mid-70s John McVie mid-70s perform for
two hours and ten minutes on stage as
it's just amazing and yeah 1740 I guess
so they were great and the crowd was
nobody's know 40
how old was billing a lot of people and
it occurred to me that there's a change
happening in America so the crowd was
you're ready for those folks now he'll
deposit the change and I don't want to
tip anything off it seems to be that
there are new people being born and
growing older let me get to a certain
age and there
when they were when they were born York
is Lindsey Buckingham it's less
Fleetwood Mac again again was equally
divided between boomers baby boomers
like me who grew up with Fleetwood Mac
and then Millennial Generation Z younger
people primarily women who admire Stevie
Nicks and Christine McVie as feminine
icons so the baby boomers are watching
his show and if really calm because
they're old all right
and they had a couple before they came
in they're mellow he's talking about
himself wait before I go he's saying
Millennials generally speaking god I
didn't see one without watch the show
with this in their hand it's like
sending up a phone texting every song
and they were taking some pictures but
at the garden it's it's hard to take
picture I always texted you away and and
it's the stages lit but it's not a
picture kind of thing maybe the
recording right you all have this right
in your hand almost no Wow yeah it's
pretty stunning so I say hey let's go
see plea would Xavier boo you wait in
the car and then I was there it
everybody's good can we play it like I
can put up the speed so we can get to
the payoff because I'm curious as to
what the big change
 society's imploding I'm on news
backs and there's 30 year old seeing
Stevie Nicks who I used to joke after
you decided you should date this is one
point to speed okay one point you people
know um and there Millennials are taking
selfies and bending over like pretzels
to try to get them in the stage and all
that mmm couple of things okay a ban
non-political
no I know that there for many years and
some of them are political but they
didn't do that I'm gonna sit away from
all that
all right which is good people don't pay
a lot of money and it is a lot of money
go see Fleetwood Mac all right here
entertain his spout off stop the music
of Fleetwood Mac is classic its timeless
and there are some cons where you want
to jump up and dance and that's fine
that's what
but the Millennial Generation Z people
would never sit down the time it's
stored at a time it ended they were
standing up and there were people behind
that you know some B's people were 75 80
and they couldn't see and the
Millennials didn't care at all because I
saw confrontation so some of us are
loaded in our mid 60's it had to leave a
major cable network ago we called black
women mochaccinos and asked if they want
an extra milk with that and we were
there and we can't stand up because
we're a little drunk those are some of
the other people that might have been
there this is all just about a story a
confrontation he had with the Millennial
right this was just people were standing
in front of him that's basically what
happened I think what I've noticed about
America the way it's changing is young
people are always standing in front of
old people
the main thing happened before there was
one guy used to host Inside Edition that
had a prominent place whenever Cliff Fox
News he was not standing up because
maybe it had a little bit to drink
and there are people say in front of
them and there were people behind them
you know so many people were seven five
eight and they couldn't see and the
Millennials didn't care they didn't care
not at all
because I saw confrontations oh yeah I
actually had one but regardless all
right because I going in many years
if this drunken guy stands right next to
me and my party on the aisle not NFC he
just kind of ran down stood on the aisle
weaving like this and I said I saw you
you know blocking our vision Oh
I gave a look and then I stood up all
six-foot-four of me and he ran away ran
away and any Russian camp said you want
me to
I said no make sure he doesn't come back
so the people who are standing in the
answer were they couldn't care less
they couldn't care about if anybody
could see or what they were doing and so
these people were like gyrating like I
just hit my mind that's what they were
doing I'm going you know this you know
what this is all about this is all about
narcissism and this is what's happening
because this thing is you now this is
like your hand it's an extension of your
body and if these nice if these
Millennials are Jeezy people or whatever
they lose this jay-z they don't have it
that's big gotta have a Z people or any
boys - I'm not saying a Boomers aren't
doing this but the younger Americans
under 40 really addicted and so
everything is coming through this into
here goes Bing Bing instead of coming
for life into here this in between now
what this does is it makes everything
center around you because people are
texting you instagramming you
facebooking you whatever you're doing
right you you you you you Lee Neil so
therefore the mentality becomes so happy
it's about me the whole amazing about
this hold on pause and he is now finally
coming around to doing Al Franken's bit
from syenite live the me generation
which is stunning yes Bill O'Reilly has
finally finally adopted Al Franken's
perspective after all these years it's
become his delivery of there were
confrontations I had one I just
coincidentally people dance at a concert
I know that's the amazing thing he's
like he's making an argument that is
completely lacking in profundity that
phones allow us to mediate our reality
and then tying it into and that's why
people dance at concerts know that
you're supposed to do
you go to see Fleetwood Mac it's like
it's like Oasis Symphony you get drunk
[Laughter]
you create the Opera we done it yeah
yeah I think we why we can't goddamn
performance I hope that millennial
blocked him on purpose I would have died
I mean I'm surprised that people weren't
protesting him oh you know it would be
so funny to be standing up right in
front of Bill O'Reilly I think I might
just start going to Fleetwood Mac
concerts with the hopes that I'm gonna
run into it I stand up in front I
probably would have sat down but now
that I know Bill O'Reilly is he also
revealed that he wasn't in a box he
didn't have the body he didn't have a
boss because someone was standing in the
aisle next to him well you could be in
an aisle in the box can't you no I mean
I'm not I'm not a box tightness right
now must be good if the ushers coming to
the guy had access and could run away
couldn't have been a box
well whoever did that basically a troupe
he knew they put him in a special
section was a no-spin zone spinning I'm
telling you he brings it he really he's
obviously read professor Ben Burgesses
book because the logic is spectacular he
listened to his conclusion
now David do you get up every day and
watch O'Reilly on news max I mean is
that daily Richards uh yeah and I'm
actually writing a book with him about
his experience at the Fleetwood Mac cos
it's called The Killing soft-rock he
brings it home if you watched it to the
very end he actually makes a really
salient point
oh really let's watch it let's watch it
to the end we don't have like a minute
left don't we oh yeah this is this is
the thing where you know you're making
fun of him but he puts it he puts a nice
bow on this and Alex Perrine who's a
writer great writer he could learn about
this in terms of structure right all
right let's see here we go under 40
really addicted I go forward a little
bit so
everything is coming through your doing
uuuuugh
so therefore the mentality becomes so
about me it's about me the whole life
experience this is my Dennis Miller is
not on anymore because he's taking his
 and this plays into politics into
voting to how the country is run I'm
telling you this socialism thing what
this is this is what happened this it
it's not Ocasio or burn sense it's that
I want to give me mine my my my my mom
you know I wanna I'm entitled to it
it's a narcissistic point of view the
government is to provide me with
education medical care whatever give it
to me and if somebody has more than me
he knows I'm takin ilysm and here's with
other data so ideas you should be able
Riley's consoling us whenever you want
that's the Talking Points Memo I'm Bill
O'Reilly for Newsmax reminding you so
wait a second so if I'm to understand
this correctly in a socialist country
everyone stands up at concerts is that
what's going on yeah and everyone stands
and dances in the aisle and the more you
stand and dance the more socialistic
[Laughter]
when you run out of other people's views
of the concert to obstruct paraphrase
Churchill it sounds good under 30 who
does not block use a concert is great
until you're 85 years old tried to watch
on rune drive but all these young
whippersnappers are jumping in front of
you stones if anything I mean I know
he's probably
only talking about himself I think baby
boomers almost dance more when they go
to concerts in my experience I brought
my mom to a 24-hour drone festival few
years back and she was uh she was
actually annoyed that more people
weren't dancing
what hour was it though I mean by hour
22 I feel like people are just fried
that was the evening okay it could have
been dance my mom danced it was adorable
there you go and at the DSA Christmas
party as well that I helped put together
there were some really awesome baby
boomers just dancing the whole time down
a front I took a video so fake news bill
over basically well David thank you for
introducing us to that bad Bill O'Reilly
segment by I feel I feel like I figured
it out now and all of I vote yes so all
of a sudden they think they should get
health care joke I don't think it's
funny Alex III because it's not
spontaneous it was written down could
you do it
you're funny I don't want to he said
this is going to be recorded for a new
Fleetwood Mac album entitled it
we'll do it live I don't thank you thank
you though thank you for doing I think
you delivered it much better than Alex
would have so I could tell you that yeah
well junkets Pawnee digging out if
someone wanted to someone wanted to
listen to your your podcast what would
they do or your radio show right it's a
radio show podcast isn't it have silver
fillings and their molars IUDs we found
that people women can hear my show if
they have an IUD installed and fillings
in their teeth wait so what is the
pretty much all right
I noticed that dr. burry I noticed that
you named
after yourself is that because of your
photos my phone use yeah
like it's all about YOU isn't it David
what is the O'Reilly Factor fit into
that whole narcissism spectrum my factor
I mean no but I'm just saying like not
only je name a show off to yourself it
was like your anyone anyone who has ever
hosted a cable news show has just no
business diagnosing another I know is
unbelievable sorry really
I look millions of dollars paid out to
the Rachel Maddow in sexual assault and
sexual harassing Rachel Maddow's like
Chapman and this new generation and
she's going into fast car which is her
most famous song re Melbourne
complaining about her roots show twenty
years all have these chips in their head
it's like it's literally embedded in
their heads under singing we are having
imagine ourselves awesome I'm not just
hearing Tracy I'm hearing them
