[Music]
let's get to this so there's some
controversy because Bernie Sanders is
doing a Fox News Town Hall so I just
wanted to say three things about this
and then we're actually gonna play a
clip from the last time he did a Fox
News townhall 2016 Fox News is a cancer
it's a essentially state propaganda it's
white nationalist it's a I'll say it
again it's a cancer on American society
I think that the Democratic Party was
absolutely right and not have a debate
under the auspices of Fox News because
the notion of having these people up on
stage as candidates getting far-right
talking points in questions as a frame
for the debate is ludicrous so let me
witch Lee and I'm making zero moral
equivalency here obviously but here's
like the difference in my mind because I
think Bernie should absolutely do this
and I think it's insane to expect any
presidential candidate to not do a town
hall and I see you know some people who
were sort of moralizing and nitpicking
about this I have made some of their
very own sort of interesting choices
about you know who they put forward but
that being said I think that he's right
to do this and here's the difference
that I would say if the majority report
or the Young Turks or even Democracy Now
were to say we want to host the
Republican presidential debate that
would be awesome and the Republicans you
know what if they said no I think we'll
pass on that or the libertarians I
wouldn't hold that against them that
would seem like a pretty sort of
probably a wise move now
if one of these platforms said we're
gonna give
you an hour to make your case in a
becerril environment but with an
audience of voters and we'll see in a
second how this ends up working and
could be enormous Lee to Bernie Sanders
advantage it would be insane of them not
to say yes so I think look the bottom
line is is that Bernie Sanders running
for president and this is an opportunity
to reach voters and even if it is 1% of
people watching that could get flipped
that's how votes work and I do not think
that his going on there and making the
case making the argument is the
legitimization of the white nationalism
platform and that by the way holds
across the board my beef is basically
almost never I you know never say never
but almost never the actuality of going
on a particular platform it's what you
do when you're on it that's my bottom
line so if somebody went on fox and said
hey you know i'm a democrat but we need
to you know we need to ice needs to
terrorize people of well of course it's
disqualifying you going fox and you do
this I think it's actually enormous ly
effective yeah I mean I agree with you
I'll just mention a Minority Report Sam
Sachs the district Sentinel said I don't
think Bernie should go on Fox News it's
not that I'm concerned he'll add
legitimacy to the network it's that the
left should have principles when it
comes to engaging with racist fascist
organs and I think like that principle
is one worth noting even if Bert we are
going to give Bernie a pass for breaking
it at this point absolutely that's fair
I happen to believe and I know not
everybody agrees with me I believe that
health care is a right of all people I
believe that there is something wrong
when we are spending we're excuse me
where did that right come from in your
mind being a human being
and what I believe brick we may disagree
with me I believe pause that but I just
love cuz it's exactly right that is
where the right came from and brett's
it's funny when a kind of meathead guy
does like that's a very superior like
Lana to come from sort of like dumb you
know but the unconstitutional
fundamentalism
yeah constitutional fundamentalism or
religious nonsense or whatever and I
just like the subtext and I actually do
think it's effective debate tactic from
people on the left is like when you
state something that anybody with like a
beating heart should agree with you can
always be like Brett you're free to be
an I love that go ahead we may
disagree I believe that if she is poor
and you are rich she is entitled to the
same quality health care that you have
because she's a human being
boom excellent another reminder of why
he's the candidate that's ridiculous I
mean imagine coming away from that being
like well they have more money on yeah
but they have more money so they have
more value I mean that is literally the
sociopathy of that position you know you
talk about you bi and and things like
that about basically that give in to the
idea of how important money is in a
society but doing things like just
everyone gets the same health care no
 so that basically sorry your
money's no good here
absolutely that's how you make money
less powerful in society like it needs
to not be a reserve to go to to like
basically to survive absolutely 100%
