[Music]
the majority report Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Daniel bessner he's
the pile professor of American foreign
policy at the scoop Jackson school at
the University of Washington I could
never get over the irony of that
appointment although it is well-deserved
of course and he's the author of this
new piece in The New Republic the fog of
intervention which focuses on the highly
troubling record an intellectual
framework of Samantha power who Daniel
wood would you say with the exception of
Sanders who's sort of the only one
attempting to cultivate a bit of a new
foreign policy a significant new foreign
policy framework that this is somebody
that could actually be that will
certainly be lobbying to be Secretary of
State and a Joe Biden administration as
an example oh absolutely I would say
there's a very good shot she would be
Secretary of State
yeah and the Biden administration or
perhaps even a warrant administration
and it's not Secretary of State than
definitely one of the most important
under secretaries of state or at the
Department of Defense - and
Undersecretary of the Department of
Defense Agency as well so who is
Samantha power and what is her
trajectory sure so dysentery briefed
Samantha power is someone who emigrated
from Ireland to the United States with
her mother who was a doctor when she was
about nine in the late 1970s she went to
Yale as an undergraduate after
graduating from Yale she became a war
reporter in the Bosnia conflict in the
mid 1990s unless that conflict I believe
in 95 could start position not a
position but to become a student at
Harvard Law School at Harvard really
dedicated herself to examining the
question of I wanted if the United
States should intervene abroad
militarily to end deep in rights abuses
essentially came up with the conclusion
that military intervention should always
be on the table this is over the course
of the late 1990s and then she began
writing the book that eventually became
2002's a problem from Hell America and
the age of genocide and which she argued
that the United States over the course
of the 20th century
failed a number of foreign people's
abroad the Armenians the Cambodian the
Kurds and the Rwandan in particular but
other groups as well of course it's used
during the Holocaust you know of the
United States eventually you know
liberated some camps in western Germany
but she wrote this book of problems
until it won the 2002 Coates award
Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction I
was using the cuddle for the debate to
invade Iraq even though power of herself
was against the invasion she eventually
meets up with Barack Obama around 2005
takes a leave from Harvard to work for
him for a year and after Obama wins the
Democratic presidential primary campaign
she becomes one of his foreign policy
advisors when he went to the presidency
she becomes he appoints her to a
position that's to positions of the
National Security Council basically head
of human rights and then in his second
term Obama's second term 12 to 16 she
replaces Susan Rice as the US ambassador
to the United Nations and just to
conclude she was very much in favor of
the events intervening in Libya and
after that she was in favor of the
United States doing more to intervene in
Syria particularly sheets that she just
said spam and PR in fact and she says
essentially in her book that Obama
students have gone to Congress for
approval and should have just intervened
he essentially unilaterally in Syria and
now she just published a memoir called
the education event an idealist and that
is what my review was on so what is the
significance of Bosnia and all of this
let's go back to the 1990s and juxtapose
it between we have a post cult you know
reposed the Soviet Union is collapsed
there's the need inside you know the the
military-industrial complex and the
intellectual complex that defense
intellectuals which you're a historian
of to basically justify still having a
global US military presence still you
know eating up a huge amount of the
discretionary budget with military
spending and and not really sort of
reforming the intelligence apparatus
then there's this sort of triumphalism
obviously and then there's an
understanding that from Bosnia that
seems to have kind of filtered and
really culminated in Iraq although it
isn't
thing that she opposed the invasion I
mean obviously that's to her credit but
it it's in her book and I think it's in
a lot of people's perceptions of Bosnia
that I mean one that yes that early on
there was a non intervention so there
was mass slaughter and genocide but then
that also the later Clinton the NATO
bombing of Serbia was basically you know
easy right with there was no real cost
to it it achieved the political
objective and so on
not much on civilian casualties in
Serbia not much on sort of
problematizing what NATO's role was it
relative to how it related to Russia and
a post Cold War environment what were
the what was actually happening in
Bosnia and how did the presuppositions
and conclusions coming out of Bosnia
filter into her work and then the sort
of catastrophes that would come after
especially even during Bush but also in
this so-called you know liberal Hawk or
liberal interventionist tradition that
she exemplifies sure so I think
continually understand it you need to go
back a little bit a little bit earlier
so let's just say this is actually what
I broke my first book on titled of
democracy in exile if you go back to the
forties the people who create things
like the National Security Council and
the Department of Defense in the CIA
their major argument was essentially
that once the Soviet Union is defeated
you could basically get rid of all of
these institutions an American life
could return to normalcy because there
wasn't an existential threat now of
course when the Soviet Union collapses
over the course of 1989 to 1991 that
isn't actually what happens for a
variety of institutional reasons and
intellectual reasons mainly that people
begin to believe that the United States
has the right and duty to govern the
world and this of course is a deep
strand of American history going back to
the 1630 speech the city on the hill but
really beginning in during World War one
with both Sounion ISM the idea that the
United States will only be safe in the
world if every of every place in the
world is a democracy so you get this
idea after the collapse of the Soviet
Union that the United States military is
essentially able to act as a
non-political force in the world
during the Cold War it wasn't really
possible for Samantha power in the 1960s
or 1970s to argue that the US military
was in a political force because it was
clearly fighting anti-communism right
but with the the rise of the post cold
war rhetoric of the end of history the
idea that all political development had
come to an end you get those arguments
that the military could be in a
political force and they could actually
act not on behalf of the United States
but on behalf of humanity and so these
are the arguments that are beginning to
percolate in the early to mid 1990s now
what happens in the mid 1990s are two
terrible humanitarian disasters one you
have Rwanda in 94 the genocide that the
United States doesn't intervene to stop
and then you have basically the seeds of
Sarajevo and in the mid 1990s during the
Bosnian Civil War as Yugoslavia has
broken down so Samantha power is
basically in the former Yugoslavia in
the early and it really had more in the
mid-1990s and she witnesses what happens
when there's essentially a humanitarian
crisis in the United States and doesn't
intervene to stop it
so this becomes a really crucial moment
in her life because for her the failure
of the United States to stop the peace
sorry folks call Daniel right back you
know just give me that you just a little
bit
you know yeah we can hear you now it
just dropped alright let's just come
right back do you remember where you
were okay so absolutely so basically
yeah okay go ahead sorry go ahead no no
worries
so basically power is in Bosnia in the
mid 1990s and she's basically her
personal experience leads her to
conclude that the United States really
needs to intervene in the world
otherwise humanitarian disasters are
going to repeat and not only that the
United States has the right and duty
because at the end of the Cold War it
can act as an a political force and so
what eventually happened is Clinton does
end the siege of Sarajevo in the summer
of 1995 I believe I believe it is July
or August I don't exactly have the date
and this sets the stage going for a
bunch of liberal humanitarian
interventionist arguments that become
very powerful over the course of the mid
to late 1990s of course Clinton
intervenes in Kosovo with airstrikes and
in the lead-up to the invasion of Iraq
not the major reason but one of the
reasons that people were arguing in
favor of intervening was that Saddam
Saddam Hussein's gassing of the Kurds in
the 80s the chemical attacks against the
Kurds provided a casus belli a
legitimate reason to go to war in order
to protect humanitarian intervention in
order to decide basically defend Human
Rights it's through humanitarian
intervention and this becomes powers
essentially major arguments and a
problem from hell and the book
particularly when it won the Pulitzer in
the you know the six months after 9/11
we just had the anniversary so in the
six months after 9/11 she becomes a very
influential figure in Human Rights
discourse throughout the United States
but also throughout the world as well so
how does the tension work I remember
reading that book in college and you
know there there's no room in that book
certainly for any economic questions for
any you know broader kind of equity and
social rights questions there's not much
focus on the u.s. role as an example and
say the other 9/11 and supporting a coup
that removes ident I and they on behalf
of you know US business interests
essentially in their in their region
so that isn't in the book but attention
that is in the book is that on one hand
as you're saying it's this sort of blind
faith in American power to write a
particular type of wrong in the world
you know not the wrong of sweatshops or
Mal distribution but the specific I mean
obviously very serious atrocities of
genocide and mass killing but at the
same time she also has to you know
document as an example the fact that the
Clinton administration did sit on its
hands during Rwanda and now they sit on
its their hands they actually had to
actively try to downplay what was
happening in Rwanda because they fearing
basically because of what had happened
in Somalia they thought they saw it as
essentially a PR problem not a human
problem obviously she has with knowledge
Kissinger you know in his you know and
leading to an ironic and funny photo
we'll get you later
but how did she square that I didn't
really get how she did in the book but
how did that sort of split come of as a
historian of u.s. foreign policy you
have to see all of the areas where the
United States is either you know fought
to block UN conventions on genocide
which she focuses on that book or sat on
its hands or maybe even she kind of
acknowledges to some extent even
supported genocide 'el regimes versus
the United States can become you know
the bombardier wing of Amnesty
International exactly I mean the biggest
critiques of the book from historians is
that there's no mention of Vietnam and
there's no mention of the United States
as participation in the Indonesian
genocide
let alone mentions of things like the
overthrowing of Mossadegh in Iran for
the overthrowing of our pens in
Guatemala and the 50s and I end a you
know none of that is mentioned at all in
the book so there's some obvious blind
spots so that what what what I try to do
is the historian is trying to hit his
store size Y tower was able to allow
herself these blind spots in to me it's
really this end of history moment plus
time added with this sort of Holocaust
memory that becomes really popular in
the 80s and the 90s there's a crucial
moment in powers memoir which I haven't
really seen talked about and
the reviews I talk about a little of
mine but basically as a college student
she visits Dachau which is one of the
first concentration camp it's outside
Munich and the American forces liberated
Dachau and she says look this really
began demonstrating to her like the
importance of American military power in
the world and if the United States
didn't intervene in World War two then
all the Jews of Europe would have died
of course there's no mention of the fact
that for example was the Red Army that
liberated Auschwitz right so all told I
think powers history like I think many
histories of liberal interventionist by
this I mean the histories that they
choose to remember are incredibly
selective and this is to me the the
major problem with their thought is that
they want the good of American military
intervention and I think I'll go on
record as saying that if you could stop
genocide you know theoretically that
would be a good thing but the problem is
in actual history that it never just
results in a quick stop of a genocide it
always destabilizes these societies and
beyond that there's the pernicious
effects of having this enormous military
beyond you know the fact that the United
States is literally able to destroy many
areas of the world in ten minutes and
someone like Donald Trump could do that
there's the fact that we spend so much
of our money on weapons instead of
welfare there's the fact that we have a
domestic political culture that is
organized around military ideas and
military metaphors so the problem that
people like power are never able to
confront is that it is not historically
possible in actual history to get the
quote-unquote good of military
intervention without the bad and I think
this you see this primarily in the fact
that they always pose military
intervention as a philosophical problem
right do you save dying babies the
answer of course is yes but the problem
is when you're talking about foreign
policy decision making when you're
talking about what has actually happened
in 70 years of the United States running
the world it's never just about saving
innocent babies it winds up that
military intervention kills more babies
in the medium and long run than perhaps
not doing anything at all but the
problem is that after the end of the
Cold War and then I'll finish up now is
at the end of the Cold War people really
believed that the United States had won
history
was able to do whatever it wanted in the
world and you see this with Madeleine
Albright calling the nation the
indispensable nation etc etc right and
even in the Albright case though what's
extraordinary I mean those of us who
kind of came up on the you know the left
will remember that even as that
discourse is happening
and Madeleine Albright is confronted on
a you know a mainstream American news
program I don't recall exactly which one
and basically saying look the sanctions
regime that you're overseeing in Iraq is
is his people are dying as a result of
lack of resources and she said she
didn't say you know it was a sort of
typical evasion which was the sort of
pin all that on Saddam Hussein obviously
part of it was the Hussein regime but
the reality was there was very
aggressive sanctions that were blocking
medicines and other vital you know
economic activity in Iraq she said it's
a price worth paying and nobody seemed
to kind of say wait a second how do
those two things fit here or who or who
allowed Madeleine Albright or any US
policymakers to be the moral arbiter of
the world right right
it's a prerogative and a privilege of
Empire because another reason that
people like Samantha power and and
Madeleine Albright want to intervene
abroad is because the other countries
aren't gonna intervene back so all of
this is premise on a prerogative of
unquestioned American Empire and they
basically what happened in the 90s is
that they equated the Empire with
literally the moral good and I'm using
philosophical terms because that is what
they literally thought that the United
States and morality were literally
identical and you see very quickly with
the problem that this that this could
lead to right and and so then let's
contrast and maybe even as a point of
reference the trajectories of Peter
Beinart
who used to edit the you know very hard
neocon neoliberal line in the in the New
Republic where he you know quite happily
promoted the invasion of Iraq and you
know various aggressive policies from
Israel the United States and then as a
journalist and as an analyst has sort of
significantly modified his foreign
policy view because of
realities on the ground and then
Samantha power who actually ends up in
power in a position to quote do
something in her words and basically
helps oversee some of the largest
foreign policy disasters that the Obama
administration was involved in and also
in the same context of an administration
which is you know radically amping up a
global drone regime what does that tell
you you know that even that contrast
between maybe an outsider an insider but
also the fact that apparently there's
been no lessons here
there's been no evolution of thinking
right and that's why my first dinger and
the review is for a book titled the
education of an idealist power has
appears to not have learned very much
and I think you see it in the fact that
for example throughout the book power
doesn't mention Israeli occupation of
the of the West Bank or the Israeli seas
of saga
assai Gaza sorry on the saga of Gaza on
Gaza once she doesn't mention right she
doesn't mention Saudi Arabia or the
various human rights abuses it regularly
commits once she doesn't mention drone
strikes once whereas by night for
example and to his great credit has
actually spent the time to learn from
history and I think has immersed himself
more seriously in American history and
perhaps more importantly has done things
like gone for the West Bank and actually
see what Israeli occupation is like on
the ground and has admirably admirably
changed his mind as a result of that and
this is I so the question is what's the
difference and I think a big difference
between them is the fact that power I
couldn't really get it was cut from my
review but she really believes in
meritocracy and there's a lot of talk
and and it hasn't really been getting
much discussion in the reviews because
everyone's focusing on the humanitarian
stuff but basically there's a lot of
lean in feminism but throughout the
education of an idealist she there's one
chapter titled lean on where she talked
about how she leads to lean on like Kat
Sunstein her husband
the famous Mudder and chief and and
things like that and with sushi yeah so
she really accepts the premises of
neoliberal capitalist
Empire and globalization on
fundamentally and I think to reject
those premises would be to reject the
project of which she dedicated her life
and I I mean I'm a historian I don't
like to get psychological but I just
imagined that would be difficult for
most people to do but it's especially
difficult power because you know it's
not yeah in some real sense she has
blood on her hands by basically
promoting Libyan intervention and by
basically saying that Obama should have
ignored Congress and intervened more
heavily in Syria so I think someone like
power as unable to basically turn
against the premises by which she's
lived her life in a way that by NART
who's not a policymaker is much more
able to do but the question to me that
that's interesting is to see what the
Democratic foreign policy establishment
is going to take from this going forward
and if power is going to be someone
who's a viable candidate for a senior
level position in a warrant
administration or maybe even in a
Sanders administration because you and I
have talked about who's going to staff
these agencies so it'll be interesting
to see going forward what the Democratic
foreign policy establishment does with
Samantha power in her career let's spell
out Libya and Syria a little bit more I
want to quote specifically though from
your piece powers reckless recollection
of the Syria debate highlights her Mara
Craddock skepticism of democratic
politics she writes that she quote
regretted that our administration had
ascertained had not ascertained whether
or not we had the votes before the
president announced he was going to
Congress had he known he would fail she
did not believe he would have chosen the
path he did right so the question there
or the issue that's really important
there is that essentially power is
saying that she doesn't think there
should be real public debates about
American foreign policy choices and this
has been a theme of the American foreign
policy establishment since it was
created in its modern instantiation
after World War two and as we've talked
about before on the Michael Brooke show
great show everyone should listen is
that the institutions of American
foreign policy like the NSC like the DoD
like the CIA were specifically created
of one of the many reasons they were
created but in a
reason was to ensure that ordinary
American weren't actually able to
influence American farm policy and
basically the policies of the Empire and
so though no one would say today
Samantha power I'm sure would never say
that she's anti-democratic I'm sure
she's a member of the hashtag of
resistance for that matter you can see
through through quotes like that that
she very much is skeptical of ordinary
Americans ability to make decisions
about what the United States should do
in the world now of course the bitter
irony is that people like power are
sending other people's children off to
war to get traumatized to get injured
and in some instances to even get killed
well of course she and her family and
her friends and her social group suffer
absolutely no consequence someone or
someone who's concerned they lean on
each other so for someone who's
concerned about morality it's a pretty
glaring lacunae in my opinion absolutely
and and and in addition to that you also
say meanwhile I'm quoting you again
meanwhile power completely ignores the
human rights violations that took place
in her own country under Obama's watch
like many liberal internationalist she's
far more vexed about suffering abroad
nowhere does she dress police violence
against African Americans mass
surveillance refugee detention or mass
incarceration nor does she give much
attention much thoughts of the colonial
violence that defines American history
and in Inigo you say in the education
rajala she recalls inviting a Serbian
official to meet with her in the
so-called Indian room where she elects
heard him on the importance of
apprehending war criminal Ratko Milotic
somehow power overlooks the irony of
championing justice in a room named for
repeatedly breaking treaties that the US
government made with the native
population against which it committed
genocide
I just wanted to quote that in full
because I think that really and will as
you respond to that we now have the
photo of powers and Kissinger who I mean
if we can acknowledge that in reality
you know unwittingly but in reality she
certainly has blood on her hands from
the you know Libya as an example
Henry Kissinger I think is quite
comfortable with
blood on his entire body soaking himself
from his entire career yeah I mean he's
someone who's truly bathed in blood and
I think the reason that I highlighted
that is not to do a gotcha on power
right but it's just to say if you're
writing a 500 Plus page memoir it might
even be 600 pages I don't know it seems
like you would you would at least want
to address the fact that like you said
before drone strikes increased under
Obama or the fact of you know a moralist
surveillance or targeted assassinations
or mass incarceration of an enormous
number of the American poor and
african-americans in particular and it
just seems like such a glaring instance
and this is what's important about that
is that the world that she claims that
she wants to build which is a world of
human rights which we all I think should
want the build will never be built if
you don't take account of your own
hypocrisy in your own blind spots and
particularly the thing that was just so
glaring to me is because she's a foreign
policy person is how do you not mention
Saudi Arabia and Israel you know how do
you not mention Obama in 2015 ramping up
the Saudi war in Yemen you know I mean
this is such a glaring glaring gap it
really does undermine the entire project
because then you start asking yourself
whether she's a morally or
intellectually serious person you know
and I think this this is why I think the
New Yorker review god got at it well
it's like I think this is an audition
for Secretary of State and this is why
the New York Times gave Tom Friedman the
review of this book as opposed to
someone who was going to evaluate it
more seriously and I think it shows a
problem with the whole establishment do
you think
let's there's a really disturbing
incident that I think took place in 2015
I want to say maybe even 2016 towards
the end of the Obama administration yeah
I think April 16 2016 April 2016
Samantha power and this is just this
just really depressing horrible incident
which obviously I mean I you know I've
seen footage actually I forget that I
don't recall the name but there's a
documentary sort of tracking power you
know she obviously wasn't happy about
this event so that's
not the point but this event in Cameroon
which is such a kind of perfect micro
case study of this imperialist
interventionalist kind of moral
self-importance and it's actual
consequences on the grounds can you tell
us what happened sure so basically
everyone who remembers Boko Haram it had
moved out of Nigeria and in several
countries like Cameroon so so power was
going to one of them one of the big
things that she highlights in her book
is that she would go around the world
and really try to you know meet with
people on the ground and see what
they're experiencing so in one of these
instances she goes with her you know her
12 car convoy or whatever it is to
Cameroon to visit a refugee camp of
people who had fled Boko Haram and and
on the way to to the camp her convoy not
the car she was in but one of the cars
one of the armored cars basically
crushed the head of a young boy I
believe he was seven named Toussaint
and basically he killed him and and and
there was like a horrible outcry
obviously because this boy wouldn't have
had perished if power hadn't been there
and she I guess to her credit if that's
what you want to say she admits this she
admits as much in the book but the thing
is and that's what's particularly
disturbing to me is that she doesn't
take the opportunity to reflect on what
this almost to perfect metaphor for what
humanitarian intervention lines are
doing which is good intentions wind up
having innocent people die and this
isn't just sometimes or even one in two
instances or one in three instances it's
basically ten out of ten times
humanitarian intervention over time
results in more destabilization more
arming of local groups more violence
more death more destruction more raping
go in the medium and long term and it's
never something that she discusses which
is a shame because this incident I think
should have really forced a
reconsideration of everything that she
thought she was doing with US and
military power in the world yeah
absolutely I mean no there's nothing
she's such a depressing such a perfect
encapsulation of all
the dynamics here and all of the
arrogance and all of the incredible
human cost even for you know the people
that certainly the powers of the world
would obviously and I will say their
immense arrogance think they are acting
on behalf final question we've talked
about this before because you're very
your your work is a great synthesis of
reworking the intellectual models that
people use when they think about foreign
policy and then actually meeting with
and dismantling the actual bureaucracy
that has concentrated so much foreign
policy making the executive branch and
you know the sort of day-to-day running
of let's say the military-industrial
complex in the past couple of months
Sanders certainly you know he's called
for freeing Lula which i think is
usually innately important but it's also
a stand-in for a willingness to buck
u.s. foreign policy in a pretty
significant way on behalf of a you know
an independent and thoughtful
center-left leader who defied US
interests abroad he's talked about
cutting military spending he has a green
new deal which seems to provide a model
of cooperating with places like China
and Russia in a way that actually deals
with solving the most serious collective
problem we face do you think Sanders is
putting actual points on the board here
in terms of rethinking some of these
things and putting new ideas forward I
really do and I think that has a lot to
do with Matt to us I I think actually
Dustin's quoted an Atlantic article
today where he basically said the one
thing that we know for sure is we want
to ramp down and eventually get out of
the Middle East we know that for sure
and we want to cut down military
spending and we want to work with Russia
and China on climate but the most
important thing that he said to me was
that basically everything else is on the
table and I think that's what's most
important and I want to emphasize I and
no one really writing right now has all
the answers but now is the time for
intellectual discussion debate and
Furman's because we really haven't had
one in the last 30 years and to some
degree we really haven't had one in the
last 70 years rethinking America's
global role and whether quote unquote
American leadership ie American Empire
something that's actually good for most
arrogance or let alone most people in
the world so I think Bernie has been
putting up I think significant points
with everything you just said but but
really importantly has shown that he's
open to listening to new voices and also
just rethinking some of the intellectual
premises that he that he spent his life
growing up with him
Daniel Besner as always much appreciated
the piece is the fog of intervention
it's in the New Republic
Daniel bessner thank you so much thanks
Mike I'll take it easy that's to take
care man
