[Music]
what is it what if I was to tell you a
little story about an heir to a frozen
food fortune who looked upon a woman who
escaped incredible deprivation in Civil
War travelled thousands of miles to
escape this country that was suffered of
famine - I believe made it after years -
the United States worked hard learned
English actually did so well in her
community that she became a
congresswoman when you look at these two
examples one who is traded in on his
millions of dollars that he is going to
inherit and all the connections that
come with being that wealthy to sit in
front of a TV be on every single Network
continually failing upwards launched an
online publishing platform supposedly
because conservatives were in the gutter
and he wanted to show that conservatives
could do real journalism that ended up
doing all sorts of like you know semi
naked model stories and then just gutter
journalism would you imagine that that
guy would feel so embarrassed by himself
relative to this former refugee that he
would go on his TV show and malign her
as a bad immigrant well if you had
imagined get yourself a cookie because
that's what happened on Tucker Carlson
but for the left whether the country
benefits is not the point
congresswoman Ilhan Omar herself a
symbol of America's failed immigration
system there ever was one someone who
hates this country coming here at public
expense spent yesterday demanding the
abolition of ice the decriminalization
of illegal
immigration itself and an end to all
deportation programs she demands open
borders the unlimited arrival of anyone
who wants to come to America whether
they have anything to contribute or not
and by the way you get to pay for it and
if you don't want to you're a bigot well
you know this is really about of course
it's not about civil rights that's a
joke it's about money and power their
money their power the left has aligned
with business interests that profit from
cheap obedient workers low-skilled
immigrants have a harder time
assimilating into the American
mainstream they stay poorer they learn
English more slowly they're more likely
to remain an ethnic underclass all of
which makes them much more likely to
vote Democratic long term that's the
point
obviously well first of all the idea
that she is an example of the failed
immigration system I can't possibly
imagine a system that you would want
that would bring in any other type of
immigrants but first of all his data is
all wrong well he's not offering a data
he's just offering opinions but the fact
is that's not it's simply not true what
businesses want is an underclass of
workers which you would get through like
a temporary worker program or you would
get through undocumented workers just
being allowed to be in the country
without having a path to citizenship so
they don't have access to labor laws
Tucker Carlson's really worried about
the American worker he should be every
night hammering the Republicans for
their attacks on unions for their
attacks on labor laws he should be
talking about how Donald Trump rolled
back the time-and-a-half initiative that
the Obama administration there's plenty
of things that he can be talking about
and he should be talking about a path to
citizenship for every single one of the
11 million undocumented immigrants in
this country or immigrants who've
overstayed their visas that's what you
should be hammering for because as soon
as that happens that's gonna they're
gonna take them out of the shadows and
they're not going to be able to be
exploited but guess what that work is
still gonna need to be done and so all
his facts are wrong the fact of the
matter is is that we know that even on
dock
and immigrants increase labor
participation because they're doing work
and freeing up other work for other
people to go and do work all the things
he's talking about myths and there is a
lot of and talk about bank shots if you
want to help the American worker then
just help the American worker but the
idea that you're going to pick and
choose which immigrants are going to
come on and you're going to be able to
pick and choose which immigrants are not
going to not going to be competitive
with Americans for jobs I mean these are
the ones who always talk about
unintended consequences we know the
consequence of the immigration proposals
of immigration that we've had in this
country traditionally and it is help
this country dramatically and he wants
to suddenly go to some type of pick and
choose thing where who's gonna pick
these things government bureaucrats or
businesses corporations that want
undercut skilled workers it's the
classic who's gonna do this right we all
and and it's the classic method that he
always identifies certain problems that
are real then he goes and race Bates and
and you know demonizes immigrants and
then after that process is done you
realize like oh he began that segment by
correctly saying something about Amazon
as an example and nothing that would do
anything to undermine Amazon's
undermining of our democracy and total
all power did he say all he did was just
insight again still on Omar or you know
attack L on Omar or you know demonize
immigrants that it's such an important
point to hammer on and like he's he's
kind of right it's never gonna be enough
for the left to just say oh if you don't
support immigrants you're a racist like
there are very real reasons and that we
need to support a more open border
policy demilitarized supporter
decriminalize migration and I think even
on the left there's not necessarily a
consensus on that like I think some
people still want to paint this as part
of some neoliberal plan when in fact
they crack down on migration as a direct
result of NAFTA in the 90s because
Clinton needed to reassure people that
these powerful push factors we're going
to be able to create a wave of
immigration in the 1996 immigration
stuff was when they started using the
term criminal alien right and that was
all just the 90s Republican race-baiting
plus I think they did it after NAFTA
because they needed to keep people
inside Mexico for all these new
sweatshops that they had created like
anti-immigrant Policy is neoliberal
policy and we need to hammer on that
point
