[Music]
little Israel humor
I think somebody snuck in first stop a
spot today come from a 509 area code
this of course back-channel call Ronald
Reagan oh my god the conspiracy theories
are true look at you
jumping right in yeah I got called lost
connections remember that yes I do got a
CEO Han Hara yes I do
yeah so I went ahead and pre-ordered
that book very good interview he
mentioned something that really yeah
anyone oh well I'm in the paperback but
go ahead go ahead
yeah I think maybe because I selected
paperback okay damn it okay well anyways
so yeah he mentioned that more 18 months
old children in the United States
recognized the McDonald's logo then no
their own last name that's correctly
interesting yep
and it made me think about how I grew up
in a town called Albany Oregon so small
town hmm and down downtown Albany Oregon
there's this old Mennonite man named
William McDonald okuu had a shoe shop a
shoe repair shop right yep in here that
he had he had a big sign outside had it
like a big M on it that you know
McDonald shoe repair right and as a kid
I never I never thought for a minute
like that maybe they sold hamburgers
they're just clear that it was a
different thing right right so I got all
these David Pakman sock puppet
account coming at me on Twitter about
how there's other people who have
used panels or squares right there's a
famous Dutch artist she sort of get
these colorful bright squares right I
forget his name
Mondrian design is also known for that
but I don't think he was Dutch but go
ahead they're missing the entire point
and by that I mean David Pakman
pretending to be like ten other people
you guys are again I'm repeating myself
but you gather direct competitors right
here a platform correct it's not like
his studio is inspired by yours it's an
exact replica so again they fail over
and over again and I'm waiting to hear
back from you I told you I guess on
Wednesday I you know I'm willing to do
this case pro bono well I know I'm
contemplating I mean I could sue David
Pakman of course for infringement here's
another clip of his here's a clip of his
studio that is clearly well that's an
old these are old stuff dude you gotta
get a new pac-man video before he stole
your intellectual property yeah yeah
yeah oh oh geez your stuff I mean that's
nuts do you want to quit Raygun do you
feel comfortable telling a family that
might be deported that you're dropping
their case to take this on is that how
strongly so I'm picking up I'm picking
up a sound from David David video that
you're playing okay sorry sorry about
that
right here yeah Michael asked do you
feel comfortable telling a family who is
maybe have family members who are facing
deportation you're your primary work as
an immigration lawyer that you can't
handle their case because you're
handling my lawsuit against David Pakman
well I see this hearing this morning
it's a lady she's been here since 1993
her 22 year old son it has severe down
syndrome and I told the judge I gotta
get the out of here I got a call to
make because I got I mean the bottom
line is I got this
cease-and-desist letter locked and
loaded working on it and so you just say
the word all right well I appreciate
that I you know I'm glad you brought
this up Ronald Reagan because there is a
there is another measure of this
controversy as you know the controversy
between David and I has grown and I'm
gonna let you go because you're hanging
up there you're getting loud but this
controversy has grown it was covered by
this guy at progressive voices who
apparently is fake news ladies and
gentlemen listen to what he has to say
at the end of his report on this thing
it's disgusting lie it's a smear here it
is pop it open we absolutely know that
he copied it essentially but did you
guys notice that it was similar I really
didn't notice that I didn't know that
until today but look I'm actually gonna
throw a curveball at you so Sam is
basically accusing you know it's an
accusation but I guess is proven true I
mean David admits that he basically
copied Sam cedar but apparently if you
go back to a 2012 view like 2012 videos
of Sam cedar he just has like a normal
like wall backdrop type of thing with
like majority report behind him so who
was actually the person who kind of I
guess started that whole panel thing I
guess it's Kyle kolinsky dude the dude
with the the massage parlor you know the
the studio is what it was you
know because it looks like looks like
it's like a massage parlor and you go
like behind a panel but listen man that
was that was really funny and yeah all
right look this guy's got it wrong it's
a smear job
it wasn't the idea that Kyle kolinsky is
where the inspiration for those tells
you know this is the problem when you
get these younger type folks who come
around and start talking about YouTube
sets because they they have a limited
memory very very myopic I present to you
a picture of Ferren cousins in the go
left which ultimately became ring of
fire radio
Studios down in Florida you will notice
the handcrafted panel behind him with
the gels and the light now that was
handmade but that's where I stole the
idea from not from Kyle kolinsky or any
type of whatever he's got going on in
his up in New York so set the record
straight and cease and desist that's all
I want to say the season G stand judgest
yet produced she's in justice right
