oh let's go to this this is too funny so
folks do we have like what was the it
wasn't Ron Popeil was it Ron Popeil who
came up with this do you not know who
I'm talking about Matt will you Google
Ron Popeil spray-on hair I think it was
Ron Popeil who marketed this at one
point in show business you will come
across people who we're gonna put this
up first in show business you come
across people who have maybe bald spots
or maybe thinning hair on the sides I
know of some actually a major nightly
talk show host who the non news fear
although I'm a generic types of like
spray ons to create a sense of density
in their hair this came this has been a
long-term I mean this products been
around for a long term a long time prior
to high-definition TV when you could get
away with a lot of stuff and you know
sometimes a function of light and
lighting and how close you are and this
and that and certainly entertainment
lighting is designed to be to be softer
now this is the product that's spray
paint basically your hair way it's not
paint it comes out sort of it's not a
pain it's basically a sticky powder and
you spray it on and they call the GLH at
the time and you know it more or less
effective pretty quick anyways but they
still use this and like I say I know of
and I think if you were to go back and
look at some of the footage from this
guy five or six years ago you would see
he was balding then all of a sudden at
one point four he lost a little weight
he was no longer balding that's fine I
mean it's done it is a sign of vanity
and there's obviously some pressure to
look younger
on television and politico's are not
necessarily unsusceptible to these same
urges there's been times I thought maybe
I should dye my hair or something like
that people do it it's a lot more common
now I think for people to do it I'm a
little too lazy to maintain such things
and so I bring you Face the Nation and
to be a crony for Donald Trump at this
point the pressure is intense and when
you go on television and maybe you're
trying to maintain your power in the
administration with all the changes that
are going on there's a new chief of
staff coming in there could be new a
Department of Homeland Security maybe
you're a little bit insecure about your
position there maybe you're Steven
Miller
for instance this guy here he is and now
if Stevie Miller is looking at you you
seem like he seems a little bit
different do we have a picture of
Stephen Miller from just like I don't
know the last time he was on TV because
Stephen Miller of course aside being a
someone who on the inside I think is
dark and and ugly and is his is I don't
want to say evil I don't usually talk in
that way but just really despicable here
he is he's wearing shades and look at
him he's got a receding hairline many
people do many men do he cuts it close
she shaves it tight because that is a
better look you know they're more
modern-looking that's not bad at all no
and I would as you can see at the top of
his head his hairline basically starts
you know back back I would say about
half way through and then he's got a
little little tiny bit but very sparse
up front but you know and then something
happened he went on faced
listen as a a widow's peak is that what
you call that yep yeah a widow's peak
that comes down across his forehead and
now that is you wouldn't notice it
except for if you were to almost go to a
different angle let's play this here's
Stephen Miller incidentally I don't even
know what he's saying here it's
something despicable I'm sure he's
talking about why we should be horrible
- what's that Obamacare now we will talk
about Obamacare in a moment a incredibly
partisan Trump appointed judge I believe
in Texas when the Goodwin's ruled on
this we will talk about that in a bit
but let's watch the and listen this is
juvenile it is pure I'll it is silly and
the only reason why we're pointing this
out is because Stephen Miller knows that
Donald Trump scrutinizes the performance
of his cronies on television and wants
them all to look as good as he does when
they go on television and so this puts
incredible pressure on a guy like
Stephen Miller who has only to offer on
a completely unresolved hatred of
immigrants and brown people as his
selling point and that's getting old so
he's got to keep up appearances and so
he has a lot of pressure to look good
and so he clearly asks the makeup people
can you spray on a widow's peak onto my
head and the problem is and everybody
who's involved in television knows this
he's got two problems one is
high-definition and the lighting on a
new show is much harsher than it would
be on a television show you know like a
fictional show and two your makeup
people and your lighting people if they
don't like you can make you look really
bad and I suspect both those things are
at play and good morning and welcome to
Face the Nation we
today with White House senior adviser
Stephen Miller here's the president's
point person on policy good to have you
here in studio that is a very weird
pattern of air it looks like literally
you drew that on did he not know they're
gonna have cameras on the side of the
set I don't think he could see it I
don't think he could see what it looks
like
he just looks in the mirror in front and
it looks good to him no one's gonna
notice that it looks like literally it
looks like someone spray-painted that on
all right let's keep going do we have
another angle of because I think there's
a Wow thank you Merry Christmas Merry
Christmas to you oh I just want to make
a point of saying their constitutional
this could put at risk about 20 million
Americans who rely on it for coverage
including Medicare and Medicaid but
numbers in the guise of anybody see this
what is your reaction and how do you
reassure those Americans that they're
okay well obviously there's no change
immediately in Obama deposit right there
like even that like how did his hair on
the top of his head get I mean if this
was done properly they would have put it
on the sides too so that he would color
matches a bit better knowing if it was
done properly does he think people
haven't seen pictures of what he looked
like before people get away with this
but that side right there that's if you
want to find out who I'm talking about
the talk show host go back two or three
years on all the talk show host look a
little bit and that's the giveaway it's
that side right there where it's like
sometimes people you know close up like
this like I think I have that too it may
you know my hair is a little longer
right now one short you know it's just
not that dense and sometimes people
spray in there but they should have done
that because it really looks bad and I
know Stephen nobody you're not going to
be watching us assess this but I hope
that our talking about it will get other
people you know will add to the
cacophony and the chorus of people
talking about it and we'll embarrass you
and Donald Trump will fire you not
because you're horrible scumbag but just
because you're laughing stone looks like
chocolate Aster's her yeah keep going
been a nationwide injunction about to
you unconstitutional we've always known
that Obamacare was unconstitutional the
more important question is whether
Democrats are going to work with
Republicans once Obamacare is ultimately
stroke that will be and come on Tex
pre-existing conditions helps the twenty
eight million Americans who because of
Obamacare still don't have access to
health insurance and keep the prices low
through robust competition so to be
clear there you're predicting that this
goes to the really exact there but
outcome because Obamacare has always
been unconstitutional yeah well I have a
couple points on this but I can wait
till the end if this is war this clip
the clip is very important okay uh I
mean there's where to begin I always
figured he was one of those Young
Republicans who just wills himself to
start balding and like fifth grade but
maybe Trumbo wanted him to join him and
having like a confusing unsettling fake
hair situation there's not enough time
for you to grow the swoop it's just not
it's gonna take you years so in the
meantime spray it on also it never
ceases to blow my mind that this guy is
the exact same age as me we were both
born in 1985 what the well no Jamie
of course you spray on your hair but
yours is much longer how do you get that
effect from a can it takes a really long
time that sometimes when we're late
that's because we're just waiting
because Jamie's just spraying it on time
strange so like a whole process it's
really difficult to watch so that guy
lost a student government election to
the cobra snake guy the party
photographer when he was in high school
and that uh never ceases to amaze me I
don't know I'll show you he's hilarious
all right let's
