[Music]
all right so let's a dig in to Beto as
you know it
Beto has come out of the gate with tells
reporters he had more than 128 thousand
unique contributions in the first 24
hours of the campaign the average
donation size was 47 dollars I don't
wanna get nitpicky about this because I
think it's sort of silly anyways the
fact is he raised six to six million
dollars that's those are real dollars
it's just a little weird that they're
talking about unique contributions as
opposed to unique contributors that only
stands out for me because I I look at
data when I look at the podcast we can
have I mean if I was to tell you how
many unique listens we have wow I could
blow the doors off of some people but
the smart people who want to know how
many people that were actually reaching
say how many unique listeners both
numbers are pretty impressive in my
opinion but nevertheless unique
contributions are always more I mean at
47 bucks if I wanted to max out at 2,500
I could do what's that a one hundred and
twenty twelve hundred and fifty
contributions right no is that right 100
to 125 contributions somewhere around
there math the point is I could do more
than one but I'm not gonna get to math
II about this but the interesting thing
about bateau at this point is and you
know we're gonna have more time to see
if he comes out with with the he's
obviously gonna come out with a platform
he's obviously gonna get you know to
some degree more specific
he has a different problem than Carla
Harris
, Harris her policy her platform to the
extent that she has a record has been in
the minority in the Senate not the same
opportunity to vote for or against
things necessarily over the years but
has to a certain extent in the in the
Senate it has a fairly good voting
record nothing you know for what it's
worth has a fairly good voting record
not such a great record as a prosecutor
battle Roarke does not have a good
voting record as a Democratic lawmaker
and in fact he has a bad one from the
perspective of a Democratic voter I
think from the perspective of a
Republican voter probably a pretty good
one if you were a rational person in a
Republican Party if that would even
makes any sense anymore and so he's
gonna be a little bit evasive and now
there are some people coming out there's
a there was a Facebook post and this
isn't you know I think this is the only
reason why I'm actually even reading
this to some extent is that this is
stuff that we were hearing during the
race against Ted Cruz early on when we
were talking about bateau his name would
come up and we'd say look he's not it's
not the kind of Democrat you would want
if you were running in you know anywhere
else of products or not just the Bronx
though I'm not sure these kind of
Democrat you'd want a few were in
Pennsylvania or in hyoe or in Michigan
certainly not California
that's George I mean I think like this
is the kind of Democrat you would want
if you were in Texas or North Dakota or
West Virginia it would start to make
some sense Virginia cuz he doesn't have
the kind of faux populism thing yeah I
mean he's probably a little bit more
woke than you want to be in West
Virginia tell you what
pretty goddamn well El Paso Texas from a
local standpoint is is pretty liberal I
mean this is not you know Texas is a big
state there's a big difference between
the Bronx in New York and Elmira in New
York and El Paso is more like the Bronx
to who the rest of Texas and in many
respects here is a post and again I read
this only because we I heard this during
the primaries ever excuse me after the
primary in the general election against
Ted Cruz and it makes a lot of sense
she she says that she's a former bado
staffer I was reluctantly very
transparent about this I did not vote
for him in the 2018 primaries for a lot
of reasons I'm about to dissect here but
the end of the day I stood behind him in
the primary when it was him against Ted
Cruz I pretty much hate every single
thing about Ted Cruz she wrote I worked
my ass off for Beto I work seven days a
week 12 hour 12 plus hours a day along
with hundreds of other staff I gave it
all in the capacity I was in to see that
his Senate campaign was successful I
fractured my foot still knocked on doors
for him on a scooter I did all this
while acknowledging that he was a far
from the candidate I would have liked
him to be so and she's going on she
knows she's gonna get hammered on there
for for being less than unified I guess
I mean I think look and she goes on to
say I disagree wholeheartedly that
discussion of Democratic candidates
strong points and weaknesses will hand
Trump another four years I
wholeheartedly believe it's putting up a
watered-down candidate devoid of a bold
platform substance and follow-through
that guarantees a Trump victory in 2020
I'm not convinced to that but certainly
I am convinced of the idea that putting
up a candidate strong points and
weaknesses is not only not going to help
Trump I think it's going to hurt Trump
and then she goes into another piece I'm
gonna skip for the for the time being
because I I'm not sure how much I come
back to it but she goes out to talk
about bado
he's not progressive she says he's not a
member of the Progressive Caucus that's
true demonstrable true who he votes with
Republicans also demonstrably true and
he praises the centrist middle as if
it's some sort of virtue he had an
opportunity to back a great Democrat
running against a Republican we'll heard
we'll get to this later and he opted to
remain silent to use the bipartisanship
as a talking point to focus a lot of its
campaign strategy and rhetoric on
courting the white middle road voters
who were actually just Republicans that
were disillusioned with Ted Cruz he
rationalizes his vote for the blue lives
matters bill but voted against the
Harvey bill because he said it wasn't
good enough but the blue lives matter
bill was good enough she asks he goes on
to say he had an opportunity to prove he
could be a bold leader by being at the
forefront of the baby jail and Asylum
issue at the border of Texas he went he
toured the facilities but then he took
no positions he could have called to
abolish ice but he belittled it as a
bumper sticker slogan as if the rest of
his campaign is not merely a bumper
sticker slogans there was enormous
grassroots energy around the issue at
the time it had national spotlight by
many media outlets people would have
overwhelmingly had more respect for him
by taking a stand particularly in the
valley where his rhetoric didn't
resonate at all and people didn't turn
out for him now with that said maybe
he's just strategizing I can't go that
far I'm running in Texas that's my
editorial she goes on to say he and his
family are known gentle fires in El Paso
his wife has a long history of ushering
in charter schools in El Paso working
for them serving on school choice
dot-org boards charter schools and she
goes on to talk about charter schools I
hope no one listening to the sound of my
voice who's been listening this program
for more
a couple months needs me to explain the
problem with charter schools
particularly in Texas particularly in
Texas campaigns as if he's Pro Medicare
for all but he's never signed on to HR
676 despite being confronted by voters
about it seemingly hundreds of times on
the campaign trail comes in only second
to Ted Cruz in the contributions he
takes from oil and gas industry and
everybody's talking about his
performance in Texas as if he didn't
lose the fact is he over performed you
gotta go if you look at Obama to Clinton
Texas is trending we're not there yet
and he outperformed Clinton a three or
four points but it's also it's Ted Cruz
who even some of the Trump easeness
we're not motivated about but so that's
from this Facebook poster a former
staffer take it for what it's worth
oh wait I want to just read this one
part that I don't necessarily agree with
and I'm a little bit nervous about it
she writes there are hard truths that
should be read in processed by quite a
few people defaulting to charisma and
cults of personality is the real losing
strategy I'm not convinced to that to be
honest with you my argument is not that
beto can't win because he has no
policies I think we can find a lot of
example in American politics where
charisma and cult of personality can
take you a long way
yeah politics are dumb as hell in this
country yeah I mean that's just go check
out my book thank you
she writes the culture of shaming people
for having a genuine discussion about
policy and voting history will only
cause us to uplift a candidate devoid of
substance to the general in 2020 of
which people will not be inspired by
turn out to vote for and that'll be a
rehash at
sixteen with people okay blaming people
who didn't vote I I just don't think
that actually is what happened in 2016 I
don't think that Clinton lost because
she was all charisma and no policy I
don't think that was the issue
raha rasma and so I'm not convinced that
Beto is problematic insofar as there's a
trouble with him winning the general
election there may be but I'm just not
convinced that that's the reason is
because he's charismatic I do think that
having a president who does not address
the material concerns of Americans and
relies on his own charisma who will not
even campaign for the Democrat running
in his district against another
Republican okay could bring us a
president who protects himself in office
loses hundreds if not thousands of
Democratic seats across the country in
state houses and whatnot and I also am
concerned about a politician who does
not seem to have any politics or to the
extent that he does like you know we've
talked on this program about there are
Democrats whose policies I don't agree
with who may be opportunistic in many
respects but they do seem tethered to a
I mean they they seem to have parameters
you can push those people my concern is
is that attempting to push Beto to a
certain position is like you know trying
to push an air hockey puck you just
don't know which direction it's gonna go
in and there's no indication from his
history that I mean it's possible he
could go who knows what direction he
could go in but there's no indication
that he has a tendency to move to the
lab
and there's also no indication that he
did--he that he's like you know rooted
up still my style white boy I mean
people want to compare him to Obama but
Obama did have some kind of left liberal
politics going in which he sold out in
many ways but at least he had it
starting out if you have anything going
in like what are you doing
also regardless I mean even when Obama
made quite centrist tepid arguments they
were actual arguments I mean I said this
before but the striking contrast of a
guy it's like it's almost like a Thomas
Paine book filtered through a corporate
management seminar like there's nothing
it's just word salad it's incredible
it's an insult to the electorate
well well we'll see or the insight an
insulted to some of the electric tom
idiots that I hate so Helaine olen who
we've had on this program some time ago
she wrote a book about this sort of like
the scams of personal wealth the Suze
Orman's idea stalkers
yeah she's smart and she wrote a really
interesting piece about better or or
continuing to live his best generation
Generation X life now I know there are
people who get upset with the crapping
on Generation X that happens here I'm
obviously sympathetic to Generation X to
the extent that I am a member of that
generation and we grew up in a a pretty
sterile situation we had very little
ability to impact the the discourse both
culturally societally politically
because of the size of the baby boomers
who are now just starting to to die and
to and to you know leave the stage so
I'm not so much I'm not necessarily I
there's certainly some Joe Biden sound
drop well I mean some I like have stick
around but sure and
but she you know also I think a member
of Generation X looks at this and points
out a couple of particularly the I don't
know if I would call this full-on
misogyny but certainly the the double
standard that exists with vetto and how
a woman could never get away with what
Beto has done so far she quotes Rebecca
traced her saying the idea that a woman
could ever even in a self-deprecating
way a self-deprecating conscious of
knowledge meant joke about how she's
helping to raise her kids is
inconceivable and of course this is the
the the the fact of course never mind
on the right on the right she would be
burned at the stake but even frankly in
the the center there would be no room
and the center left there would be no
room for not like looking side I'd at a
female candidate who says like yeah I'll
get to the kids I never see my kids it's
awesome let's have a me close a closer
look I beat my kids and that's all deal
with Putin and MSNBC would do a segment
on how empowering that way that's
possible and she writes that Generation
X once so hip and so cool grew up to be
born-again traditionalist the group
which ranges in age of just shy of 40 to
those in their mid 50s was never as
liberated as advertised from early on
many women of Generation X refused to
define themselves as feminists even as
they supported feminist goals told
pollsters and demographers they would
devote more time to their families than
their own parents she goes on to talk
about generation I'm less interested in
Generation X then the the dual standard
that exists for for bet oh and I'm quite
convinced part of that was you know the
Alex P Keaton's syndrome where you're
rebelling against your parents who are
to the left of you
not all of us did that but many did in
that era okay there are so many options
to repel against your baby boomer
parents just be a communist what's wrong
with you you could you could do that and
so she goes on to write you can compare
or ork and this is a pretty apt
comparison with his fellow female
Generation X contender Kristin
Gillibrand who also formalized her
presidential run this weekend to see how
this plays out in our lives in our civic
life Gillibrand who moved from
conservative positions to more liberal
ones over the years and she's done this
over an extended period of time
I mean she's now been a senator for I
think close to a decade if I'm not
mistaken and prior to that she was a
member of the House up in what was then
the 20th district of New York I'm quite
familiar with that district in fact I
voted for her at the time she was not
good on immigration she was not good on
guns
I can't remember all of her positions
but those are the two that stuck out for
me and then she's appointed senator when
Hillary Clinton is appointed Secretary
of State she runs again she has moved
significantly to the left now mind you
her house district considerably more
conservative than beto O'Rourke's
considerably more like 20 20 % for at
least so uh olan rights she moved from a
conservative position to more liberal
ones over the years it branded as an
opportunist Tracy Flick she's openly and
repeatedly
discussed how she adjusts her schedule
so she can spend more time with her
children - with little and no credit
despite the fact that she's been
outspoken for the better part of a
decade of what could come to be called
the me to issues when she demanded that
Al Franken resigned in the wake of
allegations he grew up to number of
women many portrayed it as an operator
looking to ace out a possible 2020 rival
meantime O'Rourke who spoke out against
the Affordable Care Act before he voted
to defend it and enjoyed significant
financial support from Republicans when
he ran for Congress in 2012 is allowed
to present himself as a progressive
champion few seem to recall that a
Roarke declined to endorse Democrat Gina
Ortez Jones when she ran for election
this year against one of his friends
representative will heard Republican
Texas his action quite possibly cost
Jones the election she lost by fewer
than 1000 votes you gotta be loyal to
your friends though yeah it's a little
bit concerning when those friends may
not be politically aligned with you yeah
what do the Bernie is not a Democrat
folks think about that so instead of
getting branded as a disloyal political
shapeshifter as some will call
Gillibrand O'Rourke is touted by many as
a charming unifier now the issue isn't
whether Gillibrand should be called a
political shapeshifter the issue to me
is why isn't Vettel Roarke
being called a political shapeshifter I
get it he ran and again a much more
liberal district than Kristen Gillibrand
but was running statewide but it's not
like his voting patterns were formulated
in his Senate Rockaway style guide both
of them are exactly
well she shaped shifts based on what the
voters want and while he shaped shifts
based on you know whose dad he's or
who's who he's married to and who his
friends are so you know totally
different I mean you could argue that he
was trying to appeal to
the state of Texas right not so much in
his house district and that's where you
see the divergence like you're saying
like she had a at the time I think it
was a two-to-one Republican to Democrat
probably on registration maybe a little
bit less but certainly Republicans had
the advantage in that district I think
it's changed I think it's closer to
50/50 now but so her votes may have
reflected that district whereas his
votes didn't necessarily reflect that
district but it is interesting the way
that the two are juxtaposed now granted
he is charismatic although I have to say
that it's weird how much he has to move
his arms to speak I mean honestly I just
stick you late I stutter
I apparently I was dubbed on the 1000th
episode of wTF is like the king of all
immers and but episode 600 or something
it was 1,000 yeah really recent one yes
no they were there's not even more
recent one oh yeah but I don't know it
is weird to contemplate like what it's
going to take I mean what you know the
the disadvantage a woman has with the
exact say the exact same profile but I
mean it is a pretty close approximation
I mean if you want to make an analogy
between these two it's pretty it's
pretty accurate seems to me well it's
like someone said on Twitter why would
he stand for something when he could
stand on something can I make a now the
side point outside of this essential
point that you've broken down and maybe
it's actually not even a side points
appointed in itself and and I and thanks
for I am being upfront and I was going
to mention this that there's also the
like dimension that Hurd has come out
publicly and been like I'm supporting
the Republican nominee period I don't
care if my buddies running
right so there's also it's like that
perfect fusion that is represented in
all too many Democrats of well total
total personal and selfish you know I
will do literally anything for myself
that's bado completely and also all be
sort of weak in a way because I will
bend over backwards for people who
actually do you know operate unpretty
like intense aggressive political
principles as they should and it also is
another interesting like look I will
plug Bernie for a second but I'm sure
that this goes for all the rest of them
I mean but Bernie's the one saying every
speech I will support the Democrat I
will support the Democrat he's also
spending more time talking about Trump
than anybody else and I just think it's
such a perfect underlying though that
it's like bado will screw out screw over
people who will vote for him and his own
party happily but then he will kowtow to
a guy that he thinks is his buddy
and that guy's like sure but I'm voting
for Trump
