[Music]
there's a lot of back-and-forth with
Iran right now and it seems like things
have calmed a little bit Pompeyo is out
there saying that the Jared Kushner is
not gonna get us Middle East peace
what and yeah I know disappointing
everybody should not really think about
I should not have bet my kids college
education fund on that trade sports line
I knew that the odds were just so good
though I couldn't help myself
but here is a interview with the Iranian
Foreign Minister Zarif Mohammad Zarif
and basically what's been going on here
and there was a report the other day
that former Obama officials were
basically trying to send message to Iran
don't take the Trump bait there's
there's two different dynamics that are
happening obviously Iran has domestic
politics as well as the United States
the United States it appears that there
was basically a on a level just below
Donald Trump every boo Donald Trump it
sort of just accidentally appointed a
bunch of people who wanted to have a war
with Iran and when he found out that oh
wait a second all these guys are trying
to have a war with Iran I don't want to
war I really honestly think that was
like a moment in a meeting with like
with with Pentagon officials where they
said well President Trump the the
likelihood of a conflict with Iran is
increasing and so if that is your agenda
what I don't want to do that I just want
to be tough and well they said well
there's probably a danger here and maybe
you should signal to them that you don't
want to actually have work okay I don't
know what it's gonna be tough
and meanwhile Iran is like we're looking
to exact they need to also show that
they're tough in light of all of the
sort of aggressive steps that the
Americans are taking and that's this is
the fear that everyone has on both sides
that those who need to posture will
accidentally stumble into a war and so
Iran is still on this mission and they
came out and said basically you know
with with an assist from North Korea
that John Bolton is dim and problem but
it's not going to end there President
Trump says he wants to talk he has
invited running officials to give him a
call how likely is that it's not very
likely because talking is the
continuation of the process of pressure
he is imposing pressure this may work in
a real estate market it does not work in
dealing with Iran if you did come back
to the negotiating table would you trust
the United States would you trust
president truth the last experience was
not very optimistic and does not provide
an optimistic perspective for a future
agreement so this is what I believe is
happening to the international community
that is people think twice before they
talk to the United States because
because they know that what they agree
today may not hold tomorrow now this is
not just I think telling in terms of
someone who we perceive as an adversary
I think this is probably true of all of
all the international leaders I mean it
would be absurd of them to think
otherwise and it's you know what I've
said this many times before but even if
you were to get that our next president
was to be this sort of very gracious and
institutionalist and
less belligerent individual who had no
drama and whatnot and came to office as
a foreign leader you still have to say
like there's something wrong with this
country
I mean electing Donald Trump after
Barack Obama and then electing a
blankety-blank after the after Donald
Trump let's hope all that says to me as
a world leader like this country is
unreliable there's something wrong with
the people there and what it says in an
Iranian context very explicitly is you
know I always say this but it's
important history that that when the
supreme leaders signed off on doing this
process and it's a we in it that's a bad
translation it's like he he is the
ultimate authority but people like the
president in the Foreign Minister have
actual power and that was part of the
you know there was momentum to do this
and he signed off on it and he basically
said you have like you can do it and it
will never work because the United
States gonna fundamentally never be
trusted and so he's just cashing that
every I know this spirit oriole but
doesn't it seem like they're working
together like not working together but
like their offices are a lot there is a
huge convergence of interest always
between the right in Iran and Israel in
the United States well this is true on
every one of all yeah no but but but
particularly no but I mean particularly
in how you know their enmity affects
their domestic politics and their
foreign policy and you could have said
the same thing with like Castro and Bush
like I mean and and other US leaders but
like the way Castro was you know gonna
maintain powers like there's an outside
threat I mean this is all love that it
all you know this is the you know the
last refuge although sometimes you know
it and this is when it's like look like
Castro they did want a deal and they
made it with Obama and that's another
thing Trump ruins that we play you know
pay less attention to but that's another
huge setback of Trump and even and the
right in Iran as as demonstrated by the
supreme
or I should say what's ironic is Iran
actually has a center-right which is
really kind of what rouhani is a
moderate and there's a center-right that
was willing to pragmatically go for this
aqua D Nejad wanted a deal sure no no
and so you know these are mutually not
at all though things can go a scenarios
right for someone like that is to have
an administration that doesn't
necessarily want to deal but it's not
gonna preen about it absolutely then you
have nothing politically to sell
domestically it's just you're
ineffective you're you're ineffective at
getting a deal when you know you want
one if the other purse the other party
is you know doing something that's
belligerent then you can come back and
just stir nationalism and that is that
is the all right
