[Music]
let's start with the Supreme Court so I
guess this was two days ago now Supreme
Court was looking at a case buck Lou
versus presseth I don't know per se is
probably somebody associated with the
prison or you know and it was a case
involving a guy who was on the on death
row
this guy Russell buck Lou he committed a
brutal murder in 1996 he was sentenced
to die and the guy has what is known as
cavernous homogeny a--
it's a disease which causes basically
tumors to grow around your head and your
neck and your throat and this guy buck
Lou was going to be killed by the state
of Missouri and they wanted to give him
a shot of lethal dose of barbiturate
pent or Robin I don't know what the name
of it and however buck Lou is afraid
that the drug is going to cause him to
essentially choke on his own tumors
causing him extreme pain and suffering
in the last minutes before he dies and
most of the stuff is I'm reading from
Ian's Milhiser who writes for I think
this think progress is legal he's the
legal editor over there and so the idea
is that you know the Eighth Amendment to
the Constitution says that
[Music]
you could not have punishment that
involves cruel and unusual punishment
and this guy buck Lou is arguing that
well it is cruel in particular to kill
me in such a way that I'm going to
suffer dramatically at my death and for
literally decades the way that the
Supreme Court has has viewed the idea of
cruel and unusual is that cruel
obviously there should say unusual
implies that a particular punishment has
become less and less common right and as
it becomes less and less common because
people just become repulsed by it it
actually becomes its constitutional
foundations become weaker so there is
this concept as Justice Earl Warren
explained in 1958 that the Eighth
Amendment prohibits punishments that
defy quote evolving standards of decency
that marked the progress of a maturing
society so back in the day right like
1500 you were gonna kill somebody you
know one of the ways they would do it is
they will cut your stomach open they you
know tie you down cut your stomach open
let your entrails come out and that was
just the way that we kill people and
then maybe we chop their head off an eye
for an eye over time however we found
that kind of punishment to be grotesque
and overly cruel and apparently
[Music]
this is the standard has been tossed by
gorsek in favor of a standard that the
unusual measure is pegged to the time of
the framing of the Constitution so
gorsek was talking about punishments
that would have been forbidden at the
time of the framing quote these included
such disgusting practices as dragging
the prisoner to the place of the
execution disembowelling quartering
public dissection burning alive
all of which Blackstone he's referring
to another judge savored of torture or
cruelty
he adds bet by the time the founding
these methods had long fallen out of use
and so had become unusual so unusual is
not an evolving standard it is one that
is pegged to basically two hundred
some-odd you gonna put him up a little
bit I can't that's that's are you
talking into the mic you absolutely
that's original okay yeah there that's
originalism as a structural problem I
mean that's their standard for
everything yes and so he defines the
word unusual to mean punishments that
had long fallen out of use at the time
of the founding not punishments that are
uncommon today so this evolving
standards of decency in the context of
the Eighth Amendment has been thrown out
and the definition of cruelty for this
guy
has also changed under a case in 2015
called the Glossop V grouse case because
that case determined that the death
penalty enjoys some form according to
Ian Milhiser of super legal status
that protects it even from private
citizens who refuse to be complicit in
executions Glossop and I think people
might remember this is when there were
drug manufacturers who decided that the
drugs that they were selling which
weren't developed necessarily to kill
people refused to sell those drugs to
states that wanted to use them to kill
people and so what happened is that some
states turned to other drugs painkillers
of questionable reliability which
according to Elena Kagan right
smalheiser left death row inmates with
the feeling of being burned alive and
that that and that because that was the
case that that was a torturous death and
amounted to being cruel at the time the
conservative majority Sam Alito who
wrote the Glossip opinion dismissed the
drug companies refusal the refusal to be
complicit in executions as a guerilla
war against the death penalty and he
held that because it is settled that the
capital planet the capital punishment is
constitutional it necessarily means that
the way of executed that that the idea
of executing people there must be a
constitutional way in which to do it in
other words the if it's constitutional
to kill people the means in which you
kill people must also be constitutional
or at least one must exist and so if
there's only one option to kill people
and even if it happens to be super
that is not enough to present to prevent
the execution so the idea is and in this
instance the burden at that point falls
upon if you can believe this the
prisoner and their lawyer to come up
with another way in which they can be
killed and there's even a greater burden
because this guy in buck Lu said okay
well I have another idea you can you can
fixate me with nitrogen gas put me in a
room pour some nitrogen gas in there
I'll die according to gorsek that's not
enough you've got to come up with a plan
that describes how we can protect the
the people who administer it that we can
protect the game like they gonna come up
the whole thing so like redesign the
prison all right death row inmates must
not only tell the courts how they wish
to be killed they must offer a proposal
that is quote sufficiently detailed to
permit a finding that the state could
carry it out relatively easy and
relatively quickly so he's just a sadist
well but here's the thing
oh yeah no he's say just so that is
basically the a slight sideshow it does
not give prisoners a much easy a very
easy way essentially to come up with an
alternative that's not going to be super
painful so the bar in which you can
suggest some other way has been raised
to where you can't just suggest another
way that you want to be killed
you got to suggest another way to be
killed that will make it easy for the
state and safe for the state and you
need to have that proposal really drawn
out so in the absence of that you can be
killed in a way that is extremely
painful because a the definition of
unusual really only pertains to things
that were unusual 200 years ago 250 or
and the definition
of cruel now is not something that is
cruel de-facto cruel it'll cause you a
ton of pain yes but that's not the legal
standard for what is cruel according to
the Supreme Court now the legal standard
for cruel is if the intent is to cause
you a lot of pain
yes and the intent will be as ever
undeterminable well and even if we had
brain imaging software to prove some
reason tenth we couldn't use it because
that wasn't accounted for 200 years ago
no here is there is no no how would you
do that
how would you this is how the court
would determine that the intent is to
make you to be cruel if somebody wrote
it if you as a someone on death row
wrote out with your lawyer an extremely
detailed plan with schematics and how
this you are going to be killed by using
some type of nitrogen gas that was going
to make it perfectly safe for everybody
and would involve no risk would be super
easy not too prohibitively expensive
and then the state said ah no we're not
going to do that we're just going to do
the one that's gonna cause you a
tremendous amount it was all Specht out
that really that early of you that's how
you would prove that intent could you
not argue that having a prisoner right
the sort of specific details and
logistics of how there could be killed
is a form of torture and of itself you
could argue that but not you would not
have a hearing at this at the Supreme
Court circular logic is that to say that
cruel and unusual punishment is
constitutional because killing people is
constitutional well that is the that's
the way that they work does it make any
sense although I guess you know killing
people in and of itself is cruel and
unusual so in that sense they might be
right they have not found that that that
that the actual act of of capital
punishment is cruel and unusual then
they're just assessing the the means in
which you do it
so under
and though what this means aside from it
meaning and there have been less and
less executions as we evolved mostly in
non red states a couple of blue states I
think still have it but as we evolve as
a species and decide that the state
should not be permitted to execute
people in cold blood and I'm happy to
have this debate about capital
punishment but that's that that's aside
the I the import of this is not only
that we can do this in a what any normal
human being would consider cruel and
unusual in terms of the of killing
people but that this group on the
Supreme Court as is constituted now
these five have no problem overturning
fifty years of precedent sixty really
and they're not terribly explicit about
it in other words they're not saying
we're overturning this precedent because
we found it to be X Y or Z they are just
reinterpreting reinterpreting things
like unusual reinterpreting things like
cruel well this position allows you to
be the ultimate judicial activist
because if everything that is post like
written at the time of the founding is
essentially illegitimate then actually
it gives you an incredible amount of
room to hack away at a couple hundred
years of legal work I mean without any
intellectual coherence or rigor and this
whole thing like people really should
look at even you know as distinct from
like the PR and the communications
aspects but like the origins of things
like the federalist society is like
these agust academic projects are just
another arm of PR machinery it's it's
like it's fake law fake law
- not only against like evolving
standards liberal law but against even
common law we're lucky that there's an
amendment abolishing slavery except as a
punishment or they would probably try to
bring that back - right well it's still
there for for prisoners still do it
according to the Thirteenth Amendment
