oh yeah here's Bill O'Reilly folks
O'Reilly getting it are you Bill
O'Reilly tweeted out a piece on
reparations but I think is really a
student slavery reparations is a far
left favorite he wrote because it does a
number of things it reinforces the
radical belief that the United States
was founded by racist white men I think
this is true who installed a system
whereby white guys white guys and run
everything right and blacks women and
others would be exploited
if those white guys get him get him I
mean I think the idea that black people
women had second-class citizenship black
people really I would say probably close
to I don't know even fourth or fifth I
mean not even citizenship right just
they were literally machines to make
money capital investments yes
definitionally exploited women I'm gonna
go make money you stay at home and make
sure that I have the ability to come
home and eat and have progeny but in
terms of economic and political rights
no I don't think so I'm just going to I
mean I don't know if people back in the
day would say like hey sweetheart do you
want me to exploit you for the rest of
our lives but that's basically what is
the reason they call a farming the act
of mating animals husbandry right there
you go
so I think Oh Riley's getting it and he
goes on to say it also suggests that
personal responsibility does not count
when the legacy of slavery dropped a
curtain of oppression on the black race
and there is no recovering from that
I mean I don't think that there is no
recovering from that but I think it's
pretty close at least in the context of
the time scope that we've been dealing
but aren't they saying reparations is
the way to help recover from that well I
think he's saying without reparations I
think he gets it I really do you got a
systemic analysis it's exactly an
individual thing it's a structural thing
exactly the radical left says our
society remains unjust to this day
forget personal responsibility I mean
the only thing I would say is that
people aren't saying forget personal
responsibility I think they're saying it
is much much less important in this
critique and analysis and I just I don't
know what it is maybe it's because Bill
O'Reilly has been away from fox for so
long but he is getting it do a lot of
reading today in the Jacobin magazine
there was an amazing piece centralizing
race I was using the formation of early
slave states what do you think of that
Miller really enjoyed the debate between
it all freed and kianga your mana Taylor
oh we have footage
