I have three one area code who are you
where you calling from thanks for taking
my call everybody this is John from
Nebraska
John what's on your minds I don't really
identify as left at least culturally but
I tried to listen to opinions across the
political spectrum and I think that the
show is entertaining and you do a good
job thanks John but I had a I had an
experience of Dave Rubin and I thought
you folks would appreciate it it
involves some interesting ideas is this
Frank folk ideas by the way we were so
good you didn't even do one both Sarner
oh drop when Anna and I were talking
about Brazil that was amazing it's
really hard not to laugh when I hear the
word ideas now well one thing Dave has
accomplished is completely deep it's
just totally making the word ideas a
joke for a significant YouTube
demographic anyways go ahead what's the
story well first of all I was invited to
a Rubin event for free by some Turning
Point USA people promoting this event on
campus I'm a senior student okay average
students were weirded out by them due to
their cheesy propaganda was like these
stickers and buttons said my big dub
sucks right it's so cheesy and it was so
cheesy it's condescending it's likely
why you know nobody was talking to them
even as conservative as Nebraska tends
to be it's also just weaker than a
contemporary climate to see a small
group of young people for some reason
think Milton Friedman or Mises our novel
rather than folks whose economic models
and promises to baby boomers go through
the floor right yes anyway this guy
could take the bill of the show for a
little while all right keep them off
John yeah go off John Goff King yes
anyway
I attended this event I have to say and
I'm being completely honest here I'm not
being cheeky
Ruben's spoke for an hour and didn't say
anything at all in that hour for an hour
he simply said that he simply said that
you can run your life better than the
government can
it feels so excited about so excited
about where the write has headed I'm not
sure why he feels excited about that to
me it seems obvious at least that the
write has its currently in the state of
currently exist and it's pretty much
doomed right only I do have to say
though that there could be some funding
sources coming his way maybe that's the
thing is maybe we got to give Dave more
credit maybe he means super explicit
like maybe he means specific like I'm
really excited about the way the right
is moving money from the Iran
Institute's bank account into mine
that's an interesting idea
I'd have to say that something he said
was particularly revealing about both
him and those who came to see him yes
which was that the at the start of his
speech he first asked anyone to raise
their hands if they have had it if they
have it worse than their grandparents to
which nobody raised their hand and the
small crowd of maybe 75 to 80 people
that were pretty much overwhelmingly
libertarian right and maybe it's
20-something conservatives Rubin goes on
to say that not once has anyone ever
raised their hand when he asks this
question it's either a lie due to you
know by many measures younger
generations in the USA being financially
screwed compared to boomers or it's not
a lie and it's actually just shines a
light on the echo chamber which really
begs the invitation of those with other
ideas as we would think I feel like
we've stumbled into a film the one I
think Jon I think you should be calling
more often Jon I think you've got chops
as a call but ambrose bierce of college
yes and i just want to let people know
that this is a good example of
there is a way to call and let me step
back and give you a lot of room and it's
it's called doing a good cause you do a
good call you talk without interruption
feel like Don Draper is explaining Dave
Rubin to us why do people love these
shitty ideas like they're interested in
ideas but there are none
doesn't make any waiting for the waited
for the QA and they ask people who
disagree to get their first question and
that was very nice of them I guess first
question was a guy who asked why he
didn't have left people on his show like
Sam cedar
and that's what prompted me to it's like
awful I actually call him and tell him
about thanks man props the University of
Nebraska all right Jonathan in response
he said that he wouldn't waste time with
someone like Sam so I guess you guys
aren't up for discussing ideas yeah what
was your question I'd like to tell you
yes please
well it's a question I've asked a number
of libertarians and it's I haven't had
one really given me an answer to this
question before but you know this is
strictly an deliberate you know someone
else to give you some kind of concise
answer but the question and in a
nutshell I gave Rubin brief historical
examples of what I'm talking about to
give the the question greater clarity
such as I'm referencing a an academic
piece called the perfect colonizer and
it's about the role alcohol played in
colonial America good I love a good
picture like the sweat forming on his
face why you even preset this place
it's like oh my god there's a lot of
things I I could even handle not
building electric lines next to water
lines with Joe Rogan and now we're
talking about how alcohol is do do
better saying that I'm interested in the
end of Peace in this piece it reveals
that often Colonials would for free
because they're so nice throw alcohol in
with trade deals right but full
knowledge that you know this you know so
like this they'll come back for more
also it'll spread alcoholism men that
will you know tribal solidarity will
break apart and this is all good for us
mm-hmm and then went on to briefly
talked about the what up what led up to
the opium wars with British free trade
policy flooding China with opium Jesus
Christ unit and yours I I kind of feel
bad for Dave at this point God he's a
very stupid man you can't ask him these
types of things I think this one's
particularly interesting is knowing that
would be a legitimate I just want to say
briefly I just have to say if I asked
Dave to answer like if I did a video
about Dave Rubin and the and tried to
get him to comment on the opium wars I
think that that would be a justification
for him to use the YouTube Terms of
Service against us I mean all right go
ahead well the last example I gave was
no I really hear people bring this up
for a citation so people do a New York
Times article entitled Mideast turmoil
is I think it's like it's peddled main
headline as Mideast turmoil and it's
from like 2002 and then the sub headline
is something like fighting is Israeli
troops tighten their grip something like
that
when Israel occupied the city of
Ramallah they took over the television
networks and then began to process
pornography yep and
I know obviously obvious intent there is
- you know now you're captivated by the
porn you're not gonna fight but I think
it's about these districts so anyways
you gotta get so what happened so you
gave him these things he knows nothing
about I give him these examples and I
it's okay if you're a libertarian how do
you differentiate between a government
which facilitates legal drugs alcohol
actualization because it cares so much
about your freedom and one that does the
exact same thing because it wants to
enslave you now that's actually an
interesting then I was that's an
interesting intellectual
expedition so I'm and they've said I
don't know that more interested in an
ideas level first he goes I don't know I
don't understand what you mean I believe
that all right so so far so honest okay
I said well I mean to put it in simpler
terms
how are people more free if legal drug
lords pornographers or user errs or
whatever just free or incentivized to
prey on people I hear I hear a little
bit of what you said and he had a bit of
a cultural conservative streak in this
question but and this also reminds me of
Malcolm X talking about how they send
drugs up to Harlem to pacify us so what
did what did Dave say I'm not making it
that but he just goes he just goes
that's a weird question I don't like the
way that that's worded I think that was
very much evidence on this call
oh god I hope this was real I'm looking
for it right now I hope first of all I
just have to say John okay either
there's two things I hope one John no
offense to you but this is so good I
have to hope that this is a real story
and then the second thing is a real
story that this has been recorded and we
can add this to the path beyond sounded
that question that there was a turning
you USA USA Facebook page for the event
and there was a recording you can find
it if you look up like University in the
press will find it thank you for the
call brother yes yeah you kidding me now
that we know that Dave doesn't want to
do ideas with Sam we're free were free
now we can say whatever we want
it's wonderful great cadence and pace on
that call amazing Paul I think I'm gonna
have to make that the last call of the
day you have to go I would buy it like
William T Bowman going up against Dave
Rubin awesome final I am of the day
[Music]
I found tucky fried comrade okay we're
gonna read this I am and then we're
gonna play it as someone whose words in
San Francisco texting I couldn't finish
Cory Pines book because it was giving me
too many flashbacks the show Silicon
Valley is fantastic though Jamie is
totally guilfoyle I think is a
compliment
I love the left-hand path my friend I
love that show oh my god are you
kidding me
this is dave rubin getting questioned by
our new friend from nebraska dummy dave
and all of his glory so what i'm
referring to - so the context of the
question
it's like hardcore Griscom yeah holy
it's Nebraska Christmas Nebraska Griscom
we need to get him weed to fly - yeah a
CMBS all right go
during European colonialism in the
Americas free alcohol is often given to
native tribes as approved both to many
speed up a little big in solidarity
through alcoholism and to increase the
odds of more trades in the future when
past months of opium were introduced to
China through British free trade policy
the results were largely catastrophic
with drug addiction destroying common
families while making a large profit for
the English which when they resisted in
the opium wars came into fruition when
Israel occupied the city of Ramallah in
2002 Israel to control the television
networks to broadcast pornography I'm
with you see an attempt to pacify
resistance by manipulating people
through their passions I'm with you
every step of the way giving these
examples in mind how do you
differentiate between a state which
facilitates drug use sexual liberation
because it values your freedom in a
state which does the same thing because
it wants to enslave you okay so if I
understand the question correctly I mean
look I would say that everything that
I've laid out here would be to design a
state that doesn't have without
commenting on those specific things
especially the third one I've never
heard but let's so let's put that aside
because I know all of the ideas that
I've laid out here have been the ideas
we limit the state from doing any of
those things in a truly free society
that is actually based on liberty an
individual individual laws and you know
limited security and all of those things
or personal property and all of those
things the state would not be powerful
enough to do any of those horrific
things and this is sort of the
negotiation this is conversation that
everyone has to take so it's like right
now I would say to someone on the left
if you hate Trump if you hate Trump the
argument isn't we have to impeach him or
he's Hitler or any of those things what
you should be doing is actually fighting
for the principles of limited government
so that the guy go to war I love I you I
said so awesome cuz you know that like
somebody set them an email three days
ago just like okay good
that's a jujitsu that's by your logic
that's the Evan McMullen or who might
enslave people or any of those things
what you would want to do is roll back
the power on that person so but I'm just
not sure what the question is I'm not
for any of those things I would be
against the state allowing a lack of
legislation allowing users or allowing
pornographers to run as they see fit
why is that good for why human Liberty
it's it's a little bit of a confusing
question I would before I would before
letting people make as many decisions on
their own within the confines of the law
so if they so it would be illegal and
like right now it's illegal you can't
just bring them so yeah Reuben just
because that is like such a that's such
a good sneaky college question cuz
you're like you're basically saying like
here's like our contradictory examples
that undermine you're like that that's
just something that you know at the very
least if you're gonna go around the
country propagandizing for your
libertarian nonsense right and corporate
feudalism you should at least have some
basic spin right
for an answer like that yeah because
it's it's it sounds really intimidating
but you should have some aunt like you
could just totally ride on well your we
I'd never said mandate I mean like you
could I mean there's so many but I love
it just think I don't I knew that this
is beyond my capacity to understand and
I do like it this is my initial word
salad doesn't work this is good untie
Roenick ly sort of where were the idea
guys because like that's something that
I've actually thought about and see how
people on the Left grapple with when it
comes to things like legalization of
marijuana like are we just going to end
up as like sort of farmers on state-run
pot farms yes that's the ties people and
they'll get some like basic relief from
the oppression and does that undermine
like the broader kind of will to Liberty
yeah I mean that's actually a very
interesting question but uh Rubin is not
ready for those are do you yeah we do
we're interested in brain sizes why
don't you ever want to do by an Earth's
you'd ever want to do brain size content
if you're Dave roodman is beyond me have
a great weekend
