[Music]
let's go to this this is exciting
oh let's just get this out of the way
shall we folks as you know steven
crowder we did the we dropped the
Crowder files the other day and we again
encourage you to take a picture of your
socks and help steven crowder who who
got cold feet and and just send it to
him as an inspiration for him to get
some maybe to warm his feet up and come
and talk to us I just want to say I want
to thank all of you who have
participated in this and I don't want to
single out anybody who has been you know
getting on on steven crowder to debate
me but this guy obviously I'm you know
I've been a huge fan of his work in the
film world and so I was really
appreciated him weighing in folks I give
you Kevin Sorbo
well Stephen you got cold feet
I understand cold feet and you won't
debate Sam why will you not debate Sam
but just to let you know Sam is still up
for it all right so just call Sam and
you'll set something up but if Stevens
dead won't let him baby
for some reason Sam understands he says
he gets it all right you should provide
that I hope I've done my job and I'd be
remiss if I didn't promote my latest
movie is streaming an Amazon way Kiwi
room or wide to the part where he's
where this part about the dad that's
incredible yeah that was that's some
very fine rating right in the middle now
we we got it's a hat tip to a listener
Ryan who I think paid for this I don't
know how much he paid for it could have
been like 90 bucks
was at
in wreck RAC six six yeah Kevin Sorbo
was a fan of our not that sorry it turns
out that Kevin Sorbo you know doing
something wrong with thee are you not
plugged in there how you got to plug
that into the cord there you go
sorry Wow
great we later cold feet miners in the
middle or what I just see and you won't
debate Sam's wait why would you not to
be Sam but just to let you know Sam is
still up for it all right
just call Sam and you'll set something
up but if Stevens dead won't let him
debating for some reason Sam understands
my folks have not weighed in on this but
it's possible they would also be like
you don't don't debate Steven yeah you
know don't you'll be it'll be you know
there's no reason to make him feel bad
and so we'll see but Steven I just want
you to know that you don't have to do
this just because Kevin Sorbo says to do
it do it so that people who watch your
show don't think that you're just
looking for college students to debate
with do it for yourself Steven forget
Kevin Sorbo forget dad just do it for
you that's all I'm saying dad easier
said than done
