[Music]
oh here's an update hey ladies and
gentlemen you know that turning points
USA is an organization that's dedicated
to speaking to the youth in this country
and specifically college-age youth
that's what their whole processes is for
that's why they raise millions of
dollars every year from respective
donors right and because they're dealing
with the incredible incredible suffering
of conservatives on on college campuses
how they're shut out of the out of the
conversation and so TP USA headed by
Charlie Kirk and Candice mmm domestic
fascism's okay
oh and Hitler in three parenthesis Owens
well they put out all sorts of videos
and advertisements and propaganda yeah
let's stamp on one this is an example of
one of the things that they put out and
let's check this bad boy out this is we
gave you Liberty this is the image of
George Washington but you couldn't
figure out how to pay for the roads
without stealing for others from others
here we go it's George Washington
rolling his eyeballs is there no sound
no there's no sound we could find what
was just one image that's a video yeah
you see look at his eyes move oh yeah
pretty clever stuff so there it is we
gave you Liberty but you couldn't figure
out how to pay for roads without
stealing from others that's the old
chestnut that taxation is theft and etc
etc what what what suggestion do they
have besides taxes I wonder private okay
yeah private and so somebody looked at
the statistics for how well these some
of their ads but at this is the taxation
with that is theft how well they perform
because remember this is targeted to
college youth they spend
you know young people they spent a lot
of time online finally someone's talking
to them yeah finally what's uh let's
take a look at this here as over a
hundred dollars spent on this one to
five thousand K impressions I guess
let's look in deep here and they have
locations where this thing is Texas Ohio
that's big I was important Florida
mmm-hmm Indiana Michigan and let's look
here Oh does very well with men it
appears like that's that's odd 65 and
over represents twenty two percent of
the people that that watched this video
okay a fifth 65 and over fourteen
percent women 65 and over and does very
well with folks between the ages of 55
and 64 in fact that is the highest
performing group twenty six percent of
the impressions this ad are looked at by
people at 55 to 64 or older I should say
men only seven percent but that is the
number the second number highest number
it's about a third if you include women
there you go
yeah and then 45 to 54 17 make up 17% of
the audience of this 2% of of women in
that category and then 35 to 44 it's a
little younger now this is only 6% don't
you know you shouldn't freak out about
that because grads they're not college
students they're they're out of school
that's not who it's meant for 25 to 34
also not out of they're out of school
for the most part but maybe they're
still interested in the message that
they heard at TP USA they're still
recovering only 1% now let's see I'm
trying to do my math here 22 plus 26 was
17% plus 6 and 1% and then there was
another two and just 714 oh that's why
from 18 to 24 this is the audience that
it's targeted to college students 0%
that doesn't mean no one but it does
mean probably like five or ten people
wait you're telling me that the George
Washington and I role isn't burning up
to college all right but wait a second
this is gonna perform much better
because this is this is a picture of a
OC saying a society it allows
billionaires to exist it's wrong and
that's gonna piss kids off and then they
have a nail-biting white-girl model who
says if we confiscated 100% of the
wealth of every billionaire in America
we'd have enough money to run the
federal government for less than eight
months our problem isn't how much
billionaires have it's how much
politicians spend loop turning points
USA well that one performed much much
better in fact well start at 0% it's
tough to say what it's a multiple of but
that one only did oh one percent of its
audience was 18 to 24 but the good news
is that it picked up one percent between
13 and 17 year old crowd but won it once
again 55 to 64 year olds 20 percent of
the audience was interested in that so
the real good news is that Foster Friess
liked it Foster Friess and there's
another aoc warns the end is near and
this one ooh
struck out well they did really well 45
0 % 24 yeah I think about that like this
is just somebody who does really good
like if you're just doing basic social
media verticals like oh yeah include her
in the tag throw it in the name whatever
they can't even barnacle numbers off of
her name well alright here's where they
get smart because now they're talking
about a college leftist and this is a
video system build the college leftist
quote I mean a semicolon there are over
100 genders she was arguing and that
garnered 21 percent of the audience came
from the forty five to fifty
four-year-old
1% college kids yeah got a 50 to 100k
impressions on that too so they get well
yeah 20,000 50 year old men so Charlie
Kirk is going to maybe what's the other
organization he can run it's that a
turning point like already turned point
maybe post turning yeah no more turns us
a turn Point or just like sorry ed USA
over the hill point oh boy USA death's
door point that stuff makes us look like
a like a teenybopper show 300 genders I
that's crazy see tell of this
