[Music]
there is a bill Bart now apparently the
latest I mean folks obviously there's a
lot better places to go if you want to
get information on Jeffrey Epstein and I
don't know what happened
it is shocking that the guy was in a
position that he could commit suicide
that is I think obvious what I have seen
is this this seems to me to be the bose
sort of like lays it out here
it's from the washington post
corrections officers had not checked in
on a financier and registered sex
offender Jeffrey Epstein for several
hours before he was found hanging in a
Cell Saturday this is a person familiar
with the matter now you know who knows
who these people are officers should
have been checking Epstein who is being
held in a special housing unit of the
Metropolitan Correctional Center in New
York City every 30 minutes in under
normal circumstances he should have had
a cellmate so there was like a perfect
storm of things that showed up here it's
really weird but a person who had been
assigned to share a cell with Epstein
had transferred on Friday before the
weekend probably when they're
short-staffed and for reasons that
investigators are still exploring he did
not receive a new cellmate that left
Epstein who had been previously placed
on suicide watch the guy was placed on
suicide watch two and a half weeks ago
what what is it what it improved so much
in his life from July 25th to August 9th
that he's like we don't need to put us
we don't need it we do
he doesn't need a suicide watch anymore
he just seemed so much more chipper
that seems to be a weird question why
there was no cell mate put in there why
was that cell mate transferred in the
first place apparently his suicide was
was listed as an apparent suicide
they're still waiting for the more
information from the coroner
I mean I'm not surprised if the guy
committed suicide would that surprise
anybody the question is is like how was
that a load how was it he allowed I
don't think he committed suicide you
don't
nope I think a whole generation just got
read pilled about this everybody has
conspiracy theories and I agree I do not
have a conspiracy theory but I it would
not surprise me that someone who had
tried to commit suicide before would try
to commit suicide again he had every
reason to think that he was not going to
escape this situation without being in
prison for the rest of his life and I
don't think you want to be known as a
billionaire child molester in prisons
probably not the best situation to be in
the question is was this just a total
like coincidence incompetent like look
people commit suicide in prison all the
time but the idea that there wasn't a
special watch on this seems very odd the
two corrections officers assigned to
watch the special unit in the detention
center where Epstein was being housed
were working overtime one forced to do
so by management the other for his
fourth or fifth consecutive day is
according to the local union the
correctional center is functioning over
less than 70% of needed correctional
officers Epstein was not on suicide
watch Saturday before he was found but
because he was held in the facilities
special housing unit he should have been
checked every 30 minutes and that
procedure was not being followed
cameras are prevalent in the facility
but they generally don't see inmate
cells he was taken off a suicide watch a
week later brought to the special
housing unit where there was supposedly
a higher level of security but not
constant monitoring and union officials
said that he and other officials had
long been raising concerns as the Trump
administration had imposed a hiring
freeze and budget cuts in the federal
prisons Bureau of Prisons in other words
mission accomplished
so I don't know here is Bill Barr he is
just outraged that this could happen
shocked
yeahright shocked before I begin I'd
like to briefly address news from the
Manhattan Correctional Center over the
weekend regarding Jeffrey Epstein this
sex trafficking case was very important
to the Department of Justice and to me
personally it was important to the
dedicated prosecutors in the Southern
District of New York and to our FBI
agents who investigated the case and
were preparing it for trial most
importantly this case was important to
the victims who had the courage to come
forward and deserve the opportunity to
confront the accused in the courtroom I
was appalled and indeed the whole
department was and frankly angry to
learn of the MCCS failure to adequately
secure this prisoner we are now learning
of serious irregularities at this
facility that are deeply concerning and
demand a thorough investigation the FBI
and the Office of Inspector
general are doing just that we will get
to the bottom of what happened and there
will be accountability but let me assure
you that this case will continue on
against anyone who was complicit with
Epstein
yes specifically he's probably talking
about was it wasn't George Mitchell and
bill Richardson's like their names came
out was it George Mitchell will you
double-check that I think it was
definitely bill Richardson's were named
by one of the alleged victims as having
been around I don't know exactly what it
was that came out on papers I think it
was on Friday and I'm not sure who it
was was Virginia a juror juror free
accusation by a woman who was allegedly
involved trafficked one of F's teens
victims and also I think she mentioned
Bill Richardson as well I mean I think
there's going to be a ton of I think
there's gonna be a ton of names thrown
around but I the question is you know
will they really genuinely pursue this
going forward i I mean I I'm not aware
of there should be an ongoing
investigation into who supposedly told
Acosta in the first place yeah I want to
know that answer I mean cuz the cost
that came out and said I was told by
higher-ups that's right or whatever it
is that he was told to lay off like who
would have the authority over him like
that and who would have the authority to
say like any co-conspirators can walk to
it's all ridiculous
it really is and I don't know anything
for sure obviously we don't and we
probably won't but he was about to tell
on some of the most powerful people in
the world so the fact that it seems like
something fishy was going on whether he
was actually killed in jail or whether
they just stepped away and let him kill
himself
it seems like there's more to it here I
think there has to be well just to have
that like it seems to me that it's
malfeasance not to have like let's just
assume that the MCC is that
dysfunctional which it could very well
be they don't give a crap but the idea
that there wasn't someone who says like
hey this is it our act together for this
we better get our act together for this
like we're gonna send a special emissary
we're gonna have a federal
representative there you know what I'm
the guy who's gonna say overtime for one
guard to sit there and anything short of
that looks an awful lot like an
oversight yes very convenient oversight
that's all I'm saying right
