[Music]
this is what a new segment that we're
gonna do from time to time called blind
item
where we have not seen this we're gonna
listen or watch and respond this is now
it's incredible to watch the wave of
fake pseudo sophisticates who literally
only Alex Jones and pundits on CNN can
think that criticizing media monopolies
and how that influences coverage is the
same as some type of baroque conspiracy
theory most the rest of us are either
intuitively grok the obvious which is
that there is self-interest and
self-selection or some of the rest of us
have done things like red manufacturing
consent which is pretty well known book
it really shouldn't I mean it was
plugged in Good Will Hunting for God's
sake let's see how Stephen Colbert does
with the whole anti Bernie uh bias and
media story let's see Colbert who
historically is one of the smarter ones
let's see how he does character was good
his character was good blind item let's
check it out Vermont senator and
sentient Ireland Bernie Sanders four
years of the Bern has been critical of
corporate America especially Amazon CEO
and super cool penis Jeff Bezos
yeah
I don't tax
at a recent event in New Hampshire a
Bernie went after Bezos again now if you
look at the Washington Post which is old
by the wealthiest guy in this country
guy named Jeff Bezos Amazon May 10
billion dollars in profit last year you
know how much they paid in taxes never
got it zero any wonder boy in the
Washington Post it's not one of my great
supporters I wonder why why is that he's
stealing Trump sacks
yes the Jeff Bezos The Washington Post
is I think and I'm coining the phrase
faint noose and it's a witch hunt
a witch hunt
compass the United
[Music]
as a matter does this go on much longer
because this is a great explanation of
why so many people are so I think we got
I think we got to do it all right keep
yeah because there's like a minute left
and this is he gonna recover
is he gonna recover because it's sublime
all right halfway in Stephen Colbert
never give your hero's The Late Show
there's that article that came out in
Mel magazine earlier this year about how
just late night writing rooms are just
absolutely dead in the water and just
wrote all the time and this is like this
is a perfect examine of it all right
here I'm out guys Colbert's initial
contract was for a 4.6 million over
three years so yeah he's making he's
just getting paid I mean maybe he could
spend some of that money on more writers
maybe it's been more like or order a
book from pals independent bookstore
online called manufacturing consent
go ahead the median American bylaws I
think there is a framework about how the
corporate media focuses on politics okay
Bernie that's ridiculous I Stephen
Colbert work for a major corporate media
but I'm free from corporate influence
and I can say whatever I want
which reminds me all hail the glorious
merger of Viacom and see me
made forever bolster our premium content
and positions to span of content
categories and demographics creating
eternal value for shareholders
Viacom CBS together
so this is a basically a reworking of a
Wayne's World joke which was actually
funny in the original Wayne's World
movie where they get sponsors and the
whole sight gag is that they're never
gonna sell out and they're always gonna
be independent while they hold up
different products and this is so funny
because this this is very this is like
he's so pure Gen X here because it's
like that double move where it's like as
long as I'm overt there's nothing to see
here
so what I'll do is I'll actually after
making this ridiculous you have brain
worms if you think Sanders and Trump are
doing the same thing but I'll explain it
to the people who have trouble
comprehending basic things in a minute
but what he's doing there is after
making that ridiculous false equivalency
is saying like I'll throw like a slight
rhetorical bone to people who have
concerned about me being monopolies and
I'll turn it into this lake ultra irony
filled nonsense which is sort of pulling
off a great feat if you take it
seriously or if it was in any way funny
because one one hand what you're doing
is you're basically saying like hey look
for one track you're like no I actually
get it that's why I'm gonna look like
I'm being a shill right now but actually
for most people and the people who were
are unable to see the Denver scene
Sanders and Trump he's doing an extreme
character of what people have made up
and lied that Bernie is saying which is
that it is this linear one-to-one
relationship so a very sad blind item
and I just want to say Donald Trump has
never structurally critiqued anything
he's basically said that if the
Washington Post doesn't narrow
investigative reporter the New York
Times exposes how he's a trust-fund baby
and all of his you know various misdeeds
that that means they're the enemy of the
people because his personality his
Hearst with his base Bernie Sanders is
saying that media monopoly is in media
concentration of a very small group of
people industries and oligarchs skews
what gets focused on in terms of
coverage and that's why as an example
you don't get a you know several years
ago in particular you would never get
anything if you want to talk about
poverty we get zero coverage so
and then more broadly of course he's
running a campaign which literally
threatens the self-interest of those who
control the media and so they don't need
to make a call they don't even need to
consciously sort of make a plan
they've already filtered through in
terms of a professional system and an
ideological system a whole
infrastructure that's gonna be opposed
to him and biased against him this is
quite obvious even on the down to the
level who can afford to do internships
at media companies it ain't
working-class people
nope I can assure you absolutely and
Stephen Colbert is also doing something
kind of gross here where he's making fun
of the idea that he would be stoked on
the CBS Viacom merger and stand to
benefit from it when in fact he very
much does and it's a little bit
tone-deaf towards all of the employees
right now who work at these two
companies who are legitimately concerned
about layoffs and consolidation right
now nice one dude way to be a man of the
people and also just not funny
well Viacom owns Comedy Central right so
it's not he hasn't worked with Viacom
before it's like getting the gang back
together
