Wow really enjoying this incoming class
of I'm a big of course AOC is great but
I've been going strong in the like let's
always include Rashida to live and our
shout outs and she's like the Damian
Lillard to the Steph Curry yes and just
the the class rage the energy I love it
yeah she's she is someone who's gonna
need a lot of support in her next
election because she got in there was a
bit of a surprise I think and they're
gonna be going for I mean they're gonna
gun for a OC but that I good luck with
that I think they're gonna have a tough
time unseating her but Rasheeda Talib
she's but she is not it does not appear
that that understanding that she's going
to have to fight very hard for her
reelection
is in any way inhibiting her expression
as a congresswoman she is I'm not sure
from where in Michigan she's from I
imagine close to Detroit I think it is
right she was endorsed by the Detroit
DSA that makes me think she's from near
there she was oh yeah she's a Conyers
old district yeah so there was a I guess
a function for moveon.org and here she
is speaking about what she hopes will
happen to Donald Trump people love you
mama look you won bullies don't win and
I said baby they talked because we're
gonna go in there we're gonna impeach
the
see Wow think they're posting they're
swearing can't Congresswomen do now I
also like how I I'm just I've all the
political skepticism of the impeachment
that you have and then it's like that
well that was the best forum in case
I've ever heard right exactly
now it's articulated like that that I
totally support this effort
I hope the right wing manages to put
that to music and so they think they
could attacker right oh there's tons of
outrage cubism and Rashidah well I mean
it's like okay the first is the is the
obvious with regards the trunk but even
an even on a smaller level and I I don't
care I think the best thing about Tom
Perez is his swearing but like Tom Perez
went out there to carry some norms are
bad and don't need to be respected oh
that's a good point
I don't guard her her son it was like a
palestinian-american so he's out of
super easy they've never dealt with any
kind of challenge and this here is mom
say the F word about this grotesque
monster that runs our country must hi
