[Music]
now if you are Tucker Carlson and you
are in desperate need of someone to come
in and justify come on your show and
justify your non-apology you want
someone who is a heavy hitter someone
who is gonna have some type of gravitas
some type of moral and intellectual
authority so that you can you can bring
on a guest who is going to defend you
you're not gonna have to do it yourself
this is the type of guest you need on
your show someone with gravitas someone
who can be out in front of you so that
you don't look like you're trying to be
self-serving unfortunately for Tucker
none of those people would come on so he
got Dave Rubin Dave Rubin hosts the
Rubin report we don't agree on
everything politically but he is a
sincere believer in free speech we
wanted to talk to him Dave thanks very
much pausing on I am quite curious as to
what they disagree with actually you
know what
Tucker might have for purposes of
branding better and more progressive tax
policies that's that's absolutely true
now Tucker might be really against I
don't know is he I think he's against
choice you might have some issues with
gay people
he might I don't think he would
articulate that Tucker Carlson he might
have it with abortion and of course Dave
is really really really reluctantly
pro-choice so reluctantly pro-choice
he's probably going to change soon
because of how liberals want to kill
born babies and call it abortion but
let's leave that said yeah but but kudos
for Tucker for having to me this is how
desperate Tucker is I'm so desperate
that a I'm gonna book - dave rubin - to
defend me and be i'm going to play along
with dave Reubens branding up top
because I'm that desperate that I'm
afraid Dave Rubin will come
coming on I'm starting to think that a
lot of rusty with overestimated the
willingness of the Democratic
establishment to coexist with people who
disagree with them and underestimated
the real threat the actual existential
threat to speech that we face now do you
think that's right well I wish I could
say that this whole situation is
shocking but this is exactly what I've
been raising the alarm about on my show
for the last five or so years as you
know I come from the left I was a
progressive I still consider myself a
liberal in the best sense of liberalism
class pause it for one second pause it
for one second let's see I wish that we
could we could go back in time and see
what Dave Rubin would say about about
Iraq the dossier my literate monkeys
could we please open up the research
vault thank you it's a time machine
oh my god that's it's pretty good not
well fortunately we don't need a time
machine because everything on the
internet lives forever ladies and
gentlemen so we have found some old
rediscovered Dave Rubin blog posts and
this isn't this joke notebook just to
clarify this is not as joke notebook
this is my idea new book and it is
stunning how liberal Dave was back then
you will know that it's Dave Rubin
because it is not an intellectually
rigorous racism that we're looking at it
is super sloppy here are some of his
anti-arab jokey jokes in his blog Israel
is pulling out of Gaza today why is it
the Jews can't live in a place that is
run by Arabs but Arabs can live in
Israel France Britain America and every
other country on the planet
oh yeah the Arabs are backwards
fundamentalist wackos I keep forgetting
that you would have to a lot of stand-up
doesn't translate well into writing yeah
the animals in the room there is nothing
more dangerous than fundamentalist
Arabism fundamentalist era business
customer problems you know we criticized
Dave Allah for his complete craving this
and inconsistency but he's absolutely
made now here is the low room taxes here
is when Dave Rubin has that moment where
he's like where he's asking God
questions right the Arabs
those peace-loving freedom loving people
are saying they'll kill Jews wherever
they are I thought that the Jews were
the chosen people chosen for what
exactly that was you know it was a no
five and four and now oh six in American
news like in-depth international stuff
this is him trying out for Weekend
Update right all right Oh totally but I
love I love it's like it's like it this
is like the tenor of these jokes really
are for like today and the peanuts bags
are so small and they're played it's
that it's like the Holocaust what's the
view of that huh in American news it
looks like we're gonna sell some major
ports to a company run by the United
Arab Emirates I remember this everyone's
making a big deal about it as if giving
control to our ports to an Arab country
is a problem but frankly I think Arabs
have earned our respect and Trust wait
for it
Oh going with this um I'm gonna have to
retract that sentence I know it's a
misdirect it's a misdirect just calm
down
sorry you don't know where he's going
you know you're totally right hold your
thumb Master Craftsmen hold your fire
this is a comedian at work I turned on
CNN while writing that
while writing that and some Arabs just
burned down a chuck-e-cheeses in
Pakistan they're not Arabs in time so no
no sorry to be that guy yeah they're not
Arabic yeah how do you know that some
Arabs didn't fly to Pakistan what we did
was we Flo we were flying from the
Emirates to ink the Jade the airport to
the Adid port deal and we did a layover
in Karachi to punt on a hell
will freeze over before I have people
like that in charge of my ports like to
paraphrase the great liberal philosopher
John Stuart Mill but I tell will freeze
over before first fill my void is is in
charge of my ports and double entendre
like what does he see
or does he actually owned ports or back
then I was I mean she erratically if I
had a put and let Arab rent it back then
I thought that we all learned the ports
that's how diluted a was but then I left
the Young Turks is it is it though that
he has there's some like metaphorical
special special quality to
chuck-e-cheeses like I can't quite make
out what part of it is if you don't have
respect for Chuckie Cheese you can't
touch my metaphorical port exactly well
you know some people just don't get some
jokes am i what I was with Sam Harris
explained to me that I was actually
doing thought experiments I was ahead of
the curve what's what's amazing if if I
could just give some advice if he just
stopped with like um um that would be a
lot funnier like wipe you know like then
it would be like I like it old borscht
belt Salt Lake why cuz one of the Arabs
ever done you know it's gotta be like
it's got to be it's got to be something
like um I think the Arabs have earned
our respect and Trust wait what
right dot dot right and then now a joke
but it's literally actually was like hmm
how am I gonna land this how am I gonna
land this loo with chuck-e-cheese okay
Borat snot joke so we still doing Dave
okay yeah
I'm ready to understand why he chose
this career path because the bar is you
know it's at the appropriate height for
somebody of his talents indeed and he is
he's hey buddy brushes up against it
still challenged but he's if I still
consider myself a liberal in the best
sense of liberalism classical liberalism
and I believe in the individual and all
of that stuff that we've talked about
several times but I want to I want to
address a couple things here first on
the way that you've responded to the
attacks by not apologizing I think that
was exactly the right thing to do you
know all of us have joked all of us have
made mistakes all of us have a past all
of us have done things that were not
proud of and a series of other things if
you've lived you posit wait a second
wait a second wait a second Tucker
Carlson was not joking he has a past
Reuben is saying it were not proud of
well that's what you do when if you have
something that you feel badly about that
you're not proud of this is what you do
when you're called about it and you have
to discuss it I'm sorry you're just
gonna say sir this is a nice confession
second we move forward right went on I
regret that I said those things that's
what the point is but yet he's saying
I'm you the way you handled it by not
apologizing for that thing that was in
your past that you may regret that we
both are I guess gonna agree as a
mistake that you are not saying you
regret so to me annoyed with you not
apologizing in other words clearly
mistakes you're so desperate to have me
on and I'm so desperate that I can only
get on your show so we're both of our
disingenuous 'no sizz going to meet in
the middle and just do a beautiful dance
I heard that for people to turn you down
and I actually almost got into a traffic
accident I
I knew that investing in that lawn chair
and waiting out in front would be worth
it and Here I am everything he just said
there's actually like totally fine and
correct leading to
exactly the opposite of the whole
premise exactly exactly like that's
right something everybody makes mistakes
and therefore they should apologize and
move forward right I agree I'm not gonna
back down everybody makes mistakes and I
recognize they shouldn't it did certain
things so like it should be the right of
them to not ever faced anything
accountability it is exactly why you
build your hula segment I'm not taking
any responsibility for anything you just
said I agree did Tucker even admit that
he made a mistake because no right cuz
it seems like the things that he said
are completely congruous with the things
that he says now they're just more
vulgar exactly I don't know if anyone
out there thinks that like oh this now
impugns on the good name of Fox News
hence he should be fired
I think the Fox News viewers are eating
it up oh yeah and like he doesn't have
to apologize so why would he dave rubin
is too stupid at any speed now look look
tucker was in trouble he went to dave
rubin because nobody else would come on
a show to defend him however if your
tucker carlson
you strike out and you end up with dave
rubin
who contradicts really everything that
the whole point of the segment by saying
that it's something you regret
that's not Betty sun-joo back down
that's all about when you make a mistake
and everybody makes mistakes but then
you won't back down you cooker has a
safety valve and what is that safety
valve if you can't get some a guest to
come on your show then you go to a
co-worker to pretend like everything is
just hunky-dory live tonight in the 9
p.m. hour Sean Hannity all right I got
to give you a compliment so Tucker was
gonna be back this week now Tucker he
was gonna be off this week but comes a
busy news week and he's not gonna take
the mobs crap and he came into work yeah
to to stand up to this and I want the
great viewers of this channel to know
that well that I thank you Sean and you
put me every bit
totally unprompted if I understand what
Sean was saying is that you had your
vacation scheduled but it was a busy
news week so you came in busy news week
but you came in and to say take this mob
I'm not going to stay on my vacation and
I'm gonna stay on the channel because of
the busy news week and then Tucker was
like oh I'm this is totally impromptu I
why Thank You Sean well thank you Sean
and you've helped me every bit of the
way I have to say we've been talking
every day I'm an expert immense they've
been trying to kill me for 23 days I
know I'm like trying to help I'm like
you how's it well you know IIIi have
been saying really racist stuff and
inappropriate stuff for years and years
and they're been trying to get me off
but fortunately I was safely behind a
rush on radio and good I know I'm like
trying to help I'm like you Laura Laura
you me me Lori you it's like never stops
but anyway always great to see you and
have a great rise to vacation that you
were supposed to have all right right
have that vacation now because there's
no news now there's no news now glad you
stopped him and of course before he went
off on to vacation Tucker Carlson had to
get you know was a little bit upset
again he couldn't get anybody on to
defend him so he went on the attack
against the media reporters others who
are trying to hurt you that's the
message from Fox I think all of this
matters get it's about decency and
standards it's about the corrosive ugly
nasty behavior this mess happens on
cable news or off cable news and
involving some of these hosts it's about
decency cries the eunich we must have
decency by which the eunuch means less
disobeying more obedience stop
criticizing the program or else this is
the face of state media
what does Fox even exist they wonder
we've got 11 other perfectly
good kick calls him a eunuch hmm see I
don't know this is where the liberal
media kind of fails in their response
because like he's going after his
vulgarity it seems but like would he be
okay with Tucker Carlson and Fox News
existing if they were saying the same
things without such vulgar language
that's kind of right as opposed well
that's the thing is it yes and that is
why like the there is there is no doubt
that these entities and people forget a
dozen years ago when Fox was just as
odious if not more so you had other
press outlets defending them as real
journalists and I Got News for you folks
they weren't any more real journalists
10 years ago than they are today and
Bill O'Reilly in his fake awards that he
won and I mean just going back through
the years the war on Christmas which was
90% of their programming at that time
they were no more real news than they
are today maybe less so but other
journalists outlets protected them and
so the the bar is extremely high for
other cable television news to recognize
just how horrible they are so they have
to go to it's well it's the lack of
decorum not so much the constant the
stream of lies that is pumped out I mean
that's the the sad thing about that but
