[Music]
so let's start in with this finally
Donald Trump had a signing ceremony for
the continuance of the first responders
bill there's been a first responders
bill that has had paid out of fund not
just the first responders but I think a
lot of people who were in that area but
particularly first responders who have
been suffering the effects of being on
the pile after 9/11 which they were told
at the time was fine by the EPA by
Trump's excuse me Bush's EPA and and
then subsequently people have really you
know many many people have died many
people remain ill many will get ill in
the future this is sort of a one of
those classic dynamics from these mass
tort cases where you cannot tell what
the damage is going to be down the road
and so algorithms are created this one
is fairly simplistic I imagine those who
were who were involved and could
establish that they were working on the
on the pile at that time I don't know
that you need frankly I don't think you
do the idea that the EPA said it wasn't
safe said it was safe the fact is is
that one of the costs of of that terror
attack on the country is is that we as a
as a country come together and and help
those people who were the first
responders there now I only raised that
because it it it's a dynamic that you
know we hear stuff about like in terms
of like reparations and whatnot I'm not
saying that anyone in this country is
responsible for attacking the towers or
is responsible directly for these
responders to get those diseases from
but we're going to step up
and deal with it now I'm also it's also
we could be paying off the estates of
these people so in other words their
children and whatnot right and so if
folks ever need to Dyna understand the
dynamic of how maybe a society might pay
things like reparations or compensation
after the fact so you're not saying the
fact that we pay this compensation means
Bush did 9/11 no I'm not saying he was
there anything a metal beams all right
now but here is Donald Trump signing
this bill which was finally passed by
the Republicans in the Senate after they
were shamed and shamed as shamed again
Rand Paul of course standing in front of
this and just imagine if if for a moment
if it had been let's say Allah Ilhan
Omar who had been saying I don't think
that we should spend the money on this
because of fiscal responsibility right I
mean just working jobs imagine I can't
exactly imagine I mean just for a moment
right I mean it had to be the whitest
person in the country from Kentucky who
was able to do this and then just sort
of like well he's principled know what
it was people thinks about that he's a
real principled guy yeah exactly
but but here is Donald Trump of course
praising those 9/11 responders and also
implying that you know he was sort of in
on that too another illness is stemming
from the toxic debris they were exposed
to in the aftermath of the attacks many
of those affected were firefighters
police officers and other first
responders and I was down there also but
I'm not considering myself a first
responder but I was down there I spent a
lot of time down there with you since
September 11th we have lost more than
2,000 first responders now having been
down there myself actually for day half
a day helping a buddy of mine who lived
below Canal Street I can tell you Donald
Trump was not down there in fact had
Donald Trump spent a lot of time down
there we would have heard about it and
by the way he said that you know he kind
of done
consider himself a first responder cost
was the test one after those ones went
down I immediately
I immediately exactly remember what he
said that I was the first he literally
said it the day I went down the things
were small I went down there to make
sure that my building was still the
tallest and it was and so so in a way I
was the turret next target it's like
hell we see Kay says you know what a bad
person you are by how senior masturbated
after 9/11 I feel like it's somewhat
adjacent to brag about the size of your
building right I'm gonna go so far as to
say that it's worse it's probably worse
and so there you have it Donald Trump
cannot cannot issue any praise on these
people without in some way saying I
can't get a get a little bit oh there's
like a second Terry I gotta get a little
bit of credit maybe not secondary maybe
a 1.5 er unbelievable what a sick human
being he is I guess Oh folks
