[Music]
speaking of campaign props you know this
is where was who was she talking I'm not
sure I'm sorry it's not on the sheet I
couldn't you know Ivanka sat down with
the dude from Fox News digital and yes
Steve Hilton that guy and she she sat
down to just talk about what she's
learned on the campaign trail I don't
have a description see a hotel Hilton
this is not mushy yeah here we go you've
got people who will see that offer from
the Democrats from the progressive
Democrats Alexandria Ocasio Cortes
here's the green New Deal here's a
guarantee of a job and think yeah that's
what I want that simple what do you say
to those people I don't think most
Americans in their heart want to be
given something pause pause pause what
about you put aside look at listen we
could go with the low-hanging fruit here
okay that she works for her dad and
almost every single job she's had is
either work for her dad no no I'm sorry
let me recalibrate that every single job
she's had either is working for a dad or
a job that heard she got because of her
dad so she's answering the question what
the green New Deal is going to have a
job guarantee a job guarantee and she's
saying I don't think what Americans want
to be given something like a job I for
one I would also not like to have a job
but but good in their heart want to be
given something there I've spent a lot
of time traveling around this military
over the last four years people want to
work for what they get so I can't decide
she didn't even hear they didn't listen
to the guy's question it's a job
guarantee
that's what they're gonna do they're
gonna work but they don't like to be
given a job I think he wanted work to
get a job none of these kids have his
charisma that's incredible but I've got
a lot around good what they get so I
think this idea of a guaranteed minimum
is not something most people want they
want the ability to be able to secure a
job they want the ability to live in a
country where there's the potential for
upward mobility what yeah baby no I'll
tell you something honestly the Fox the
Fox News digital guy you got to give him
credit for just like maybe they don't
cut back to him for a reason because
he's just sitting there going like that
was all they uploaded
