[Music]
as we've been highlighting the last
couple days things are getting
extraordinarily dangerous with regards
to Iran it's very important to emphasize
this is immediate history that the joint
plan of action agreement was working
there was no objective source and no
even by the way a woman presume highly
bias source that questioned its efficacy
the Trump administration signed off on
the deal early on that trigger by the
way that the Secretary of State that the
the State Department had to rescind the
deal I believe recertified every six
months that's not part of the
international agreement that was a side
poison pill inserted by Congress to beat
Obama over the head for recertifying it
and presumably I think would actually
most of them also most Republicans also
assumed would be a democratic a Hillary
Clinton presidency the Iranians have
stepped out of the agreement to some
extent which frankly it makes a lot of
sense why would they maintain an
agreement their economy is being
strangled they've lived up to every end
of the bargain and the United States is
dangerous belligerent dishonest and
bullying the Chinese and the Europeans
this is Mike Pompeo continuing on that
path I mean listen to just it's you know
just I you have to know the imperial
hubris and the profound arrogance of
this this is Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo pause it I can't hear it guys
okay
what we've been trying to do is to get
Iran to behave like a normal nation we
laid out 12 elements of that every
single one of those elements is
consistent what we ask every other
country in the world to do so these are
not around specific things like not
conducting assassination campaigns
around the world not sponsoring terror
organizations that inflict missile
attacks on Israel
now 600-plus not building missile
systems and Yemen these are things we
ask every country to do that's our
objective that's been our goal from the
beginning I've been working on this
since I was a member of Congress our
objective is get the Islamic Republic of
Iran to behave like a normal nation when
they do that we will welcome them back
so and I've no doubt yes mark Pompeyo
has been already a profoundly pernicious
influence in foreign policy going back
to his time in the house but look
mentions Yemen the United States has
partnered with Saudi Arabia in a
campaign that murders and savages
civilians on a daily base in Yemen the
Houthi rebels were in fact not clients
of Iran and the relationship between
them and the Iranian state has actually
been significantly increased post Saudi
us-supported mass murder campaign
beginning in 2015 and you know look
Israel certainly conducts assassination
campaigns Israel conducts collective
punishment the Saudis have an enormous
amount of blood on their hands in Syria
and Yemen and of course have certainly
funded and emanated terrorist groups
again does Iran engage in some of these
behaviors undoubtedly does the United
States engage in a lot of these
behaviors undoubtedly
and obviously the Saudis and the
Israelis the point was was that this
Agreement solved a very specific goal on
proliferation and opened the door to
potentially solving other problems and
that's why the world is in a much less
safe place but that's the plan and the
agenda of people like Pompeo
they're dangerous
extremists now Donald Trump again I
don't know how much we can buy into this
obviously because the truth of the
matter is is that he doesn't have but he
doesn't you know he doesn't think about
these things
he has random impulses his main trigger
point with Iran was that Obama had a
great foreign policy achievement so he
was aggrieved and needed to ruin it
but I think you know even as this kind
of never-ending push for regime change
for a coup and Venezuela continues to
fail I think that Trump seems to have
some allergy or maybe even as he gets
back on the trail some sense that part
of his broader scheme was a kind of
jacana night message on non-intervention
so in this clip first he's gonna lie
about John Kerry and if anything you
know my sense is that John Kerry you
know John Kerry has been out of office
publicly trying to preserve a successful
deal that made the world better that he
helped negotiate but Trump is you know
gonna lie about him threaten him with
the Logan Act which his very in keeping
with the authoritarian nature of this
regime and then on the other hand it
looks like Donald Trump all of a sudden
and again this maybe was how do if maybe
if the Iranians as soon as Trump got
into office we're like hey would you
like to open some hotels here and we
have a new idea of my friend the joint
plan of action is called the great Trump
peace agreement this problems all might
have been solved Trump probably would
have agreed to that within a matter of
days but here he is basically begging
the President of Iran to call him and
offering the Obama deal and if you know
North Korea is any indication obviously
it would end up being of even more
generous deal from an Iranian point of
view but here's Donald Trump what I'd
like to see with Iran I'd like to see
them call me you know John Kerry speaks
to him a lot John Kerry tells them not
to call that's a violation of the Logan
act and frankly he should be prosecuted
on that but
my people don't want to do anything
that's only the democrats do that kind
of stuff
historically the republicans did that
specifically Richard Nixon to the LBJ
administration as they're trying to end
the Vietnam right was about the one that
Kissinger was like a double agent of
Paris Peace Accords specifically to
prolong the Vietnam War to help Richard
Nixon select from Rockefeller to Nixon
using that his connections with the
dragon lady of Vietnam oh no see of
Taiwan nice ex-wife oh yes major figure
in right-wing politics and of course
there's there's a lot of interesting
reporting on how long the hostages may
have stayed there potentially in
additional days when Ronald Reagan was
running to deregulate Wall Street only
the Democrats do this stuff but I don't
play tough like the Democrats I want to
do anything that's only the Democrats do
that kind of stuff you know if it were
the opposite way they prosecute him
under the Logan Act but John Kerry
violated the Logan Act he's talking to
Iran and has been has many meetings and
many phone calls and he's telling them
what to do that is a total violation of
the Logan act if okay of course Don
Kerry released the statement saying that
Donald Trump is wrong in every regard
essentially and I think we can of course
safely assume that he is and good and by
the way if John Kerry is informally and
I'm sure with lawyer consultations
within the letter of the law having back
channels to the Iranians and I think it
was reported a couple years ago that he
might have met some people in Paris who
had connections to the Islamic Republic
and basically was saying like hold tight
this lunatic won't be President forever
good that's the most productive use of
John Kerry's time thank you John Kerry
quote and he said I just want to say
just briefly from the Guardian the Trump
administration had previously insisted
that Iran would have to fulfil a list of
12 this is the Pompeo thing twelve
wide-ranging conditions including non
intervention in Syria Yemen in Iraq
in order for sanctions to be lifted
Trump's remarks suggested that a new
deal on the program would be enough and
Iran's ambassador to the UN said once
again this is the ambassador
the first question he has to answer is
why he left the negotiating table
because we were talking to all
participants of the nuclear deal
including the u.s. so all of a sudden he
decided to leave the negotiating table
what is the guarantee that he will not
renege again on the future talks between
Iran and the US and this is Kerry's
statement everything Trump president
Trump today said is simply wrong and the
story's wrong about the facts wrong
about the law and sadly he's been wrong
about how to use diplomacy to keep
America safe I'm right about the Logan
Act I'm a constitutional scholar and the
Logan Act is when a country likes
another prominent American leader more
than like our president it was named
after a great man named Logan who was a
very loyal he's a very loyal and then
Logan would have he would have a razor
blades come out of his knuckles when he
got mad that is that right what is it oh
is that x-men Wolverine very loyal guy
guy laser eyes she had laser eyes
because we had we don't control our
borders anymore how many meetings are
having why am I not invited in these
meetings I Dave good meetings does
anybody think that maybe I'd like to
meet Persian academics in Paris you guys
can use a trainer hotel property yeah
why can't we use a Trump Hotel property
no one ever thinks there's a phrase
called wet our beaks feel a little bit
left out feeling a little bit left out
and then he looked around and he said
the Don will get paid for this after all
we are not communist but that's why the
ALC wants that's what crazy Bernie wants
