[Music]
so let's talk about the the fortunes and
we didn't get a chance really to talk
about with Juan Cole but it's worth
reading him on what's going on with the
MBS but yesterday on the hill
Gina Haspel mm-hmm the torture and she
torturer in chief the CIA director went
to Capitol Hill to talk to some leading
senators as to the evidence that the CIA
possesses on the killing of Jamal
khashoggi who was a u.s. resident and a
columnist for The Washington Post I
can't quite figure out what is going on
with people like Lindsey Graham let's
say who have every reason in the world
to be large allies of Saudi Arabia and
their moves to which would ultimately
either bring about some type of war an
attack on Iran or you know do in their
struggle for long term geopolitical
strength against Iran but whatever
Gina Haspel told Lindsey Graham
he seems very very exercised about it I
think secretary Pompeo and mattis were
following the lead of the president
there's not a smoking gun there's a
smoking saw you have to be willfully
blind not to come to the conclusion that
this was orchestrated and organized by
people in under the command of NBS
and that he was intricately involved in
the demise of mr. khashoggi there you go
I mean the guy's going on talking about
the saw that was used the bone saw that
was used to essentially dispose of
Jamaal Kogi's a body and I suspect the
briefing they got from Jena Haspel was
rather explicit and they are not letting
go this I mean I for the life of me do
you have any sense of like what because
I don't know if if Graham just has other
sense of who are better allies within
the Saudi royal family and but I haven't
seen much reporting in that of you I am
a little bit I mean I the two things I
could speculate is that first yes
there's definitely other people who
would be less reckless than him but
would still have the same core policies
and then there was a thing we didn't
pull it because it was one of those
things like I just I didn't advocate
pulling it because it's like I don't
know what the frame is around it it was
weird but maybe we should play it later
where McCrone greeted MBS at the g20 and
the hot mic pick them up with em with
McCrone being like you don't listen to
me and NBS is like I listen I listen and
giving him like that warm smile that he
gives and I I think that part of the
subtext of all this and then please in
no way is this and I mean MBS it's
obviously a total monster but I do think
there's some element of people reacting
to the fact that he doesn't listen
including to them and the same pattern
that he usurped people that were ahead
of him in the family and has been a rule
breaker and a defier that's applying to
traditional allies and power
relationships and it's easier to you
know you can mess just too much of a
wild card yeah and you can mess with
Trump all day cuz he could just get on
the phone and tell Trump that he's great
but I think people like Graham and
McCrone or I like wait a second you're
really stubborn and Allah knows
yeah he's counter establishment man
right let's like him he's disruptive
pretty well pretty strong words
impressive
