[Music]
social democracy and basic progressive
politics is making the right and the
mouthpieces of oligarchs in this country
lose their minds so much that one is
tempted to embrace full communism just
to see what the psychological fallout
for these people would be if we did that
this is Maria Bartiromo and stuart
varney you know having a hissy fit about
the idea essentially if we were to
create an image tax policies on
oligarchs who have money levels
first of all billionaires should not
exist billionaires are fundamentally
incompatible democracy full stop
including a market democracy by the way
but any democracy where you took
seriously the idea that a broad base of
people should be making decisions about
their lives
no one could be a billionaire period and
so we're not even talking about getting
rid of billionaires were just talking
about higher tax rates on capital gains
essentially in the image that I always
think of I mean it literally is just
like mr. burns
taking the lollipop out of the Simpson
baby's stroller right like you're
basically just saying instead of giving
people who already have way too much
both economically politically and also
obviously morally and just freeing this
this money up so that people can like
feed themselves and have heating this is
actually very basic stuff listen to how
Maria Bartiromo and Stuart Hani talked
about this voter Mac Democrats are
proposing another tax this time on
capital gains joining us now the host of
whining company Stuart Varney to weigh
in good morning sir is there any aspect
of our financial lives that the
government doesn't want to have a piece
of answer no Ron Wyden Democrats senator
Oregon he proposes that a capital gains
tax be levied every year
and the tax rate be their same rate as
ordinary income so if I were to sell my
Microsoft and as I have accumulated my
Microsoft over the years this scheme I
would have had to pay a capital gains
tax every year even though I never
realized the gain by selling Microsoft I
would have to look at how much money I'd
made at the end of the year and pay a
capital gains tax on that at the same
rate as my ordinary income I mean did a
Lord is there any aspect of our lives
that they don't want a big piece of the
answer is no they want it all that's
what they want we used to have a
differential rate between wage between
work and money they proposed to make it
all the same yeah terrible well I saw
their plans before 2020 yeah
unfortunately a lot of people will like
joy like those plans that's my problem
here yeah this is wealth confiscation
yes with me it's wealth confiscation yes
ten minutes still see you then Ronnie
company begins top of the hour not a
mission
yeah it's confiscation that's good we
support that but I will say we all
remember even those of us who didn't
study the Soviet Union that closely but
I think you know if he even just took a
few courses you were very aware of the
the Stalin's capital gains plan which
was not only central to the Soviet
project that actually set off his second
purge actually the Second Great Purge
was Stalin was very angry that members
of the Central Committee commentariat
were up they wanted to keep it at a 70
percent rate and he was pushing for a 90
percent rate of course during the
Cultural Revolution we saw the highest
capital gains ever when Mao put it to 95
percent it was significantly reversed
obviously under dung shopping I I'm not
an expert on capital gains taxes but the
way he says they're trying to make money
and Inc work tax at the same rate like
money should be taxed at a higher rate
right that is the were credible line
right you're like a right exactly
exactly I mean that but it is just in
Crimea it's not even necessarily
socialist I mean not to get too pedantic
here but this is just like super basic
progressive taxation and so like the
projection of radicalism is as always
just projection right I mean you know
but it's funny to watch them lose their
minds over it and let's give them a lot
more to lose their minds about by
electing Bernie Sanders president
