[Music]
okay real question you've said on your
show that life and status especially if
the word you used is a zero-sum game
right social status on some level yes is
zero so yeah okay so I disagree with it
and I feel that by elevating someone
else's social status I'm not losing any
and I'm wondering I'm glad that's the
case I'm glad that you feel that but um
tell me your give me I'll give you an
example
give me your demographics white male
white male how old are you 27
okay now you may not feel this because
you didn't grow up with this but when I
was 27 nearly every single television
show that I saw as a child do you know
what the lead was God white guy now
actor yeah the lead actors or the
stories now there was a couple of shows
where and I can name them which I think
almost proves my point where the leads
were not white
that was the Jeffersons good times okay
that's it and then there was I think a
couple of spin-offs of those shows wait
what was what rerun on what's happening
what's happening so there was three
shows come on
well my point being that the fact of the
matter is that's not the case at all
anymore and there's a perfect example of
how our culture has not centered people
like yourself in in television it's also
true with commercials it's also true
with I think probably in terms of
literature in many respects so you think
because of that I've lost some status
yeah
you know I'm not you not you there's no
debate about this kind of a pedantic
discussion of the definition of the word
status because status is definitionally
relative you can improve someone else's
situation without taking away from your
own but status is our status relative to
other people and I think the cultural
example is actually kind of a bad one to
use in this case because having cultural
representation on TV is not something
that improves the material circumstances
of anyone but that's not the point the
point is the point is does having a
dinner you know is is can you is
diminishing one's cultural status in
terms of how much in the culture they
are represented is that a zero-sum game
and my answer is yes now is it possible
if someone controlled all of our
cultural representations that they could
expand the number of representations but
the but the bottom why is the percentage
which is hierarchical and then it
becomes not hierarchical that's a
zero-sum there's no way around that and
I will also say that where we want to
make it seem like it's only zero-sum and
culture it's out there's also a zero-sum
dynamic economically because if you look
at what happened in Brazil and you look
at what the complaints about what Lula's
anti-poverty stuff did people rich
people were complaining that they were
making airports look like bus stations
right so there is definitely a zero-sum
element to this I don't know how this
debate has yeah I don't know you know
how it's even remotely now now Jamie
wait a second before you say that none
of this stuff is important the only
thing that's important is material
that's fine I'm not saying it's what
really is more important that's fine
that's an opinion and it may be valid
but it does not implicate this
conversation and by that I mean embroil
on bashing example that you used I mean
no no he asked me the question yeah and
you answered it with this this
particular he said yeah I'm saying in
cultural representation what do you
what are you talking about in terms of
status social status so so I I thought
you meant how others perceive you in a
society no I'm talking about how you
perceive yourself as represented in the
culture in the society okay
there are less white male Congress
people there are less white male
senators there are less white male I
would argue probably state legislators I
mean all like I don't know there are
less white male doctors there are less
white matic every single aspect of
society maybe there's some of it's not
the case maybe teachers teachers have it
hasn't changed but in in all facets of
our culture white men have lost status
as defined by representation as defined
by position and whatnot now that may not
be relevant to anything I happen to
think it is used to be relevant to how
what real estate but I mean those are
the sums your you're measuring to see
whether they go up in proportion with
the other yes of course it's it's you
could do it by percentage or you could
do it in real numbers but my point is
when you look around it's just different
and it's it's zero-sum in that way it's
not about how you feel about necessarily
about how you feel about yourself people
different people can react to different
things I can feel very comfortable with
the idea in fact I do but there's a
significant but the reality is the
reality and there are yeah and that
really helps your status because for
example other people now seeing you
aren't going to say oh you know what
he's just in that position because he's
white and now right they still can to
some extent but it's less stuff but I
think is that you know but that's not
how its status that's that's just an
assessment of your merit
or your status no status is a position
it is I it is I mean the you know it's
it's a thing it's not a its power
zero-sum game I would probably argue yes
yeah and and the deconstructing
hierarchies is also zero son I mean this
is I think okay maybe I know where he's
going with this potentially correct me
if I'm wrong caller the idea that by
improving the situation's of other
groups of people we're not losing the
privileged are not necessarily losing
anything right like the relatively
privileged in society right like say
isn't that definitional but privilege
just means relative to other people you
get something that other people don't
like we're getting at this kind of mass
politics I think and some people take
offense to the idea that I don't know
historically privileged groups like
white people would be giving something
up when what we're getting hopefully is
some sort of social democratic program
that helps everyone except of 1% I don't
know what your that's the context that I
don't know will be helped and and I I
think I agree with you I'm not sure that
that I wanted to get at this I guess yes
but yeah I would say even the 1% would
be helped by a more democratic social
strife no chance no one percent involved
so for instance they might have feel
more secure in the knowledge that you
know maybe their great-grandchildren
will actually survive on the planet or
they might think well you know the
masses won't rise up and kill me yeah
you know pretty well out and now right
now though that is not how they think
they that is greatly forward cops are
not even things like I've always been
class traders they're few and far
between but they're certainly all exist
but just the fact that they're mean the
the they're there they're operating you
know they're hailed because they're
operating supposedly against their best
the let me here's the thing the left
needs to not act like it has something
to offer Bill Gates
it doesn't gates really I think it does
like I think a truly communist society
where we regrow these social bonds like
even rich people have rising depression
and anxiety right now because we live in
such a messed-up world where we're all
atomized and were all separated from
each other and I think yes they would be
giving up their status relative to other
people but they would also have all of
their material needs provided for so
status would seek to mean anything in
terms of your material circumstances and
I think they'd be a lot happier now
would they agree with me about this
probably not but I do think almost sure
not all I do they would not everyone I
would say they would not like I do think
that this would be the best right not
what Bill Gates might be with you I'm
quite sure Bill Gates would not be with
you but for yet for now we need to DSA
can start a 1% outreach right I mean
look helped by it I didn't mean they're
not gonna fight I thinked it it is
unhelpful to assume that that with a
moment of clarity people who are trying
to prevent yours or whose assessment of
what your plan is will come around I
think it's just the bottom line is you
want society to be one way they want it
to be the other and the question is
who's gonna win in terms of their vision
for society and the fact of the matter
is there are people who have lost status
there will people who will continue to
lose status if there is a more
egalitarian society that is
definitional to the whole point of an
egalitarian society when you have one
that's not a gallery like the Megan
Mackay whatever whoever it is it doesn't
matter they're going to work people who
you are sympathetic to it could be
people who you are sympathetic to the
bottom line is pursue you know what you
seek for society without having to
convince yourself that
it is that that it is that there are
people who just don't understand that
they're actually not losing something
they are going to be losing something
and that okay so I'm not saying no one
will lose anything I'm saying that it's
not true that you can say that you can
point at someone's race or gender or
whatever and say this person will lose
something I think that that's my point
let me ask you a question there's ten
people who are voting they're all white
men okay now I'm going to allow eleventh
person because we've decided to allow
women to have a vote when there was all
white men you're one of those voters how
much of the vote did you control ten
people yeah I mean ten percent right 10
percent now if you're one of eleven how
much does your vote control yeah nine
and that's a little less than ten huh
exactly exactly
may I finish with the tweet appreciate
the call my friend neural under edit
account neural liberalism on Twitter his
pin tweet and I quote is started at the
bottom but because status is relative
and we live in a time of increasing
inequality now I'm here in a much lower
place okay I'm not sure I follow just
thought it was a nice button status
conversation it's a Drake reference soon
oh is it oh oh my god I had no idea I
can't I mean I don't know why I'm
surprised at this point that Sam doesn't
get musical references I had no idea it
is I know Drake is a musician crickets
I know Drake is a musician for sure oh
my god I've definitely heard a alright
wait we got one more
