[Music]
let's do Iran for a minute so Iran we
spoke about yesterday Iran has started
to restart parts of its program after a
relentless all onslaught so the United
States first through the international
system and determinate turmoil by
pulling out agreement about a year ago
in a way that was this should start at
the beginning of this video that was
completely illogical that was
contradicted by every single piece of
evidence that the deal was working that
all members of the deal were following
along with it and in the past several
months with the deployment of a fleet on
the street the far moos as well as
aggressively when they talk even about
getting tough with china as an example
they're talking about targeting the
chinese iranian economic relationship
and i have no doubt
following a pillar as a former CIA
analyst that the game of bolton and
Pompeyo is to try to agitate iran into
making one step that they could use as
an excuse for war this clip from friend
of both shows friend of mine Mike Hanna
at al-jazeera documents some of the
global reaction to this and I really and
it starts in the UK where Pompeo is
visiting really striking and really
worth noting that of course the French
and the Chinese who you'll hear from as
well or rejecting this but this
far-right Tory government also wanted to
preserve the deal the US Secretary of
State arrives at 10 Downing Street for
talks with a British prime minister the
staunch US ally deeply alarmed by the
Iranian announcement and making clear it
continues to oppose the u.s. decision to
pull out of the 2015 nuclear deal Iran
must never be able to acquire a nuclear
weapon it's no secret that we have a
different approach on how best to
achieve that the UK has continued to
support the nuclear deal which is a key
achievement of the global
non-proliferation architecture
because we believe it's in our shared
security interests Mike Pompeo insisting
differences over the Iran agreement
would not impact on the transatlantic
relationship we're on the same side
we're on the side of values driven
democracy were on the side of freedom
we're on the side of creating a nation
for the Iranian people where they could
have religious freedom and they can have
a democracy but other signatories to the
nuclear agreement are adamant the u.s.
must be held accountable should Iran
follow through on its threat should I
say no pooja for a few months now the
deal that was signed in Vienna to keep
Iran's nuclear activities in check has
been undermined because exactly a year
ago the u.s. decided to pull out from
the deal and not respect it China
approves off the way that Iran has
thoroughly carried out its duty to
comprehensively fulfill the agreement we
opposed the unilateral sanctions
implemented by the US and its so-called
long arm jurisdiction this is a war that
of course is gonna get pushed by Saudi
Arabia by Israel by the Emirates by the
prime forces those are the prime forces
along with trump of instability and
danger in the Middle East right now and
obviously I mean it should go without
saying of course Mike Pompeo Mike Pompeo
who's literally celebrating the
acceleration of a global climate crisis
Mike Pompeo who is works hand in glove
to support the Saudi endless endless
endless crimes and murders and savagery
of the u.s. is supporting in Yemen every
single day in spite of the efforts of
Bernie Sanders and ROH Congress Akana
and others in Congress right so
obviously him talking about the right
situation in Iran is a disgusting absurd
joke there's a new sort of fascist
tactic yes that Pompeo exhibits there
which is to act as if there is no
disagreement and that's you just have
the have all the outward signs that own
we all agree here I agree with Jeremy
Hunt that were on the same side like
Jeremy Hunt specifically in his most
polite way again far right Tory
government right-wing defense minister
or foreign minister saying we supported
the goal of not having iran proliferate
was best fulfilled by the agreement that
you guys are destroying and Pompeyo just
that's like fun never settled is it
right it's south kerry when they do that
right we there's no disagreement here
except for the fundamental disagreement
that my counterpart just articulated and
and they know that hunts not gonna be
like wait a second Mike I'm telling you
we got a problem here cuz the retina
stopped the press conference that way
it's all it's all it's stagecraft
precisely and and by and I will say on
this sort of you know
Pompeyo is competent I mean he's one of
the few people around who's at that
nexus of you know no daylight between
him and a Donald Trump in terms of
avarice extremism he might also have
overlap with pants in terms of a you
know a fanatical dangerous religious
worldview but this guy knows how to do
stymie he I hate you know I'm tired of
it and it's only on our side that we
talk about people get stuff done they
don't really use that rhetoric on the
side that gets stuff done unfortunately
but Mike Pompeo you know he's an
operator and definitely one of the most
dangerous people on earth today let's
continue then actually because this is
also Mike Pompeo I mean it's not enough
to try to instigate what would be I mean
if we have war with Iran I would say I
mean at the very least a lot of the kind
of meaningless and nonsense and
catfights and ridiculousness that people
get into all day might be put into stark
perspective because I don't even want to
contemplate like you already have a
slaughterhouses in Yemen and Syria you
still have major instability in Iraq and
that and that conflict cost millions of
lives and displaced millions of people
because of the US invasion if you had a
military engagement with Iran you I mean
I don't even want to put that out there
honestly I mean I you need to seriously
contemplate how catastrophic lis bad
that is that leads to a world war the
way we're at that is one of the only the
recipe parameters I mean really and it's
also one of the molding melodramatic
scenarios where I could say like you
know what I actually could see a path
where that could lead to some type of
kind of broader you know conflict but
even if it didn't I mean the amount
first of all obviously goes without
saying but of course there's no concern
to these people you kill an enormous
amount of innocent people in Iran
but the Iranians while on one hand the
threat of Iran is ludicrous LaRon
doesn't even spend the most of its
military on anybody in the Middle East
and there's no threat to United States
and anybody that would say otherwise is
either you know mentally ill or lying or
having fever dreams but they do know how
to operate in terms of you know training
gorillas in terms of fighting different
types of insurgencies and even in Iraq
in a disorganized way that was
splintered by all sorts of factional
variables there were times where we were
facing Shia militias or Sunni groups
without any kind of centralized command
structure and a government of Saddam
Hussein that had not a huge base of
support certainly not the mouth the
Iranians do not to mention no
international respect which the Iranians
do have under rouhani and Zarif to some
extent they were able to cause havoc and
killing huge amount of US troops I mean
if that happens in I mean Wow okay
