one more thing about what's happening at
the border a Donald Trump of course I
don't know if he's going to declare a
national emergency to pretend to build a
fake wall but in reality what they have
been able to do is to make life even
more miserable for people whose lives
are so miserable that in some instances
they will walk thousands of miles to get
away from that misery as you know you
cannot apply for asylum to the United
States from whatever country you are
coming from until you are on United
States territory you need to have one
foot in the United States to to seek
asylum and what happens is you come
across the border you say we are seeking
asylum or I am seeking asylum maybe
you're doing it with your kids you get a
screening if you can prove credible fear
that if you go back to your home country
you will be oppressed in some fashion
you qualify for an actual immigration
court hearing in those instances under
the Obama administration and now I think
under the Trump to a certain extent you
are released under supervision right you
have to check in with sponsors who are
living in the United States the if you
can't demonstrate credible fear your
deported the Supreme Court established a
a measure in which to determine whether
you can make a at least a an initial
claim that you have a credible fear of
being persecuted and that is that you
have a 1 in 10 chance probably
being persecuted that's enough and
there's there's some mechanism in which
they determine you have a one in ten
chance maybe a function of how many
people uh you know 16 year-olds are
killed or how many go into jail or but
the threshold is relatively relatively
low for that first process because you
don't want to send someone back home to
die or to be imprisoned for an extended
period of time or to be raped or to be
held to be kidnapped or etc to be beaten
on a daily basis so that has been the
standard for over 30 years as to that
first part of the process
now the Trump administration has
essentially created a new interview that
must take place in Mexico if you're
coming in from the southern border it
employs a much higher standard that we
would require an asylum seeker to prove
that it is more likely than not that
they would be persecuted in Mexico in
order to remain in the country while
their case is pending so they must have
a higher standard and now I don't know
what's gonna happen in Mexico when all
these asylum seekers are forced to be
there they have no their family is in
the United States that's why they're
trying to come to the United States it
remains to be seen but the Mexican
government has said repeatedly that it
disagrees with the policy and they argue
it's being imposed on the country by the
United States this is it's going to be a
problem it's going to be a problem and
Mexico has said they would only admit
Central Americans between the ages of 18
and 60 is part of the new policy because
a large portion of asylum seekers or
family units are unaccompanied
miners the Mexican response could erode
the potential impact of the new policy
and that they will not allow you know
children to come in but you're gonna see
a lot more split up of families in that
instance it seems to me it's a mess and
it's incredibly harsh and totally
unnecessary but this is what the this is
what this administration is about if
they have one agenda even if it doesn't
get you know there's not a lot of people
out there going like I really want the
there's no voters I don't know that
there's a lot of voters out there who
have the level of sophistication in
their hatred for immigrants that I want
a policy where asylum seekers are are
sent back for preliminary interviews in
Mexico I just don't think there's it's
out there but I think there's the a
concerted effort within the
administration and this new book the
author claims that Stephen Miller is
said like I don't want one asylum seeker
to touch the touch this country well I
mean there are no I don't think there
are many voters but there are certainly
segments of capital that are happy to
benefit from having immigrants be as
marginalized and criminalized as
possible well they're not here I mean so
it's not just a question of capital may
have that interest but this policy
doesn't further that this policy
excludes people from out of the country
but it definitely contributes to the
marginalization of immigrants who are
here it might it might it might when
they're all gone they won't I mean this
administration you know this is where
the Trump administration is at
loggerheads with some of that's why the
Koch brothers have an issue with it I
mean so I think in general you're right
but I don't think that's what's
animating this
I think what's animating this is white
supremacy nationalism but what these
people are willing to put up with it
because it also benefits them I mean you
can argue I don't I haven't seen
evidence of that there are people I
think agitating to get against the the
Trump administration about you know on
the right you know the Chamber of
Commerce
happy with this maybe they're pretending
about it but I agree with you they want
a significant number of undocumented
people in this country so they can
exploit them but this is not the way you
would go about doing it
you would let these people in and then
you could exploit them they're not
supposed to be working you have them
already
you can't exploit them if they're not
here and so this is just I think
unadulterated white supremacy and it's
grotesque but it's what this
administration has been has been pushing
for you know months
