[Music]
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any of these apps
they are unanimous in hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it's Tuesday October first this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
on a hybrid Michael and Sam Tuesday or
broadcasting steps from the industrially
ravaged Gowanus Canal in the heartland
of America downtown Brooklyn USA on
today's program an interview Sam
conducted with the great Marshall
Steinbaum economic analyst on
eliminating student debt in every way
shape and form Bernie Sanders raises a
jaw-dropping 25.3 million in the third
quarter
dwarf in is rivals the day after a new
poll shows him leading in Nevada I guess
it's time to start demanding other
candidates just drop out bill Barr
personally asked foreign officials to
aid in the inquiry into CIA FBI
activities in 2016 in other words he is
going to be a conduit where Donald
Trump's milk brain in every way shape
informed who might be always raised I've
believed so Trump
pressed Australian leaders to help bar
in his investigation House subpoenas
Giuliani Trump's country attorney the
Ukraine's records Trump may have lied to
Muller Republican congressman Chris
Collins resigns seat a seat in the House
ahead of a guilty plea or insider
training that there we literally have
video of just kind of hilarious
we you aw strike pay starts after a
weekend bargaining with GM produces
positive signs according to the union
and political prisoner Lula da Silva two
months after the corrupt lava jato team
tried to move him into general prison
population in Brazil they now say as
mounting embarrassments continued in
Brazil as Congress ants demands answers
on the DOJ role they now have said that
Lula should be released for good
behavior into home detention and Lula
has refused said he's not leaving
without full exoneration from his
political imprisonment Democrats say a
diverse Congress may produce
irreconcilable discord I wonder which
congressman that is TP USA cuts ties
with a brand ambassador who's
photographed with white nationalists to
which I ask why I thought you said their
role was brand ambassador look what are
you doing
[Laughter]
Chicago Public Library to eliminate late
fees erase debt and begin automatic
renewals for up to 45 weeks oh yeah
that's good come out absolutely and
rework and we work which somehow passed
itself off as some type of viable
business plan is withdrawing their IPO I
guess they just utter insulting model of
this ludicrous business plan was getting
a little bit to expose their shouts to
the grubstake errs podcast check it out
everybody good episode they did the
definitive breakdown of how we work
works from the kibbutz to the boardroom
all that much more oh yeah and it's like
and it's like the it's like perfect
because it's like of course the one
really interesting positive thing about
the Israeli kibbutz would
be the thing that the guy would discard
who's going to have community but
everybody was the only similar money so
I thought what if we could do instant
coffee and then tell people to bring out
our laptops and then somehow be a real
estate scheme with Ashton Kutcher one of
those co-working spaces when I was at
death and taxes it was awful really it
was an inspiring community building
exercise I wish we were crammed into a
small windowless room with another
website well yeah I had some interviews
in the works over the years and my
problem is a lot of the places it's all
windows you have there's zero privacy
you just can see into everybody else
right space and so that's actually if I
haven't spent that much time and rework
but the ones that I went into or more
along those lines like how does anybody
like it was like a bar with snagger yeah
and literally it's like coffee and
pretzels I do want to say though
depressing they've closed down their
free snack section so solidarity with
all the workers that were when the free
snacks disappear you know you're in
trouble
yeah take whatever you can people yeah
absolutely
if you work at any sort of corporation
yes for any sort of corporation treat it
like your own personal vault venture
fund rate the amount of fresh fruit I
ate when I was at vice and just took
home in my backpack I could see Matt and
slick and let's face it cook oh yeah hey
Matt I I was at that Veidt
you know no I was there I'm trying to
remember what but yes I did notice that
and I could see a Matlack making
numerous coke rates at the Vice
headquarters all those freelance to I
could have worked from home but so no no
I'll come in it's fine
a giant bag better to get some face time
in it's worth it Wow where did the
beverage console go cappuccinos cousin
move that did you all kinds of cook are
available at the Vice office I stayed
away from those people those types I'm a
good boy that's right what Dakota not me
that's right coke hasn't been cool since
like the seventh like 15 years ago I'm
old we're not officially old yet um
folks one of the biggest pieces of
fear-mongering to block single-payer
health care the block and actual plan to
cover every human being in this country
is this disingenuous talking point
pioneered by Joe Biden and Tim Ryan that
somehow it's unfair to labor unions
because and in some cases some folks and
labor unions do have very good health
care which can of course be taken away
from them in a minute they go on a
strike which is another great argument
for single-payer health care but also
even other folks who are employed or are
in unions actually still deal with a lot
of the same over pricing and gouging
that most consumers of these parasite
companies deal with and this gentleman
is one of those people and he is going
broke paying for his health care he had
an opportunity he at the United Food and
Commercial Workers forum to ask one of
the candidates about this now
unfortunately the candidate he asked is
maybe the candidate that there's
something charming about her just
basically like you don't deserve
check this out
I am a personal five-year survivor of
leukemia and like many families I am
overwhelmed by the rising costs in the
health care industry my question to you
candidates is what is in your agenda the
lower these cells come health costs for
our families and myself all right well
that's a great question from theme so
first of all making sure that you can
organize is key to this that has got to
be important because you're able to
negotiate and work hard to get the best
benefits for workers in your Union and
other unions do the same thing so I
would make sure under my plan we protect
those policies that you negotiate it
hard for can some of the other plans
don't do that there's some disagreement
on this on the debate stage and I am one
that always has stood by allowing people
to keep their plans because there's a
hundred and forty nine million Americans
that have their own plans right now
they're not perfect plans we want to do
everything to bring the premiums down
but we got to remember that and not kick
people off those insurance plans in four
years which is what one of the proposals
does so that's whoa that is some top
line I was just about to say that I'm
almost charmed by Amy Klobuchar but that
she really escalated the lie the
disingenuous in this there yes in four
years under the Sanders plan you will
get kicked off of you're almost
certainly overpriced let me tell you
something and I will of course I want
Medicare for all I can't wait to get
kicked off of my plan no anything but
that
oh no the free one yes no how the covers
everything no I mean honestly I'm
looking at bills and I don't I don't you
know luckily enough knock on wood like
I'm in good health
I don't use my insurance barely ever
right I like it's an overpriced
defective product that is there in case
you get hit by a bus and my god
the way these people have been with even
some of the most basic stuff imaginable
I'm doubly petrified of getting hit by a
bus because
I mean that's exactly when they can mess
with you boast yeah when you don't have
the energy to argue on the phone with
them so even if you have great even if
you were one of a miniscule amount of
Americans that has really good health
insurance it will be better when you
recover under a government plan so this
language is just it's so toxically
misleading and dishonest and of course
jeopardizes tens of millions of people's
lives so I was gonna say there's
something that I find I don't know what
the right word is but I my aloy
annoyance level with Amy Klobuchar is
actually low relative to other
candidates it's not like I look at like
when I look at people to judge it's like
oh my god please Jesus Christ just get
this guy off the TV with Amy Klobuchar
I'm just looking yeah yeah go for it an
alcoholic trying to be a perfectionist
out there in the world I get it yeah I
didn't even know that but like what you
know like I don't I don't like her by
any I mean she's awful but I don't have
like a visceral reaction to being
annoyed by her but that is just such a
toxic talking point well speaking of
talking points from nominally nominally
progressive candidates here Tulsi
Gabbard recently said that she's on the
if you like your plan you can keep it
I'm not I look at as a soldier and
here's a soldier about that little
talking point anytime someone says you
know I'm not you know if you like one
more than the other look if the public
option was being sold as you're
definitely gonna like the public option
better because it's gonna be so much
cheaper compared to whatever but like
they always say like it might not be
better they give the option that it
might not be better because they're not
gonna give you one that's any that's
that's gonna knock out private insurance
they're not and the public option is not
Medicare for all I mean people need to
be incredibly clear about this I look I
understand that you can very narrowly
litigate whether or not you're gonna ban
private insurance or not and I said
yesterday what my opinion on that is
which is like yes you know what if you
want to allow for private insurance to
continue to exist it needs to be either
mutually owned or nonprofit and it needs
to be dwarfed by governmental health
care to such a degree that it makes up a
fraction of the market
and it is regulated more aggressively
than a public utility sure I guess but
anybody anybody in an American there is
no candidate that is saying I want to do
it the French way they are using the
language a Buddha judge specifically on
Gabbard specifically are using the
language of medicare-for-all I guess
maybe even Gabbard might not even be
using medicare-for-all anymore yeah it's
like Medicare for all who want it is
fundamentally dishonest it's not a
public option Medicare for all means you
have a governmental program that covers
everybody period and it's free at the
point of purchase and you have it and
that's it and there's no nonsense and
Biden and Klobuchar and Ryan or open
that they don't support it and they lie
about fear monger about it buta jej is
fundamentally dishonest because he's
basically talking about a public option
but calling it Medicare for all who
wants it
Gabbard is either being dishonest or
it's just fully flip-flopped I don't
know which and Warren there's obviously
a huge amount of ambiguity in her
position and what isn't ambiguous so far
is that she's not talking about a plan
that would cover mental health and
dental which is also essential to an
actual robust universal plan so you know
these lives are only gonna increase and
I would ask you know people who get
touchy about a primary fight even though
it's literally a primary we all got to
make sure that you know particularly
holding this talking point accountable
because when an Amy Klobuchar is lying
and fear-mongering about a good health
care plan what happens when a candidate
like Sanders is the nominee obviously I
think it should be Sanders I think
that's a no-brainer but even Warren if
Warren continues on the path talking
about minute if Warren decides she lands
somewhere there or even if she doesn't
Trump will run against her on it we need
to make sure that these lies and these
disingenuous talking points those stick
yeah we knew they were gonna do this
from the beginning
trans Medicare for all is an incredibly
popular phrase and we knew they were
gonna muddy the waters and try to
piggyback off of it while actually
blocking it in its tracks
it also makes me really mad when people
support something that leaves out dental
or vision or mental health like oh did
you want to insure your legs too like Oh
that'll be extra like no like every part
of you that that includes your teeth it
includes your brain it includes your
eyes like there shouldn't be any
loopholes there they're all a part of
the human dental should have been done
in the 60s yeah outrageous um and I mean
the only valid criticisms I've really
heard of the Canadian system or that it
doesn't include those things and that's
where the argument is all right if you
feel like you don't have time to read
all the books on your list you're not
alone blinken's is the app that compiles
the key takeaways from thousands of
non-fiction books everything you need to
know is condensed down into five minutes
it everything you need to know is
condensed into 15 minutes that you can
read or listen to with the app blinken's
is really unique and it works on your
phone tablet or web browser you'll find
everything from health and self-help
titles to history and business books
included in blink Asst library could
read a book like the 4-hour workweek or
all of the great self-help books that
Sam talks about I am banking on Sam
reading the seven Habits of Highly
Effective People when you can go through
books like this that frankly maybe you
don't need to read all of but you need
to get key takeaways to make your
business or your life more effective you
in fact make your business and life more
effective because you've saved a lot of
time with blankets you get unlimited
access to read or listen to a massive
library of condensed non-fiction books
all the books you want for one low price
right now for a limited time bling cast
is a special offer for our listeners go
to blinkers comm slash majority to try
it for free for seven days and save 25%
off your new subscription that's blink
Asst
BL I K I st.com slash majority to start
a free 7 day trial and save 25% popular
titles include as I said the 7 Habits of
Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey
how to win friends and influence people
by Dale Carnegie
start with why by simon Sinek that was
the one that stand was like why by simon
Sinek
hey folks emotional intelligence by
Daniel Goleman that's a classic in the
in the literature fire and fury inside
account of the Trump White House that's
a really good one too just it's it's
absolutely hilarious and there's a bunch
of takeaways you want from that and a
whole bunch more including also getting
things done by David Allen which I am
actually going to listen to on blinken
check it out folks it will help you get
the material you want in an efficient
way the problem that keeps so many
businesses from knowing their numbers is
their hodgepodge of business systems
they have one system for accounting
another for sales another for inventory
and so on it's just too big an
inefficient mess that takes up too much
time and too many resources and that
hurts the bottom line introducing
NetSuite by Oracle the business
management software that handles every
aspect of your business and an easy to
use cloud platform that gives you the
visibility and control you need to grow
with NetSuite you save time money and
unneeded headaches by managing sales
finance and accounting orders in HR
instantly right from your desktop or
phone
that's why NetSuite is the world's
number one cloud business system and
right now NetSuite is offering valuable
insights with the free guide seven key
strategies to grow your profits I was
just talking about this with Jamie
NetSuite comm slash majority that's net
sleep NetSuite comm slash majority they
download your free guide seven key
strategies to grow your profits NetSuite
comm slash majority and finally it's one
of my great regrets in life that I only
know one language
I didn't retain any Turkish from the
time I was there and frankly a lot of
language pedagogy ain't great and I said
I just never I never took to it which is
why
I'm about to download the babble app
that's the babble is the language
learning app that will get you speaking
a new language quickly and with
confidence choose from 14 languages
including Spanish French Italian German
and speak with confidence
babbles teaching method and speech
recognition technology has proven to be
effective across multiple studies it's
designed to get you speaking your new
language within weeks
babbles lessons are lovingly created by
over 100 language experts aka real
people not by a translation machine that
that is a huge difference right there I
do not buy all of these you can do it
without actual humans myths lessons are
engaging and convenient they last only
10 to 15 minutes learn through
interactive dialogues so you can perfect
your pronunciation and accent actually
sounds kind of fun just think of it as
one giant impression off Babel is
available as an app or online and your
progress will be synced across all
devices be bold and learn a new language
with Babel as I've said I really want to
learn Portuguese if I was being super
ambitious which and this is I'll just
put I mean I'm not gonna learn all these
languages but I would say Spanish
obviously Arabic could be quite useful
Mandarin definitely though very hard and
I personally would very much like to
speak Portuguese because of all the work
I do around Brazil hair are the easy
steps to speaking a new language with
confidence go to babble comm or download
the app select the language of your
choice and try for free that's babble ba
BB yell comm babble speak a new language
with confidence we're gonna take a brief
break we'll be right back with Sam's
interview with Marshall Stein BAM we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
back to the program Marshall Stan Baum
he is an assistant professor at the
University of Utah
a senior fellow at the Jain Family
Institute and Marshall welcome to the
program thanks it's great to be back so
I want to talk about a piece II wrote in
in current affairs this is around the
the concept of student debt you were at
the time this was I think shortly after
Bernie Sanders or maybe actually a
couple months Elizabeth Warren put a
debt cancellation proposal on the
records on the books as it were in April
Sanders came out with one in June which
was a little more extensive and then
there you know there became sort of a
controversy around the concept of of
forgiving student debt and I want to
talk about that that's what you're
writing about specifically but more
broadly just if you could broadly
summarize the two different plans how
they're different and and and why
they're they're good well at least I
guess I mean not having debt is good for
those people who not have debt but give
us a sense of the two different plans
sure so I guess it's easier to start
with the Sanders plan because that's a
little bit more straightforward that
would cancel all outstanding student
debt it's a little bit more complicated
if you get a little bit more into the
details because this the federal
government is the creditor for 90
percent of outstanding student debt so
that's kind of easy it's a little bit
more subtle what happens to the port the
debt where the federal government is not
the creditor it essentially amounts to
the federal government assuming payments
on behalf of the people who are
currently paying it but that the so the
Sanders plan is you know currently
something like 1.5 trillion dollars of
student debt outstanding and through one
mechanism or another the federal
government would make it so that you
don't have to pay if you were currently
paying on your student debt or if you're
in income based repayment or otherwise
have your your payments mitigated all
right well let me just let me stop you
there there just because I want I want
people to be really aware this so we're
talking about 1.5 trillion dollars of
debt I mean you're an economist you're
better at math
hope than I am but 90% of that we're
talking about like 1.2 some odd trillion
dollars it's all odd to the US
government yes so when the federal
student loan program began in the 60s
and especially in the early seventies
the federal government wasn't the lender
or what it was doing was essentially
standing behind students who took on
debt from private lenders and said you
know these people are you know basically
eighteen year olds or
you know early in their careers they
don't have any assets they may not have
a job they probably don't have a job
since they're going to college so very
hard for them to get loans just directly
from a bank so we need some if we what
we want is for people to take on student
debt to go to higher education the
federal government needs to do something
that is to say guarantee that debt so
that these are better more creditworthy
borrowers from the bank's perspective in
2008-2009 and a lot of the student
lenders in that business came near to
bankruptcy as part of the overall you
know financial crisis and they went to
the government and said you know we're
on the cusp we might not be able to
actually have a new class of students
enroll and fall of 28th 2008 this is a
crisis and you know you're about to
throw a lot of people who think they're
about to start college out on the street
so to speak so you need to give us
something and essentially from there
over the course of the next two year
other words I think two pieces of
legislation I was directly working on
this issue at the time so I could be
wrong on the details here but
essentially two pieces of legislation
such that by 2010 the federal government
was the direct lender to all new
origination of student loans and for
that reason the federal government now
as the lender for a huge majority of
outstanding student debt it's worth
saying that the the first of those
pieces of legislation essentially
amounted to the kind of student loan
side of the bailout of the 2008-2009
financial crisis in that the these
lenders had a bunch of securities on
their books that are loans on their
books I should say that nobody really
knew if they would be repaid and the
deal was they would basically give those
to the federal government and in
exchange they would get a bailout
and what happened was they gave the crap
to federal government and got a bailout
out of that and you know so while it
looked like you know if from a kind of
naive perspective a nationalization and
you know take over for private industry
I'm in reality it was a pretty nice
sweet deal for the insiders in that
industry so oh that's fascinating I
didn't realize that that was the case so
they had these loans this huge book of
loans I mean and we're talking probably
about a bunch of different loners and so
you know they're they're servicing their
own loans presumably or they'll maybe
then maybe they're not I don't know I
don't know that market what happened in
that market is much but the the the US
government bought these loans
essentially from these private
enterprises do you know what the what
the how much they paid like the day pay
dollar for dollar on these yeah that's a
good question and I'm not exactly the
the man to answer that question my
former colleague Julie Marquette a
Morgan wrote a paper about exactly that
in 2018 so I would look at that and see
exactly what the terms of that kind of
swap were I mean just to kind of go back
to it you're saying about them servicing
their own loans those are who the
servicers are now so there's not you
know what was the private student loan
you know finance business where you you
know your bank you borrow short-term to
lend long term that's basically what the
business is but the point is you have a
stake in the the spread of interest
rates that's how you make your money
they went from that to a commission
business basically which is the current
servicers so they weren't totally cut at
out in fact part of the some heat deal
that the federal takeover brought about
was that these companies now are the
ones who are in the business of lending
money right there getting fees at this
point yeah okay and and then and and and
this makes sense to me because at one
point I do remember there being and I
don't know if it was Warren or Bernie at
this point frankly who had this proposal
several years ago about cutting down on
the interest rate because we're still
charging the
the students who have this dead an
interest rate that was established I
mean correct me if I'm wrong by private
industry there's no reason for the US
government at this point to even be
charging any interest on this stuff yeah
I mean there's a huge debate within the
higher education policy world about the
status of you know student loans as a
financing mechanism but more
specifically the interest that should be
paid on them
the government has it in its power to
reduce the interest rate of course it's
the lender and so the question is you
know how nice do we want to beat out
sending student debtors versus how
grasping is the federal government as a
creditor and I would say there's an
interesting kind of left-right divide I
mean there's a left-right divide isn't
anything but the the right-wing position
you might say is that current this is
students without sending current debt
should be paying through the nose as
much as possible federal government
should be subsisting as far as possible
on the interest payments of outstanding
student debtors and so this I would say
kind of before we got into the
cancellation debate that's going on now
the kind of key ideological clash was on
this matter of refinancing of student
loans because my understanding is you
know the market interest rates
specifically the interests rates that
the federal government has to pay on its
own debt have declined and so the spread
between what students have to pay and
what you to the government and what the
government has to pay to its own lenders
that is you know that was ever buying
Treasury bonds um that that's wide and
so the federal government making a huge
profits that that dynamic creates kind
of its own set of stakeholders which is
to say the federal government has you
know someone who wants to be paid as a
creditor right I mean I can I can afford
more tax cuts if Ike was concerned about
affording them on the backs of students
who are paying off their debt because
that's basically subsidizing I mean so I
mean I think that's an important dynamic
for people to understand particularly in
the context of what you've written about
that as it stands now our student debt
is basically financing tax cuts right I
mean that's that's basically what it's
coming down to
that this this this profit is being
redistributed up to wealthy folks who
are getting government services had a
cheap at a discount now because they're
getting the you know these tax cuts that
have recently passed there's a whole set
of other ancillary issues around this
which I imagine you know these debt
service these loan services the
servicers I imagine we could dig through
that and find you know some some
problems there and we also know that
loans that were made in for for
for-profit universities which were
fraudulent the the Trump administration
has now basically rolled back some
protections for those people have been
defrauded in terms of the loans that
they've taken out but I think it's
important for people to understand that
this is this is all taxpayer money and
even without getting into the question
as to whether or not the federal
government can simply look on its books
and just say poof you don't owe us
anything let's get to that that these
these two proposals you mentioned
Bernie's wipes out the debt completely
how does he and Warren has a another
plan that's a little more complicated we
can get into that but how does Bernie
you know pay for his plan would be the
question that I would ask if I was
moderating a debate on a national
broadcast channel yes I believe the
answer to that question that the Sanders
campaign would give is that they plan to
levy a financial transactions tax okay
so there it is so that then but there's
also a very strong argument that we
could just say yeah don't worry about it
right I mean yeah I mean I would say
it's a little more complicated than that
so I wrote a paper and I think it came
out in 2018 with the levy Institute that
was kind of going through the mechanics
of exactly sort of who's paying if not
current student debtors and you know so
I would I would refer to the paper to
for the nuts and bolts of that but I
mean I would say the the upshot is you
know it would in some ways blow a hole
in the the federal budget going forward
to not students
paying all those loans for all that time
but you know we've been blowing holes in
the federal budget left and right with
my tcj and all sorts of other you know
programs and tax cuts that are just
designed to shift the burden of the Gov
for the government from the backs of
profitable corporations and the people
who own them to everyone else including
student debtors so Elizabeth Warren's
plan is not quite as ambitious as
Sanders but significant tell it tell us
about that yeah I mean I would say so
there are two big differences between
the Sanders plan and the Warren plan and
wouldn't necessarily say the I mean the
Sanders plan is I guess you could say
more ambitious because it cancels more
debt but I think it's important to kind
of keep in mind what the kind of two
different distinctions are because that
tends to have an enormous effect on kind
of what that what we can say the impact
of the two plans would be so for one
thing in contrast with the Sanders plan
the Warren plan would cancel fifty
thousand dollars of outstanding student
debt at max so if you have more student
debt than fifty thousand dollars
outstanding you would be left with
whatever is the increment above fifty
thousand and secondly it has a phase-out
above it for individuals with incomes
above $100,000 a years so for every
dollar that you make above that hundred
thousand dollars the amount of
cancellation that you would get with
declined by a third so basically you
have a kind of phase-out that goes from
an income of $100,000 to an income of
$250,000 wherein you lose a dollar of
cancellation or every three dollars of
income and if you make $250,000 or more
therefore you would get no cancellation
from the Warren plan so there's two
different two distinctions one the
$50,000 cap the other the phase-out for
relatively high income borrowers so to
some extent it's I guess you would say
Warren's is means-tested and capped yes
okay and and what is the estimates I
mean obviously for Sanders plan the
estimate for getting rid of all the
government debt is the amount of
government debt I should say debt
student debt and so it's 1.5 trillion
what what does Warren's
project would be the amount of debt that
was paid off yes so that's actually a
good question to which we don't have a
very clear answer I believe that the
number the Lauren campaign was going
with was six hundred and forty or six
hundred and fifty billion dollars and
the reason why that's probably an
underestimate is that there are a lot of
people who have student debt that are
not counted in the federal survey that
that number is based off of the this is
my I mean I know that that's true about
that federal survey I think that that's
where that that calculation comes from
is counting up the total amount of
cancellation of debt cancelled as
represented by that survey and the
problem is that survey the survey of
Consumer Finances under counts the total
amount of student debt outstanding we
know that for a fact and in particular
what we all also know is that that the
under count is coming from relatively
low income younger individual well so I
could get into the details of why the
survey undercounts that but this is a
pretty
I wouldn't say well-known but the people
who use the survey you know we're kind
of aware that it is it's designed to
capture certain things and it's not
really well designed as a survey of the
total amount of student debt that exists
in the population okay so the reason why
we can say that the Bernie plant we can
say with more accuracy with that the the
Sanders plan cancels 1.5 trillion is
because that's what the government says
is the total amount of student debt
outstanding and Sanders just said I'm
cancelling all of it Warren's plan is
I'm gonna cancel some of it I'm
restricting the what I'm cancelling in
these particular ways that is to say the
cap and the phase-out and the problem is
we don't know exactly how much debt is
sitting in the households that are
within the restrictions of the cap and
the phase-out okay so fair enough so
we're looking at anywhere from it sounds
like Warren's plan is a minimum of half
of the student debt in the country and
could then be closer to you know
somewhere between 1/2 and 3/4 I mean
these are you know broad strokes but
that's what he said I agree with that
and in fact I think in some ways because
of this deficiency some of the attacks
on the warren plan from both the left
and the right have been disingenuous
I don't mean just well it gets
disingenuous means that they've been
dishonest I don't mean to say that it's
based on malice or something like that
but I think the warren plan is closer to
the Sanders plan than a lot of people
have said it is and that that sort of
implicates attacks on it again as I said
coming from both the left and the right
so some people say it's bad because it's
quickly close to the sender's because
it's not close the sender's plan some
people say it's good because it's not
close to the Sanders plan both of those
are wrong because it is actually pretty
close to the Sanders okay but it's it's
based on a faulty premise on some level
that the the numbers are an accurate
reflection of the overall debt and so
the algorithm that's applied to cutting
away that that is going to get you a
number that is that is not quite
accurate and so alright so with that
said the the I guess to the the
practical differences may be less there
may be more of like a an ideological
difference in terms of you know the the
concept of universality versus means
testing and may have some political
implications not necessarily a
dollar-for-dollar implications so the
material implications may be less than
the political I guess our ideological
but nevertheless one of the critiques of
both the plans that you write about in
this piece in current affairs is the the
notion and in some ways this is this
reflects you know this came up during
the the Clinton Sanders debate over you
know free college the idea that you
don't want wealthy people you know you
don't want Donald Trump's kids going to
a free public college which i think is a
little bit short-sighted that would be a
great thing they actually have had
happen I think the country would be much
better off frankly but with that said
the idea is that people are saying this
is
massive by cutting the student debt for
college goers because I think the
criticism goes like hey you're providing
you're forcing people who are due don't
go to college and maybe I you know I
went to vocational school and I'm a
plumber I served as an apprentice for a
couple years and now I'm a full plumber
and why should I have to pay my tax
dollars if that's the way we're gonna
finance this - relieving student debt
for college students what tell it I mean
that seems to be the criticism correct
what are the premises that are embedded
in that criticism in other words the
assumptions about who who's who in all
this yeah I think that's exactly get
that gets to the heart exactly of the
politics of this and I guess the
ideology of this there's a long-standing
false assumption in my opinion that
everything associated with higher
education is elite and so it's kind of
stemming from that assumption that you
get an attack on the idea of free
college that it is a regressive policy
because it's basically a government
handout to the upper middle class the
upper middle class the tenor tends to be
the people who go to college and so why
should you know Joe Schmo who didn't get
the chance to go to college pay taxes to
the government and in order to subsidize
the college education of somebody from a
well-off family and then you know so
that's kind of one John revoir Gyun and
then the flipside of that and when you
get to student debt is you know what
about the people who don't have student
debt or who paid off their student debt
you know why should they be saddled with
the increased federal tax burden or
federal debt to account for the
cancellation of the student debt for
everybody who did go to college and that
over I would say it's important to start
generally because when we get into the
specifics it can tend to obscure the
generality it's just false that free
college or student debt cancellation
they give away to elites because it's
false that higher education that public
higher education is a giveaway to elites
this was I think a convenient talking
point for the fire of austerity to be
directed at public higher education in
this country but the reality is when we
established public higher education that
radically expanded access to a public
good in my opinion that was previously
constricted to two or three percent of
the population the very tip-top who got
to go to these fancy and very exclusive
institutions in the post-war era we
created a bunch of public higher
education systems that were much more
accessible to the broader public it's
not to say that higher education was a
total egalitarian it has always had an
hierarchical and exclusionary quality to
it but we experimented with public
higher education and appellate higher
education and it had its intended effect
which is to widen educational
opportunities for the vast set of the
population more recently we have
constricted access to higher education
including on based on the ability to pay
for it we've transferred the cost of
public higher education from state
budgets and the form of budgets meaning
taxpayers in the state to the users of
higher education which tend to be
students so they're younger or and less
white than the tax pays of public of
states and you know the result has been
the student debt crisis so I just don't
buy that higher education as a social
construct or I should say public higher
education is a regressive or yep it's
progressive because it pays for people
who are well-off at the expense of
people who are not I thought that this
is a talking point that most recently
the Budaj campaign has been banding
about it it's not just false but visible
and offensive in my opinion and I should
say I'm especially worked up about this
because I myself used to believe that
and so I have this sort of zeal of the
converted as to that the view of higher
education as being an elite project or
public higher education as being an
elite project okay so to get to some of
the criticisms that you mentioned
against the warran plan
that that I spoke to in the current
affairs piece there's this idea that you
know it's unfair to people who have
already paid off their dead because you
know why wouldn't they why shouldn't
they have just waited around and to get
it cancelled rather than to you know
saved over the years to to pay it down
and it's also unfair to the people who
never went to college or never took on
student debt and my view is that that
overall critique is internally
incoherent the people who have paid off
their student debt and especially the
people who never took on student debt
for their higher education to begin with
that those tend to be well off relative
to the people who currently have student
debt outstanding the so and this gets to
the larger I would say change in the
role that higher education is playing in
society in the labor market which is
increasingly it's a requirement to enter
the labor market get at anything other
than the bottom rung to have some
experience of higher education and
because of increases in tuition thanks
to reductions in state funding having
some higher education and increasingly
means you definitely have student debt
unless you come from a well-off family
in which case they were able to pay for
your college okay let me let me Oh let
me stop you here because we're getting
it there's you know I that I want people
to be able to parse this out and and and
you're moving into the credential
ization dynamic but when we talk about
these two different sort of cohorts
right the ones that have paid it off
you're saying your argument is that they
are necessarily the highest income
cohort of everyone involved and they
need that debt the least and paid off
the least and that critique is not sort
of like bundled with the other critique
which sounds like I never went to
college and the presumption is that the
cohort of adults who never went to
college and never incurred that debt are
necessarily coming from a from lower
income than those people who did assume
the debt is that it yes I think that
assumption is indeed going on in the
background I would when you say people
who never went to college you know
there's different types of people who
don't have student debt one is people
who never went to college so those
people will tend to be a oh both older
that makes them richer but also poorer
so obviously that makes that less rich
relative to people who do have student
debt or who did go to college so when we
talk about the people who go to college
we're probably talking about people who
are less well-off than people with
student debt if they're older but my are
you okay so that's one set of people
right the other set of people is the
people who did go to college but either
never took on suit and debt or did take
on student debt and paid it off that set
of people is unambiguously better off
than the people who currently have
student debt outside right so it's
really it's it's the it's the former
group that is at least consistent with
the the critique of it being
theoretically or possibly regressive
right I mean it's it's yes yeah okay yes
so this is where I think it's important
to discuss credential ization because
you know that this idea that you've got
you know people who had a career without
encountering higher education or
certainly without encountering student
debt because maybe they did have higher
education but it was in the era before
the current a huge rate of tuition
increases you know those people are
older relative to the current students
and my argument about credential ization
is that at least for recent cohorts
higher education or some some
involvement in higher education and
therefore some involvement with student
debt unless you're rich enough not to
need student debt to pay for education
that is an increasingly universal
experience both because the roots into
the labor market that didn't require
higher education have been closed off so
if you're referring earlier - you know
skill trades where you could you know
possibly have been trained on the job
and then you know kind of wholly avoided
the formal higher education system
enroute to a middle-class life you know
those are increasingly gone as well as
the route the routes to the labor market
that do involve higher education you
know it's increasingly unavoidable that
they also involve student that given the
huge increases in tuition that that have
occurred in recent decades so you know
sort of tie that that knot or so to
speak you know what they're so we're
talking about you know the people who
don't have college education relative to
the people who currently have student
debt and may or may not have completed
you know some amount of higher education
I think that's where the ambiguity of
economic status really comes into play
and while it is as I'm saying ambiguous
it's definitely over facile to say oh
this is poor people paying for or the
education of rich people right and then
certainly in the context of let's say
Sanders when he was talking about a
financial tax a tray of financial
trading tax to pay for this I mean we
know that stocks are held by a very
limited number of percentage of people
in this country right like you know 25
30 percent maybe and the idea of the the
tax that tax burden in people who own
let's say pension funds which are not
heavily traded theoretically it's it's
pretty small right I mean this is just
sort of like I guess the argument is
like well we could impose that financial
transaction tax and it could go towards
other things yeah I mean I you know I'm
not really in a position to comment that
much on the tax side but I will say you
know the financial transaction tax
proposals that I'm aware of you know
it's not even just on people who own
stock like you know who might have a
pension for example or and I a 401k it's
really specifically about the people who
trade stock at a very high frequency um
and you know that's a tiny subset of the
even the financial sector let alone the
public and you know so I mean as
transaction taxes gun a financial one is
a pretty progressive one I believe the
Warren campaign would tell you that
their student debt cancellation proposal
is financed out of their wealth tax and
there's no doubt that a wealth tax is
progressive given you know that's kind
of in the name of it if you have wealth
you pay the tax and and there's this
progressive you can be on that I think
they have a higher rate on people with
larger
well let's just talk I mean so you know
and it's so basically you know your your
piece in one part talks about the sort
of the it debunks this argument just
from a I guess it may be and maybe not
necessarily from a data step but from a
reasoning perspective and that this is
not regressive is there are there data
sets I mean is there a way to really
sort of assess this before going in or
is it is there just is is it all you can
do is model it and wait and see I mean I
would say well we don't public doesn't
know that much about individual student
debtors relative to even other sort of
federal programs because the data that
tracks individual student debtors and
their progress to repayment is pretty
well totally inaccessible to the public
the few papers that are published and in
public our base are written by
researchers who had access who worked
either for the Treasury or the Education
Department I think both of them work for
the Treasury in fact and you know not
only that I most recently the Education
Department has kind of publicly cast
doubt on the veracity of those papers
that may be politically motivated
frankly because the authors of those
papers were saying we're using the the
research to essentially make arguments
the Trump administration doesn't like
but you know the upshot is we don't know
that much about individual student debt
because it's really near impossible for
public researchers that aren't on the
inside to get access to it and of course
these federal departments have veto
power basically over the publication of
anything coming from the insiders and so
you know if there's a paper and there
were some research in there that goes
and the really something something
really dire happening in among student
debtors I'm thinking pretty well quash
it we do know I mean based on the little
information that does come out we do
know quite a bit I mean basically
whenever we learn something more about
the student loan system it's never good
news and so they do these releases where
for example we've found out that
delinquency rates among black borrowers
are way higher
than had previously been known and
they're even so there had been this
thought that Oh delinquency is kind of
caused by people not completing their
college degrees if only people could
complete their degrees then they would
realize the earnings increase that you
get from a college education and because
they have that earnings increase they'd
be able to repay more easily what we
have data that shows that's just not
true I mean earning delinquency is
indeed higher among people who don't
complete but it's so very high
especially among black borrowers among
people who do complete their
undergraduate education and you know
it's just flatly on its face
inconsistent with the whole argument for
the expansion of the federal student
loan program in the first place which is
that this is actually a labor market
policy because everyone taking on
student debt to pay for more higher
education credentials will cause them
Seesmic will cause them to earn more in
the labor market right that's that's one
of the big fallacies that we've
developed and that's what we get into
that credential ization that the
basically what happened is the more
people got degrees the more the bar was
raised as to what qualified as a degree
that was going to help you get more work
presumably what to what to what extent
do we know like when we talk about these
different sort of examples of debt
african-americans within the you know in
terms of the student debt more likely to
have student debt even even after having
completed these colleges do we know the
breakdown of for-profit colleges in this
how big of a piece of it of this
question of the debt is a function of
the for-profit college system yeah
actually I'll take this opportunity to
say that I think it's time to move the
conversation past the for-profits and
which is not to say they're not bad all
right they're definitely highly
predatory we know for a fact that they
don't increase earnings for people who I
obtained degrees from them or even don't
obtain degrees and there are enormous ly
kind of evil creditors that is they
they're a cause of lots of the
delinquency that's existing in the
system the reason why I say we want to
move past them is in some ways their
business model is already or at least
their their business that their business
model their businesses are already in
decline that's not you know we as you
alluded to earlier that doesn't mean
there's still not
enormous ly population of suffering
people who were a predated upon by them
in their heyday and we absolutely should
cancel their debts and it's it's
shameful that the Trump administration
is you know basically rolling back what
little the federal government had been
able to do for them but I want you know
I think I think it's important to kind
of recognize that the credential ization
problem and the segregation problem in
higher education go beyond the
for-profit so one of the reasons why
lots of people focus on the for-profits
as the villains of the higher education
system is you know they rightly see that
the higher education as a whole is very
segregated in the for-profit serve a
disproportionately non-white population
and a population who are traditionally
lacked access to traditional higher
education so people who are later in
life who aren't in a position to go
spend four years living on a college
campus you know because they have
children because they're working
whatever you know that's kind of the
population that the for-profits rushed
into the void to serve during the finite
especially during the financial crisis
when unemployment rates were high and so
they sort of had a very much a kind of
boom and bust cycle and we're in the
bust for the for-profits the problem is
the nonprofit ok you should tell that to
their stocks incidentally yeah ok well
well I am telling that hopefully they
they're not they're listening to
somebody who understands the industry
and not they're they're naive boosters
but whatever the problem I would say is
that the nonprofit's have kind of
figured out how to make that business
model increasingly profitable and or
you've got that what's now the sort of
coding boot camps that you know they're
not purporting to deliver the same
degree as a for-profit that is
essentially saying we are giving you a a
B a that's like enough that's comparable
to another to a be a from a traditional
institution you know the coding boot
camps aren't saying that so my point in
this is that the for-profit clientele in
the for-profit business model has
basically by if ur cated to the
nonprofit's as well as to the you know
non traditional degree granting
for-profit companies that what I've
summarized does the coding boot camp
and you know I see adoption of the
for-profit business model by the
traditional nonprofit higher education I
think is pros is a grave challenge to
the regulation of higher education
because there's a lot of value
associated with these prestigious names
and at least as regards federal policy
they have largely gotten what they
wanted even under the Obama
administration you know the Obama
administration instituted a bunch of
regulations that you know came very near
to putting the for-profit industry out
of business and and that may happen
again
notwithstanding the relaxation under
Trump you know there's there's basically
very little pressure on the nonprofit's
to move away from a credential ization
type business model to move away from a
business model that is especially
predatory on on students of color I mean
that this is why segregation matters
even outside the for-profit context
because they they are confined to
institutions that are historically less
well resourced and therefore more
dependent on predatory business models
okay so let me so to summarize in terms
of that dynamic for-profit colleges
villains but can tend to be a
distraction from a change in the
business model that's happening across
the the spectrum of higher education
which I presume I mean without and then
I want to go down this road and maybe
this is you know for a different day but
is basically the the nonprofit some
higher education some higher you know
sort of like a high end institutions are
basically Mart using their name as a
marketing tool and but with a similar
sort of side business that tends to be
online in some circumstances that don't
have the same accreditation requirements
or get rolled under get credit for
accreditation that may exist yet in a
more substantial part of of their
educational institution as it were so
but yes I think that's exactly right
okay and and and that's a dynamic I
think that that probably warrants a lot
more investigation going forward I mean
I've been reading a little bit about
that but lastly so you know we've
debunked the notion that it's regressive
but
just just end this on a maybe a last
sort of like the a more ideological I
guess perspective on that we need to
return in many respects to the idea of
higher education and education more
broadly speaking to be a public good
right that it that it's that it's not
that this whole move to making it about
a way of increasing your salary by X
amount of dollars has not has had bad as
proven not to be the case and is also
probably had very very bad impact on the
development of even nonprofit
universities becoming scammy
in some ways yeah I think that's exactly
right and you know this is part of what
are the areas where I have to lay at
least some of the blame on my fellow
economist because I think it's really
out of that billy-oh that the idea of
education is something that you as a
student invest in in order to realize
future returns in the form of higher
earnings in the labor market that that
whole construct kind of comes out of
economic scholarship and I think was
really weaponized into policy in the
late 60s and 70s and despite and as well
as recently so you know kind of
continuously up through the more recent
era as a means of undermining state
support for higher education and the
idea it was well you know we can afford
to trends for the cost of this to
individuals and students because they're
deriving the benefit from it which is to
say higher earnings that turned out to
be a bad theory of the labor market we
now know that I'm a labor economist this
is basically what my primary research is
about and that and I think the
implications of that are are pretty
profound for the higher age education
and you know more broadly the education
policy side of that of that coin so you
know we had an experiment of expanding
public higher education and including it
you know a different level so if you
have something like the California
master plan the whole premise was that
anyone who graduated from high school in
the state of California and satisfied
minimal educational requirements there
as a you know achievement requirements
was able to find a place for them in
higher education this was supposed to be
an engine of the state's future economic
development coming from the creation of
public institutions to accommodate
rising generation I would argue as I
alluded to earlier that a key weakness
so to speak politically of that project
was that the beneficiary population
turned out to look a lot different than
the people who were who were perceived
to be financing it and that made it
prone to the anti civil rights movement
white backlash of the late 60s and early
70s that was crucial in undermining
support both at the state level at the
state level in many different states as
well as it in the federal government for
whole higher education of public higher
education systems that would be
relatively accessible to a broad
spectrum of the population and you know
I read literature from coming from you
know very very right-wing economists of
the 1960s basically saying this is a
social disaster we're just letting
anybody through the doors what happened
to standards let's use student debt in
order to discipline the students so they
don't feel like they have the run of the
place basically and you know that's what
we did like we basically the federal
government implemented the policy
recommendations of you know a right-wing
crank economists of the 1960s in the
backlash to the civil rights movement so
yeah I mean if we're going forward from
here I think first of all we need to
divorce higher education policy from
this idea that the point of it is to
improve outcomes in the labor market
because you know we tried that and it
didn't work but that doesn't mean that
higher education policy has no point on
the contrary I think it was a great
achievement of civilization if you want
to put it in grandiose words to that we
created institutions that had more in
the way of universal access that were
designed to take this very nice thing
that previously only the elite had
access to and make it more broadly
accessible and I think that's an
inspiring ideology to kind of return to
rather than this economist
the idea of investing in your future
earnings especially if it's false all
right and and and I agree and I think
you know it's a we should have the
argument is the same reason why you
would educate someone up to high school
I mean they you know make for better
citizens at the end of the day I mean I
just you know even just add one more
thing to that the you know you see here
coming from some elites in Congress for
example that you know free college is
like a racist policy for example and
that is just ridiculous
the you know it's not a racist policy
for the same reason that brown v board
of education is the opposite for racist
policy it is making a public good
broadly available regardless of race and
you know it's very important to take
into account race when we design a free
college policy because we don't want to
just have a segregated higher education
system but the idea that you know it's
it's bad because it you know undermines
an existing segregated system is
ridiculous okay lastly let me just ask
you this the the cost of education the
story that that I've heard two stories
and maybe they're not mutually exclusive
but one story is that the the the
increase in availability for funds you
know fueled the rise in the availability
of funds in the context of specifically
and then in the nature of loans fueled
the rise in the increase in tuition the
other is that because states cut back on
their support of the lowest the lowest
cost option of college in any given
state that it created upward pressure on
tuitions what is is either one of those
stories inaccurate to what's the balance
if it's both those things yeah I mean I
think they're both accurate and I think
that there's the overall narrative of
credential is a patient of the labor
market is what can reconcile those
stories
also I mean there may be other stories
about the rise in cost of Education I
think basically the the motivating
factors are two one is increased demand
for higher education because in a weak
labor market people perceived higher
education as the route to advancement
well and they did not realize the
earnings that they thought they would
get based on whatever education they
previously would have had so you have
you know people who previously would
have just had a high school degree not
able to attain the middle-class jobs
that would have gone along with that
educational attainment in Prior decades
you know going to college people who
have just have a four-year degree or a
two-year degree getting getting more
higher education than they would have so
there you have you know what I've turned
a rat race in other writings where
essentially the overall economic story
is an increase in demand for higher
education credentials on the flip side
you have a decline in state support for
public higher education institutions
such that you put institutions in the
position of needing to find other ways
to monetize their business and
credential ization is one of the key
ways that they can so you know they want
you to go take out as much higher
education as as they can get you to
basically and the federal government is
there as the backstop at least on the
front end issuing loans to more or less
whoever wants them whoever gets admitted
so the institutions are saying okay well
we've got you know we're admitting
larger class sizes perhaps we are you
know increasing the classes you know
taught by any one professor in class
sizes in higher ed especially in
community colleges have have increased
and the course offerings decrease are
were essentially you know making this a
less labor-intensive type of business
while cramming as many more students
through the door as possible in order to
get them to pay as much tuition as
possible and that tuition will be
financed by student debt because we have
to you know given that the state is no
longer the main pillar underlying our
budget you know it's got to be the
students basically so I think that that
dynamic to increase demand and the
reduced state funding are together or
what give you the student debt crisis
you know there's pretty good research
that shows you know in some ways that
it's the
the causality goes from the availability
of federal student loans to higher
tuition so that this is interesting
because it's there's this thing called
dependent hypothesis which is basically
that the more state supporters are Edom
or the more student loan funding is
available the higher will tuition go
because the institutions were real out
as that people have more ability to pay
at least on the front end because they
can basically finance everything with
student debt and the federal
government's philosophy has been we want
more people to have more higher
education and the way to do that is to
expand lower to increase loan limits
under available under the federal
student loan program dependent
hypothesis is the name of it suggests
used to have a sort of right-wing flavor
to it it's named after the Secretary of
Education under the George HW Bush
administration and that was kind of
conceptualized as a Anti higher ed type
of argument and therefore the you know
the left if the left is in favor of
higher are say you know the Democratic
establishment if you want to call it
that is in favor of higher education
institutions this was considered an anti
higher education type of a message I
would say that is changing now or at
least I predict it will change in the
future that is to say as student debtors
and recent graduates are you know much
less enamored of their own alma mater so
to speak as you know then then previous
graduates would have been because they
feel like oh you know when I went
through this the business model was make
me pay as much as possible take about as
much debt as possible and I didn't get
the earnings increase I thought I was
going to you know as as the public
especially student debtors be you know
kind of against you know not you
know no longer seeing higher education
is like the defining moment of their
lives and identifying enormous Lea with
the brand of the institution that they
went to you know that will change the
ideological valence of the bet and at
hypothesis such that it becomes more of
a lefty type idea huh but so aside from
just sort of people changing their their
perspective on it I mean I guess it's I
guess it's it's not something that we
can know with any type of real clarity
there's all these factors and we don't
have a sense of what's driving it I mean
yeah I mean I think there's a lot of
interleague
right phenomena that gave rise to the
pressure on tuitions to increase than
the increasing student debt burdens on
beyond both in the sense that you know
people with a BA have higher debt
burdens coming out of their VA than
people with a BA would have had years
ago as well as many more people going to
the system in therefore a larger share
of a population having any experience of
student debt so this is that latter
thing is really where I take exception
to the idea that student debt
cancellation is regressive as we were
discussing before and and ultimately it
just turns out that on a big factor as
you're saying is that the worth of a
college education in the context of
actual real dollars has been sort of
inflated without it's been overvalued I
guess is really the price yeah including
in the current affairs thing so you know
I have said like we have this
diminishing value of Higher Education
degree in the context of the labor
market which is inducing people to get
more higher education degrees in order
to kind of get themselves up to the
level that they thought you know a less
lower educational attainment would would
entitle them you know that has some of
the qualities of a bubble but it's not
gonna burst like the housing bubble did
so people ask me you know is the student
debt the next bubble after the housing
bubble or something and you know in
economic terms no because student debt
is unsecured the dynamics of a housing
bubble are you know you're you took on a
bigger mortgage than your house is now
worth so you have to sell your house to
pay back your mortgage and they're in
the sale if that house causes the price
of houses to go down further and there's
this what we call debt deflation
dynamics so the you know price of
housing just sort of collapses in you
know the space of a few months or a year
that's what happened in 2007 I I guess
through 2008 in student dead we're not
gonna get that like sudden decline in
what a college degree is worth instead
it's a slow deflation of the bubble over
a long period of time and that is
exactly what credential is Asia what
we're observing with credential ization
in labor market outcomes so that that
student debt bubble is going to deflate
if you want to call it that over a
period of decades
and you know who knows whether that's
more damaging to the economy or less
damaging than a sudden economic
macroeconomic collapse you know if
everybody is sort of laboring under the
burden of the student debt that their
earnings aren't enough to pay off over a
period of decades that can have severe
negative consequences for long-run
growth and the economy overall I think
we're seeing you know we're starting to
see the evidence of that in for example
the public service loan forgiveness when
that program was created a little over
10 years ago yet there was no basically
no thought that it would be as as large
as it has turned out to be II so the way
that they've kind of retro actively
shrunk it down to the size that it was
supposed to be is to just not forgive
the peoples debt that they said they
were going to and consequently all these
people who and you know have constructed
their careers out of eventually being
eligible for pslf you know suddenly on
the other end of it they're like wait a
second
right yeah I'm screwed right yeah well
that we got to save that for another day
but Marshall I appreciate I appreciate
your time today
folks can read more we will link to your
current affairs piece from earlier this
month
I guess September 5th and we will talk
about it I mean we will link to it there
and people can read more but Marshall
thanks so much for Taunton I really
appreciate it
yep it's been great thanks for talking
welcome back folks
great stuff Marshall Steinbaum I just
want to let you all know this episode
was brought to you by blankets blankets
the blinkin yeah this episode was
brought to you by blinka the blankets
app takes the key takeaways from
thousands of best-selling non-fiction
books and condenses them into just 15
minutes for you to read or listen to 10
million people are using blankets right
now it has a massive and growing library
from self-help in business to health and
industry books right now you can get 25%
off of your first year at blink esc'
comm slash majority like a stock comm
slash majority link on the home page
become a member of the majority reported
a majority dot F M slash become a member
tonight on the Michael Brooks show and a
kasparian joins us to talk about the
clarity we need on single-payer health
care why Elizabeth Warren isn't
providing it what we need for housing
policy she's gonna make the case
were impeachment I'm talking about the
doing an overview of the various
political factions inside Palestine and
Israel and as you know I mean just ton
we're doing a brief intro to world
Systems Theory at Immanuel Wallerstein
and also going over Elizabeth Warren's
Council on Foreign Relations
questionnaire and looking at Peapod edge
at total ease with people on strike
patreon.com slash TMDs michael brooks
show on youtube snag your tickets for
the TMB s live show november 23rd that's
the week before Thanksgiving
several people still have asked me about
that there's no schedule conflict it's
okay it's a World Cafe with crystal ball
Emma V Glen and artesia a ball drop
those are some significant heavy hitters
right there that's gonna be a very fun
show and I have to say man I mean these
ones day they're vol been really good
I'm not I'm happy with everything we've
done but when we were in Chicago was
like definitely like this is just
getting to know we're learning it out
we're getting close to our 10,000 hours
do we have a link to let's just throw
that up on screen and maybe put it I
think it's on the home page just so you
can get your tickets to the Philly show
see you tonight at 7 o'clock you got it
you can't fire all right we'll do it
later Jamie what's cooking this week on
the anti Fattah we speak with Nadia
Gullo an organizer from no new jails
about the current ongoing campaign to
close Rikers and not replace it with
anything instead Dakar sir eight people
and reinvest money in communities so
people don't end up in jail to begin
with which is a much better plan in my
opinion we also talk about prison
abolition more generally and as part of
our overarching political horizon we
also I want to remind everyone we have a
live show of our own coming up at
Littlefield NYC on Saturday
to over 12 it's gonna be pretty great I
think we're doing it with paw damn
America our goth socialist sister show
led by the comedian Jake Flores
we got me we got Shawn we got ap and E
we got Jake Flores Alex Patek Andrews
Lee that's just the core group of
podcasters and then we have some really
awesome guests they are Leslie Lee the
third from session King Matt Chrisman
and Virgil Texas from Chapo Trap House
heavy hitters need no introduction
Simone Orman very funny comedian and a
live drag performance from comrade barbi
I don't know the last two people but I
totally trust you
comrade bar TVs Brendon though right I
mean you gotta come to the shuttle girl
to find out if comrade Barbie looks at
all familiar to you mmm
fascinating get your tickets literally
link there oh yeah most recent literary
hangover I did a solo episode on hob
amok by a woman named Lydia Maria child
it came out in 1824 she's sort of a very
early feminist and abolitionist in fact
she wrote the first anti-slavery work in
book form in America and her she also
when she was 20 the book I talk about
hob amok it includes a white woman going
off and marrying and having a child with
Native Americans rather wolves meets
Borat yeah yeah she was very ahead of
her time she's very ahead of her time
no I've actually I began the episode
it's fascinating
all right folks see in the fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz your
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up maybe you should rethink
your defensive that you're idiot
we're just going to get rid of you all
right smoke this joint yes five times
five oh one four five six seven eight
nine don't you see everybody's taking
their dumb juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the tip in the scroll fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not they
accuse me you you alright take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some ability Ria's out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to IDs people Shitler what's such
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half everybody we are
all here except for Sam
Shalom L hey new look hockey Daniel I'm
gonna learn Hebrew on one of those apps
so I can do more Sam jokes ten thousand
bucks ten thousand dollar bet sorry I
just wanted that's Sam arguing about
Social Security actuarial with somebody
at the shul that's Sam at the craps
table it does it got a bit 10,000 down a
bit so stupid so stupid so stupid all
right
um let's uh let's sorry no I did not Oh
what is this Andrew Yang's an
anti-racist apparently all right let's
play this Andrew yang look if Andrew
yang here's the thing with Andrew yang
in the same way that I want people to
stop effing around with Warren or
Gabbard I want you to stop I think
around with Andrew yang if you claim to
have a serious progressive mission and
get serious about the unparalleled
opportunity of a Sanders campaign
there's a lot of problems with Andrew
yang
I think we've articulated on both
platforms and there's clearly a lot of
emotion and a lot of touchiness about
that but I also have no problem giving
credit where credit is due and if he is
playing constructive role with Trump
voters then that is an extremely
positive thing and I think actually by
the way also does make a broader point
that speaking to people's material needs
is a good thing and you know it does not
mean appeasing people's garbage it does
not mean dog whistling to them I think
to be I think Andrew yang has in fact
done some of that in the past and I've
criticized them for that but the broader
notion that you have to speak to people
across the country including in people
who are you know demographics that are
not fashionable in the media discourse
right now about their material needs is
not only it's the right thing to do
politically it's the right thing to do
historically it's the right thing to do
morally and it also is frankly the only
thing that we know of with any actual
efficacy on the ground with exiting
people from the worst and most toxic and
pernicious attitudes so to the extent
Andrew yang is doing that and he is
doing some of that happen to disagree
with his prescriptions and frame he is
doing some of that props to him so let's
check this out yes yes was Naamah yang a
crack but only for Andrew yang I'm only
here on the Democratic side to vote for
Angie game because I would not give you
two cents for an establishment Democrat
to be honest way that's just my opinion
but Andrew yang makes so much sense when
Andrew yang talks you actually hear the
solutions to the problems that got
Donald Trump elected you know we all
want to Donald Trump to go in and we all
wanted him to drain the swamp we wanted
him to be that larger-than-life outsider
WWE Superstar you know he was on WWE at
one point in time
doing little bits with Vince McMahon we
all wanted him to be that guy the
outsider but he's actually just the
insider you know and the country's only
gotten more and more
I did and then when you hear somebody
talk like Andrew yang and he says you
know what guys it's not immigration
it's automation and you think holy cow
you know what at McDonald's
guess what I don't even have to talk to
anybody they bring me my food to the
table I don't have to talk to anybody
you go into Walmart one person is man in
20 registers because they're all self
checkout
it's automation that's taking away our
jobs here in America
that's why Donald Trump won the Rust
Belt he went in like gangbusters and he
was like hey we're gonna bring all the
jobs back guess what
y'all we can't bring the jobs back
because the robots have taken them
there's no bringing them back so what we
got to do is we got to get ahead of the
curve and Andrew Yang is the only one
that's talking about it that's over here
what would you do we have thousand
dollars months how to change your life
you know this is great I mean look I
would make this guy some time
correspondent on TBS but I just think
like the bottom line is that and the
only thing that needs to be taken from
that conversation really is the talking
about people's material needs is a
really good thing and I and I have some
you know and appealing to people outside
of the traditional base of the
Democratic Party without a doubt but I
think it's very important to
disaggregate you know there was one
discourse that happened after 2016
that really placed an emphasis on
so-called economic anxiety and then it
was there was this big counter reaction
to talk about the racial and xenophobic
motivations of the Trump base and you
know to me it's just I mean first of all
there's some there's some just really
obvious things and a little bit of
nuance in the conversation one that's
obvious is that we already know and have
known if you know anything about modern
political history that the Republican
base to the extent there is an organic
constituency it is driven by various
forms of white identity politics and
that is a problem it is toxic and it has
been that way since these voting blocks
left the Democratic Party
LBJ pushed through civil rights now
there's different variations Nixon did
it differently Reagan did it differently
the Gingrich Republicans did it
differently but it's all the same
through line and it's and it's all the
same white ethno state or white identity
politics right but then there's this
other dynamic right now that on like a
literary on it on a narrative structural
level is very problematic like I you
know I think like people aren't dying of
whiteness they're dying of obesity and
opioids and their racism and their
attachment to white identity politics is
undermining and destroying their ability
to deal with their problems 100% but I
don't like the idea of the language but
like there's actual things that are
literally killing people and I have some
trouble with the tendency of that
language construction and I also can see
that there is a long American history
primarily identified on the right but
actually perfected ironically by
neoliberal Democrats like Bill Clinton
of blaming the poor discourse and
blaming the working discourse now we're
very aware because it's almost always
deployed towards people of color of how
fundamentally racist that discourse is
but if you look at the other counter
narrative or counter trend which
actually started with charles murray
charles murray wrote a book called
falling behind a losing ground losing
ground where and charles murray of
course is the the the bell curve is an
extraordinarily bigoted book but the
argument the structure of the bell curve
what's really going on there is there's
nothing we can do about poverty period
because people are cognitively limited
so let's get rid of the welfare state
that's like the that was actually that's
the structure of that book and the
racism and the classism falls into that
and the Jiki and the IQ stuff and all of
that and he wrote a book called losing
ground where he's basically said now
because of deindustrialization and
because of economic trends are
generating these same problems in white
ethnic communities right because it
never was about intelligence or culture
or all of this nonsense that people
lectured and sermonize the poor about
um and racialized race science I'm poor
whites - no he just had to flip it and
make it cultural but he did do a
cultural he did do a cultural now I was
and that's why there's a big
conservative trend now and it's and it's
been it's been exemplified over the last
several years of oh my god look at these
dumb poor white people and that's
actually the violence sorry Jamie Vance
exactly JB Vance there you go precisely
JT Vance is the big pop culture
representation of it and it's funny
because Donald Trump indulges some of
these people in his rhetoric and then
the Republican elites including ones
with indistinguishable policies from
from Trump they're they're bigoted
they're anti-immigrant all of this stuff
but they have nothing but disdain and
contempt for these people and now you
see liberals who want to argue against
universal program starting to replicate
some of their own histories stuck things
are essential nothing changes nothing
moves on much more deserving targets but
they should be aware that the narrative
structure is the same the narrative
structure of there's a self-contained
culture that isn't interacting with
history or economics and it can't shift
because of people's personal pathologies
that's a problem 10x10 point for any
kind of politics and it's antithetical
to a materialist than just this one and
it's fascinating to me frankly that if
Andrew yang and I've say this again at
times he's appeased these people in ways
that I've I mean I don't have to I mean
you can look up the videos I've
critiqued them much to the freak out and
the chagrin of his people but more
broadly than that if you have a guy who
is relentlessly talking about you know
the cost to people's economic lives who
is a person of color and frankly that's
not an irrelevant thing in this context
and you know who at the end of the day
is offering something that really will
not solve the problem but it's it's uh
that's getting through the people that
should really be a lesson uh for a lot
of folks yeah exactly that's why he's a
more a better candidate than say Kamala
or some of the other people in the
candidate and he was beating her in
California he's beating her
California well I mean look what it what
the the nobody and I think the problem
is is that you know this professional
class coalition of the Democrats I mean
that's what the Democratic elites bank
on right we can we have the socially
tolerant oligarchs then we have
professional class people that identify
with the oligarchs and then we can get a
sweep of endangered communities from
white supremacy in homophobia and
transphobia because we're not as bad and
then that will be a 51% coalition and
then we'll limp through for another four
years of maybe some modest social gains
and I really say maybe because I
actually think like the social gains
under Obama to his credit those are
unique I don't know that there's a lot
of social gains under a Bill Clinton
presidency in some ways there was but in
other ways he reinforced on a policy but
also discursive level some of the most
regressive attitudes and ideas about
poverty and race and co-signed in such a
way that even talking about poverty as
like a resource issue was utterly
marginalized in the eighties in the
nineties excuse me he also did Don't Ask
Don't Tell at a time when gay rights who
are starting to come to the forefront of
our culture and our consciousness and
just go back to yang I mean the $12,000
is I understand why that a lot of people
see it and they're like I really like
that but really it's about you need to
democratize and dica modify the economy
and $12,000 is not going to be enough to
save you from structural economic issues
like automation
not even close absolutely absolutely I
also think we need to look ahead to the
general here because Andrew yang is not
going to be the nominee for the
Democratic Party is not I I don't like
to make too many predictions but I feel
like I can make that one and that guy
that they're talking to he specifically
names the Democratic establishment as
the thing he doesn't like and I
absolutely believe that that guy could
be convinced to vote for Bernie Sanders
and he could not be convinced to vote
for any of the other candidates and look
you need swing voters
I feel like a lot is made of a
relatively small number of people who
make up swing voters and places like the
Rust Belt but they are electorally
significant and we're gonna need to pick
up a lot of those if we want to redraw
the electoral map and beat Donald Trump
absolutely another really important
thing to consider in the race here and
one of the real I support Bernie sander
oh I just want to say relate to what
Jamie said crystal balls commentary on
the hill this morning is really smart
about how the and you know on a campaign
level the Sanders campaign needs to get
significantly more aggressive and they
need to embrace the fact that there
isn't there just isn't gonna be a peace
with the so-called establishment right
like it just isn't gonna exist they're
going to destroy and do everything they
can to destroy Sanders and everything he
represents and he needs to respond in
kind fully to get the benefit of really
revealing that you know look the worst
forces in the society are arrayed
against him I mean the anti endorsement
list was one of the most smart things
campaign dead I think that this is also
really important you have to Center
foreign policy at the analysis of a
presidential campaign partially first of
all it is the right thing to do and
they're in an interdependent world and
there's not a single you know well
they're talking about migration or
climate or you know arms control I mean
these trade I mean these things are at
the center of our lives even if they're
not noticeable and frankly even what
we're arguing about here you know are we
going back to some idea of of a sort of
1960s middle class or are we saying how
do we actually develop a program that
fits in a globalized context and then on
a super practical level this is the
immediate thing there's all these
debates about theories of change and who
works the bureaucracy and how you fight
Congress and those things matter but
there is nothing that you have more
power over other than foreign policy
right out of the gate you're immediately
dealing with troop to
drones you're at the center of these
things from day one and Bernie Sanders
is the only one that has even inched and
taken some significant steps in the
direction of a real reform here while in
this area Elizabeth Warren represents a
you know highly disturbingly
conventional thinking and actually some
I forget who someone made the very smart
point about this that it's even more
revealing because Warren to her very
much her credit was willing to pick
fights with Obama on domestic issues she
didn't pick a single fight on foreign
it's not something that they think about
and even the primary stuff she's talked
about has been on trade which she's
framed as an American issue um I think
it was uh well I'll try to remember who
made this point I've got too much stuff
going on Road Khanna made a similar
point today on MSNBC this is very
important how do you talk to a voter who
has Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren
in front of her or him and isn't
deciding to make that choice they
believe they both have great progressive
credentials but maybe they feel like
Bernie had his shot last time what do
you say to that voter well first of all
I think senator Sanders has a very
progressive record on foreign policy I
work with him to help stop the Yemen war
he's voted against president promise and
defense budget increases so he's going
to highlight his progressive foreign
policy record the second thing is if you
look at the polls actually a lot of fun
senator Sanders is support can come from
Vice President Biden and I think the
contrast he will draw is that he
actually is the true champion for the
working class and he can build a winning
coalition
as some of those working-class voters
choose him over the vice president green
that's 100% right and I would really you
know I would look even to things where
Sanders you know it
I mean look there is a continuity in him
that's great on foreign policy going
back to the 1980s okay even as a mayor
of Burlington working on Reagan's dirty
Wars so if want to be really you know
look people want to like biographically
one person was a Republican in the 80s
one person was fighting
Regan's dirty wars he was a leader
against the invasion of Iraq and then
his policies on things like drones have
been mediocre at best and some of the
things he said in 2016 he's evolved from
significantly but he did vote against
John Brennan
whereas Warren voted for John Brennan
John Brennan's the architect of much of
the worst drone policies that were
pioneered under Obama this stuff really
matters I mean there's a lot of lives in
the ballots and that's the one area
where there's indisputable power that
whoever occupies the White House has
immediately yeah and people around the
world don't get to vote for who's
president of America he sure don't maybe
think about them indeed they're rich
they can they have ways of influencing
at least this is also true you're
calling from a 3 to 3 for 7 know oh I
think that this person get hung up on or
hang up now I see nothing okay you're
calling from a 3 to 3 area code who are
you where you're calling from hi my name
is Andrea I'm calling from Los Angeles
is that me yeah Andrew it's you what's
on your Monday Oh awesome great I I'm
just calling with a little bit of that
good news that you guys were looking for
yesterday with the the the he had a
caller call in about the narrative with
Bernie and all that I think if you guys
just go to a Bernie Sanders calm slash
call right now you can see that we're
actually doing a 1 million call campaign
in 10 days we're trying to do a million
calls it's been four days so far and
we're doing 450,000 calls up to this
point so we're actually doing really
well and you yeah and the way it's set
up this time you're able to work
remotely if you want so if you're at
Bernie Sanders calm slash call
everything you need is right there and
we're only asking for people to take one
two-hour shift and you can do it from
anywhere you just need a laptop and a
cell phone and I've been calling a lot
of people in Iowa and as of right now
for the most part people are
a blank slate and they are receptive to
a pitch though it's not a thing where
you're gonna argue with people or
anything like that most people are
really open to listen and if they're
really saying anything about Bernie at
all what they remember is that he kind
of got screwed last time so it's not
this combative field where you're gonna
have to like break somebody in like win
hearts and minds for the most part if
you've got a clear concise pitch about
why Bernie's different from everybody
then you can at least get that message
across and I've had tons of engagements
with call you know you get a lot of
hang-ups you get a lot of I don't have
time for that or less than they did you
need to talk to people yeah if you get
to talk to people and you let them know
that we're trying to completely
eliminate student debt and you only get
that with Bernie you know like we're
going for Medicare for all again like
you guys know and we're completely
eliminating medical debt and you only
get that with Bernie you know his green
New Deal proposal I bring up the
five-year just transition for fossil
fuel workers and I also bring up that
we're the only campaign talking
seriously about bringing fossil fuel
executives to justice for causing
climate change so these are things that
it's like really quickly you can lock in
on the differences between Bernie and
Warren Bernie and Biden Bernie and
anybody really because he has the
boldest vision so if you just lead off
with that even if you don't change
anybody's mind you can get that message
across and you don't know what people
are gonna do but I'm telling you
everybody is a lot more open than what
because I have friends who are Bernie
supporters and they're kind of looking
at the polls and going oh elizabeth
warren's up and i'm telling you if you
call Iowa right now most people don't
know how they're gonna vote yes it's the
Adolph Murie it's the Adolph Reid thing
yeah exactly government go Rotch that
Adolph Reid interviewing current affairs
like he's look yeah it's and this is the
delicate balance in this businesses of
like it's really important to hopefully
educate and entertain people but the
dynamic especially if you're working on
a movement which is what the Sanders
campaign is I mean it's about that it
make that call knock on that door not
that up and down daily neurosis and
hopefully look
I would like to see you know I do I want
the campaign itself to get a lot more
aggressive and sharp but people can't
yeah I'll take on all of that burden you
know what I mean so you know look at the
polls get on the phone yeah I would love
to just cut it real quick with that
again is that again if you just go to
Bernie Sanders calm slash call right now
everything you need is right there and I
think this is another chance to it's
like the the New York Times donor map
when that came out this is our chance to
really solidify our narratives because
the mainstream media narrative you know
they try to push Bernie out right in
every way possible but we keep seeing
these signals from this you know a
million donations a million volunteers
and now we're going for a million phone
calls and I think we're gonna hit it and
I think if more people participate we're
actually going to crush it we're gonna
go beyond and it's going to start to be
a thing where this is a force that you
cannot ignore you can make up whatever
story you want about it but we're here
we're making the most phone calls and
that's it right and so that one and also
that one warned replicates the rhetoric
of movement you can really start it puts
you at metrics of like well what are we
talking about yes Millennials get over
your fear of the phone Millennials yeah
yes it totally is that I have friends
who just don't want to pick up the phone
it's really that and super again even
when I talk to Warren supporters they
will listen to my pitch and if you
really make clear what the differences
are between Bernie and even Warren who's
the closest to Bernie they're gonna at
least hear what that is and you can get
off the phone with that person knowing
that you at least got that message
across and it feels good I'm telling you
like like all of us we all feel like the
the despair and all that but you can
really talk to Americans and Bill at
least here we have to say so yes so
appreciate the call now do you think
like cool absolutely I mean the reason
why I do most of my activism is like I
don't know if it's ultimately gonna do
anything I don't know if it's ultimately
gonna work I don't know if we're gonna
win but I want to be able to say that I
did everything that I could to help no
doubt get on the phones guys you know he
mentioned the student loan cancellation
thing is one thing that gets through to
people but
I was thinking about in terms of Iowa
like if you want to talk about
especially any actually any red state or
rural DSA this the story came out in the
conversation looks like more than 20
percent of our nation's rural hospitals
are four hundred thirty hospitals across
43 states are near collapse this is
despite the fact that rural hospitals
are not only crucial for health care but
also survival of small rural communities
now Bernie it's the only candidate as
far as I know with a twenty billion
dollars for a hospital bailout plan so
if you need to get the olds in Iowa for
specifically folks work that into your
pitch the thing I will say and this is
partially where some of my frustration
does come from with folks who you know
frankly should be they should their high
information consumers like ironically
and I mean he in this election cycle he
not only has a plan for that he has
something that's like jaw-droppingly
ambitious something that like the
details of the green new deal alone are
not something that I expected from a
campaign that I like in support I mean
he's putting incredible points on the
board here even with something like that
you're calling from a to one for area
code who are you where you're calling
from
this is Melissa from Dallas a Melissa
what's on your minds so I also have an
appeal that I want to make to the whole
scene young people it's gonna be real
quick I promise okay I love it go for it
okay so I got on like so you want to be
the like contrarian hipster that's not
into Warren or Bernie and you're like
liberal friend group you want to like
support someone who had nice like hair
looks good in a suit once like hate war
let's give you money or whatever like I
think the funny things described Tulsi
okay I got the last one was give money
all right got it
yeah I'm getting there like you know
there's there's appeals they're like
okay so you want to like when you're
having an argument with your racist
boomer parents you want to like when
they ask you hey who are you supporting
and you tell them and then they say boom
you know they I get that appeal smokey
and yang however
is someone who takes all of these boxes
and she's not total trash and her name's
Marianne Williamson we're never ever
gonna drop out because this is her book
tour so she's in it until they literally
drag her out and she's totally awesome
so that's my appeal to the contrarian
hipsters I a hundred and thousand
percent agree with you
Marianne Williamson is absolutely the
contrary hipster pit pick yeah the only
real choice of contrarian hipsters
everywhere obviously is Marianne
Williamson Melissa you nailed it thank
you not survive that was very on point
water boat from Kashmir you were correct
about Kashmir Michael money has a lot to
do with it the rich need an incentive to
support fascists of history is any less
at all update on Kashmir many Western
analysts were saying that the Indian
Supreme Court had asked for a return to
normality this was quite incorrect they
were giving Kashmiri Kashmir ease
permission slips to go in to Kashmir now
after multiple GP GOP leaders have said
the judiciary belongs again to them the
Supreme Court delayed multiple hearings
on Kashmir which made no sense hence the
logic and governance is officially dead
finally today they said that they would
pick up Kashmir petition on November
14th two weeks after Kashmir is
officially broken up and absorbs into
India so even if they do throw out a
legality the BJP moves there will be
parallel laws on the books that will
erode autonomy laws should a sane
judgment come through we know how this
game has played the people of Kashmir
now and know that a bloodbath is almost
guaranteed but the world can sleep in
peace this won't affect anyone else
we'll keep talking about it I mean this
is why you know I remember I had Sonia
Shankar on auntie MBS before the Indian
elections she made it and she's a
socialist but she made a similar appeal
which is valid which is like yes I mean
the Congress party what a noble history
but they're very analogous to Democrats
they suck
and that was absolutely an election in
India where people needed to vote to
stop Modi but it's also the case that
there's serious organic support in India
for moat I mean this is this fascistic
authoritarian ethnocentric thing has
real appeal in populations that's
something that people have to contend
with and will continue to cover it and
talk about it and be clear about the
travesty and human rights abuse it is by
the Modi government and that's what we
can do yeah and this is why we need more
of a wide-angle analysis of fascism and
right-wing populism in general because
it's not just this unique thing that
afflicts white people it's way more
complicated than that of course
Jay Jay cool hey Michael our Canadian
Conservative Party's trying to step up
their racism by promising to cut off
foreign aid if they win the election how
would you argue against the stupidity
with average people well I guess what
you mean by average people I'm hoping
presuming you're not talking about
conservative voters or voters that are
drawn to the racism of that message but
I mean look the reality is is that
foreign aid budgets take up like nothing
of national budgets so if you're a
decent person it helps is a tiny drop in
alleviating human suffering sometimes I
mean obviously there's a left critique
of foreign aid but taking on face value
I mean you help get people medications
and whatever and then secondly I you
know guess for some people they want to
think about a little bit more you can
make a little bit of a strategic
argument about you know blowback and so
on but I mean I don't know that's that's
that's so pathetic
Edwin's I started listening about a
month ago digging everyone's content I
have a few questions answer which one
you prefer
okay I let me say let's do two here was
your Sam impersonation originally saw
Rosenberg from the Jerky Boys absolutely
that is the inspiration for the saw the
Sam impression
and I'll throw this I'll kick this more
towards Jamie I understand your stance
on libertarians but what are your
thoughts on libertarian socialism Allah
Chomsky or Mikhail Bakunin verse
democratic socialism which side of the
Internationale do you identify with I
identify as a James Ian independent
Marxist that's my annoying self
definition yes yes I am a CLR James
independent Marxist but Jamie this is
more your Bali with what do you say yeah
I'm a G Mian independent marketing but
I'm Ching no I would say I've stopped
calling myself explicitly a libertarian
socialist or an anarchic communist and
just gone with a small C communist
lately because there are some things
that I some some problems that I have
really yet to solve in an anarchist
framework like the need for some form of
central planning I feel like there's
really no way around that but I do hang
out more on the libertarian pole of the
spectrum than the I mean people are
gonna get mad at me for using the a word
but authoritarian just as a simple
shorthand I am very wary of too much
centralization of power I'm wary of the
state I don't know that the state is
ever going to wither away as is the
traditional stay just concept of
communism I would really like to see
some sort of maybe a federation shall we
say a worldwide Federation of local
municipal governments in my ideal
communist horizon planet but yeah I
guess to most people out there they
might not make the distinction and they
might say oh you're basically an
anarchist but III would say that I'm
still anarchist adjacent and I've been
really inspired by a lot of not
anarchist but communist ideas like I
found that my critiques of most
communist movements of the 20th century
can still be contained within left
communism I've learned a lot about that
lately and as well as communism theory
which kind of came out of left communism
and is basically the idea that the
people the working class the
can directly communist or expropriate
the world the world that we built the
world that belongs to us and the world
that's been stolen from us without
mediation from a party or a leader so
there's probably a longer answer but
that's the short version and yeah
Chomsky rules and I just say Democratic
Socialist because I think democratic
processes should overrule capitalists
decision-making I like that yeah yeah
yeah okay Jeff from Regina I was
interesting Jeff from Regina hey Michael
I called yesterday about the possibility
of going on strike next week thankfully
one thing we don't have to worry about
is losing our health care because we
have universal coverage I can't imagine
your the power your employee has if they
can control access to health care big
time solidarity with the UAW absolutely
all right this is um let's play
something out one more thing from the
trail Bernie Sanders in Iowa now we all
know that Bernie dominates with young
voters across the board if you're under
40 years old or under 35 years old or
certainly under 30 years old I really
think anybody who's in any way been
defined by 2008 who's young the
expanding circles of capitalism not
working for most people right like the
the gutting starts in the peripheries
right if you looked at Reagan's America
in the 80s and people talked about
morning in America tremendous class and
racial assault on the inner cities huge
gutting and devastation of appalachia x'
and rural areas that had never been
taken out of poverty and then of course
a broader assault and reversal of the
gains made by the Great Society in the
New Deal and then that has carried on
through really in in a general sense
Clinton Bush Bush Clinton Bush Obama
Trump with varying degrees but the
context that was created by the
neoliberal consensus all of these people
have actually been operating under even
even in fact Trump frankly on just the
far right wing
of the Republican Party and and and as
we see neoliberalism give out the
xenophobia Rises but anyways young
people across the board and from a broad
variety of backgrounds have had the
experience of diminished living
standards diminished prospects
diminished opportunities and that's why
the clarity of the Sanders campaign with
student debt cancellation Medicare for
all and all the fundamental bread and
butter issues we need as well as a real
no understanding of the 1%
versus the 99% how power actually works
in this country economically has spoken
to them and that's why he's mobilized so
much that's why he's already it made
some dent and remaking our politics and
now if we want to see this through which
is electing Sanders president you got to
get out there and see it through this is
Bernie Sanders in Iowa the older
generation goes in significantly higher
numbers than your generation and if you
could vote at the same rate is the older
folks we could transform this country
and I think of you to do that I'll do
the caveat sure is of course not just
voting it's many things but because you
don't vote and let's be real this is why
you're terrorized by student and debt
collectors this is why you have the kind
of court system that we have this is why
there's bills assaulting the
sovereignity of women's bodies across
the country this is why you have
skyrocketing inequality this is why Eva
global meltdown caused by Wall Street
and Wall Street gets bailed out and
millions of people lose their homes this
is why you have diminished job prospects
this is why more and more people work
for more and more for less and less and
particularly if you're on the young
person across basically all demographics
unless you're an inheritor of great
wealth this all holds for you uh you
know just mathematically decreased
earnings decreased opportunities and so
on you need to vote you gotta especially
now when you
someone who said all right I'm here
here's a candidate who's taking on all
of the oligarchies taking on all of the
corporate structure he's gonna give
everybody healthcare he's gonna cancel
medical and student debt that's a
frontal war with the interests that
control not only this country but global
capital and luckily enough all you need
to do is phone bank and vote you don't
even need to go to the Sierra Maestra 31
young people of every demographic in
2016
absolutely including young black people
despite the narratives to the contrary
well there I mean we all know I mean the
erasure I mean 2016 that was narrative
then Bernie builds the broadest working
class coalition and then all of a sudden
that apparently doesn't matter but we
all know how these games are played you
got to go foam Bank all right um let's
see Nancy Pelosi really just wanted to
underline to everybody that she's not
good not good
there is a woman running for Congress in
Texas named Jessica Cisneros who was a
great progressive champion she's running
against a far-right Democrat and I do
mean far right up Henry Quayle our Henry
Cuellar has been Donald Trump's Democrat
I remember him getting into politics
because he was george w bush's Democrat
talkin anti-immigration votes were
talking anti health care votes and so on
this is a extreme conservative corporate
vote in a district that does not need to
be appeased like that there's almost no
district that exists like that and you
have well let's be honest about Nancy
Pelosi you have a very progressive
incredibly charismatic and engaging
young woman leader running against them
I think we can all imagine why Nancy
Pelosi might not want her going into
Congress based off of her previous track
record with dealing with ilan Omar but
here's Nancy Pelosi affirming that she
is of
the dysfunctional static stagnant status
quo I'm sorry will you have a friendly
incumbant rule heading into this
election cycle so that if any incumbent
Democrat in your house is challenged in
a primary that you will default to
endorsing the incumbent Democrat that's
absolutely that is the easiest question
you can so Henry Cuellar is in the
audience congressman Cuellar from Laredo
who is here and as a challenger in the
primary you are a Henry Cuellar
absolutely absolutely I'm very very
proud of Henry's work in the Congress
and I'm proud to support look up Henry's
work going back to the Iraq war best dad
Jessica Cisneros could have had really
hopefully hopefully come on Texas come
on Texas you've got a real possibility
in that district there you're calling
from a 3-3-7 area code who are you where
you calling from 3-3-7 are you there
3:37 going once
oh.hello 337 are you there who are you
where you calling from oh yeah hello
it's not working all right
um be ready you're calling from an 8 for
5 area codes who are you worried calling
from hi my name is calling from beacon
New York open the Hudson Valley
hey Keaton what's going on what's on
your mind well you know you guys have
been talking a lot about you know the
Bernie be warned divided and I've really
been hitting it on the head in terms of
like what the Democratic coalition on
civilians and you know I was at the war
in rally in Washington Square Park and I
could tell you I mean you can call this
anecdotal but those were not Bernie
supporters in 2016 who are now growing
the war that was I'm with her I mean
that was like you know nevertheless she
persisted is the new nasty woman that
kind of thing and I think what people
have been talking
about in terms of just getting on the
phone and going and getting new voters
that is the key rather than getting
bogged down in trying to make cases to
good faith Warren voters because
honestly it's getting harder and harder
to find those people yeah and like so
many of these appeals are just not going
to happen I think what people have to
understand is like like you I saw you
had a brief I don't know what was in an
interaction on Twitter but I follow
um making day on Twitter it's great to
have her back make anybody follow her
everybody follow Meghan day she's
brilliant and read all of her pieces
yeah yep absolutely but she tried to
respond to this woman I won't say her
name that blocked her because when
Bernie put that video out of the Town
Hall in Iowa all the people who were
like drowning in medical debt right and
they were saying you know Bernie you're
really the only hope for us like you're
the only way at it right and this piece
of garbage woman tweets how readers
actually was
these people are ridiculous AF which is
at AF just makes me cringe anyway
because the whole thing is like she was
basically digging that they were saying
that Bernie is this savior but obviously
they're not saying he's an angel sent
down from heaven to rescue them they're
saying this guy's the only one literally
I mean what's so funny and this is where
it gets maddening is it's like again on
one hand we're performing the whole
planned thing but then on the other hand
they're talking they're saying you are
the one with a the credibility because
you've been fighting for this for 40
years and B you're the only one with a
plan to cancel all medical debt like
there's nothing I mean based on the data
that's available to them it's the
opposite of ridiculous I mean the thing
is though is and so I I agree with well
let's look I don't want to get too much
into all of this you know this stuff I
just think that you know that's look
that's why I'll keep maintaining the the
balance and I totally agree with Jamie
in terms of like when you're you know
maybe talking to normal people on the
street or whatever
um but inside the media space I am not
willing to let people obscure or lie
about Bernie's record pretend there
aren't major differences and also
crystal ball is a brilliant commentary
which everybody should watch in the hill
this morning where she's like look I
mean you know unity for me not for thee
right like we don't have to have unity
when we're when we're you know endlessly
spouting about Bernie or like
in fact and this is the really
disturbing part because people you know
Warren really like the people around
Warren really should be better than this
given some of the domestic stuff but
it's really starting to go back to 2016
style like you don't die on the street
what do you want a pony and that was
yeah I was making that was the point I
was making yesterday and this is where
the class stuff really shows up and you
know look most people who are
pontificate errs and most people who
hate Bernie are you know media people
and I can't speak for all of them but I
know a good chunk of them have
definitely not dealt with any type of
actual grave economic situation and
exact as also a lot of these snot-nosed
intellectual types like the like the
woman who made that red vial me okay
alright DML I got you terrifying that
they're saying he's the only one no I
agree you know and work out what we're
gonna do like go with people what we're
gonna do right but no I'm just saying
thanks for the comment what we're gonna
do is we're just gonna um we're going to
deal with and fight incredibly clearly
it incredibly rigorously on the media
level and again this is why I made clear
I'm just not indulging any but
on an on an you know on a normal person
level you'd be Civic and approachable
and then on the other hand just go out
there and do the work but and you can't
get upset about every you know you
should respond to them and not let them
get away with it but it's baked into the
cake and I think you know that's what
happened there for a few days with me is
I acts
was well I knew that this was coming but
maybe it came faster than I thought and
I was getting frustrated with people who
absolutely should know better you know
really obscuring things and that you
know again I won't I won't tolerate that
and I also again I also would say for
other people like look guys this isn't a
you know this isn't a Marvel movie or
something they're running in a campaign
against each other that's how it works I
mean I this is more Sam's thing but it
is literally this is a literal zero-sum
game right like hey vote for one person
is not a vote for another person so
therefore they're gonna disagree and
they're gonna have debates and there's
huge differences here in terms of how
full the program is in terms of foreign
policy
yeowch and it's huge and so just relax
it's okay
and and but and you know I say that as
somebody who will you know I look I'm
gonna support I am going to recommend to
strategically vote for literally whoever
the Democratic nominee is so I don't
have much truck for you know and if they
end up part and if the dynamics changing
in the partner with each other great
cool
I would also urge good faith warrants
supporters who maybe don't come from the
ruling class who care about you know the
sincere progressivism involved in her
campaign to take a look at some of the
other people who are really excited to
support elizabeth warren like that
billionaire heiress Tish lady from the
other day and wonder what it is about
Warren and her policies and her whole
chick that makes these people
comfortable with supporting her without
a doubt all right let's do uh we got one
or two pieces of sound left before we
got to go which one which one is it okay
which sound which number is it seven who
would you have come on Fox News to
explain why Donald Trump should be
allowed to govern with pure criminal
impunity well it should surprise no one
Fox News saw fit to put the designer of
the torture program the architect of the
CIA torture program they called it
enhanced interrogation we can torture
torture and a great innovation in
Orwellian discourse this is Brian
Kilmeade and James Mitchell he was
seeing what's happened at the present
and you're saying it's deja vu all over
again and what respected that do the
same thing to you well what they did to
me and dr. Jason was they took things
out of context they had an anonymous
complaints they didn't allow us the
opportunity to address them they implied
and somehow magically divined motives
and intentions that weren't really there
and they took every single ambiguous
thing that happened and spun it in the
worst possible way to create this sort
of prosecutorial brief of wrongdoing and
they're doing that to the president and
they've done it for three years in a row
and they're doing it hand-in-hand with
the press like they did to you
look at some of these headlines during
your during your investigation
psychology psychologists open a window
of brutta brutal CIA interrogations the
cut comes out with this story meet the
psychologists who help the CIA torture
box is this the CIA's torture program
has explained by the psychologists who
designed it oh good luck getting a fair
and balanced look right well that the
point is not to have a fair and balanced
look you know this tells you as I've
said in other places more about what's
going on in their minds than it does
about the facts what they want to do is
they want to twist the facts and
misconstrue the facts so that they can
paint the worst possible picture to grab
power but one of the things that should
tell the voters is that they think
you're stupid they think that you don't
understand the words that you read in
the transcript you know they they did
not do those things that they were
accusing him of just as we did not do
the things that they accused oh yeah
thanks for the help thanks for the help
James great work you know this is the
also the game first of all foxnews even
if we were to stipulate and there's
certain things you can't do this with
you can't do this with tortured tortured
needs to be a black or white thing but
I'm actually I'm open to a lot of
argument and a lot of nuance and a lot
of things actually torture being one
where I'm not that I think should be
pretty obvious if you had a network
where across from James Mitchell was
either an actual interrogator himself
like a Paxman asking him real questions
and interrupting him or someone who was
on the other side of the issue saying no
let's go back to what you did here with
waterboarding with sleep deprivation
with sexual humiliation all the other
things that happened out of this whole
program what are you talking about but
instead this is what they always do they
take examples from other press outlets
of in those cases just objective
descriptions of what this guy was
involved in and then they say like who
wears the debate anyways so why should
Donna Trump never be held accountable
for anything did alright that is
actually a good sort of masterclass and
Fox News propaganda right there Colin
from Nebraska I live in Omaha but
volunteer for Bernie and Council Bluffs
Iowa just across the Missouri River I've
been having lots of success talking
about voters about how people are
already paying taxes with their health
insurance premiums and those premiums
are paying for things like CEO salaries
aggressive predatory advertising sports
arena names downtown Omaha is is the
home to c-h-i health center formerly
Questor CenturyLink Center man I can't
wait to get to the I don't get that part
pajama boy Andrew Yang's ultimate goal
is to build a permanent underclass of
Silicon Valley types I tend to think
that's true yes alright really really
really really quick we're gonna take one
final call cuz we have to get out of
here
but we will take a final call you are
calling from a 603 area code who are you
calling from uh yeah it's Ryan from New
Hampshire
hey Ryan was
how much the other day Sam was talking
about possibility recession yeah and he
mentioned that he didn't really see an
analogue to the housing bubble uh-huh
and I just thought you guys should look
up the current corporate bond market and
debt crisis yeah but is is that bad is
that I'm familiar with that a little bit
though but I think what someone like
Dean Baker is saying is that that is not
there are these little there are signals
like that but that that is nothing
analogous to basically turning like
housing in the United States into a you
know essentially like a nun you know a
non underwritten bet right like like
what happened in the housing crisis with
all of these derivatives and predatory
mortgages that Wall Street opened up is
that you just got a position where was
like sooner or later just people tens of
millions of people across the country
just not gonna be able to pay for what
they're in that is a structural assault
at the center of the economy so the
point isn't to be clear from people like
Baker or Sam is not that there might not
be a downturn or slow down but it would
not be at the scale I mean that was a
really serious crisis 2008 man that was
like up there we're probably due for
some Great Recession yeah if you look at
look at the corporate debt market a
society set of GDP it's ever been
you have a nice percent of that that is
triple B bonds yeah there's the highest
percent its ever been a lot of state
pensions and public pensions are owned
in these triple B bonds because they're
legally obligated to hold bonds and they
want high returns and a lot of people
think that maybe their rating is higher
than it should be and they should
actually be junk bonds then legally they
can't hold and then they have to sell
them so I I think it's deserves a little
more attention than us getting I haven't
heard a lot about it sounds about right
think about it just how I'm the right
person to yet talk to you about that but
that does sound like it should be looked
into thanks for the call Ryan appreciate
it all right final i M of the day where
is the final item of the day what are
you gonna do
[Music]
all right let's go with Colorado guy if
I were to argue that because I will
never use the VA and don't directly
benefit from the GI Bill that I
shouldn't have to pay for either these
things I'd be rightly looked at like a
monster these are public goods they pay
for themselves and the way is more
important than actual dollars and cents
let's treat Youmans with humanity much
love and Marc Ruel oulala very very nice
note to end on take care everybody in
that state goes to get sue
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
the rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
