[Music]
just asking a question because they're
just interested in the answer that
doesn't that doesn't that's not that's
what I've been hearing
oh my god ideas Oh key no what look I
don't want to play this whole thing but
I do think that we should at least let
people know about it because we watched
it I watched it the other night we
watched it again in here and I was
actually teared up and I could also
imagine a lot of people this is the type
of show that people I would imagine
watch you know hi definitely and it's
just it's the CC report da CC report as
realistic appreciation is cat and the
cat is associated with Jesus in some
fashion
and here we'll just play a little clip
of it it's you should go look it up it's
entitled Dave Rubin David Rubin
destroyed by orbs and logic say
creationist cat I just
this combination of political commentary
and also highly religious cats I think
is really huge also plugs of our show
yeah in plugs of the show to you
yeah that we've got that out of the way
[Applause]
I love Mary an auth queen gosh oh gosh
current question Dave well just tell me
a little bit about yourself what sort of
what got you to be the person that is
now standing on stage with that other
crew we have been living for the last 40
years under what did I believe an
illusion that all this money would
trickle down from the stockholder class
that would lift all boats Dave even if
that's at the expense of other
stakeholders like workers or the
community or the environment Dave she's
making sense she's not supposed to be
making sense we were sold on that it is
led to the largest wealth inequality
since 1929 turns it is led us to the
point where 1% of Americans home world
wealth and 40% of American Chopper in
the richest country in the world live
with chronic economic anxiety oh that's
great myriad but that's enough of that
Dave change - object talk about how
ratios are must really coming from the
left you're great at dad hmm all right
all right so let's let's dive into a
couple of things here it seems if you
watch mainstream media we are just
caught in you're racist you're racist
you'll get your lashes you're a
homophobe and unfortunately and I say
this as someone that was you know that I
still consider myself liberal a lot of
that's coming out of the left and from
the Democrats this labeling of a
everyone as racist tune into the that is
so good
no now come on come on people go go
check it out
give this guy some views yeah
creationist casters uploaded on July
20th that was amazing yep I quite enjoy
that
