[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
joining us now is Ben Burgess he's
author of give them an argument logic
for the left available for pre-order
it's published by zero books he also
teaches philosophy and logic at Rutgers
University he can be seen regularly on
the zero books channel a YouTube channel
doing logical deconstruction of
right-wing arguments you can also hear
him on many different podcasts including
in a weekly segment on t mb s called the
debunk which you can find on that
youtube channel as well Ben thanks so
much for doing this how are you I'm good
how are you doing well um make sure that
when I talk there isn't a little bit of
an echo I think it should be fine though
but just make sure um so then let's
start by setting the parameters of this
book I guess you know if you're like me
and I think us generally here I guess as
much as I hate to admit it we probably
do use logic and facts and our
argumentation but we also have been so
put off yeah it doesn't feel good to
admit but I guess it's true but there's
also the fact that these words and
probably a lot of words that are
actually you know signify pretty good
things like I don't know or phrases like
freedom of speech or god forbid even
like open exchange of ideas these are
actually very defensible concepts in not
just a liberal sense in a socialist
sense in a very broad I mean if you read
a Martius and wrote a great book called
the argumentative Indian I mean these
are tools that you could find literally
in any culture on earth for you know
basically Yuman communication and and
sort of figuring things out they have
been totally toxified by the sort of
modern internet right wing obviously
most famously figures around the IDW and
no propaganda figures like ben shapiro
how did these words become toxified in
popular discourse and what do you mean
when you use when not only when you use
this but when you actually teach it
I mean you teach it professionally yeah
so I think one of the big villains there
you know long before the IDW was iron
Rand who made a really big deal about
logic all the time although like so for
example in her book Atlas Shrugged the
sections of the book are named after
these basic logical principles like the
law of non-contradiction and there's
always this big implication that if you
like understood enough about logic are
you cared enough about logic you would
agree with eine Rand about you know
capital was a but why socialism is bad
and why altruism is bad and all those
things even though there's there's
really no connection whatsoever which
which is also something that carries
forwards the guys you're talking about
like IDW figures like ben shapiro
who you know who makes a big deal about
logic the new york times famously called
him the destroyer of weak arguments and
which by the way does that make through
a copyedit sorry go ahead
so hire of weak arguments that would
definitely have gotten a red circle in
an undergraduate paper it would and one
of the things that somebody like me
would write at the margins is if you're
going to make this claim i'd really like
to see some examples right and there
aren't a lot right so for example in
that article just go on a tangent for a
second the only example that you
actually get in that article it's called
the cool kids philosopher about kinship
bureau of him destroying a weak argument
is he's at a Q&A on a college campus and
this 22 girl 22 year old girl is
challenging him in the queue
about his position on trans rights and
he says hey how old are you and she says
I'm 22 and he says oh could you just
identify as being 60 and she's flustered
for a second and then he kind of
bulldozers over her and talks over her
and makes the point and so if this is
like what you do right you know you know
you're the destroyer of weak arguments
and the standout example is that you
like momentarily flustered a 22 year old
so she wasn't quite sure what to say
about your silly analogy then that
doesn't really seem like you're you're
backing up the claim which is one of the
reasons I think it is important to to
detoxify this language because right now
a lot of people on the right get a lot
of mileage just out of saying the words
right you know they use these almost
like magic incantations Faxon ROG and
logics you know exactly if they get a
logic facts of evidence even though
often times they're very confused about
like what these words even meaning that
very often the sort of people that you
run into anybody who's ever argued about
politics a lot in social media has run
into your kind of basement-dwelling
libertarian trolls who love to throw
around accusations of logical fallacies
and they love to do it in like this
really rapid fire way right like that's
what's really impressive for them that
they can do the instant diagnosis of
what's wrong with your argument now when
I talk about reclaiming logic for the
left that means two things one of them
is showing what's wrong with these
right-wing arguments and oftentimes they
are actually very bad arguments because
they can coast by because so few people
push back on them in the way you know at
least in ways that I'm suggesting that
they should and you know that we make
more explicit arguments for our
positions but also we claim in the way
of doing logic because if you're just
kind of listening to what somebody says
and coming up with a snap judgment about
what's wrong with it
then you aren't really carefully
thinking about it
and so if the point of these tools right
the kinds of things you know you
mentioned
I would teach the class like logic
reason and persuasion class at Rutgers
the if the point of these tools is to
just be like a way of scoring points you
know and you know making you know make
yourself look impressive to you know
your fellow trolls and and and making
people feel flustered or I'm sure what
to say I'm sure that's a good way of
doing it but if the purpose of these
tools is to reason better so you're more
likely to get things right then that's
exactly the wrong way to do it
well let's okay and then you also have
this critique which I think I mean a lot
of us fall into in various ways but I
think it's true that like both snark and
moral condemnation are totally valid
modes of communication but they can't be
the only modes and the left has kind of
fallen into a sort of over reliance on
those two tactics which I agree I've
I've been persuaded by you so then let's
go back to the bench Bureau yeah cuz my
impulse when I read that is to make fun
of his voice and just call him the
transphobic twerp and move on explain
why that analogy is bad why is actually
the tactic that he used to flustered
that woman why is that actually not
rigorous argumentation yeah so when you
talk about gender and gender identity
like the small part that he's right
about is that one internally consistent
ways to use words like man woman gender
etc is to mean like to use the word
woman to mean anybody who's
chromosomally female and as an adult
human and you know use the word man to
mean biologically male adult human and
that's one internally consistent way of
using using those words but of course
it's not the only internally consistent
way of using those words that you know
we can you know because obviously there
are people who use them consistently and
coherently in this other way to talk
about gender identity and gender
expression and you know an analogy that
I find really useful that's that's not
original to me but comes from
a trans woman who is a philosophy
professor Sophie cl√© Chapelle at least
that's what I've seen it is to adopt a
parents so one internally consistent way
of using the word parent is to
exclusively refer to something
biological that so you know the or words
like mother or father you know that's
the sense in which we use these words in
a sentence like the DNA test came you
know came back and you're not the father
but as I'm sure you've heard many times
before you know she's great relations
but but yeah but like clearly another
consistent way of using these words is
to refer to somebody who has the legal
or social role of a parent and you can
insist on I'm just using it in your
preferred way like you know we could
imagine you know we could imagine some
bizarrely bigoted school principal who
refused to allow adoptive parents to
participate in parent-teacher
conferences because you know because
parent has a biological definition and
that's just what the word means rocks
don't care about your feelings but you
know clearly there's nothing about the
by you know the biological facts or
logical consistency that dictates that
choice that's a lot less obvious in the
case of age that there's an internally
consistent way of using words like 60 or
22 that's not tied to chronology in the
same way
there might be some people make that
argument but I don't think we can just
assume that right that they have it
there are certainly some obvious dis
analogies like many trans people not all
of them but but many trans people will
talk about having you know like if
somebody as a trans woman they might
talk about having always known they're a
woman and I'm not sure that it's
coherent to say that you always knew you
were 60 years old right it seems like
part of what's built into being sixty is
before that you're 59 you were 58 and
just to tie this into what you said
before that it seems to me that look
you know me pretty well at this point
I'm not anti mockery right I see really
guilty of mocking people and there are
certainly things in the world that
deserve moral condemnation but the
reason not to just respond to the Ben
Shapiro's of the world with those tools
is one then when he makes a ridiculous
spurious argument like this thing about
gender identity and age if you only
respond by you know saying that he's a
bigot and you know making fun of his
ridiculous voice and all of that then
you have left anybody who's not sure
what to think with the impression that
we don't actually have a response that
this is such a knockdown argument that
you know like if we never get around to
stay in what's wrong with the argument
then people will understand it would get
the impression that we don't actually
have a good response to that argument
and we're going to lose winnable people
and then the other problem is that if
mockery and moral condemnation are our
only tools then when legitimate tactical
strategic or policy differences come up
on the left those are the tools that
we're going to turn on each other and
that gets that gets very ugly that gets
very alienating I think a lot of regular
people very understandably want
absolutely nothing to do with left-wing
spaces that are like that internally
totally of course no they're super toxic
and repulsive and I think yeah and
people need to understand when there is
actually like a real legitimate range of
even really vigorous disagreement you
know inside context where there actually
are legitimate sort of shared political
goals and orientations and I just want
to use briefly like this isn't just in
this sort of like you know okay like yes
left-wing twitter is toxic whatever like
all twitter is but this is also like
there's many factors but one of the
reasons that you know Padilla most the
left-wing party in Spain recently
underperformed was because I mean there
was actually
police units trying to undermine them in
a very disturbing case of political
sabotage so that's a very important
thing to cover but there also was just
and you know Nando Vela talks about this
just this sort of typical almost sort of
stereotypical sort of like breakdown of
internal left cohesion inside the party
and like serious you know really really
ugly and in some cases clearly
unnecessary infighting that undermined
significantly their electoral prospects
for you know basically advocating some
form of genuine democratic and socialist
politics in Spain so it's it matters a
lot can you then get us into the other
big problem there's dis analogies then
there's also the is a distinction this
is something obviously that comes up
with a lot in the problems and
sloppiness of someone like sam harris is
thinking but this kind of it also gets i
think really importantly though cuz this
in a way sort of weaves some of the
broader objections that come up like no
of course we can't just you know we do
need to have other commitments in our
reasoning on including like you know
ethical ones yeah absolutely and the
yeah the IDW who you're writing a book
about all of these guys are are guilty
of making massive logical leaps about
the subject right you know i mean
certainly the main you know the the core
villains you know peterson harris
shapiro
all in the roadway do this right so when
ben shapiro says that facts don't care
about your feelings
his implication is that the right gets
its policy prescriptions from facts and
the left gets it from you know the way
we feel and this is this is a very
common this is very common idea the
right in general and this is and this is
particularly something that all these
guys in the IDW
have you no right just routinely have
problems with so this is a distinction
that's made by the great Enlightenment
philosopher from Scotland David Hume who
talks about the distinction between
facts and values is an art and so this
is something that logicians sometimes
refer to as Humes law it's an actual law
of logic that says basically that in
order for an argument to be valid in
order for the conclusion to follow from
the premises if the conclusion is about
right or wrong good or bad what we
should do then there has to be a premise
like that - you can't go straight from
some factual claim to a claim about what
we should do there's always some kind of
any kind of inference like that there's
always some kind of implied value
premise right and and this is something
that these guys don't like to talk about
right you know they like to say you know
if for example right you know ben
shapiro is talking about how you know
tough you know criminal sentencing laws
supposedly reduced the crime rate and
you know the only reason that people now
see you know like even Joe Biden now Nia
seems to me to run away from this is
that you know support for getting tough
on this is now no longer considered work
right you just had an article The Daily
wire making this claim well you can't go
straight from even if it's true that's
actually an incredibly dubious factual
claim but even if it's true the causal
claim that he's making
nothing follows about whether or not you
should actually have these tougher
criminal sentencing laws because there's
also this evaluative component right is
the only thing that we care about lower
crime rates do we also care about about
the rights of criminal defendants the
you know that's do we do we care about
civil liberties issues that might be
raised by this and sam harris as you
mentioned is particularly bad on this
because harris will act
we claim that his his moral his moral
beliefs can be directly derived from
science which is just total nonsense
right science you know facts in general
can tell us how to get to the goals we
care about right once we decide what to
care what we care about
then of course all kinds of factual
information can be relevant to how that
we can best most efficiently achieve
those goals recognition we want to care
again we want to close the racial wealth
gap should we just be looking at rhe
distributive social programs that are
Universalist at the disproportionately
benefit minorities or should we also be
advocating reparations if we have
real-world examples we could point to
where either of these policies were
tried then of course that could be
relevant to that argument but first we
have to actually have the goal of
closing the racial wealth gap right so
what the facts can tell us is how to
achieve the goals we care about the
facts can't tell us which goals to care
about in the first place and even though
the people who who pretend that they can
make this huge deal about the rhetoric
of logic you know logic of facts facts
and logic logic facts of evidence this
is actually a logical principle that you
actually can't do that and so how does
that actually intersect then with you
know cuz we joked I mean Matt and I have
a bit about how we're work what was it
we're gonna create the first purely
emotionally driven artificial
intelligence
it's the with the left wing robot that
cares nothing for facts and logic sits
just emotions period but you know my
understanding - and I wonder if this
does that give some of the kind of
potentially you know neuroscience of
people like Antonio Damasio maybe
potentially reflects you missed in the
sense that can you even make these hard
and fast distinctions between logic and
emotion right like that sort like to me
like you know even outside of the
of these political subcultures there's I
guess the you know like the kind of like
pop culture or Star Trek ideal of well
you know there's uh what is it a Spock
Spock can think perfectly logically an
emotion does not interfere but it seems
like that as far as we understand in
terms of how people actually work as
human systems the emotional and logic
components are not as divided or as
separable as you know somebody might
make it in a thought experiment yeah
well look I've always said Star Trek has
a lot to answer for
because it's given generations of
television viewers the idea that logic
and emotion are somehow in conflict
which they're not right so it's of
course it's possible to be so upset that
you can't think straight right right
that's obviously you know in a moment
right that's obviously possible and of
course there are lots of reasons you
know why there are situations in which
it's important to calm down so you can
think strategically about how to achieve
the goals that you care about but that
doesn't mean that you stop caring about
those goals in the first place that
doesn't mean that you're no longer
emotionally invested in the pursuit of
justice or you know or equality or you
know any of these things because if you
didn't care about those things in the
first place you know you wouldn't be you
know you wouldn't be engaged in this
reasoning and of course yeah I mean I
it's it's not that you know it's not
that you just turn off one part if you
know one part of your mind while you're
doing the you know while you're while
you're reasoning even if that were
possible I don't know that that would be
desirable you know that's that's really
that's really not the you know not the
point at all you can you know you can
care very passionately and appropriately
about correcting injustice and also
thinks very clearly about how to get
there
right
and and but does this also does this
though at some point whether we like it
or not loop back to you know and I've
brought this up with you before I like
the Carol Gilligan example that she did
it you know her work on spheres of care
right and and just to you know simplify
it that basically the dissent and she
has a lot of other you know again
there's a lot more to her work she's
she's brilliant psychologist but the one
simple thing I'll extract for this
conversation is like self care community
care world care and those sort of like
realms of moral imagination sort of
correlate with different levels of
psychic you know at least capacity to
empathize capacity to you know again
just expand your sphere of concern and
it just seems to me like yes of course
you know there's argumentation there
serious there's there's political
difference there's you know all of the
but there is this like I don't know what
the difference between somebody who you
know sees like a homeless encampment in
LA or walks by people and so freezing
degrees in New York and then you know
recognizes that there's a hundreds of
millions of dollar
nth houses you know billions of dollars
of real estate that isn't even used and
just registers that that's just
absolutely morally revolting versus
somebody who either you know doesn't
notice it or maybe you know in the
Randian sense has sort of built some
type of like you know bizarre horrifying
dystopian counter scenario where that's
actually really healthy and really just
you know to me there there are just
there those are expressing different
baselines upon which you start in an
analysis I don't know I mean is that
escapable
I mean yeah not that people can't be
persuaded but isn't that the part of it
where it's like I don't want to say
they're right because it isn't like a
feeling but it's like you come
two things with you know a particular
sets of convictions really broadly
defined and part of that is gonna be you
know how you relate to that example of
like the homeless people really unused
real estate yeah that's exactly right so
absolutely it is true that you know that
what you you start with is that you care
about certain outcomes that you know
that or you know you're bothered by
certain realities so you know so you
want to correct them but of course the
important thing to emphasize here is
that that's just a screw for the right
is for the left right now you know it's
not that it's not that like we care
about about certain you know certain
outcomes and our politics are driven by
that but there's somehow you know being
driven by you know by facts sit down by
you know in that in that ridiculous sam
harris extreme you know the extrapolated
their values from science somehow which
is logically impossible anyway so that's
that's not it right they also have goals
that they care about right you know that
they have that like one of the things
that might drive you to that iran kind
of view is well okay for example if you
are actually an r and then i think the
fact that you know that she came from i
think a fairly well-off family in russia
who had their stuff taken away by the
Bolsheviks you know or certainly at
least you know i don't know that much
about her family background but you know
that she she saw this happening and she
thought that was morally outrageous
right you know like that this is
something that's very that's like
libertarians often tend to come to their
politics from a starting point of
clearly you know if it's outrageous it's
unjust you know it makes me angry that
anybody might try to take my stuff or
even that anybody might try to take
anybody's stuff like you know that like
them you know even if you're you know
even if you're like the libertarian who
you know has a working class job but you
know has
dreams for racial Algerians or whatever
so in you know and then they sort of say
okay well they have this moral intuition
that that's bad and then it goes you
know and then they start they start
reasoning about it right and that's not
even a criticism right like I think that
they have bizarre alien moral intuitions
you know from my perspective you know
that then I I think that I think that's
take you know you know expropriated
property so we don't have a society
where some people live under bridges and
some you know nice buildings are remain
vacant you know because you know Russian
oligarchs are just using them to park
their money you know that that
expropriation to fix that would
obviously that would clearly be just but
it's inescapable that you start off with
with some moral intuitions you start off
with some goals that you care about
before you can even start to reason
about how to achieve those goals now
then people who who feel absolutely
nothing about that scenario that you
described it you know the combination of
pet houses and homelessness
those are people I'm under no illusions
that we could win over right we're not
going to and you know I you know I'm I'm
a socialist I think that generally
speaking most people who are certainly
into one percent but you know let's just
go there are with some exceptions right
but most people who are in that position
are going to rationalize the justice of
its themselves nothing were saying could
convince them right you know there's
there's no there's no moral argument we
can give to Jeff Bezos
that will lead to him correcting the
conditions and Amazon warehouses you
have to fight for that but the process
of fighting for that involves winning
over a lot of people who aren't
currently leftist and and so some of
those people might even be currently
swayed you know even in complicated
centrist ways or just you know
complicated ways like you know they the
sort of guy in the street who doesn't
watch the majority report
three favorite politicians or Bernie
Sanders you know Joe Biden and Ron Paul
right you know it's just no you know
like but in complicated ways people I do
think you know they did you see they do
share some of our moral intuitions but
they're also somewhat taken in by some
of some of the stuff that the other side
says right you know they do think that
there's something that is screwed up
about the combination of pent houses to
homelessness you know they're not immune
from feeling that but they sort of you
know they because they've heard it so
much they sort of think oh that wouldn't
be okay to take away people's stuff in
order to correct it and so those are the
people I think that you can win you
can't win all of them but you know the
more of them we can win over the more
successful we're going to be and that
involves yeah making arguments but some
of those arguments are going to be
appealing to their underlying values you
know like that hey you agree that this
is really bad right well you know which
of these is more important to you that
you know Jeff Bezos gets to keep his
fortune or that like everybody you know
everybody can go to the doctor you know
anytime they want to right all right and
you should trust your moral intuition of
the obvious answer to that question yeah
exactly and you know and I think that
sometimes when people on the right do
give sophistical arguments that that you
shouldn't I trust that if all we're
doing is saying they're bad they're bad
they have really you know whiny nasal
voices they're bad or bad then I don't
think we're using all of the weapons in
our arsenal to counter that right you
know if people if you can sometimes if
you can show people yeah the reasons
they're giving you for thinking that we
we have to accept this actually don't
make sense you've done their own terms
you can kind of break it apart that's
that doesn't mean that like everybody is
going to be magically convinced but you
know by what you just said like the
reaction you know in an Aaron Sorkin TV
show to a stirring speech but it does
you know
we'll get some people thinking and some
of the people who are winnable can be
what over that way and certainly if we
don't if we don't try to show what's
wrong with their specious arguments then
we're preemptively surrendering I think
got a front where we really don't need
to surrender I agree with you completely
I just in the last couple of minutes and
this I will say I mean obviously in some
ways this is the sort of center of my
book and a much broader I mean using the
IDW in some ways as a case study to both
advocate for a certain kind of synthesis
of cosmopolitanism and socialism
globalism and socialism that I care a
lot about but then also more broadly
that you know and and this is I don't
remember where this quote originated at
the moment but essentially in plenty of
people have made this point but the
distinction between the right as a
naturalizing project and the left is a
historic izing project and this is the
way in which by the way even people who
take that very kind of like you know
internet quiz view of politics where
they'll say like oh no no like somebody
likes you know sam harris is really you
know center-left because i don't know i
have some quotes somewhere where he
supported some progressive taxation or
something like this whereas my argument
is that no like all of these figures are
fundamentally on the right and to me a
big part of just fundamentally being on
the right even if your politics or you
know i don't know say you know wind up
being some version of like a Clintonian
democrat or something is if your
fundamental starting point is that
whether it's scientific or religious or
mythological that there are sort of like
just these innate truths of things that
can't be you know altered now obviously
some things do have anything the truth
of things that can't be altered and
we're not advocating like a blank blank
slate view of people of course but on
the other hand like no there's nothing
that's that's not the plan that majority
report year one no oh well I mean yes
that's more TPMS your walk but I mean
even that's not a black slate view
that's just a year one view but that's
an for sation but you know but that you
know
there's nothing organic or an8 about an
extreme income inequality or anything
like that or really you know that that
that and by the way that's another dis
analogy right like no is everybody gonna
have the same height or ability to like
play basketball well or tennis well no
does that get transferred to therefore
some people are gonna have billions of
dollars of assets and other people start
no that's actually a really ludicrous
horrifying dis analogy but um that being
said you know and and I sort of Center
it in the exchange that you know when
Sam Harris was really going about for
the bell curve and advocating what I
would certainly deem to be both within
the field but also more broadly
you know discredited and racist IQ stuff
he in his debate with Ezra Klein and
Ezra Klein of all people is saying look
I mean historically we have a lot of
examples of basically European guys
sitting down and saying you know we've
devised a quote-unquote objective system
that shows that were the best like who
woulda thunk it and Harris I'll
paraphrase get you know he got you know
got very triggered and basically said
the history was believe the word was
irrelevant if I recall correctly and you
know to me I can't think of anything
including a lot of uh you know actually
really bad like neoliberal and woke
takes I don't like where I don't think
the history is anything other than
probably the most relevant so where does
that kind of you know not allowing them
to also normally misuse logic but use
logic as like no we're never gonna talk
about anything real we're only gonna do
sort of like extended mind games with
each other so we're never gonna actually
talk like we'll do sort of like our read
of popular science and economics maybe
and then a bunch of imaginative
exercises but we're gonna leave
ironically the entire empirical playing
field almost always you know Shapiro's
different Shapiro obviously kind of
gives more of those sort of 1950s kind
view of history but in general that you
know that comment the history is
irrelevant to historical inquiry or
unimportant to to logical exchange
what's the answer to that to bring
history and context to logic and facts
yeah so I'd say that a lot of that is
just a category of mistake that you know
people a lot of the people who most
valorize logic on the right give you the
impression that carrying a lot about
logic means that you try to like derive
everything from like three first
principles but of course that is there's
absolutely nothing about caring about
good reasoning that dictates to had
attitude and in fact I would argue that
carried about with good reason it should
be that you don't go there right because
oftentimes there is going to be a clear
logical relationship between some you
know political claims some will you know
like some attempt to apply a boil
principle politics and historical facts
sociological facts and historical
argument is an argument sociological
argument is an argument if you want to
reason well the goal of reasoning is to
figure out the truth then you should be
looking at anything that might be
relevant to help and figure it out and
it's often very revealing because just
to take an obvious example of a case
where the history is very relevant right
we were talking earlier about
libertarians who think that it's just
wrong in principle to take away any of
you know like Jeff Bezos has a moral
right to every send to his bank account
and you know and and it's just stealing
if you take if you take it give it away
for you know redistributed programs for
example and that you know it didn't you
sort of interrogate them a little bit he
said well okay but why right and of
course they can't say because the ideal
way that a society should be might be
the thing that we should really hope to
end up at is some people have billions
of dollars
some can talk to the senator anytime
they want to and some people are working
all day in the warehouse if they're even
lucky enough to have a job because even
even they wouldn't say that like that's
the that's the ideal in-state Leo day
Matt so what they end up saying is that
well we should as long as things came
about in the right way right as long as
you weren't you weren't violating
anybody's rights you you know this you
know all came about through a free
market what the libertarians lost for
Robert knows that cause capitalistic
acts between consenting adults then no
matter how unequal the outcome is it's
okay but then of course the obvious
response is but wait a second that's not
what happened right like even you know
even in Europe capitalism emerged from
feudalism and you know with this massive
process of enclosure and people being
forced off their lands at work in
factories and that's pretty cozy and
consensual compared to what happened in
the new world where capitalism was
literally built up by the labor of
slaves on land stolen from genocide
victims uh and strangely enough so a lot
of the same people who will use this
kind of libertarian argument whatever
in-state you end up with as cool as long
as it comes out of the right way
suddenly go all Sam Harris the history
is irrelevant when you start bringing up
how it actually came about right right
right
or or you know again that's a that's
it's you to bring up another example but
I remember it you know you and in
exchange which I don't I don't remember
some some some youtube-channel kind of
saying like well actually you know
Richard Wolffe as an example his ideas
of workplace democracy we actually have
a lot of examples of coop models being
very effective whether we're talking
about modular grown in Spain or
Cleveland in Ohio and the guy you were
debating sort of went from like saying
like well that's just the most
ridiculous idea in the world that you
could have a bottom-up workplace - okay
I don't I don't please enough with the
examples actual things happening I would
like to get back to my surgeon appraised
with
let's talk at it to the weeds yeah I
know this last place you'd want to get
sir
en ironically for like the whole
empiricism gang so ironically I guess I
leave these conversations I usually do
with you with the sort of horrifying
realization that I'm a nerd I like to
actually talk well keep worried the
tracks disguised as well thank you very
much
I shall pen Burgess the book is give
them an argument logic for the left it's
available on pre-order from zero books
is an excellent book and obviously go
check out his books on the his art his
videos on the zero books channel you can
hear him on T MBS he's actually gonna be
the guest on T MBS this coming Tuesday
you can also hear them you're gonna be
on Ralph Nader's podcast right yeah I
don't know when the podcast actually
airs tickets a pre record but I'm gonna
record that at NAB May 29 so just before
the book comes out awesome and you're
you're on a lot with the great David
Feldman everybody check out David
Feldman's podcast I love that pocket Ben
is there gonna be an audio book I hope
so I have I have talked with with Doug
or editor at zero boats about that and
and he wants to do it it's not planned
yet there's gonna be a paper book as an
e-book in the sturdy first and I hope at
some point thereafter this could be an
audio book cool yeah that's the only way
Matt's gonna read it no I might buy the
Kindle version I have the actual
paperback book and it's very it's also
the cover art of David Hume in a in a
powdered wig
shush Inge Ben Shapiro is one of the
funniest things I've seen in quite some
time it's extreme out to shout out to
Ryan Lake who is a philosophy professor
at Georgia State and and he's also a
does a regular philosophy themes
webcomic called chaos pet who's the
person who drew that cover art well it's
a great work and I'd also just like to
say in the spirit of this more expansive
kind of wrapping up Ben and and others
like him are another prime reason why
the capitalist classes want to
completely drain all funding from any
type of humanities social science and
public education because kids terrorize
to work in a factory or if they have any
talent you know like producing weapons
oh yeah critical thinking not needed for
the economy of the view not good don't
like what I'm sure you saw I'm sure you
saw Bolton ro wants to cut off all state
fund into philosophy and sociology
departments in Brazil yep
I sure did you got to protect Western
civilization how to protect Western
civilization for people who could think
then Burgess everybody order the book
give them an argument logic for the left
Ben thanks so much
all right now appreciate it seriously
guys it's a really great book
