ever
[Laughter]
[Music]
bad deal should've never been sorta
Johnny Ramone with Sam's feeder the
destiny of America is always safer in
the hands of the people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar Thursday November 8th 2018 my name
is Michael Brooks and I'm Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report for
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Joseph
serene Sione he's the president of the
Ploughshares fund we're talking about
Donald Trump's threats to pull out of a
vital arms control treaty has Russia
already been violating the very same
terms of that same treaty the Iran deal
gutted but maybe still in effect for
most of the world and the future of
making sure that we don't destroy
humankind Jeff Sessions is out don't
forget that his greatest policy legacy
is torturing children but Donald Trump
may have found his Roy Cohn after all
and certainly a guy whose business
instincts he can respect with a new
acting Attorney General Whittaker
apparently implicated in a massive
swindle in Florida
sounds like a perfect Trump appointee
Ruth Bader Ginsburg wishing her a speedy
return to full health with three
fractured ribs wishing her all the best
and wishing maybe that she had
had let Obama fill her seat but also
recognizing that none of this will
matter
we don't introduce term limits and court
packing DSA and other progressive left
causes and candidates fared well down
ballot across the country and in key
ballot initiatives including expanding
Medicaid in Idaho twelve killed at a bar
shooting in Ventura California Donald
Trump and his administration revoking
Jim Acosta's press pass and there might
be a little bit of fake news involved in
this revoking Jerry bowls and arrow
announces that he will be increasing the
salaries of the Supreme Court justices
and other justices who put the man who
would have beat him Lula da Silva
in prison even as the same us back
prosecutor who waged a vendetta against
Lula and the Workers Party is now
ignoring corruption in bowls and narrow
circles and taking a job in the fascist
administration as justice minister
justin trudeau
while acknowledging Canada's past crimes
towards the Jewish people makes a
ridiculous attack on those working for
Rights and justice for all in the Middle
East and why is it that Benjamin
Netanyahu is so cozy with the global far
right but loathes the EU that is a
rhetorical question all that plus there
are ballots what was that oh go for it
sure Bao so-called progressives are
actually regressive are actually
regressive there's still ballots to be
counted in Florida and Georgia it's a
big uphill battle but I love it they're
going to a runoff never can see December
4 if I believe right never
I believe it's December 4th and we
should not treat that election as
legitimate with Brian Kemp's mass voter
suppression Kemp has now resigned as a
secretary of state right good
time before all the court cases piling
up for his suppression and theft of the
election for him to bow out all that and
more on today's majority report
yesterday we played a clip of Donald
Trump freaking out at Jim Acosta Donald
Trump is usually pretty good at these
things because he's a decent lounge
comic but yesterday clearly was having
sort of rage xiety would you call it on
one hand saying he was looking forward
to work with the Democrats and with
Nancy and oh be so great to be
bipartisan but on the other hand being
like yo do not look into my finances I
mean one can imagine two hoaxes it's a
total hoax I mean could you imagine even
even if somehow it came up that there
was nothing to the Russia story and
there's something to it
I don't doubt although obviously it's
been overinflated by resistance types
but there's something to it but just the
idea that you have a team of financial
crimes investigators combing through
Donald Trump's businesses I mean the
amount of criminal activity that they're
probably running across from like you
know petty scams to connections with
like organized crime figures from
everywhere I mean the states are very
clean into stuff right real estate
casinos and Trump know crimes they're no
crimes no crimes fake notes fake news
justice folks fake justice fake crimes
no fake crimes no piece so he's freaking
out and things came to a head with Jim
Acosta and they've revoked Jim Acosta's
press credentials and let's watch this
they're saying it's because Jim Acosta
assaulted physically attacked a White
House intern who attempt to retrieve his
microphone from him we're gonna watch
this exchange and this this at least
from this angle this reminds me of the
infamous Maxine Waters assaulted me
incident but let's take a look are you
worried that's enough that's enough
that's an ask one of the other folks
that said now pardon me ma'am I'm miss
Resnick that's enough this president I
had one of the
I may ask on on the rock okay so
basically it looks like she's uh you
know she the intern the interns actually
a pretty aggressively moving to take his
mic yeah the internet escort well and
the authoritarian the Galleon orders
thing cuz I just want to point one thing
just look at the way she looks at Trump
here like can you make him give me the
microphone it I mean it just looks very
creepy and very survive that says that's
one of the the other folks that said now
pardon me ma'am miss me that's enough
this president that is so creepy that is
so creepy and also even shows that she
even has some sense of fear like she's
just didn't she know she's doing
something wrong she knows she's doing
something wrong but she also knows that
he might blow up and freak out on her
even and you know so she's put I mean no
sympathy from her but I don't really
have any I mean but she's in an
impossible situation I mean the
president United States is asking an
intern to actively suppress the press
you know what I would do I would not
consider that an impossible situation I
would consider that a meal ticket and I
would write I would say right exactly no
mr. president I will not be a brown
shirt for you and then she would get
booked on every single talk show on the
planet and probably could actually write
a pretty funny White House memoir I'm
sure even interns have endless numbers
of anecdotes about the stupidity
grotesqueness and nonsense of this
administration now we make a lot about
the racism of the Republican Party but
there are two people that if we're being
intellectually honest who are
african-american they're women in fact
and they have a strong influence on
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
that is of course the crucial political
analysts the duo known as diamond and
silk they're not only political analysts
they're also recording artists they're
there they're respected rappers and
contributors regularly on all Fox
properties and they had some thoughts
for Lou Dobbs which of course was I'm
sure getting funneled directly back to
the White House wall Donald Trump
anxiously slurped a milkshake sorry for
the disgusting image it could have been
worse
well yeah it's time for Acosta for his
press credentials to be removed yeah
it's very sad that he don't understand
as a journalist he is supposed to report
news not make the news and not be the
news and yes he is the enemy of the
people not only that but the enemy of
the truth he's very disrespectful very
disparaging and you know what why is he
even in there he don't even need to go
to the White House anymore and report
anything because we don't even want to
hear it anymore Wow
so 13 13 minutes after that aired Acosta
was notified that his credentials in 13
minutes after the word came down from
the diamond and silk High Command gym
Acosta's press credentials were revoked
in what is both of hilarious and
ridiculous comedy and also an objective
authoritarian attack on the Free Press
right around the time and I guess this
was the time this was announced
Sarris Huckabee Sanders who every single
journalist right now should be
embarrassed if they defended her from
some jokes a couple of months ago show
yeah unfair justice old smoky eye
herself Sarah Huckabee Sanders tweeted
out this video of Trump Acosta and the
intern now we played you the original
video but is there something we missed
here because look obviously if Jim
Acosta hit an intern we would be the
first ones to say yeah you actually
can't do that so let's check out this
video and I is this either still the
Maxine Waters incident is this Gian
Forte or Maxine Waters well we have a
second video let's check it out it's up
on screen now and I mean it doesn't look
a whole lot different but it doesn't
look a whole lot different but it looks
like isolated the karate chop here they
isolate so what they've done is they've
slowed this down and it what they should
have done is they should have put like a
Bruce Lee sound effect over it and he
would have look okay and so it's
make it look because basically what
really happened you could see is he
she's actually going after him and
trying to rip his Mike out of his hand
which if we're being you know pedantic
here that is where you know the actual
assault or whatever takes place so
obviously there was no assault or really
the the physical part of this is nothing
the part of this is the president and
intern trying to literally rip a mic out
of reporters hands because the
president's have an authoritarian to
microphone these are electronic things
these analog device this is true the
microphone can be muted so but what
they've done raphael shem univ yeah on
twitter posted this video where he
overlaid the original c-span clip with
the one that was tweeted out by sarah
huckabee sanders the press secretary of
the united states of america and it
turns out that there was some clever
fast-forwarding and slow mowing very
subtle to make it look like the chop was
more ugly he was kind of hating her
aggressively like hey get out of my face
yeah so here it is you i'll just scrub
over this and you can kind of see that
the the there's a transparent overlay so
they're red you can see the difference
between the two clips there can you guys
see that so and the real one it's just
sort of like a natural motion he's
actually pointing his finger at Trump
you have to say something and their arms
brushed together and then they
fast-forward it to look like he was
actually chopping down on her arm which
actually it's funny it's he wasn't even
doing that minorly
no no that just literally wasn't he was
make maybe reckon to the fact that like
an arm was reaching across where he was
gesturing right right and and and then
immediately after in the original clip
he's like pardon me man I'm trying to
ask a question that he wasn't karate
chopping it wasn't Bruce Lee he was not
Bruce Lee an intern so where did this
sped up fake video by the way very
subtle and well done where did this
video come from that Sarah Sanders old
smoky eye herself tweeted out oh my god
SOI phobic health expert Paul Joseph
Watson the depressed beleaguered British
arm
of Alex Jones's Infowars well imagine my
shock imagine my shock imagine my shock
well imagine my shock well imagine my
shock well imagine my shock imagine my
shock
well Paul Joseph Watson has spoken
multiple times for all of us this
morning imagine our shock so just to
make this very clear and put a button on
it the president had a tantrum over a
question an intern attempted to rip a
mic out of a little Porter's hand the
president continued his tantrum then a
pair of internet personalities went on
internet grifters one on fox business
and said this journalist should have his
credentials pulled thirteen minutes
later the White House press secretary
announced that his credentials would be
pool pulled and tweeted out a fake video
by a doctored video by a alt-right
extremist news outlet that had been bent
by Twitter that had been bad apartheid
banned by YouTube pot and iTunes and
several other platforms so yeah
aces where we're at this is great this
is where we're at and in a couple of
minutes I'm gonna talk with Joseph sir
and Sione about how this same
administration might be working to
dismantle the entire arms control
infrastructure of the globe which has
managed to keep us from essentially
limit eliminating the viability of life
on planet Earth since the beginning of
the Cold War so great stuff everybody
have a drink
today's sponsor is news voice comm we
all know that media conglomerates and
concentrations of news are a danger to
public discourse and that people live in
more and more epistemic bubbles even if
you are focusing and want opinion and
analysis obviously you still need a sort
of broad sense of the political
landscape so you can understand the
opposition you can understand how people
think and you also can support your
arguments across the board with the best
empirical evidence available there's a
news company that has come up with its
own response to these problems it's
called news voice it's an app for ios
and android which you can access for
free if you go to news voice comm /
majority and it gives you a personalized
news feed by aggregating a mix of
mainstream media sources international
sources and independent media sources
multiple sources are provided for each
news story the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upvote stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
or you can add a source that's missing
for a story it's meant to be completely
open and democratized news aggregator
that lets you get every side of every
story they also have a video interview
series featuring guests from Chris
Hedges - Alexandra Ocasio Cortes go down
the app for free at news voice comm /
majority and we've put a link to it
under this video if you're watching on
YouTube we're gonna take a brief break
and we will be right back with Joseph
serene Sione he's the president of the
Ploughshares fund
you
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Joseph serene Sione he is the president
of the Ploughshares fund Joseph thanks
so much for doing this it's my pleasure
Michael
so Joseph before we get to the some of
the specifics of what President Trump
has indicated he might do with regards
to intermediate missile treaty can you
sort of reset everything for us what is
the global infrastructure of arms
control agreements both maybe you could
give us just a sort of overview
including bilateral agreements with the
United States and Russia and also
international agreements that many
countries are still signed on to what
what is this sort of basis upon which
we've built a world where you know
miraculously these things have not been
used since the atrocities in Japan
sure I'm happy to do that you know I
teach us a course at Georgetown
University graduate school so I have an
hour-and-a-half lecture on exactly this
topic how much time do we have
take an hour actually oh that's great
I'll sit back I'll go grab coffee and
listen on my headphone let's we can do
this real quick I mean you know the the
basic themes are pretty simple you know
ever since the the first atomic bomb in
Hiroshima there's been two impulses in
the world and one is we got to get rid
of these things and the other is we got
to get some of these things and those
two trends have really weaved in and out
globally and nationally and sometimes
one trend dominates and sometimes the
other and the efforts to control the
bomb started even before the bomb was
exploded some of the scientists who were
involved in the building of the bomb
realized we need a system of controls or
this is this could destroy humanity and
and and various presidents took to
various steps on this I think the most
significant step that most people think
is John at Kennedy where he negotiated
with the Soviets in the early 60s to
have a limited test ban treaty in
response to massive worldwide pressure
to stop the atmospheric testing of
nuclear bombs which for spreading
radioactivity around the world and was
showing up in mother's milk it was
showing up in cow's milk who's showing
up in babies teeth you know so that
stopped the atmospheric testing mostly
for though the underground testing
continued and then it was really Richard
Nixon with Henry Kissinger who forged
the first limits on nuclear weapons back
in 1972 the strategic arms limitation
talks they were called salt and then
Ronald Reagan comes along and he has
with this treaty the one we're talking
about the intermediate nuclear forces
treaty referring to missiles that fly in
between very short ranges that you would
use on a battlefield and the ocean
spanning ranges of our intercontinental
ballistic missiles these are medium and
intermediate-range missiles and he
reached a deal with Mikhail Gorbachev in
1987 and to eliminate those that the
United States and Soviet Union which
would take the some 3,000 weapons they
had built perfectly beautiful modern
working missiles and would destroy them
and over the next few years they they
destroyed all 3,000 of them and pledged
not to build any in their Arsenal's to
avoid this risk of a regional conflict
becoming quickly a nuclear conflict
which would then spread to a global war
soon and that was the first time we
actually reduced the weapons rather than
just limited them well with that I to
more I want to give you two more
historical questions one on the negative
horrifying and one positive so I think
people are familiar with the Cuban
Missile Crisis could you give us a
couple of examples and you know probably
include the Cuban Missile Crisis because
that's always worth retelling of how
close we've gotten to either an
intentional use or accidental use of
these weapons and then actually well
let's just start with that one first
sure well I'll tell you what George
Shultz former
Reagan Secretary of State and
Perry the former Clinton secretary
defense say that we got out of the
nuclear the high point of nuclear risk
in the Cold War by sheer luck that we
came real close to doing this the Cuban
Missile Crisis Robert F Kennedy famously
wrote in one of his memoirs that that
that in one of his essays I should say
that he was on the lawn of the White
House during that crisis and thought
this is the last time I'm going to see
the Sun Rise and we really thought it
was going to happen but and so that's
the one people remember the most were a
decision away from nuclear war but
there's been about a about a dozen
serious close calls as a result of a
computer glitch at one time a training
tape was inadvertently put into the
computers at NORAD our defense system
and we thought we were under attack and
they almost launched it because they did
the big board lit up and they thought
were under attack this kind of incident
was recently portrayed in Madam
Secretary they're the CBS show their
last episode of season four in May
concluded with just such an accidental
event so and then and so it's been we
really dodged it but the truth remains
what what Kennedy said at the UN in 1961
we were living under a nuclear sword of
Damocles hanging by a slender thread and
we could we could have a nuclear
holocaust by accident miscalculation or
madness so he said we have to eliminate
these weapons before they eliminate us
and that still the struggle were faced
we've come way down since Reagan started
the reduction process the INF treaty led
to the next
Reagan treaty that George HW Bush got to
finalize and sign the strategic arms
reduction talks or start which cut the
US and with Soviet Arsenal's in half
since then we've climbed down by 85% we
just reduce the number of nuclear
weapons in the world most of them are
held by the United States and Russia by
85% so we're down to about just over
14,000 nuclear weapons the trouble is
that production process has stopped
it isn't there are no talks going on
there were no further reductions going
on and they're their leaders in in
almost all the countries who want to
increase the Arsenal's including here
john bolton our national security
adviser is a big advocate of ramping up
nuclear weapons and he said he's been
against any reductions or control
mechanisms for his entire career yeah
okay so hope it will get back to the the
the sort of catastrophe of Bolton in a
minute on the positive side and I guess
you already outlined some of it but
maybe could you also touch on on
Reykjavik and yeah and and and also in a
post-cold war world I mean I know Barack
Obama certainly at least in speeches
outlined his vision of ridding the world
of these weapons what about the closest
time you know the closest we've gotten
whether it's been through actual policy
or even just national articulation of
Reagan Gorbachev Obama of people saying
we need to get rid of these things as a
global project okay so the closest we
came is reka vic and that's well you
know I was working on the House Armed
Services Committee at the time and I
thought well Reagan was the devil I was
working for the Democrats and he was he
had a big arms buildup in his first
administration in his second
administration he had come face to face
with the nuclear threat and he said we
had to eliminate these things I thought
it was a joke I thought it was a ruse
but no he really wanted to do it and
when he got a chance to sit down we call
Gorbachev in Reykjavik in 1986 they came
inches away from a deal to eliminate all
nuclear weapons all of them George
Shultz was right there with him he still
tells the story and it got hung up over
a dispute over the Star Wars program Lee
so the anti-missile program that Reagan
had started both sides made a mistake
they should have agreed to some
restrictions on the program Reagan
didn't want to give it up Mikhail
Gorbachev thought he couldn't make a
deal if he came back to his generals
with an unrestricted anti-missile
program so the deal fell apart but
Reagan and Gorbachev kept up their
partnership and that's what led to the
INF treaty in 80
that's what led to the New START treaty
so they didn't get all the way but they
they started the reduction process the
second closest would come as Barack
Obama who really came in and I helped
work on his campaign and helped work on
the nuclear policy platforms he really
came in with the goal to
institutionalize what Reagan had
envisioned and start thought he could do
it and make a big start of it and he did
his first couple of years for good he
had a noose treaty for the reductions he
started a number of very positive
initiatives but he was met with the
three r's the russians refused to
cooperate the republicans attacked him
ruthlessly he made a big fight over
simple treaties like the one he had and
on the New START treaty and then finally
he faced the resistance of the nuclear
bureaucracy and for them it's all about
contracts and jobs and keeping these
programs alive and his program petered
out but now this is the exciting part
here's the good news we're going to have
another shot at this with the elections
that have just happened you're bringing
into power Democrats like representative
Adam Smith who will be most likely the
new chair of the House Armed Services
Committee who think was spending too
much on nuclear weapons who want to kill
some of the more dangerous new programs
that Trump is starting like programs
that would build new more usable nuclear
weapons for battlefield use who thinks
we have to change the policy of the
United States this is Adam Smith so the
president can't just push the button and
launch a war solely on his own decision
he wants to declare change the policy so
that we have a what's called a know
first juice the US will not use nuclear
weapons first and with that you get now
getting this a couple of years where you
can have these debates in the Congress
maybe in Axum legislation but really be
the testing ground for the next set of
nuclear policies that hopefully you can
debate in the 2020 campaign and perhaps
have a new president commit in 2021 with
a better plan than Obama had that
accounts for the resistance you're
likely to face that can get us back to
reductions in movies
on the path to elimination and with that
it's the final thing I'll say I'll shut
up
there is an international movement that
has arisen against nuclear weapons not
as big as what we saw in the 80s when
you had millions of people in the
streets but very significant in fact I
was in Oslo Norway last December to see
the nobel peace prize awarded to this
group international campaign against
nuclear weapons I can who won the prize
for their global campaign to get a new
treaty that the UN has passed on banning
nuclear weapons first time in the
nuclear age that we have a treaty
banning them saying they should be
illegal and this is picking up steam
they're hoping to have this treaty enter
into force with they need 50 nations to
ratify it they hope that in 2019 no
later than 2020 the treaty will actually
enter into force none of the states with
nuclear weapons have signed it but
that's the struggle see if you can
pressure them into taking meaningful
steps to reduce and ultimately ban these
weapons so let's get to you know some of
the the nitty-gritty of this well and I
don't want to I mean the prime focus
will be Trump and and and Russia but I
do want to touch on both will get to
North Korea and Iran and then also some
of the more you know less prominent
players that we talked about the other
states with this capacity China United
Kingdom and and Pakistan and India and
France but in Israel but but what is
Trump's complaint about the intermediate
missile treaty is that Russia has been
violating it and I have to admit that I
am very used to well just basically
disregarding what Trump says about
things and but I've been reading that
actually this isn't entirely not true
that Russia actually has been stepping
outside of the bounds of this treaty and
also you as you suggested earlier that
Russia was not as receptive as they
might have been to President Obama's
push to rid the
of these weapons and reduce Arsenal's
which is really in contrast to Putin's
public branding if you watch interviews
with him one of his complaints about the
United States that I've seen is actually
a lack of commitment to things like arms
control so he certainly tried to
position that he's sober and serious
about these weapons and maybe he's
another person that we should be used to
disregarding what he says as well what's
the actual truth of Russia and their
relation to this treaty and then you
know is the answer is that a viable play
well they're stepping out of it so we'll
just scrap the thing yeah so let me just
unravel this so the the intermediate
nuclear forces treaty INF treaty John
Bolton and announced that they want to
pull out of this and Trump then made
that statement in one of his political
rallies a few weeks ago if that we only
have two remaining arms nuclear arms
treaties with the with the Russians one
is this the INF and the other is the
START treaty the START treaty expires in
2021 and Bolton wants to kill that so
this is what's at stake if you let that
the INF treaty he stabbed in the back
the I in the New START treaty he wants
to kill on its sleep just not do
anything and let it expire peacefully
you do that then there's no more
restraints there's no more limits
there's no more inspections one of the
things that treaties give you is the
ability to put your inspectors into
their weapons sites so you can see what
they're doing that's why the military
supports these kinds of agreements it
gives them transparency against them
predictability it lets them plan more
accurately so this general military
support for these arms control
agreements historically it's been it's
been that way it's been the ideologues
who haven't liked them not not really
the military so will Putin go along with
this well you know you coming up very
soon November 11th Putin and Trump are
going to meet in Paris and it's possible
that Putin can pitch Trump to extend
this treaty can go over the head of bolt
and get right
the president and might convince him to
extend the tree Trump might be willing
to do this you might you can disagree
with Trump on nine out of ten things but
every once in a while he is right and if
you can get him to do this that would be
a good thing are the Russians actually
violating the I enact and again Trump is
right yes they are I was on the
international security advisory board
for the secretaries of State Clinton and
Kerry and I saw the intel on this when
it was coming in in 2014 and it's pretty
clear they are violating it's a it's a
it's a relatively small violation it's
not militarily significant they've taken
one of those short-range cruise missiles
one of the ones they launched from the
ground so a ground-launched cruise
missile and they've modified it so that
it could have a greater range a range
that falls within the range prohibited
by the treaty so they are violating the
treaty and they deployed this at a test
site in Russia and one other site in but
in the Russian part of Europe and it's
it's just banned you can't do it you
can't have a missile like this does it
matter
not really they the Russians have lots
of other ways they can hit European
targets and we have lots of other ways
that we could hit those targets with
nuclear weapons but it is technically a
violation because Putin want to give up
his nuclear weapons no I don't I don't
think he does is this is one of the last
vestiges of superpower status that he
has so at this point we're talking about
getting these two autocratic leaders
somewhat irresponsible leaders certainly
undemocratic leaders to just agree to
the limits let's preserve the limitation
and inspection regime so that we might
have a shot at going back to reductions
when we have more reasonable leaders in
both countries so when we talk about a
figure like john bolton and the sort of
broader neoconservative and far-right
opposition to these treaties i mean
there's two components of it they're
both disturbing but i think and
connected but they are somewhat distinct
so one i guess i understand just from
that perspective
ideologically is just an opposition to
any agreement to restraint on u.s.
forest period as a principle is right
okay go ahead no not exactly you
continue this the idea is that you know
we're the good guys and we have a
Germany over the world with a superpower
you know who would you want to be the
superpower China France you know we're
the good guys
so we should have a certain amount of
American exceptionalism the rule
shouldn't apply to us we should be able
to have the freedom to exercise a
military force wherever we want because
we will only do that for good and what
we want is restraints on other people
and the Liberals think that you get
those restraints but mutual restraints
by treaties that mutually restrict both
sides military force and the
neoconservatives or the Conservatives
say no you only get those kinds of
restrictions by force by military
dominance and it has that that that view
is particularly virulent and
particularly sort of nationalistic right
now in in this administration it really
is you know America
uber alles it's really above all we set
the rules and if you don't if you don't
go along with us we will crush you one
way or the other you see that in whether
they're treating Iran you see that in
the way they're trying to approach North
Korea you see it in their view of all
international mechanisms starting with
the United Nations definitely I want to
touch on Iran and North Korea in a
second but the other thing that is
incredibly disturbing and obviously I
you know entirely I reject every single
piece of that view ideologically but the
other part that you read about and hear
about is also the notion of developing
as you said earlier battlefield
deployable or smaller you know nuclear
weapons how does that fit into it and is
this actually a legitimate thought
process amongst these people that these
things can be deployed in a more narrow
way is this something they really
working on it want yes it is and it
comes directly from this view that look
we had this military weapon why are we
self deterred from using it why do we
why do we hesitate to use nuclear
weapons and
and part of the reasoning is according
to this view is that they're too big you
know we now have bombs a basic bomb is
approximately 10 times to 30 times the
size of the Hiroshima bomb so we no
longer have atomic bombs that's
Hiroshima Nagasaki we have hydrogen
bombs basically duplicate the basic
energy force in the universe what powers
the Sun fusion of atoms not splitting of
atoms and those bombs you know our city
destroyers and so therefore the logic
goes we need to make smaller bombs with
back to human size or smaller so that we
can use them on the battlefield and we
can have an advantage and and we can
control the escalation so if you go to
the recent issue of Foreign Affairs for
example from the preeminent American
journals you will see a discussion of
nuclear weapons and it's led off by an
article that says we shouldn't be afraid
of nuclear weapons anymore and it's it's
it's just it's presented as new thinking
by some of the new breed of young dr.
Strangelove's that have emerged in this
town right no really they are out there
and that you know and that's what they
think now you know LLL bridge Kobe at
the Center for new American security or
tear Lieber at Georgetown University
there they're out there and what they're
doing is recycling theories in the 1950s
this is what military leaders though and
conservatives thought in the 1950s
nuclear weapons are the weapons of the
future we need them for every mission so
we built not just nuclear missiles not
just nuclear bombs but nuclear torpedoes
concluded depth charges nuclear
landmines we eat my favorite weapon was
a nuclear bazooka we called it the Davy
Crockett if fire fire fire davor small
nuclear warhead about a half a mile
now why anyone would want to fire a
nuclear weapon half a mile is beyond me
you know and even the armies figure that
out we stopped making them in the 1960s
but we went nuclear nuts in the 50s and
we basically we don't have those weapons
anymore we got rid of them and the
Russians got rid of them and you know
now you have a new class of these as I
say young dr. Strangelove's who want to
bring them back and want to put them on
ships and want to put them
ground-launched cruise missiles want one
new
Hilary pieces again we used to have
nuclear artillery and they're presenting
this as just part of the new great power
struggle and this is a weapon we should
have it is it was insane in the 50s
it's insane now I have to say just the
brief editorial here the the parallels
across every single part of public
discourse of ideas right-wing ideas from
the 50s and 60s getting recycled as
fresh thinking now is it's amazing it's
everything from like gender
relationships to new yes it's kind of a
jobber society to the Germans and
American Nazis these kinds of ideas that
America flirted with and rejected well
they never went away
right and now they're back and they're
all being supported by this well I guess
be honest this kind of white nationalist
view but that cuts across all the issues
in areas and this is how it's being
expressed in the nuclear realm it is not
apart from the white nationalism it is
grounded in that worldview
now I'm not saying that the people who
are proposing this would identify
themselves as white nationalists I'm not
saying that at all but I'm saying this
is the same thinking this is his
ideological route this is they have a
shared worldview and they have a shared
aim which is us and what they generally
mean by that is white us global
domination well we could paraphrase
Andrew gillum's
right I'm not saying you do but they
think you are right oh why I think all
right I'm not saying you're a racist
yeah but they think you right there you
go dancing III right you know I haven't
heard this country just the first time I
think I've discussed it like this and
the first I haven't heard anybody else
discussing like this but but I I believe
that this is true I believe that's
what's happening and I don't believe you
would be seeing these ideas giving this
much prominence were it not for for
donald trump and trumpism and the
nationalist impulses writing definitely
so
let's touch then I want to touch on
North Korean Iran and you know my read
is there is this very unconventional
bizarre dynamic between Trump and the
North Korean leader which is you know
inside it's very funny to me in some
ways it's been a very which I guess in
my sort of cynical state feet it's very
entertaining it's also very bizarre and
very disturbing and I will say I I may
be yeah let's just take North Korea
first III see the dangers of it um I
didn't like the sort of liberal
opposition to them talking though
frankly I mean I think it's absolutely
better there in communication and not
communication but I you know I'm aware
that obviously you know Trump is
perfectly happy to go somewhere and sign
a vision board without any kind of
substance so you know where are we at
with North Korea and do you think it's
better that they talked and not talk
just the sort of a general principle
yeah so let's take this in three slices
which you know what's going on what are
the risks of what's going on and if
you're if you're if you're an observer
or progressive observer what should you
be thinking about it and number one is
again you have to give Donald Trump
credit after a first year where it was
all fire and fury and Rocketman and we
came real close to go into war with
North Korea and he certainly gave that
impression
remember a year and a half ago when
Trump said he had an armada heading
towards the Korean Peninsula turned out
he didn't but he thought he did and he
he made us think he did we were real
hosts and I'm a single mom in that kind
of situation where a mistake could have
triggered a war we're backed off from
that and since the beginning of the year
both the course came the dictator in
charge of North Korea Kim jong-un and
Donald Trump have ratcheted back and
have shifted gears and a and I I think
Anwar almost inadvertently whether he's
following his impulse or it's it's the
way he sees the world Trump may have
stumbled onto a formula that can
actually solve this North Korean problem
he
he flipped the script traditionally the
idea was you'd negotiate his complicated
nuclear agreement they'd all agree on it
and then we'd have a general peace
treaty and then you'd have a meeting
between the two leaders that was the
prize at the end of the process well he
front-loaded it and by giving kim
jong-un the sort of security pledges the
sort of peace pledges and the prestige
of having a meeting with the president
he may have created the conditions that
will actually allow North Korea to
Ratchet back their program they've
currently frozen much of it but not all
of it and they've indicated that they're
willing to do more they're willing to
take more steps the big that's what's
going on and now within the balance can
this process proceed or not in North
Korea is threatening to restart its
program they've suspended missile tests
they blown up a test site they say
they're not going to test nuclear
weapons anymore that they're still
producing nuclear material which is the
next step can you get them to stop doing
that and then roll it back the problem
you have may be the incompetence of this
administration it may be that they don't
they don't have that talented personnel
to actually do it God knows they haven't
staffed the State Department we're still
missing key experts key and bass udders
kid the undersecretary for for Asian
affairs for example it's still not in
place there is none no nominations
though and from soap dynasty available
friends anybody from the World
Federation of bressler's you know plenty
of people have moral log of visiting I
don't understand what is so hard for
them yeah yeah well they're still not
there and that comes when also if I'm a
you know megalomaniac view that you're
the only important one and the rest of
these people are getting in the way
right can you do and then you have the
ideology of Bolton and Trump who
basically don't want to do this they
especially Bolton you know he's made a
career regime change that the way you
solve the problem is not to change the
regime's behavior but to change the
Virginia so he still wants to go with
that and they could sabotage the
president's plans that's action what's
happening right now right to them today
the day were talking the North Koreans
have canceled
meeting their foreign minister with the
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo because
they believe that Pompeii is not going
to give them the goods that he and that
what they want is for him to meet again
directly with Trump and have a personal
exchange and you know what is probably
best that's probably right right they're
probably right
so if Trump can just at the moment and I
won't go into much more detail than this
but the North Koreans want is a piece of
paper they want a pledge that the
president declares the end of the Korean
War
that which never ended we just have a
truce it didn't formally end and says we
are at peace and if you do that they say
they will start dismantling their
facility that makes the stuff for the
bombs they will start dismantling their
plutonium production facility if you can
trade paper for plutonium I say you take
that deal it's not everything they have
and they still have other facilities in
rich in uranium but it's a big start it
is a significant step and it Trump and
Kim can agree on that that's that's
that's a positive so what should you
think about this if you're a progressive
you should be supporting this process
you should be putting aside your
criticisms or trump on other areas you
should be worried about the
concentration of doing this you should
be worried about what the Trump himself
is capable of doing this but you should
support the diplomacy be and hope it
works
because if it fails well the danger is
then you're back to the threats and the
recriminations and the jilted lovers and
anybody in a relationship like that
knows it can get real ugly real quick
yeah I mean and also I would say I agree
with that entirely and I was just saying
also maybe you know if you can comb
around look for somebody who might have
recently been released from like Florida
jail for like a health supplement scam
or something like that
who maybe you know said something
favorable about Trump and we could staff
up that Asian affairs portfolio you were
talking about but nobody anybody any
mail fraud anybody anybody anybody
anybody involved in I would say wire
fraud and thinks Trump is great could
probably do that and visited the
Philippines once would be a solid
candidate for that port wait wait and
here's the one positive note on this
yeah right now the process is largely
being driven by the Koreans themselves
both Kim jong-un and by South Korean
president moon jae-in who's done worry
in my read yeah it's kind of what who's
done very well in my read yeah he has
he's driven the whole process the
Olympic truce was his idea
getting the North Koreans to sit in the
same booth as the Americans vice
president pence you remember those
famous photos that was his idea and they
are moving and they are de-escalating
some of the conventional military
conflict in fact he expressly says we're
going to take care of the conventional
part you guys take care of the nuclear
part so they now have regular hotlines
regular meetings they've established a
liaison office in the Demilitarized Zone
where 24 hours a day seven days a week
North Koreans and South Korean military
officers now talk to each other they are
demining a part of the demilitarized
zone they're actually starting to
demilitarize the demilitarized zone
they're removing guard posts they're
banning military exercises within a
five-mile radius so numb there's no
mistakes that trigger a larger conflict
so the Koreans are moving ahead they
want the Americans to play a supporting
role and if Trump listens to moon I
think we'll be okay then let's okay so
there's some grounds for optimism there
Iran let's touch on Iran I think Iran
was in my view I mean is definitely one
of the greatest accomplishments of the
Obama administration the deal maybe you
could reiterate my Reid was undoubtedly
working everybody was complying and the
rest of the world seems to want it
besides the United States Saudi Arabian
Israel so where are we yeah
this was the Europeans considered this
the crowning achievement of European
diplomacy remember they'd been
negotiation to negotiating with the
Iranians since 2003 and finally they had
a President Obama who was able to do it
and the political conditions allowed him
to do it so we joined these
in 2013 and almost right away we got a
freeze on the program a couple of months
bang boom done and then we took another
period of time a little over a year to
get a final agreement that that slashed
the Iranian nuclear program to a
fraction of its size froze it for a good
15 years and then put it under a strict
inspection regime under lock and seal
and these aren't you know gameofthrones
wax seals on parchment these are real
time radiofrequency fiber-optic seals
you go into this room you open this cask
you know we're going to know immediately
that you're violating the agreement and
because of all these arrangements and
the hundred and plus pages of detail
into this Agreement the IAEA the
International Atomic Energy Agency is
certified no Iran is in compliance and
they've done that 12 times so far our
own intelligence services know Iran is
in compliance they are not cheating they
are not building a bomb they don't have
any secret smuggling operations no this
is locked down we've got a good 12 more
years to go on this and it's this deal
that Trump decides is no good that he
wants to rip it up so he's you don't
actually rip it up there's no withdrawal
agreement you violated
he just stopped complying with it and
this month he imposed new sanctions
unilateral sanctions saying that any
country that does business with Iran
that for example buys Iranian oil will
be subject to sanctions so we don't
actually sanction Iran we don't do
business with Iran we sanctions friends
and others who do do business with Iran
so the Europeans the Japanese the
Koreans the Indians the Chinese well you
can imagine how the rest of the world
sees this here's the United States who
pulls out of this multinational
agreement an agreement endorsed
sanctioned by the United Nations
Security Council every other country in
the world likes this agreement with the
exception of Israel Saudi Arabia United
Arab Emirates everybody else likes it
urges the president to stay in it we
pull out of it and then then we start
imposing our
own laws on them so we are violating
their right to set their own security
priorities their own security
arrangements by saying no we're gonna
decide for you you Europe you can't
trade with Iran bang we're gonna do that
well of course this is the ultimate
expression of American unilateralism
this is the ultimate expression of
trumpism this is the Bolton ideal we
will force the world to do what we want
I would say that this approach has a
near zero chance of working the
Washington Post just today the day we're
talking has editorialized on this
it's a gentry the post is generally
conservative on Iran but they say look
this dis embargo is going to be much
less effective then what we put in
within the Obama administration when
yeah the whole world agreeing we
shouldn't trade with Iran what what
makes you think this is going to work
and the danger of it not working is that
the pressure and the attempted isolation
of Iran includes military pressure and
that includes increases the risk that
there could be some incident
for example involving US forces in Syria
some 2,000 that come in conflict with
Iranian forces in Syria some 10,000
Revolutionary Guard and that spark thing
that could lead to the bigger war that
some actually want right in Northeast
Asia none of our allies want to go to
war with North Korea nobody thinks
that's a good idea
in the Middle East Saudi Arabia does
think it's a good idea United Arab
Emirates does think it's a good idea
Benjamin Netanyahu not his military
establishment to Benjamin Netanyahu
himself thinks it's a good idea we
should push Iran back in the box
and military force is the way to do that
economic isolation is just the beginning
of the process and so that's why the
situation with Iran with the flashpoints
in Syria the possible flash points in
Yemen is probably the most dangerous
crisis we face right now it's
underreported
we don't we're starting to get more
discussion because of the brutal murder
of Jamal Co shaggy but but a Saudi Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman because of
that people are now reevaluating our
support of the Saudi regime reevaluating
support for the Saudis in Yemen we
evaluating how involvement in Yemen and
we looking at the Iran Saudi balance and
say wait a minute wait a minute we don't
want to get drawn into this why are we
doing this again who's whose interest is
this in Saudi Arabia really much
different than Iran is Iran really the
source of all conflict in the region you
can say objectively worse right I mean
hey you know I'm not and not in any way
to excuse the many many failings and
abuses of the Iranian leadership but I
mean I didn't know Shanley
I mean objectively worse with regards to
democratic process in human rights and I
just don't even see this debate I think
we could settle on similar yeah you know
they both both have throw political
prisoners in jail right both have
summary executions both oppressed women
both have supported groups that others
see as terrorists in case of Iran it's
Hezbollah and and Hamas in the case of
Saudi Arabia for forty years they've
been pushing a virulent form of Islam
that gave rise to al Qaeda and Isis and
now they engaged in in they are causing
the worst humanitarian crisis in the
world the Saudi bombing of Yemen has
killed a wounded tens of thousands of
innocent Yemeni and has put fifteen
million people at risk of starvation and
has led to the outbreak of cholera
that's the worst since World War two all
this is not an accident it's not caused
by climate change it's caught it's
caused by Mohammed bin Salman decision
that he was going to reassert Saudi
military might and the way he was going
to do that was intervening in the Yemen
Civil War so yeah you you it's real hard
to look at that situation and believe
Mike Pompeo when he comes out and
announcing
embargoes and the sanctions that were
putting on there were people doing
business with Iran and says that they
are the world sponsor of terrorism and
they're the source of instability and in
the Middle East since their malign
behavior it's really hard to make that
case anymore and so we have a this is
the way of hope I'll leave you and your
listeners with is that we have a chance
with the new Congress to push for a
rebalancing of American interests in the
Gulf specifically but cutting off sales
of US weapons to the Saudis to stop them
from bombing Yemen to declare to pass
for some of now proposing an
authorization for the use of military
force in the region that would pull back
US forces from involvement in Yemen all
this is going to be right up at the
front of the agenda of the lame duck in
Congress you might see this in December
come up before the Congress and if it
doesn't happen then almost certainly in
the first few months of the new Congress
well Joseph Surrency only I hope
actually I can host you again sometime
soon because I also want to talk about
China and India and Pakistan in
different worlds at the late a waste
here or not hopefully but this was
excellent I think this was the tour from
Trump and Russia taking us all the way
through the US UK enabled atrocities in
Yemen and everywhere else so we did a
lot of work today and I hope we can do
some more work in the near future okay
thank you very much Michael I'm sorry if
my answers which were too long I am NOT
a filter no that was terrific
that was exactly what we we dare to be
boring here thank you very much thank
you for talking with you Thank You
Joseph thank you so much all right folks
and actually I have to admit maybe I'm
just sort of really nerding here but I
didn't find any of that remotely not
interest no that was great
absolutely have we had I don't we have
been if we had a mom before I feel like
I don't know in this iteration but it
would be shocking if he was never on I
feel like I've written that into a
Chiron before but that was great yeah
Joseph Soren CEO knees brilliant all
right folks
we got to go to the fun half become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
subscribed to this show on YouTube and
iTunes write a review just coffee co-op
check out the news voice copy on today's
show tickets are moving fast so get your
tickets to the first Michael Brooks show
at the Bell House February 1st in
Gowanus that's gonna be there I'm gonna
be there david Griscom is gonna be there
there's going to be an Obama
impersonation contest there's gonna be a
lot of shenanigans and with we were all
having special guests Chris Bosh Carson
Carl Luna min cough ski and T Trevor
Beaulieu of champagne sharks buy your
tickets can't wait to see you there
become a patron of the Michael Brooks
show patreon.com slash DMBS stay tuned
this weekend we're gonna unlock a large
sort of strategic historical overview of
the midterms of what to learn from them
with the great Bill Fletcher jr. who
everybody should be watching and reading
Matt literary hangover yeah we're gonna
be recording tonight actually hope
Lesley early times in the Massachusetts
1827 novel by Katherine Maria Sedgwick
an early chapter sort of brings up
something that I thought has a certain
relevance especially this time of the
year in cultural appropriation for
instance when a lot of the Pequot women
and children were put into bondage in
Massachusetts after the mystic massacre
of the Pequod's Indians they were forced
to wear you know Puritan style clothing
or English style clothing and that was a
sign of you know it was assigned to
especially the men Native Americans that
were allowed to stay the Pequot Indians
I couldn't call themselves that after
that
bye I love the treaty that was signed
and it just goes to show that you know
some people get a bit I guess impatient
with discussions about cultural
appropriation but that stuff is and that
symbology is that goes back at least
hundreds of years if not longer than
that and there's something but
historicizing it gives yeah you have yes
so it isn't just like hey here's a
listicle right it's important just the
real context of why and what has
actually been used - like what power
it's used
you know serve basically right
absolutely
so yeah the I am about to call in to the
phones and I feel like I'm forgetting
something but what's up patreon.com
slash the Intifada as well okay yes yes
check out the anti Fattah as well uh
check out the Intifada as well yeah
forget it there's some other thing but
whatever we got to keep going we will
see you in the fun half and for it
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man
the males are back
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner Kisa
yeah are a couple you put them in
rotation DS you did well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's
reminder I can go out have Parkinsons
and the alpha males
[Music]
the back
a lot of back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
black there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have an
onyx benefit for you and the alpha males
of black males
like
to pay the price reprise be around here
I am a total questions -
 total welcome to the
fun half are the phones up Matt all
right let's take a call you're calling
from an 8 for 7 area code who are you
wearing calling from Michael it's Josh
from Chicago Josh from Chicago how you
doing I'm hitting an airport by to go to
the land of free health care known as
Canada cool saddle
good time I'm doing good what's on your
mind Josh first of all when I saw Bill
Clinton the other day I didn't want to
go up to him and ask him if he was
voting for Howie Hawkins in the election
or vote working families down ballot and
then tally Hawkins to register that even
though an trachoma has a locker up on
the state that we still scored over the
rest of the Jenga anyway two things I
want to point out first of all I think
it's important when we talk about
Georgia that we say that this election
result is essentially the same as what
happened in Russia or happens in Turkey
completely illegitimate it's not a real
election every concern I think you need
to talk about that and also just in
terms of this idea that in regards to
Florida that was completely an act of
racism I think in terms of gilliam not
winning and I don't buy the excuse
people vote with their wallet I think if
you vote with your wallet that's an act
of racism and white supremacy that's
just my opinion
I think that there is an on I'm almost
getting exhausted of having to say this
but apparently we're gonna say this have
to say this a lot more and I just
recorded a conversation that will come
out this weekend 40 mb/s which I really
just in general I I wish more people and
people would have on Bill Fletcher jr. I
mean he's a really
brilliant an important figure who's been
involved in almost every major kind of
leftward effort since the 80s and is
also you know a scholar of labour
movements and and other really important
areas and there is no contradiction
between addressing and understanding the
things like racial justice as expressed
through actually having American
democracy as well as having a serious
labor single-payer program there's no
contradiction there whatsoever and I
think you know I think Adolph Reid okay
his critique of neoliberal
representation politics I agree with a
hundred percent because I'm a socialist
and I believe in universal programs and
I believe in serious structural justice
I don't want to just have you know
broader representation in a totally
unequal society that said as I always
say if the choices are white supremacy
capitalism or multicultural capitalism
multi of course but a Quay but the other
but the other important points to make
are and and just you know briefly like
people in 2016 they used this this
pseudo woke politics and you know got
caught up in all of this nonsense to try
to undermine really good policy like
free college like breaking up banks like
single-payer health care all of which
there's no doubt about that but the
point but but the point is right now if
your response to the Andrew Gilliam loss
is he campaigned with Hillary Clinton or
he didn't talk about single-payer not
only that delusional not only is that
delusional and wrong that is doing the
work of the original Hillary Clinton
campaign you're toxifying are
Brian single-payer and you know what he
give it so he pivoted to Medicaid
expansion doesn't matter that's not why
he lost that race
not that rough period can i yes I also
want to make a point about the Senate um
oh god I'm about to lose Jamie as a
friend well it's okay don't worry about
it
Oh God okay I see McCaskill largely oh I
just heard the silence yeah I did
largely because I'm a former Missouri
resident okay and I know the guy is
worse who's who's campaigning against
her and I hate Claire McCaskill I think
she's terrible sometimes I also think
she's better than this white supremacist
who's now he is this guy Holly is
literally he is a pretty oh God he's
just terrible this guy is just terrible
but I mean and the thing that's a pose
good party no matter what no matter
where you are I don't care if you're in
a swing state read some Maoist fortune
chill out what bothered me was that she
basically and this was the same thing as
Joe Donnelly and these people
Joe Donnelly Claire McCaskill is
that they basically just instead of
actually talking about things like
health care expansion talking about
things that makes sense or people that
could actually win them votes they used
racist rhetoric things like the migrant
caravan band or the the birthright
citizenship thing and that was never
going to win them they were never gonna
win with those voters and I think the
thing that we learned from the Senate
races is that centrism or what ring
democrat these people are killing the
party these are those are two winnable
seats I think and both these incompetent
campaigns lost lost that for them and
it's a damn shame because their
replacements are going to do so much
worse and so much damage and it's it's
really just a shame but I you know I if
anything I think it finishes off
centrism or right I don't even call
kaskell centrist she's a right-wing
Democrat and same with Donnelly but you
know I that was something that just was
really horrified by you know especially
as someone who's sort of involved in
that campaign
thanks for called Josh enjoy Canada and
remember the good results - thanks man
speaking of discrediting centrism I
would like to talk about my favorite or
least favorite trust fund baby Megan
McCain is maybe the most useless person
on planet Earth she is not intelligent
she has limited broadcast talent she is
purely the product of American nepotism
and she is sort of the millennial
version at times of this thing that a
certain type of centrist or a certain
type of liberal gets fixated on which is
of course the reasonable Republican or
the good Republican and all of this
fantasy nonsense and what has been
proven over and over again are basically
there's three versions of this scenario
one is your Mitt Romney and you give a
great speech about how Trump will lead
to trickle-down racism and it's so
horrible and blah blah blah and then a
couple months later you're there getting
cocked at a midtown eatery or nice
restaurant because you're trying to get
Secretary of State or you're Jeff Flake
and none of your moral hang ringing has
anything to do with voting to stop you
know Brett Kavanaugh from getting on the
Supreme Court
Jeff don't ask me or what flake exactly
or you know the second step is you're
you know you've built a whole career or
if you're Rick Wilson or David Frum and
there's this never-ending appetite
apparently amongst a certain part of the
kind of like bougie centrist relatively
politically illiterate readership for
you to castigate Trump for being a jerk
while essentially you share a lot of the
same policies as him and you helped get
us to the predicament and the crisis
we're in or you just were involved in
electing any number of ghouls and
zombies and gangsters to public office
or you were a prime advocate of a global
war and torture regime or the third
option which almost never ever happens
but you become like a guy Kevin Phillips
who is I don't even know if he's still
alive but he was a Nixon adviser and
still a very questionable figure in a
lot of ways but by the time you got to
the Bush era he was writing books on why
the Republican Party was essentially
just purely enthralled to Wall Street
and big business and also the Democrats
and he had a kind of broader populist
critique which is to say he wasn't a
Republican anymore okay so there's three
scenarios here there's irrelevant
hand-wringing nonsense there's the I
don't like Trump because he's uncouth
but I support laying waste to the world
and stealing people's money and I'm
generally useless and the only people
that I have any sway over are mediocre
centrists and liberals because no actual
conservative would ever listen to a
David Frum as an example and then
there's the third option which is that
you actually wait a second I'm not an
 anymore
and I'm out of here and even that former
bush lawyer who ran for Senate in
Minnesota I wouldn't have voted for him
but okay I'll give him credit he was
like I'm a Democrat and by the way we
need to protect the environment now I
support Medicare for all fair enough
Megan McCain a lot of people tried to
slot in that second category and she had
that embarrassing moment that made the
rounds during her dad's funeral where
she was like okay it was like already
great like okay and it was uncomfortable
and weird to watch but of course it made
the rounds of people who tweet and
Graham that sort of lame-ass thing and
here is Megan McCain broke with the best
contribution she's ever made to public
life being really clear about where her
allegiances lie on the view the serious
lesson for Democrats also is that
Republicans are not going to vote
against their own agenda and against
their own interest meaning I think
there's an impression sometimes if you
don't watch Fox News the our Republicans
if you're against Trump or you have
issues with his rhetoric that
automatically I have somehow morphed
into a liberal that every ideology and
principle I've ever agreed on that the
principles that make me who I am the
conservative that I am have flown out
the window and all of a sudden I'm a
Democrat that is not the case
Republicans are going to vote for their
own agenda and they did a lot last night
especially in Senate and gubernatorial
races and I think the Democrats are
really competitive were the ones that
were more moderate so that is the lesson
I would take the point thing to me
actually because when you when you look
at the Republicans it's disappointing
you're a Democrat it's not just winning
for me I'm a Republican I'm gonna end up
voting for Republicans and there's a way
to differentiate I think it wasn't
candidate it was just no actually in
substance there isn't and I think
obviously Megan's not intelligent enough
to realize that but she actually just
articulated that precisely herself and
what is her agenda she's literally a
trust-fund baby who's been handed wealth
in a career from inception and she is
going to vote to give herself more of
that and protects what was already given
to her and she lives in New York and her
dad probably occasionally was like it
was a bad call to vote against making
MLK jr. Day a holiday and I should have
when I had a chance when I was running
for president in South Carolina in 2000
I shouldn't have cooked out I should
have said obviously the Confederate flag
is a symbol of racism and incidentally
even though I still vote against
marriage equality and so on we've got
some gay friends around because we're
essentially multi-millionaire
entertainment family but when it
actually comes down to things well daddy
was about endless wars invading the
planet and you know killing plenty of
people in the Middle East and
sabre-rattling in Eastern Europe and
deterring China and and daughter is in
too
getting money given to her so that she
can have even more luck in her entirely
unearned career
I mean honestly like you could read
thomas piketty's or you could look at
megan mccain and the lesson about
intergenerational wealth and how its
sclerotic i's society is there i mean
this is somebody if this was the
daughter of a Kmart manager this is not
someone who's rising to the top of a
meritocracy this is pure mediocrity
through contacts and she's going to vote
to give herself
 and that is the Republican you know
at least a wealthy part of who votes her
republicans who actually get policy
rewarded and if she has to look the
other way on white nationalism and
homophobia and all the other stuff she
will even as she continues to like
listen to Lord and have gay friends or
whatever the else it is that people
think make this wretched human being
moderate I wonder if she signed a
contract extension recently or something
like that cuz it's very rare that the
never tremors will be like yeah I not
gonna work with you guys yeah
I'm not really your ally yeah this Trump
stuff I'll I'll feign outrage but like
fundamentally I'm not gonna change any
of my behavior right that's true but
she's also getting a good job at I mean
you know the the anxiety and the temper
tantrum she had about socialism a couple
of months ago she has like a certain
there is something very like the paws
are coming from across town oh yeah
she's like the smelling salts are out
and I think it's like it's different
when well daddy says Hillary will be
okay right now it's like oh my god
they're actually voting for people that
might mean that I won't inherit like six
houses you know like this might mean
that I might not have just a completely
unearned decadent lifestyle than that
and that is a problem but terrifies me
and she said terrifies me and what ideas
I mean
lies whether people like Megan McCain
are conscious of that or not I think it
definitely registers like you can tell
like the stream is going to dry up even
if you're not really sure that's why
you're supporting this I mean I think
that Megan McCain knows but generally
when people like it's it's a mystery
because why they're voting for
Republicans cuz they're socially this or
that right like it's so it's the one
they don't yeah that's that's all that
 is secondary to irrelevant and I
also think the other thing is one way of
circling the square between this whole
like identity versus economics debate
which doesn't offer any short-term
electoral lessons because it's a
long-term project is there's no doubt
that there are some people because
because I by the way I really think if
you look at the industry industrial
Midwest I think that the voters who were
in serious economic straits who were
portrayed by Democrats and disgusted by
the trade deals and by neoliberal
policies and fell for the Trump scam and
of out of desperation and I think and
you're talking about like tens of
thousands I mean geographically vitally
placed but very few people overall in
the electorate I think they're already
done like I actually think the worry
might be if you nominate the wrong
person that they'll sit home but I think
that those people already the ones that
were really in on that we're really
taken in by the scam I think they're
already leaving and it was very few
people to begin with that weren't voting
for Trump out of white identity politics
but those that weren't I think are
already starting to tap out and
conversely there is a group of people
that I mean they're obviously they're
not as privileged as Megan McCain but I
think that part of what you see in the
alt-right in Charlottesville and you
know Steve ban and complaining about
Asian software engineers in Silicon
Valley is a correct perception that
because of global competition and
because of the stage of capitalism that
were at unless you are literally like
you know if you're Megan McCain if
you're a multi if you are part of
massive intergenerational power and
wealth yes it doesn't matter what talent
and capacity you have you will inherit
given things for sure but the same
people that in the 1970s or 80s could
have gone to like you know a decent
state school graduated tuition
you know without being in any debt and
then made a good amount of money and
basically just been moved forward is
like a middle-class white guy that is
actually gone and some of these people
disgustingly are absolutely gonna look
and say like well how do I restore that
apartheid and I think that is part of
you know they're there they're reading
the economic picture correctly in some
ways and they're drawing the disgusting
but unfortunately historically
consistent conclusion with America which
is not I need to band together with
other people who don't look like me but
who I share more actual interests with
they're saying well wait a second
that maybe in the midst of all of this
market brutality we can literally
reinstate the traditional privileges
that I thought was my birthright
and I think in the long term you can
undermine some of that through
addressing capitalism I do but I don't
think you can in an electoral cycle
basis right cuz that's sort of where it
came from in the first book exactly
colonialism and capitalist employees are
400 500 year long process these are
these are precisely and even if we take
a more macro view it's like yes I think
that there's no doubt that Jimmy Carter
starting to neoliberal eyes the
Democratic Party you can draw a line
between that and the ascent of Donald
Trump no doubt at the same time that
should influence our twenty thirty year
plan I don't think it has much to do for
the next two years and that's why people
on our side of it needs to get much more
about we need single-payer health care
we need to break up banks we need to
premedia tc's oil companies right like
even these really bold radical
aggressive left policies and
common-sense ones free college and so on
because they're the right thing to do
and I guess I do think
overall writ large they're the small
smartest electoral strategy for engaging
people but a fetishizing of getting into
the white identity base through those
issues is a fool's errand in the short
term it might pay dividends along with
other efforts in the long long long term
equalizing like material resources will
cultivate a more democratic and less
racist republic like we're inheriting
one where wealth has been seriously
concentrated and that has that affects
how people view race as it's been
constructed exactly and that's a hundred
percent right now let's go to the other
extreme because I also hear people who
you know have taken the absurd
conclusion from that and tried to
cheapen it following the Hillary Clinton
campaign to say that we shouldn't have a
mass reclaiming of resources and
redistribution of wealth in this country
which would be good for all and
necessary for all and in fact
disproportionately benefit
african-americans Native Americans and
women and so on because they have
disproportionately been affected by the
crimes of wealth theft in this country
as an example and also when you say that
as an example America can't have a
social democracy or solidarity because
we're not we're not a homogeneous
society well you're doing three things
one there's historical examples for
every historical example of and there's
no doubt that a progressive coalition in
this country the thing that has always
blown it up is race and racism and white
supremacy and division there's no
question about it
but there's also examples like
Wilmington North Carolina and post
reconstruction which before a white
supremacist back coup was in fact a
multiracial black and white run
progressive experiment there's the Free
State of Jones which people should look
up these are real historical examples go
back in and I would strongly encourage
listening to the Tea MBS that elicits
history on this we're going to do a lot
more of that coverage so there are
countervailing historical examples but
you know you're also just playing into
the arms
of the of both the corporate sector that
might occasionally be okay with greater
representation but we'll never do
anything about structural inequities of
any kind and white racists who are
totally on board with that and part of
actually some of the strategies moving
forward are precisely going to be
calling for ethnos states with universal
programs they've already started test
driving it and that's why those talking
points have filtered down to the dumbest
man on youtube check out dave rubin and
i know that this has had to have been
fed to him because there's no way he
could have formulated this thought
process on his own the left often will
say oh look at the Nordic countries look
at these socialist Nordic countries and
it's like you know these countries are
pretty much all white and I know you
don't like that and they have a shared
culture and they have a shared history
and that actually isn't what America is
we are the great melting pot and there
is a difference when you have people
that all come from one area and all have
a share of history and a shared culture
that just is that has nothing to do with
race it so that isn't just is actually
and in fact we need to also not feed
this argument because we need to have
solidarity with those fighting to
protect the social safety net and
against bigotry in Scandinavia
incidentally in Scandinavia to be clear
the political parties that are aligned
with protecting those social safety
systems are also the ones opposing
xenophobia and racism so don't let that
get confused and there is examples of
course in the United States of programs
and initiatives and cross racial
coalition's that have achieved
everything from Medicaid to civil rights
to in today's world black lives matter
the Bernie Sanders campaign and all
sorts of pushes happening Occupy Wall
Street pushes happening across the
country for vital progress so it's one
thing on our side to skip the reality
that what is undermined the radical
projects of America is absolutely things
like whites white supremacy and racism
and we need to deal with them and we
need to deal with them as questions of
democracy not just fundamentally as
democracy don't worry about the word
identity as far as I'm concerned it's
about democracy and it's about full
justice rights for all period no
 and that is obviously this is a
Confederate in a part I'd country so
it's been contradicted by that if we
don't address that we're not gonna win
now conversely when people tried out
those arguments in liberal circles to
undermine universal programs in
solidarity
you are the handmaidens of the corporate
state and the fascists because the
fascists are gonna seize on that and say
you know what you're right and
incidentally we do actually want a more
just society and incidentally we do want
to capitalize on the youth enthusiasm
for Bernie Sanders and the youth
disillusionment with inequality in the
economy and we're gonna tie it to our
toxic disgusting ideology which has
always been historically the case and
why they also will benefit the corporate
sector and the Koch brothers in
undermining a true actual broad front to
achieve what we need to in this country
so weird how he insists were a melting
pot but yet we don't have a shared
history right like to take black people
and white people for instance the idea
that black and white people in America
don't have a shared history isn't a pro
isn't about history it's about how
history has been written exactly it's
exactly his project to make sure those
histories are never reconciled with each
other that's precisely and all of these
guys share a fundamental a historical
view that's the dots and it's not the
way they frame it and they're cheap
tactics is it's just like oh the left
just wants you to review history to feel
guilty or hear you know different
stories of human wrongs but today we're
in our world and we know that those
stuff doesn't matter it's a no that's
the type that's the way people who are
illiterate and clueless to understanding
where we are now you study history to
understand the currents that shape our
world and where we are today not to just
sort of
list previous wrongs which by the way
there's nothing wrong with that
but and it's and it shows the sort of
moral sickness that they're riding on
but they they focus on discounting the
moral case which they're wrong about and
we can respond to that but we could also
be confident in saying you guys are
literally working in a concerted effort
to make sure that we don't understand
the world which is in fact
anti-scientific anti rational anti
empirical and anti intellectual like you
can you can say like let's save domestic
white servants that helped build America
early on too they were pushed out
because of the enclosing of the Commons
right right all these things are
integrating and can be reconciled but
when you start from the the approach
that we do not have shared cultures here
that's because you're racist Dave Rubin
precisely we have plenty of shared
culture in this country exactly the same
I mean that's the pre the presupposition
is right like we're all the same and we
never had any conflicts and that's
shared culture just like okay and
Thanksgiving right yeah and Thanksgiving
that was another great part of our
shared culture again I mean look I I
don't know how to do this because on one
hand I mean obviously I think Dave Rubin
is probably never gonna debate samurai
but I will say no Dave room is a
idiot he's not good I can't even joke
yeah he's stupid and he's also a coward
he's he knows where his bread is
buttered
yes he knows where his face is bleached
Tommy yd damn Michael I wish you're on
the view to explain where Megan McCain
is coming from to their audience and
perhaps even watch the other hosts not
an agreement I think that is possible
dr. chaos MD anyone who claims to be a
Republican because the GOP stands for
conservatism family values are small
government is either woefully ignorant
or willfully disingenuous a person if a
person does hold those values they
should have left the Republican Party a
long time ago because the GOP ditched
those values during and after Nixon we
need to ramp up the estate tax so that
people like Megan McCain don't continue
to be inherited aristocracy I'm pretty
sure we fought
200 plus years war to war 200 years ago
to get out from under that shitty system
well this is what Richard Wolffe
actually says when he makes the case for
Marxism is he says the French and
American revolutions were supposed to
liberate us from these forms and they're
replicated in capitalism Huckleberry
Finn
yes plowshares I'm all about sharing
Klaus biscuit Bo exactly Jordan
Peterson's on question time tonight the
BBC's top political show sad to see the
BBC give a platform to this quack who's
no relevance to British politics can't
wait to hear about the EU represents the
Dragons of chaos I'm still of the
schools I owe the platforming to me is
not the issue it's the lack look if they
had UQ lady did yeah that's my thing is
if you get atom right then cool I mean
there's certain people like we were
playing a clip earlier Matt was telling
me a clip earlier about some you know
exceptionally dumb YouTube personality
and it's like we did a parody of his
name for the other parody show he did
because I thought of it and it was
really juvenile and funny and stupid and
it produced and easy to produce and so
he became part of a composite character
and we knew people would laugh but like
yeah we choose it's like no we're not
gonna play a video that guy because I
mean come on Tyrell there's a
funny one on progressive voices yeah so
check out progressive voices TMZ of
progressive left politics but uh and and
our buddy
so he'll over there but alright
shouldn't say he's not our buddy because
I guess people will say like oh crap
it's a conspiracy it's I
didn't know who it was before this well
at any rate but he did a funny video of
a who apparently was incredulous that
the Democrats are going to take back the
house oh really - like very late in the
night that's the that's where you want
to spend four hours on Election Day
I mean that's that's actually very sad
when you it's sad the point being is
we're not gonna play that clip because
you know it's irrelevant but when you
get to you know I'm writing a book with
a whole chapter on Jordan Peterson I
mean he is why you platforming him right
right exactly I mean these guys are they
matter Josh from Chicago good results
came from progressives progressive
policy is talking about health care the
Dems won the house so I attended the
film premiere with an Iranian journalist
and filmmaker misere Bihari the Iranian
Canadian journalist and filmmaker whose
imprisonment in Iran for speaking on out
was subject of Jon Stewart's 2014 film
rosewater he meet he's made several
films about the prosecution of behind
Iran the largest and most prosecuted
minority religion there that's right
Yabba highs the Iranian Constitution
recognizes obviously Islam but it
actually does recognize and Accord
rights to Jews and Christians and buys
are treated as full apostates and their
properties stolen there's actually a
massive amount of money that has
basically just been stolen from behind
and reza aslan Mike co-wrote a piece for
The Washington Post several years ago
about bhai is in Iran and it was true
and it's a really important issue and it
was used in some like Republican press
release to try to like undermine the
Iran deal or something pretty funny he
said that the persecution guys bhai is
becoming a huge issue with millions of
Iranians now supporting the baha'i some
necessarily secretly thinks their
treatment may be a primary issue has to
be covering in resolving Iran can make
progress currently the bazaar still in
prison executed houses burned down
banned for many schools having
businesses cemeteries desecrated all
because of their faith and unwillingness
to deny it
interview mazar-e Bihari creative
journalism is not a crime campaign among
other human rights activists I have his
contact info well you can send it that's
definitely an interview I would do how
much do you suppose voter suppression
played in the elections also I'm
concerned that any request that the
house makes will be contested by the
White House until it's bro
the Supreme Court where the president
will get away with everything I'm afraid
this president will do whatever he wants
and like a slow-moving accident all we
can do is watch well look I don't see it
that I mean I think that's probably true
and I still think you can bleed him out
politically right like I think that will
register in 2020 if the house is doing
aggressive smart oversight of all of the
endless number of things coming out of
this White House and then I mean we are
already in a fundamentally undemocratic
place and if it needs to be spelled out
for people like that in the process of
embarrassing and and raging Trump then
great I mean I'm not saying I mean I
wish we weren't in this situation to
begin with but even the worst case
scenario now is a better scenario than
it was before
of course Attorney General Jeff Sessions
has been forced out and he should be
primarily remembered as a guy who
explicitly took the gloves off of police
departments there was some modest
reforms under Obama and holder arising
out of the events in Ferguson the rising
up of activism across the country police
might I have never called mr. figures
Moyne I never quite believe that denial
Jeff Sessions also was or an architect
and really religious really should be
probably his primary policy achievement
was forcing families apart of the border
the torture and imprisonment the terror
campaign of the children especially but
innocent families generally at the
border he was an arch far-right neo
Confederate who waged campaigns and also
empowered anti-muslim bigots and you
know if Donald Trump wasn't of course of
course Donald Trump is a white
supremacist and a racist and so on but
clearly his primary anxieties and
motivations are around his own personal
self-protection and enrichment and
protecting himself from various criminal
probes and so on and so forth
and you know sessions didn't protect him
on that with this Muller probe so he
freaked Trump out but there is really no
other way to think of Jeff Sessions than
as a primary instrument of the worst of
American life and really the only good
thing that came out of in the past
couple years was his refusal which he
should get no credit for it was the
obvious thing to do he literally was
involved in these investigations himself
he needed to do that and only somebody
with an absolute criminal view of the
universe like Donald Trump would be
upset that sessions didn't recuse
himself and the only other thing that
sessions contributed was it was pretty
funny watching Trump abuse and bullying
as owning and dunking on Republican
cretins continues to be Donald Trump's
greatest strength two years into his
presidency
yeah karma is not tactical but it can be
enjoyable in deed what is the video you
have up here this is the new okay so let
me get to this this is great so you know
on some level it of course it made sense
that Jeff Sessions would be Trump's
attorney general Jeff Sessions longtime
far-right racist white identity politics
conspiracy theorist neo Confederate
reactionary fueled by Breitbart and the
scum of the Republican coalition that
was of course the same scum wave that
Trump wrote the presidency and sessions
was an earlier endorse at an early
endorser of Donald Trump in other ways
it didn't make sense as an example
Donald Trump obviously rides off in the
enthusiasm of the south but like most
good New Yorkers also seems to think
that southern people are like
idiots
he compared Jeff Sessions because of his
diminutive figure and his drawl to a
number of unflattering you know southern
words like hick and I called him mr.
Magoo and so on and I also have to say
that I think Jeff Sessions lack of
business experience was probably also
upsetting the Donald Trump now the new
acting Attorney General is a guy named
Mark Whitacre Matthew Whitaker rather
who looks like and I think it plays into
Trump's
because he literally looks like a
bodyguard and Trump obviously sees the
job of the Attorney General is to
protect the president from you know just
basically endless potentials of exposing
mass criminal wrongdoing no subpoena
thank you you know exactly so the
Attorney General in a sense is a it's
really a big bodyguard when you think
about it
and so I think that trumps damaged
psyche is soothed by having a guy who
looks like he should be saying ID please
outside of you know some club in the
Meatpacking District as his AG and
another great thing about Matthew
Whitaker is of course he said that the
Moller investigation has gone way too
far
Trump is obviously itching to shut that
down and could very well cause a
constitutional crisis over the next
coming weeks and months and the real
kicker Matthew Whitaker is an Antep a
 noir and I'm gonna quote
yes finally some of a business sense I'm
gonna quote now from a report in the
Miami New Times and then we have some
great video of your new acting Attorney
General Whittaker okay today President
Donald Trump fired Attorney General Jeff
Sessions and announced that his chief of
staff Matthew Whitaker would become an
acting Attorney General Whitaker is a
former US attorney in Iowa he was also
involved in a Miami based invention
market allowing you just say like
invention marketing company is only
gonna come up in like a script of an
Owen Wilson Vince Vaughn vehicle from
2003 or four or in a Federal Trade
Commission case and indeed um
and I'm back to the article in a Miami
based invention marketing company that
the Federal Trade Commission shut down
last year after calling it a scam
regulations getting in the way of small
businessman get off our backs
Whitaker not only sat on the board is
the world patent marketing
the best people in their world patent
barn you come to the right place welcome
to world hey do you have a great idea
that's real bad never seen do you have a
great idea and one more credit card that
we could possibly extend out it's the
future to defraud you just a quick
sidebar did you see the story where
Ivanka had been granted a number of
patents by the Chinese government
including one for voting machines no I
did not
it sounds like another great piece of
deal-making there uh what could her
Whitacre not only sat on the board of
the world patent marketing but also once
sent a threatening email to a former
customer who had complained after he
spent thousands of dollars and did not
receive promises promised services I
like what I'm hearing Matthew
Court records obtained by the tyent by
the New Times for 2017 feature about the
fraudulent companies shows that in
August 2015 email to a disgruntled
customer Whittaker touted his background
as a former federal attorney and
suggested that filling filing a
complaint with the Better Business
Bureau and quote-unquote smearing the
company online could result in quote
serious civil and criminal consequences
the the the new patent the the acting
Attorney General also evaluated a razor
invention submitted to world patent
marketing in a video the customer share
Don's Vimeo account three years ago
proclaiming that it had quote a simple
but a unique design scott cooper the CEO
and founder of world patent marketing
donated two thousand six hundred to
Whitaker's 2014 senate campaign just one
hundred shy of limit for an individual
to a candidate donate to a candidate
internet internal records show the
company paid him nearly ten thousand
before the company was shuttered and the
company collected almost twenty six
million dollars by promising back to the
quote starry-eyed investors it would
turn their inventions into
sellers oh yeah so this was of course an
incredible yeah I mean a federally
documented scam and here is some footage
now of the acting Attorney General the
guy who's about to plunge us into a
constitutional crisis most likely by
shutting down a criminal probe an
independent an investigation to the
president and associates around him for
of course a potential relationship to
the Russians but again as I always say
you have a team of money-laundering
experts combing through Donald Trump's
finances which means that you will
probably find everything from like fake
you know scams to raise money for like
the little league that didn't go to the
little league to like I don't know
laundering money for Panamanian cartels
like could you guess any other things
that they would probably find roaming
through Donald Rumsfeld keroth you
Whittaker you know I think thinking of
Mark Whitacre is I think Mark Whitacre
was the the guy in the Archer Daniels
Midland case who exposed fraud at that
company but was also defrauding the
company himself it's a good movie it's
called the informant with Matt Damon
tree moon train the swamp this is
Matthew Whitaker telling you about a
great adventure of swivel seat because
it's a unique design that's gonna help
lots of people that have mobility issues
get in and use their hot tub in a safe
manner play that one more time please
this is the acting Attorney General who
will probably shortly be throwing our
country into a constitutional crisis
it's a billion dollar idea because it's
a unique design that's gonna help lots
of people that have mobility issues get
in and use their hot tub in a safe
manner it doesn't look very safe to me
it looks literally like a school chair
that has been like platform and nailed
on to the edge of a hot tub
which could break off at any moment
looks like a good way to dump some like
right like you know somebody Mobley
challenged into a hot tub it looks like
a good example for a Steve Bannon hooker
Joe nobody would insure this event yeah
it is the perfect invention for a
fraudster Trump the wine guy though in
Florida you know who else was a patent
clerk Albert Einstein yeah
but they did say anything bad about him
see that's how unfair I'm treated by the
media everybody says Albert Einstein's a
great guy but meanwhile he's gonna
figure out nuclear fusion he's gonna
figure a cheap position but all of a
sudden it's a big joke because you're so
hateful
is there a doctored video with a
majority report calls him something
anti-semitic that Breitbart did it send
around I'm just trying to imagine Albert
Einstein review in a patent submission
for a swivel chair on a I don't even
know what it's the Albert Einstein voice
some type of like what was he Swiss
Swiss Jewish man this is really good
because they are the common language
the first step to work language rah this
is famous as there are people who cannot
access the hot tubs because of a
disability it's a shame that history
went a little bit different we might
remember German voice as Albert Einstein
voice and that that is really the
barking Nazis right because I'm doing
that voice and I'm like should I be
saying something disgusting and
anti-semitic versus cracking code of the
universe in this genteel way you're
calling from a six for seven area code
who are you where you calling from hey
Sebastian for Canada hey Sebastian
what's going on man
dude I called a couple days ago and like
five seconds into my call I got raided
by a SWAT team and got taken
to a neoliberal reeducation camp okay
remember that no oh well anyway I got in
the middle of my call and I don't know
what happened but yeah I want to talk
about Canada okay what's up what's going
on turn him out okay well so I like your
um your video about Jack neat thing oh
that was a while ago yeah yeah well I
actually just got into the show and okay
I just don't like all the YouTube clips
oh cool cool and so yeah I just kind of
watch a lot like his situation right now
so tell us his situation I gotta be
honest was not looking too good why not
okay well first of all he doesn't have a
seat in the parliament yet so that means
he would have to run in a by-election to
get in mm-hmm
and Trudeau has been delaying the
by-election like month after month and
now Sebastian are you there Sebastian I
think he got taken away again that's
weird yeah he does need to go to secure
lines see people don't want this safe
house they don't want Sebastian to talk
to us they don't want Sebastian to win
but you know we're gonna do for
Sebastian let's trash justin trudeau a
little bit it's a couple of things about
this clip that come to mind first Justin
Trudeau's really a very I he's a super
awkward public speaker III don't I mean
I get that he's you know I get that he's
attractive and he's I guess likable I I
don't I mean I don't find him
particularly likeable but what has
shocked me is that this the people
compared this guy to Obama like people
really wanted to sort of attach like
serious rock star cred to him and I've
never seen him give a solid speech now
granted I don't watch much Justin
Trudeau so maybe there's you know
actually well don't point me if I'll
take your word for
he's given great speeches I believe you
but don't tweet them to me the other
thing that's very interesting is and
look I don't discount I think it's great
when the Australian government
apologizes to Aboriginal people I think
it's important when the United States
government apologizes to the victims of
the tuskegee experiment
I think historical accounts are
important and healthy for any society
that being said Justin Trudeau's sort of
preferred mode of apologizing for things
in the past while he could condones
atrocities in the present is a troubling
pattern and I'll be really specific
about that this guy continues to align
with the oil and energy industry against
indigenous activists in Canada that is a
specific wrong today I don't care how
woke you are that's wrong they did have
that conflict with Saudi Arabia because
to their credit Canada's foreign
minister I believe the crista Freeland I
believe her name is spoke out against
some of the Saudi jailing of women's
rights activists and the Saudis
responded by saying but well by
threatening another 9/11 which was a bit
of an escalation but also by talking
about cancelling arms agreements which
should remind everybody that Canada is
selling Saudi Arabia weapons so this
woke administration is still a arms
exporting Petro State that has not kept
its commitments or its word to the
coalition that elected it and continues
to treat indigenous people in an abysmal
way so this is Justin Trudeau
apologizing for a great historical wrong
the Canada
committed against the Jewish people
those fleeing the Holocaust and then
he's gonna pivot to a disingenuous
ridiculous historically illiterate
attack on the movement to bring
democracy to Israel Palestine
anti-semitism is still far too present
Jewish institutions and neighborhoods
are still being vandalized with
swastikas Jewish students still feel
unwelcomed and uncomfortable on some of
our college and university campuses
because of BDS related intimidation and
out of our entire community of nations
it is Israel whose right to exist is
most widely and wrongly questioned
discrimination and violence against
Jewish people in Canada and around the
world continues at an alarming rate so
he's conflating several things there
that are disturbing and actually
undermine the necessary urgent and of
course historically ongoing fight
against the poison of anti-semitism
which is that yes there is a resurgence
of anti-semitism also his anti-semitism
never went away
and there are far-right terrorist
actions like swat stickers like
murdering people in synagogues that are
a dangerous clear and present a threat
to Jewish people in the United States
and in Europe and of course elsewhere
any conflated BDS now BDS boycott
divestment sanctions against Israel is
in often cases on college campuses at
least has Jewish leadership inside it
there are a lot of younger Jewish
leaders that do not want to support an
apartheid state in their name in Israel
some of those people support BDS because
they don't believe in ethno States of
any kind and they want a full binational
democracy with equal citizenship for all
people in Israel Palestine Jewish
Palestinian Christian Arab Bedouin and
so on they believe in full multiracial
multicultural democracy which is in fact
the values of modern liberal society
that's why somebody like Tony jutt who
was a great social democratic and
liberal theorist and Jewish intellectual
came out in the New York Review of Books
in 2005 and supported a bi-national
democracy because he recognized that his
lifelong intellectual project to
undermine nationalism and promote
openness and democracy for all was
contradicted by living in an ethnos
state it's also why a former Israeli
senior top level politicians have also
supported by national policies as well
there's others who actually do support
Israel existing as a democracy a Jewish
democracy within 67 borders but
recognize that ruthless siege on Gaza
and an occupation on the West Bank make
Israel an objective apartheid state by
international standards so and in most
of these groups any actual talk of
anti-semitism or conspiracy theories
about Jews controlling the world or
essentializing of Jewish identity is
aggressively disputed and opposed so if
some people on college campuses feel
uncomfortable because Israel is being
criticized from a political perspective
well that is analogous to somebody from
Turkey saying I'm uncomfortable because
you're criticizing what you do to the
Kurds or what air Dewan is doing to the
Free Press or somebody from Pakistan
being uncomfortable because you might
criticize Islamic politics in Pakistan
it's ridiculous you need to grow up you
need to deal with reality and third by
conflating and then of course turning to
one critical support of Israel he's
conflating a political question a moral
question and one of dealing with actual
and serious and the urgent threats of
anti-semitism all in one thing at the
very same time that this current Israeli
government has made more reach out to
the global far-right and historically
anti-semitic forces than any previous
Israeli government ever it's disgusting
and delusional and Justin Trudeau should
be ashamed of himself
come on Canada yeah seriously you got to
upgrade that you're calling from a
904 area code who are you where you're
calling from Jamie yep hi this is Elle
I'm from Westchester New York the elds
um I'm calling the first time long time
I'm calling because I saw a an article
in The Telegraph yesterday about a Dutch
man I'm transgender I saw an article
about a Dutch man who wants to change
his birth record so that he is 20 years
younger than he actually is and he's
claiming that because transgender people
can change their sex or gender on their
birth records and because the doctor
says that he is 20 Helias the body of a
man 20 years younger than he is he can
he can do this and I don't I don't it's
it's sort of puzzling to me because I it
feels like a thing that you know biggest
will use against people like me like I
hear oh they will have they will and
yeah I was just curious about it like
that because it reminds me a lot of like
the Rachel Dolezal stuff with the trend
with trans racialism
and and like there's just another area
of that I wonder like what you guys
thought of that well I I think that
you're right that it will be used by
bigots and I think that in fact they
already were you I mean they used the
exam I mean they made up examples like
this when they didn't even exist I you
know and and look I in some ways like
even with Rachel Dolezal what's all of
these things require contextualization
and reality checks right so if you took
an adolf read actually wrote a piece
that I I think did shed some light on
this and he actually kind of made the
point that actually yes race and gender
are both a scripted things right and
they aren't essential so in a way he
actually
offended his sort of argument was not to
defend Rachel Dolezal per se though he
kind of did actually to be honest I
think partially just to provoke people
but to actually say that like Rachel
Dolezal doesn't undermine transgender
identity at all and in fact if you want
to go in one direction certainly with
regards to race and gender from a
intellectual perspective you can both
sort of those identities as we
culturally define them are obviously
very fluid and very shaky by definition
and then obviously there's a problem
with a white person assuming black
identity in the real world right and so
that's like where you're gonna have to
make the distinction so I guess like my
instinct when I get confronted with some
like logic Lorde nonsense like oh this
is the same thing is to just you know
and and maybe I fall short because I
don't have a logic Lorde response to it
I just have a common sense response
which is it's a ludicrous comparison and
even by even just by sort of the range
of ways that we talk about gender as an
example are far broader even in sort of
common usage then we talk about age I
mean I guess people talk about Crom in
variety cool versus chronic illogical
age but age mostly denotes something
really clear which is like literally
your age how many years you've been on
the planet right in this case made the
point that you know who is that who is
the child from the age of you from 1949
to 1969 you know what's going to happen
to him with you just erased right
what like you can't do that but you can
physically change your gender you can't
undo time well and also there's just the
way that an articulating this well but
it's like like even somebody like I was
talking with a guy who wrote a book a
logic professor named Ben Burgess
actually and he's writing a book on 4-0
books on how like the Left can reclaim
logic facts and reason actually which
I actually think is kind of worthwhile
and he's sort of like flame wars and
it's and he's a very smart guy and and
he was saying that that also like one of
the things that trips up these stupid
analogies is also just even in common
usage like again age has a very limited
definition whereas people talk about and
gender in a multitude of ways even just
in like everyday expression so like
somebody could be like oh this person's
like a mother to me right like that
denotes a gender identity and expression
and that sort of puts even like a
fluidity of relationship of like okay
well obviously we know there are mothers
and fathers who aren't the literal
biological parents of a child right like
these concepts are definitionally way
more complicated and way more meaningful
to someone's identity than simply a sort
of number so I I guess you know I wish I
wish I had something tighter as a
counter-argument right now but part of
it just honestly I think in my mind does
have to just be like you're comparing
you know apples and skyscrapers and
being an incidentally I don't
know if that works but do you know what
I'm saying like a stupid
comparison like get it you know but yeah
I had one more thing I wanted to ask you
because I you know I think you know a
lot of things like this with you know
the Trump Trump floating that
legislation you know against transgender
people I'm not hearing like a lot of
people from my perspective talking about
this do you have any like advice for
somebody who maybe wants to start a
podcast similar to this but from a queer
perspective how to get that started I
don't know man I don't know you know I
don't know because I mean just start you
know you I mean honestly the literal
mechanics of starting it are really
simple you know like you can I mean do
you have anything slightly more specific
L in terms the first question I would
ask
is do you want to do a podcast or do you
want to do a YouTube channel do you want
to do this all these other things
because a YouTube channels gonna grow a
lot faster you're gonna be beholden to
YouTube and now there's also more
investment in that podcast is nice
because you just need some mics and some
recording equipment but that's also some
investment too especially if you have
more than a few people know what I mean
honestly but the you could record a
podcast on your phone yeah the best
advice for a pirate is very simple you
can and and usually people give leeway
for the first like dozen or so episodes
for technical things but I would say
that you know the thing with podcasts is
you people like to see that you've done
it and will continue to do it for a
while like you can't expect anybody to
really probably really listen to it
until you've probably done like 50 of
them unless you have lucky enough to
have a platform where you can push more
people to them but even then you kind of
just have to do it and get into the flow
and see if it's something that you can
persist in and and then otherwise it's
sort of social media marketing and that
sort of stuff yeah yeah yeah so but go
do it that's that would be a valuable
podcast for us to have yeah one last
thing I'm in the I am this ESC ESC hatch
I just wanted to point out that tim has
been saying it's Jack it's a it's a play
on my name it's escape hatch so next
time I write in can you just make sure
that he says it right
yeah prom we can now promise to never
make sure it doesn't say elected
officials names correctly yes not gonna
say anything there are people who have
been I am in for longer than I've been
listening to this show who he never
bronzes her name right I don't know if
it's great but it's the truth
all right all right well I'll take it
the badge of honor and love it is a
badge of honor in love all right think
so so in Brasil júnior balsan ro is is
on the verge might he's getting
inaugurated is gonna be become president
soon and he's promising to raise the
wages of court people on the Supreme
Court and other judicial
members of the judicial bench in
brutemen Brazil the judicial branch in
Brazil has been aggressively working to
unwind and destroy Brazilian democracy
for quite some time now and there's a
couple of things that I just want to
touch on one with Democrats taking
control of Congress this is a prime and
essential time to thank people like
Bernie Sanders and Keith Allison I guess
actually Keith Ellison is now on his way
to being Attorney General Minnesota
which is another good result from last
Tuesday but Rho kana Bernie Sanders
Barbra Lee mark Pocan from Wisconsin's
been great on this too but also people
that haven't spoken up yet I can't
believe I mean Alexandra Cascio Cortez
should be talking about the threat to
brazilian communities of color to the
Amazon to the judicial coup to freeing
Lula da Silva as now the world's most
prominent political prisoner this is a
time to really align with and be serious
about solidarity with Brazil across the
board and we see with the wage increases
for the judiciary the fact that
judiciary not only imprisoned Lula on
the flimsiest of evidence but silenced
him during the whole presidential
campaign this is a country where drug
cartel heads and murderers have film
crews sent in to prison to interview him
interview them they did not let the
press speak to Lula once they ignored
international recommendations they
ignored calls from across the globe for
a restoration of democratic rights so he
could run for president learn election
he absolutely would have won and now
Sergio Moro who was the special
prosecutor a judge a guy who served as
both prosecutor and judge in Brazilian
law they did not reform a law going back
to the Inquisition where somebody could
play both of those roles at once and he
obsessively and savagely went after Lula
and used a broad corruption scandal
which exposed massive corruption across
the
in Brazil that's a structural problem
Brazilian politics used as a weapon to
delegitimize the Workers Party and
destroy and make Lula a political
prisoner he's now accepted a job as
justice minister of bolson ro and has
gladly looked the other way on extensive
illegal campaign violations under the
bolsa narrow campaign they used an
illegal slush fund to spread fake news
through whatsapp as an example this does
not concern Sergio Moro but a case that
he could not prove about a condo that he
claimed was given to Lula he sent his
little out of 12 years in prison for
what he conferred literally what they
call indeterminant X so this remains the
case in Brazil and we are going to need
to put a lot of work in in the United
States towards making sure that that
situation does not completely unravel so
as it's been said Brazil elected a
fascist president but they don't have a
fascist regime yet and pressure from the
north on Rights on democracy and of
course and trying to attack all of the
Wall Street and petrochemical companies
that have supported the coup in Brazil
the coup against Dilma the political
imprisonment of Lula and now a fascist
who is promising to politically socially
and ethnically cleanse the country is of
paramount importance I just recommend a
book by IRA Katznelson
called fear itself which is about the
New Deal and the origins of our time
which talks about I think maybe the last
time we had a a genuine global rise of
fascism yeah and how it was dealt with
yeah I think it's really good and it's
also I mean we were talking about this
before the show but reading history when
it's totally fubar like it is like it
was at this point in time there's
something oddly comforting about it
given our current times like it said
it's it's a weird form of escapism to
escape to some real point in history
that was maybe more acute than ours as
now I mean of course we have and the
motivation right we have climate change
and also in climate change is very
implicated by what's happening in Brazil
with his plans to
sell off Amazon to American and Canadian
and Chinese corporations the only hiccup
he's had so far is moving the embassy to
Jerusalem is pissing off people in the
Middle East and there's a huge meat
export market from Brazil to the Middle
East so he's actually been sort of
backpedaling on that a little bit oh
yeah I can't do Brazilian grills anymore
that's right damn it and you could do
all the Brazilian grills you wanted when
the Workers Party was yeah maybe that's
what made Brazilian grills so tasty as
Lula yeah man Lula Lula smiling down
someone I will I mean obviously people
know I'm a big Lula fan and someone sent
me a picture once a Brazilian friend of
mine and it was a paparazzi photo from
like 2009 when Lula was still president
and it was like Lula just with
somebody's going down to the beach
carrying like a bucket of beer on his
head this guy's pretty awesome
you're calling from a three-one-seven
area code who are you where you're
calling from yep well don't talk about
atom from Indy yeah
okay hey Adam what's going on Adam the
animator I did the Richard Wolffe oh
well actually Richard Wolfe wants to see
that and he's gonna be on t MBS on
November 27th and he we talked about it
in Boise so actually your animation of
Richard Wolfe David Harvey and Slava G
Jack Brown stompin David Griscom which
we played on T M yes is now known by
Richard Wolff
so Adam thank you that's that's Larry's
yes oh you're quite welcome there's a
lot of fun to make I wanted to share
some good news coming out of the Indian
Indian elections okay because it was you
know Donnelly was a absolute disgrace
and a terrible candidate and you did a
horrible job and weed up and it should
be noted the only reason he won the
first time and you mentioned it
previously was that
the his opponent said in their final
debate that sometimes rape is God's will
and right just right bottom now his
approval rating and Donnelly won because
of that right literally the only reason
right he was in there but there were
some really good results 36 year old JT
Ford is now the first gay lawmaker in
the Indiana Statehouse awesome um being
we flipped five State House seats and
over performed in seven of the nine
districts by three to eighteen points so
it shows that Republican enthusiasm is
not where it was when in 2016 so yeah
there's no doubt and no I appreciate
that and and state races and state
houses and local races are unbelievably
important and I actually think I'll
probably talk more about this on TMDs
but I do think because you know I don't
I don't want to over exaggerate it
especially in the context of kind of
like a you know day to day coverage of
federal elections but on the local and
state levels there were some very
positive signals with DSA candidates I
mean DSA candidate won a judgeship in
Houston
yeah Houston and Dallas judgeships are
what happened in Texas and you know Beto
didn't win but he won basic oh he won I
mean and by the way and I would say that
that race was close enough now where you
actually could probably pretty
confidently say that if they if the
National Party and some other forces
were potentially brought to bear there a
little bit earlier than you might
actually won that thing so I think yeah
there and so II and even in Indiana I
mean there's there's a lot of positive
signals and there's also some I mean you
now have several new people in the house
that are like good right like like yeah
and I totally agree I think Bosch cars
and cars right he said that there needs
to be a democratic so
Sheila's caucus which people like
Rashida to lib and Alexandra Cascio
Cortez you know hopefully will join and
others and I ate there yeah there's good
things that happen including in Indiana
so thanks for the news man oh yeah there
was one of the stat which was really
interesting to me this is a John kind of
the John from San Antonio staff but in
Tippecanoe County where Purdue
University is based the average voting
age the median voting age from 2016 to
2018 dropped from like 45 to 27 oh wow
that's great though there's a lot of
young people voting there and and if
that whole county went blue and like
hard blue so it's well that was very
interesting
excellent thanks so much for the call on
be in touch thank you everybody so guys
I don't know I you know Andrew Gilliam
is only down now 0.6 percent in a
recount
apparently I'm seeing on the I am and in
the packet as of this morning the Senate
race and the governor's race were both
headed to recounts as of Wednesday
morning and the Santis I guess was as of
this morning okay he was he was up Oh
point seven percent which is outside of
the margin of 0.5 which would entitle
Gilliam to a recount demand so four down
to 0.6 obviously that's closer to the
0.5 which then will legally entitled
Andrew Gilliam to a recount now I I
don't think um it doesn't really make
any difference frankly they already
conceded I wouldn't have done that and I
think it's great that Stacey Abrams is
going right in to the runoff and I think
we should be staying and Brian Kemp did
enough the Georgia race was stolen
period that amount of suppression
irregularities and double-dipping a
secretary of state that's a stolen
election and even as Samantha power
acknowledges if she saw that happened in
any other country or maybe she was being
honest any
the country United States wasn't
supporting she would be demanding action
on at the United Nations Georgia
election stolen go into that runoff
aggressively clearly and keep up the
fight on absolutely all fronts and in
Florida I think that might still be in
play I mean I don't want to give people
false hope and I think an other way I
always fight it
don't pull all the way for granted
from these people always fight it never
concede any ground
that's why Abrams is a perfect person to
be where she is right now fighting for
the well I guess they're already doing
the the runoff so it's not even like
they have to fight this in the courts
exactly but no but her attitude of like
oh so I'm seeing now it's is it 0.47% in
Florida now if that I am is true then
we're gutting too then we're getting to
automatic recount but I'm also seeing
that Kemp might have been gotten over
fifty percent which would mean I guess
there isn't a recount a runoff but
general support challenge of in court
see what they what people should do is
in 2006 in Mexico on low
who's the incoming Mexican progressive
president lost an election that most
observers and he certainly his campaign
thought was stolen and he waged a
month-long sit-in and protest rallies
and even alternative swearing-in in
downtown Mexico City and they should do
the same thing in Atlanta for a stolen
election Kemp is at fifty point three
and Gilliam is already at the machine
recount level and they're still counting
Georgia ballots okay yeah
in other news Erik's wawel from
California representative has declared
his candidacy for twenty Tony wait for
who is Eric saw well soir well he's like
Pelosi boat Pelosi's boy and he's
running for president yeah I love I love
the what is his what what what is he
even what district does he represent in
California
Nate from Casey and Missouri McCaskill
mailed out pictures of her walking the
middle road and pleading I'm not Bernie
for her closing argument lost wall anti
gerrymandering minimum wage increase in
medical marijuana one big right-to-work
was struck down by a vote in August the
2020 Democrat in New Jersey would be
stupid not to run on Medicaid expansion
and building a labor coalition the
roadmap and this Trump stays clear a
hundred percent agree with that and I
and I think there is in fact I mean
Missouri's got a lot of South in it
let's be real but I think like another
way so what we're talking about that's
right but I also think another way in
which this economics like these
arguments get another way they're dumbed
down is like what's getting locked in in
rural southern and and certain including
like the rural Missouri of this white
identity politics is very different
again then the black voters in Milwaukee
that didn't vote the handful but vitally
necessary group of people that were
scammed by Trump who are already tapping
out and undoubtedly it is both right on
the merits and the most politically
advantageous to talk about Medicaid
expansion and labor I mean that nobody
would argue against that it's just
acting as if that would have won Andrew
Gilliam the race and it wasn't racism
that made this anything other than a
blowout for Gilliam because frankly what
human being would look at those two and
not vote for Andrew Gilliam unless they
had very weird racial hangups a fairly
typical racial right typical bizarre
racial hang-ups secret identity politics
good riddance the Jefferson Beauregarde
sessions the third the worst Attorney
General of our time Trump was willing to
put up with him in spite of his refusal
from the Russian investigation precisely
because sessions has the pedigree the
history and the policy know how to put
brown people in cages we can add them to
the list of freaks brought down by the
midterm elections also Sam is right
about Ohio where I live the place is
full of lunatics who jump in between
fantasizing about shooting into a hooked
and thinking about what the best Dairy
Queen dessert is
I wish that was the final eye of the day
fantasizing between shooting into a
crowd and the best dairy-free dessert
all right we got to take two more calls
and then we are out of here so we got to
be real quick you're calling from a 3-1
for area code who are you where you're
calling from oh yeah I'm rich from
Missouri hey rich what's going on I just
wanna make a quick point you know in
Missouri we voted against right-to-work
we've yell be ranked our minimum wage we
literally just read this I am did you
just I am this yeah well yeah we just
read it no oh you know okay well but at
the same time we also put in a guy who's
like on the other side of all that stuff
and they'll send it yep no doubt and
this is not the first time and
apparently I think other states have the
same problem we have these liberal
issues and the same people who put
Republicans into office then turn around
and both for like liberal stuff like you
know expanding Medicaid or medical
marijuana and I think there's a
disconnect between you know not only
what the Republic the Democrats danfa
but what the things Republicans stand
for is like you know they don't I don't
know I think I think you know again I
think that there's as far as that goes
it's still the same conclusion which is
all Democrats in my view because it is
both the it's essentially because the
right policy the only place I could
imagine we're running some type of
Claire McCaskill campaign might work
would be like in an affluent suburb
somewhere so if you're running a
Missouri what you do is you say look I'm
not with it and you don't even believe
I'm with it frankly on the xenophobia
and the other we disagree and
there's all these other things that you
people well you wouldn't say you people
but you don't I mean like you guys yeah
listen you idiots I know
yeah is they were I think Republicans
respond to negging so what I would say
is hey listen you
mouth-breathing morons you want you know
what right the
how about you don't vote like a
idiot and send me to the Senate
no but you you make the case on all of
those issues and I think with some
people it will work I think on a ton of
them it won't because it's one thing to
wrote the right way in a ballot
initiative and then when you're voting
for candidates you're voting in this
more totalizing way and then you and
then it just goes back to simple
electoral coalition's which is like
turnout st. Louis have labor in your
corner and then cut the margins a little
bit in other places and then that's
maybe your path and I do think part of
that is of course being incredibly
strong on universal health care and
labor particularly in places that do
still have like Midwest labor activity I
yeah no doubt though Missouri Democrats
I know Claire McCaskill in Missouri
Democrats at least did actually try to
make that connection it's like hey you
voted against prop you know
right-to-work they should vote Democrat
and for some reason that didn't quite
click did you know people who voted
against bike-to-work voted for Josh
Harley right and that just doesn't make
any sense it's like you know it's like
these things are totally separate so
that's the point I wanted to make now I
hear you I don't I don't think it's just
Missouri I think it's all over I heard
three three red states expanded Medicare
definitely thanks to the call man no no
I think he's totally right and as I said
I I mean yeah it's hard to work around
that all right final call today you're
coming from a four seven eight area code
who are you where you're calling from
Michael is Jeff hello Jeff from Georgia
what's up
test out a little bit was gonna make
things plain about this Georgia
governor's race obviously there's still
up an error here but just to give you a
few facts for you yachties spreads about
60 K votes not that many nope can't
resign Kim's already resigned today as
Secretary of State as brown noon before
he did it he loudly proclaimed to all
who would hearken to him that he won a
clean and convincing victory he
literally says those words I think if
you're declaring victory and you have
remind people how clean and convincing
it was it certainly weren't that he
stole he goes he claims there aren't
enough I'm sorry
it's voter suppression he stole it it's
not legitimate him
absolutely uh last thing is he claims
there's not enough provisional ballots
or absentee ballots to force a runoff or
flip the race he will not say how many
ballots there are left to count which
tells you all you need to know about how
credible that claim is Kemp deregistered
hundreds of thousands of voter
registrations mr. Godsey objected tens
of thousands more he rejected thousands
of absentee ballots the Okhrana lack
voting machines which support for
election estate but I mean to make plain
is he definitely covered his margin of
victory many times over with these
antics so uh if you believe that
legitimate Authority is draft for
popular will and nowhere else
we don't have a George many ways we may
never really have but I think this this
is a new level of brazenness that people
need to be aware of absolutely we'll
keep on it appreciate the call thanks
man
all right sorry no more calls today
we're gonna play this is this a Victor
thing for us to play Rick Berger has as
worked his magic on the Acosta thing
okay that's not an evasion honestly I
think you should let me run the country
you run CNN and if you did it well your
ratings that's enough this president I
may ask on on the Russia investigation
are you concerned that that you may have
not considered about anything with you
mayn't investigation because it's a hoax
put down the mic mr. president are you
worried about indictments coming down in
this ability mr. president
I tell what CNN should be ashamed of
itself having you working for them you
are a rude
terrible person you shouldn't be working
for CNN go ahead
oh that's great I saw an iamb guys I
think I didn't have time to get into it
it looks to me that this Daily Beast
headline is totally dishonest and
misleading about Bernie but he also I
mean used clumsily saying it's not
necessarily racist if you you saw that
part right I didn't see that part yeah
he said people aren't necessarily racist
if they didn't vote for Gilliam because
of like let me also just say this
whether it's Bernie Sanders or Barack
Obama or Joe Biden politicians are not
going to say what I will say so I'm not
condoning you know I need to read the
interview I saw that these interview the
headline made it sound very different
than what he said in substance which is
he absolutely did acknowledge racism and
voting patterns and he also but bottom
line is though no potential national
candidate is going to speak that bluntly
period so I so you know and it does not
mean that it's an excuse to not be
totally unequivocal about racism and
about the merits of policies and all of
it I think to expect and go with the
strategy of a still potential major
swing state to just say like oh yeah
they were all just racist bums you're
just not gonna hear that from anybody I
nobody's gonna say that right or wrong
nobody's gonna say that and instantly I
would say right if you didn't vote for
Andrew Gilliam you are almost certainly
a racist bum I'm not running for
president yet and hopefully by the time
we all run for office that will be par
for the course I can't wait I'm gonna
throwing bombs I'm not literally in
Fargo Congress or hey Frank
a Michael and fair in fairness to Acosta
when you're white correspondent they let
you do whatever you
okay crystal Paco I'm all it's time for
members of the press chorus and stand in
solidarity with Jim Acosta and start
punching interns at the white
alright the file I am of the day no
board for me huh Vespa the informant
with Matt Damon's fantastic one of my
favorites and you're right his name is
Mark Whitacre yeah it's a great movie
we're back live everybody tomorrow
thanks in that take to get sue
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
rub
break love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
