[Music]
you
[Music]
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any of Asia they are we must guard
against the acquisition of unwarranted
influence whether sought or unsought by
the military
you
this is special coverage special
coverage
midterm elections 2018 live polls
already closed in Indiana and well
Indiana and soon to be other places
Kentucky weird now where did I put my
goddamn lists all right folks evening
folks we're ready we're ready we have an
enormous amount of alcohol in the studio
we are prepared for things to go South
Wars north and in-studio we already have
our first guest know me consul welcome
to the program thank you Sam this is
exciting now Michael is here and and
Brendan is here and Matt and Jamie is
available in chapo Trap House apparently
and we're gonna have others coming on to
the program within within hours or
moments and I should say let's just
start with this notion of it going north
or south obviously I'm being
metaphorical but I just saw something
that I thought was pretty stunning and
no me I want to get your take on this I
think Michael you heard it too Chuck
Todd hmm was on MSNBC saying that
[Applause]
because of the performance of Gilliam
and of stacey abrams presumably he's
just going over over polls right but
they have polls internally they know
stuff now that they're not telling us
they may be right there may be wrong we
don't know but but there's two things
there about that one he started saying
that maybe the lesson between these
folks and Beto is Wow
in Kentucky sixth is now Amy McGrath is
20 points with 60 percent in 2008 I'm
sorry that may have just been accounted
yeah okay that was just a County
because if that ended up being the
actual touch-up the guns that would be
that would be crazy
so just grieve counties all my sorry
guys exactly but Chuck Todd said maybe
this is a lesson for Democrats maybe
he'd even say maybe he said this could
be a lesson for Democrats if going
forward in the south and the two things
struck me one is maybe you know they
don't go out on a limb saying that if
they think they have data that says
Gilliam is gonna lose Abrams is gonna
lose bait or orcs gonna lose they may
have data in there that suggests that
they think they're gonna win but so that
is interesting to me but what's also
interesting to me is that Chuck Todd is
saying Democrats in the South your path
may be to the left and whoa yes my god
it's like they're finally figuring out
that people want some damn health care
well yeah but it's it's stunning to me
that Chuck Todd of all people are coming
to this concluding with people like you
know I know Otunga and Ben Dixon for
years have said the future of the
southern Democratic Party with if you
fuse together the white people in the
south that will still vote Democratic
with the fact that is a broad
multiracial coalition the southern
Democratic party goes from being the
conservative dregs of the party to
actually potentially more left than the
rest of the country all right so we have
our first Jennifer Waxman just now
that's not a huge surprise that there
was a lot of like sense that Comstock
was in trouble but the Leonard 56% in
you know it's hard to say whether or not
that is as devastating yes it appears
right now but if those numbers hold
that's crazy
73% in in Florida oh that's Palm Beach
County he's doing her neck is gonna get
you
to change the color it's the black
that's what's confusing is it really but
that's not terribly surprising in those
counties
that's where gillum's got it really
running up but he is right now outpacing
well Clinton but not so much in
miami-dade so it's it's too early to
tell it's too early to tell at this
point that's about this though is it and
I don't know when polls closed in
Florida but you know polls are closing
in New York and I think I think they
should just sit on their seat be like we
don't know stay online be tuned yeah I
mean I think there's some truth to that
I don't think that there is any at least
in this election I don't get the sense
that there are people in New York City
or anywhere for that matter going like
then I'm watching MSNBC right now
but I think I'm gonna hold back like
this is my theory is it if anybody turns
on MSNBC they're already voting they
voted or they're already voting if they
know the names of Steve Kornacki they're
voting we're gonna spend my night with
Steve Carnegie and not actually if you
have to do a trade off that's when
getting in your vote or missing a Chris
Matthews keep it real so the good news
is Tim Kaine has won Bernie Sanders is
one I'm shocked not terribly surprising
what's the third some like I feel like
you would know just a little bit wasn't
there some like dot like really really
intense
Hillary stands that we're talking about
going to Vermont to challenge Marino
yes a sexual scandal or something he had
to meet you scandal okay I don't know
about that I thought there was actually
a Hillary staffer that wanted to do he
was ready for Hillary already and no no
he was women for Hillary men
Hillary men one of the yeah weirdo for
clearing up I'm al Giordano B yeah max
Batson
you know I had wondered why I did not
hear so much from him like there's just
voices that just seem to have
disappeared from my life in some way and
I forgot about them the bank accounts
not dragged so all right so know me
first off speaking of running I don't
know if you're aware of this you are
Michael you all right what's going on
Michael already it's not the county's
looking good so uh know me you are a
candidate I'm not sure if you're aware
of this but you are a candidate for
public advocate in New York City what is
the public advocate so the public this
is perfect timing because for the rest
of the night people are gonna be paying
attention to the polls I might as well
get it in while I'm while I'm here so
the public advocate of New York is a
position that is it came out of a real
estate scandal it there have only been
four public advocate's and it's
essentially a position that's the
watchdog of New York City it oversees
the City Council oversees is a check on
on the mayor's office and other agencies
it's there to push the narrative and the
platform for the people of New York I
don't know if it's necessarily been used
to its fullest capacity in the past but
I think every single public advocate
we've had and there's lemon for have
used it in their own way
I am hoping in this day and age with
real estate really creating the income
inequality in the city that's worse than
anywhere else in the country the worst
point in history that I will be a
watchdog for the people the only person
in the race as of now I'm and possibly
into the future who doesn't take real
estate money has never taken real estate
money and is unafraid and untethered to
any political machine so I mean my
understanding is that that is one of
those positions where you can make of it
what it is a function of the person you
know more so maybe than any other
position certainly in municipal
government I mean there was an argument
that Zephyr Teachout was going to do
something with the AG's office the state
AG's office that maybe pushed the
boundaries of where it's been or hasn't
been in about 30 or 40 years but this is
a new position and it's it's going to
involve taking on a lot of powerful
people I've seen you get into fights
with with different people regardless of
party and
I get the sense that you're well-suited
for something like that and and if I can
shoot my own horn I have a pretty good
record on this I took on the DNC they
put me on that Reform Commission and
then we reformed it is it perfect no but
it is way more transparent than it ever
was that was my little pet case we got
rid of super-delegates on the first
ballot when I was in the platform
committee we fought for the most
progressive platform in the Democratic
Party and we got it we really have been
pushing and we should say that platform
has been adopted I mean I don't want to
say well I think we could say wildly I
mean today we spoke to Sean McElwee and
he said 50% of congressional candidates
depending on how you define it but 50%
are pushing medicare-for-all across the
entire house candidate candidates and
that's pretty that's pretty amazing yeah
it's I think the polls show that it
crosses party lines I mean that the
Bernie Sanders platform is the platform
that is going to bring back those voters
who either stayed home in 2016 or god
forbid voted for Trump so instead of
playing blame games and pitting people
against each other we should be talking
about what kind of platform is gonna
make most lives better for Americans at
this point when income inequality is
soaring and I think as the New York City
Public Advocate not only do we have to
push the platform we haven't we have a
fairly progressive city government but
there are some issues that even our most
progressive members are just afraid of
taking on and real estate is the number
one I mean big real estate they went
after Julia Salazar heart know you know
she could have handled it better of
course but when you start to talk about
real estate you put a target on your
back I've had a target on my back for
the last several years I'm sure they're
gonna go after me but we have to be
honest with ourselves there's too much
at stake here it is absolutely
affordable to live in New York City
people aren't making high enough wages
that the subways don't work the Board of
Elections doesn't work as we saw today
we that you know the infrastructure of
the state and city are crumbling and
meanwhile you have Wall Street that
keeps getting you know bailed out and
and and taking pay raises and the real
estate industry was true driving
everybody out Oh can I ask you a
question yeah I agree with you 100% that
real estate and housing
definitely the number one and I like the
way you laid it out because it
interconnects with all the other major
transportation reform but on it on a
note that I think is relevant for New
York it won't be Center in the campaign
but it's relevant you've done great
coverage on Puerto Rico and obviously
New York has an important relationship
with Puerto Rico and we still see Puerto
Rico's still kind of ground zero of
colonialism and austerity what can you
do yeah in terms of the Puerto Rico
relationship wow it's like you're in our
office taking notes we are getting ready
to unveil our Puerto Rico platform I'm
leading with that because I did spend a
good chunk of the last year in Puerto
Rico and I do think as New Yorkers we're
a good chunk of our population is from
poor resource borough six borough
exactly but even further than that Wall
Street the bondholders the people who
are making money off of the colonisation
of Puerto Rico in the disaster
capitalism that is here we sometimes
it's as New Yorkers and politicians go
around and every borough and talk to
different folks we forget that we have a
responsibility of duty to the rest of
this country to really check Wall Street
which is here it's it's like it doesn't
exist it's like it's only a little
island and it is in a sense how many
politicians here go to Puerto Rico
parades and then decimate Puerto Rico in
terms of miles well let me ask you this
I mean like from a practical standpoint
like what do you do like when we talk
about real estate and I think anybody
who knows New York particularly New York
City politics knows that the biggest
corrupting force is real estate money I
mean and and everybody regardless of
politicians that I have liked or
disliked they all they're all they all
kowtow in some way to the real estate
money don't even get me started mark
Greene but but with all that said what
what and when you talk about Porto Rico
where you talk about Wall Street like
from a practical standpoint what what
can you do what can you do so this is
the conundrum of the office of the
Public Advocate every year the budget is
set every year the budget is different
it's set by the city council speaker and
the mayor they you know they work
together on that aside from that that
the powers are semi limited of the
public advocate is there to call out to
a voice 2 - you know you use its
platform in the best way possible - to
push back there are litigation
you know they can't litigate within the
office but they can hire litigators but
I think from my perspective as a former
investigative reporter as a former
watchdog a reformer I want to use the
office to investigate in ways that
others have not done but with you know a
staff a very large staff I mean I was an
investigative reporter of one I didn't
have researchers and I did stuff that
you know the office never did so for
instance with Wall Street you know I'll
take it there's an idea what he had
where we thought we could collect all
this public data all this data when the
LLC loophole is a perfect example you
know real estate firms are using this
LLC loophole in the state to give an
extraordinary amount of political
contributions to candidates and they'll
houses LLC's will be hundreds of LLC's
housed in one building or one you know
apartment in like Queens or Brooklyn and
it's very hard to figure out who owns
these LLC's who the people are now if
you track all the data together and you
collect it you create a site that makes
it easier for reporters they don't have
to FOIA they don't have to go down to
City Hall and go through records if you
collect that data and it's it we've
looked into it a bit and it's it's not
as difficult as you think and you create
the patterns news show oh well this
lawmaker this City Councilman is
accepting money from this LLC which is
housed in this place this is this person
and this person has this agenda it
starts to tell the tale of what these
connections are and who these people are
what their agendas are that's a simple
tool that are that would be great for
reporters in New York investigate
reporting is very expensive it could be
good for a lot of media companies but
it's also a great tool for citizens
that's just one simple thing so it's
it's almost a it's a hybrid between an
Ombuds been in an Inspector General in a
way and
and in some respects your your you're
both able to do investigations and set
up
I guess data sets and data points to
essentially subsidize the investigations
by other entities
maybe it's if it's trial lawyers maybe
it's uh reporters maybe it's other
public interest groups they're gonna go
after you hard the common cause is
really alarmed by your proposal we're
gonna tune it back into this stuff
because Gwinnett County is sort of the
key County for Georgia and Carnegie is
talking about was talking about it for a
moment but but let me before we go back
to that because they they're still
counting votes what's going on with a
t-shirt so I walk in and you know I've
been wearing this t-shirt all day so I
kind of forgot like is your real name
Gabby that would make it so much easier
next time you're on my show hey Kathy
Kathy Smith thank you for being here
twitter is blowing up right now my mom's
like so my mother I was a lawmaker in
Erie County New York and near Buffalo
for for a few years and and she ran the
first time I think in 1998 and I was 14
years old and I was going through my
t-shirts tune I was like oh my gosh what
kind of shirt can I wear today I was
like standing rock was two years ago but
it's not really the moment I mean look
and then I found this old shirt at the
bottom of my drawer which you know it's
changing color a little bit it's it's
aged 20 years old this year
well my mom's first election and then
she lost and then the next one she lost
cuz 9/11 was the primary and then the
third one she won by like 77% in a
three-to-one Republican area why because
she had one of those platforms that
crossed party lines it's a lot of
lessons there and she knocked on every
door and it's you so you grew up in
Buffalo I did Oh was it Tony yes who
went there was a blood toe was it was
blood blood so I don't know sports but I
remember I remember that me
like newscast because you can't escape
it are you learning sports stuff or you
can't be sure all right yeah so we know
that Boston Red Sox are not a team I
should yeah well not on this to do is a
Boston Red Sox that's like dude get away
with it just take it easy
like blows eosin a lot of he regards it
super brave is one of the best one of
the best features mister man yeah I'll
say
so alright we're at now 22 for the house
to turn to the Democrats and you know
there is there's really not a lot
necessarily right now that we can that
we can glean the most fun part of this
time of the night is looking in your at
the ticker and seeing some of the faces
and sort of the people that actually
like Congress yeah does that help chords
right where is he in his own zone I mean
it doesn't it definitely yeah it
definitely helps I mean how much it's
it's hard to know but you know what you
go back a year ago people were worried
about sherrod Brown yeah yeah and people
were worried about he voted for some of
his cabinet stuff right didn't wasn't
there something like that where it
Elizabeth Ben Carson didn't share bro
there's no way you can defend that I was
the Public Advocate once where's our
research team you're fired
the big issue right now is Brian
Donnelly there is 31% in he is losing
significantly is it it's unclear to me
you know at this point what the you know
what's in in Indiana but if Donnelly
loses be concerned because Donnelly was
one of those guys who is right on the
it's obviously it's a red state but and
and and as red states go that's not
necessarily the case when you're talking
about specific congressional seats in
there and and outside of like
Pennsylvania New York and California you
don't need many in terms of what's gonna
anticipate it to to flip in blue states
you don't need many you already picked
up one in Virginia and so it's it's hard
to imagine the Democrats not picking up
the house at this point when you see
that number coming out of Virginia and
and comstock losing by I don't know
fifteen percent that's pretty stunning
but on the Senate on the Senate side you
know if if a guy like Donnelly is losing
then you may say goodbye to McCaskill i
we heard good things about McCaskill
today of all people on majority report
with since terms of her ground game but
I have a question for both you guys
about Donnelly if I can ask I agree
completely that it's that it's just a
numbers game and elect a Democrat in a
place like Indiana no matter how or West
Virginia for that matter in an hour no
matter how terrible they are but you
know even Joe Manchin as far as I
understand didn't flirt with getting rid
of birthright citizenship and when
Donnelly did that my concern is not my
purity of being able to support him or
not but I do feel like when a Democrat
says that that does he overturn when the
overturn window I know he walked it back
but I'm saying that that it would also
suggest that he has internal polling
that thinks that he's in deep trouble
absolutely no doubt about that but I'm
just talking about the generals because
I I don't I don't even think it's like
debatable this idea of like elect
Democrats even if they're bad Democrats
but that was the one thing that I saw
that it was like wait a second I think
in the national press it means something
different if a Democrat even if they're
a right-wing Democrat from Indiana puts
birthright citizenship into play and
that disturbs me this was the big
problem frankly with with Joe Lieberman
Joe Lieberman right and it was even
worse because he was a blue state
Democrat he would go on Fox News and he
would carry the Republicans message and
everything suddenly became bipartisan
because Joe Lieberman was you know
willing to sign on
with John McCain and now Joe Lieberman I
think is like literally you know
offering he's a little bit mad about Ned
Lamont because Ned Lamont was the guy
who knocked him out of the box but he
was I think offering to help in the
transition or he is Alan whatever that
category is Jewish just a horrible
horrible person
Joe Lieberman is almost in some respects
worse I mean because you know cause a
lenders would some say he's a gadfly
well he's just a guy right exactly I
mean he's a gadfly he's doing his job as
a lawyer I understand that but but Joe
Lieberman I mean I I'm biased because I
the depth of my dislike of Joe Lieberman
is is I think greater than anything else
I could ever assess Marty from
Connecticut mark Greene no mark Greene's
up there too but but but so Reid
conversation from you know Joe anyways
he was also I don't know he was
considering endorse I went to college in
here and I remember seeing ads and Joe
Lieberman standing in front of the
highways talking about how the tolls are
gone and he was Attorney General he had
nothing to do with the tolls being gone
but he was that type of guy and so ya
know that's how you became hate that was
where it started that way I was that's
an interesting thing to be I was joking
you more than anything
I was Joe Lieberman skeptical at that
point okay and then back during the war
it was basically the world I mean he's
real trend and he also like as I read a
piece when he retired I'm sorry oh yes
she wouldn't she Leila know people
thought that shillelagh was going to get
destroyed well it's her charisma
yeah well but no but she early on early
on in the race she looked really bad now
I bet you Donna shillelagh is benefiting
significantly from guilt I mean I think
that she was somebody who people were
very worried
about three to six months ago people are
very concerned that shillelagh was just
not campaigning well I have a slightly
funny story I was in a flight last year
before she knows she was running and um
I I the woman next to me looked exactly
like Donna shillelagh and she was
talking about politics which she had
like things like on her screen that were
like DNC bla bla and I was talking to
her and the whole entire time we talked
to each other as if she were Donna
shillelagh and then at the end of the
conversation she did work for the DNC
and that's why she acted like she knew
me and she was not Donna shillelagh and
then I said well so nice seeing you
Donna and then she's like who and then
she said she's always people always
think that she's done a shillelagh so it
was like a two-hour flight where I was
talking to Donna Coen Brothers movie and
it was actually just like a complete
imposter know it like someone had
nothing to do with the PNC or anything
it's very strange
I've never been in a situation like that
before Fidel cashflow on the ions of
Indiana not over yet Fort Wayne Gary
Evansville and Indianapolis still not
fully in Joe from Raleigh on the Iams
great news in North Carolina Democrats
winning all North Carolina Supreme Court
and Court of Appeal seats that's big
Linda Coleman not speeding at the courts
in North Carolina that white Republican
Congressman George holding in the
Raleigh era looks promising in the North
Carolina General Assembly we shall see
it's early yet that's a hard one that's
e1u you me beartrap voted in Vernon
Connecticut today waited for half an
hour and never before if I waited in
line to vote even in 2016 hopefully a
good sign you know we get a lot of these
and I've heard a lot of reports like
this but I feel like I hear a lot of
reports like this every year yes that is
true but I did literally wait in line in
Brooklyn and where I am I have
absolutely never seen yes so I will say
yes the turnouts higher but a lot of
these machines I don't know if you guys
have read the purging wasn't as much of
an issue as it was during the
Mary but the machines the scanners that
took your ballot we're catching the
ballot because they were wet that's the
excuse of Board of Elections has now you
know what's all that if we had a
Democratic Senate and could pass early
voting and voting reform and then the
Board of Elections could be funded and
not overwhelmed mail-in ballots let's go
to the phone shall we you're calling
from a two to five
area code who's this where you call them
from two to five area code who's this oh
hey man uh Steven from Baton Rouge
Louisiana what's going on Steven oh not
much man am I live you are like a drow
cool I don't know if y'all did screen
callers or not no man there's like a
little bit of lag with YouTube
livestream right take your time so how's
life no you want you want to you want to
call back later after you thought about
you're gonna say just as opposed to no I
not if we're screening or well don't
listen to Sam just take your time dude
don't talk hey just out of curiosity why
was there a delay for you I'm you tube
all right what's up what's going on
right now I just started listening to
y'all show about three days ago and you
know I pretty pretty much liked it y'all
are kind of progressive right yeah I
know yeah Sam's kind of Jewish yeah yeah
yeah I mean I would assume how y'all
like destroy you know most libertarians
I've seen conversation is kind of funny
yeah but it's low-hanging fruit yeah
yeah
but unfortunately for me I've just
started realizing how important politics
really is to your everyday life yep and
as I've gotten into it you know starting
with you know certain you know people I
serve with religion grew up very
fundamentalist
out of it became a deist went to you
know atheism not too long ago and then
you know politics seems to follow for
most people and I've kind of realized
you know I can't justify you know my
dad's Republican everyone I know as a
Republican in that seems to kind of go
hand in hand with uh but I like I was
thing I just you know found y'all show
and I was trying to figure out like
obviously other progressive I can agree
with that
what are y'all seem to talk pretty well
about Social Democrats or Democratic
reddick socialist you know whatever you
want to throw the labor on it all just
wondering if that's something y'all do
you take as a positive or is that oh
yeah yeah we did I didn't really I
wasn't clear on where y'all stood on
yeah yeah on this program well I mean
you know that's medicare for all is yeah
and I think the the opinions we have a
wide range of opinions on this program
ranging from from increasing you know
government ownership of various elements
of the means of production through
basically we go from the guillotine to
Sweden that's basically the rain you
know FDR FDR dem we the people should
right should want to come together and
agree on something like that some of us
doing but you know we elect obviously
right well I mean I think I think you
know Jamie who's not here I wouldn't
want to speak for her but I think she is
she is not the status that I am I'm a
little bit more of a status and Michael
maybe somewhere in between there and I
think we want a little bit more well you
know on the spectrum of wanting
Democratic control of the means of
production to you know across the
spectrum of that but yes we are
we are you know it's an internal left to
be yes but listen here's what I would
suggest I want to get behind but is
there any kind of resources y'all can
like I've heard I'll tell you what the
resource
look you know Pisa slices from people
saying like oh it let me tell you are
there any resources you can point me to
like actual like say economists like
doing just keep watching the show and
you will hear from all those people
there's a show called
the Michael Brooks show alright but we
gotta go but I appreciate the call but
honestly just keep watching shot Oh
maybe read a David Harvey book I guess
yeah but you know you're right keep
watching majority you'll get introduced
all the watch Stephanie calcio back
watch David Harvey you listen to all of
us are yeah all this stuff Richard
Wolffe we've had on we've had mark
Blythe I mean go back google economist
majority report and you will in do you
have every what type of there besides
neoclassical we have do we all of the
left positions in economics are super
well represented on this show the
majority report right I mean there it is
we've already done it there we go we've
already covered all that just please
shame gold marker from the New York
Times the 1990s Clinton wars will never
end Comstock losses gelila wins Wow well
I don't know oh yeah I know but that's
somebody trying to like desperately I
think it's relive yeah I guess it was
constable convinced shillelagh it's not
like shillelagh it was like oh my god
Donna shillelagh is needs to represent
this district Abrams is uh seventeen
percent of them seventeen percent close
Wow
Florida supersu oh my god if you are in
Florida and you have not voted go and
grab everybody right now if you're a
Republican me let's hear what
what they redrew the district lines in
the middle of the year Pennsylvania and
what that did was it created first of
all positive you know we don't even hear
and we know this story already in fact
mike from PA was covering it on day one
we saw the redistricting that happened
he anticipated when that happened and I
guess this was about six seven months
ago
that Pennsylvania's they would pick up a
three to six he thought the outside was
six to seven even I think House seats in
Pennsylvania we will see I think we're
still a while I'm on Florida I wish they
had a little incumbent line because I
don't know ever seen 42% in in Indiana
Donnelly down still by 15 points 18
points actually so that's that does not
bode well and we shall see if Donnelly
loses what needs to happen is the
Democrats need to win everywhere else
assuming they're gonna lose in North
Dakota they need to win hold every other
seat McCaskill mansion and then they
need to win in Arizona they need to win
in Nevada they need to win in Texas and
they need to win in Tennessee so enough
to imagine that's another hard well I
don't think that the the most likely
scenario I still think it depends on
Donnelly is a 50-50 tie in the Senate
and people have not talked about that
very much I think like I said because it
would effectively be no different than
it is now but I think from a political
standpoint it would be nice to bring
Mike Pence into this a little bit more
and make him start to take a little bit
of ownership we're gonna have somebody
on is it Monday Brendon that's the 19th
so in a couple of weeks who has written
the the book essentially on Mike Pence
and I knew a little bit about pegs
already well know this guy did a
a biography on him and I knew a little
bit about Mike Pence just because back
in the day when he was in the house I
think was Air America time and I had
done one or two interviews about stuff
that he had done in the state with some
lawyers this guy said he is in the
history of the United States the most
powerful theocrats ever been in the
United States that he has his the level
of the aquifer theocracy that he holds
ideologically and his power as vice
president of the United States he that
cross-section has never been rivaled but
he's Catholic not that that's an excuse
but I find it fascinating how Disney
Catholic I do not think he's Catholic I
think he was born converts are always
the hardest to Cordray I mean it's it's
again super early only thirty percent in
but you know to win Ohio to win
Wisconsin to win Pennsylvania to win
Michigan the governor seats there are
hugely important hugely important both
for the quality of life for people who
live there and in terms of the future of
the Democratic Party and Democrats
getting power over the next you know two
or three cycles and in one thing just to
keep in mind it's not just that we need
those seats and and people need to have
rights in their own state if you have a
Democratic governor of Ohio that means
suddenly there are resources in the
Democratic Party in Ohio
and that flows down to other ballots
other other races down ballot and also
you know for presidential elections it
makes that infrastructure stronger one
of the reasons why I used to live in
Arizona one of the reasons why even
though I think Arizona is a blue state
has been for over a decade one of the
reasons why I think it doesn't stay that
way is that Democrats go in pull out go
in pull out make Janet Napolitano I mean
the fact that she was appointed governor
that was a stupid stupid
decision by by President Obama because
Arizona could have stayed Democratic and
really had an infrastructure there you
know just talk about that a little bit
because I don't think people appreciate
that I don't know that I appreciated
that until fairly late in doing this
that it is I mean it in some respects
it's so it's so basic that people
overlook this but when you are in a
position of power that comes with money
it comes with a budget and all of a
sudden then you you're hiring you know
other progressives and everybody it all
sort of starts to flow a little bit I
mean it's not it's not just a question
of patronage it's a question of building
and supporting a structure I mean I my
understanding is that Elizabeth Warren
was interested in being Clinton's vice
president because she wanted the
resources that would have come with that
office to build essentially an apparatus
that would deal with questions
particularly I think she was interested
in antitrust and whatnot accra and
across the government and you know for I
think a lot of people just think like
does she want to be associated with her
and ideological and this and that and
really it's no it's just I want that pot
of resources to build out and pursued
the agenda that I'm looking to pursue
and I think that's why at the end of the
day it's more important that you have oh
I can't even believe I'm saying this I'm
such a critic of Joe Manchin Joe Manchin
barely votes Democratic it's not like he
votes with Republicans you know on those
crucial votes that's horrifying but when
you have a majority you have more
resources right so in chuck schumer's
mind rather I know my opinion would be
fine somebody better than Joe Manchin
who is more of a populist because he's
not a populist he's a capitalist he's an
extreme Capulet the capitalist who
pretends to be a corporatist
Florence exactly but to find somebody
who is better across the board that
would be my perspective but I understand
the concept of keeping him in office now
in the general election because if we
have the majority we have the resources
we can start a vesting across the
country right well I mean how what else
could Chuck Schumer
squander if he didn't have these
resources well no I know I'm fast his
imaginary friends dude I'm gonna put you
know about Chuck Schumer's imaginary
friends no I just figured that was
something that the bellows is a literal
thing so he said several years ago in a
profile that he runs all of his main
policy decisions by a family from
Massapequa called the Bailey's and the
thing about them is that they're
Massapequa I was don't hate on massive
people did you know the Bailey's you
mean no she wouldn't because they're
figments of his imagination
literally and he actually publicly is
like like I love how even his
imagination is boring he literally is
like exactly I talked to oh yeah suffolk
nassau what should we do about our
common ancestor Bailey's you want to
know what more I could squander you
never know alright now that was in that
was in Florida as well and you got a
very complicated picture there but it's
low it's it's smaller population
job tonight how would you feel about the
chances I'd be very nervous to be honest
because there's a lot that's still out
there obviously but when you look at the
trend lines particularly in a state like
Virginia Northern Virginia that Loudoun
County area has become so much of a
bellwether for the state and and almost
for the region as as the demographic
patterns have shifted and changed in the
parties at the state in the national
level have to be cognizant of how people
are not just moving around but how
that's impacting the vote patterns and
where people are going to turn out and
how that vote settles down and I think
we're going to see this play out across
the country tonight all right we don't
need to hear let's take a phone call
here compromise deal five six one area
code come from a five six one area code
who's this five six one five six
one on once going twice
let's go to comm from an 8-3 to area
code who's this where you come from well
this is Raquel Raquel we're Yukon Texas
what's going on in Texas right now
what's happening in Houston so we had
several polling places with too few
either to pee machines or they didn't
open on time so they're some advocates
through the city
they're staying open till 8 its 7:17 oh
wow today by my house in my precinct and
he said Mary so I'm hoping but they'll
can pull it off all right well I guess
we'll see we haven't seen any numbers
out of Texas yet but appreciate the call
thank you Raquel come from an 8:02 area
code who's this we call from turn your
computer down eight zero two zero two
yeah we'll come back to you come from
four seven eight area code who's this
where he come from
Sam else's door good evening to you Jeff
what's happening in Georgia doesn't look
great at the moment do you have a sense
of what's extant uh it does not look
great although I would not say it's
totally hopeless a lot of dim stronghold
counties that I know a particularly have
not reported yet so the spread is why
but there's there's only a handful of
percent 40 yet in Georgia so so I ain't
do work that I still got a lot of hope
Staters who certainly make a damn fine
governor and if she doesn't win uh I'll
have plenty to say about why I think
that happened but I want well on that
too hard but now it won't get people
down if there's any book here by the
side of my voice is in line please stay
in line what's your law I'm torturing
you must be allowed to vote that is the
policy as long as you're in line before
7:00 I did want to talk a little bit
about about my ballot if you'll allow me
Sam yeah
you know this is something I noticed
this is on my notice in 2016 as well you
know years like this where you know
Democratic turnout even if it's not
enough to quite tip ship over is where
you know it's going to be look much
larger than anyone expected today I
don't know two to four to six years ago
right and that's really at the time that
you would want to begin recruiting
candidates for office and and on several
lines on my ballot there's not even
today for me to vote for I'm not talking
about campaign infrastructure or
investing in media advisor and if you
like that I'm so just talking about
inane some of that that you know in
times where there is a wave election and
it takes people by surprise you know a
few of those races would get picked up
on I do think if there was just a name
there right like not too many but you
know what like every little bit counts I
think
you know we're gonna need to play every
possible angle we possibly can
Hillary won mystic Saturdays to get
power back Hillary won districts in
Texas that didn't have a Democrat on the
ballot in 2016
that didn't have anybody else but it but
it helps to have right it helps to have
other people on the ballot but I know
what you're saying we're gonna need you
know all stops but let's you know I
guess we're just gonna wait and see what
happens here but point taken
hang in there report I'll be listen hard
alright thanks Jeff I'd like to
apologize because I thought you guys
muted me from the whole entire call and
then I'm just chit-chatting away i muted
know where my volume at maca let's get a
report from wisconsin on the phone we
have producer emeritus of the majority
report Josh short and Josh welcome to
the program executive producer executive
producer emeritus I apologize thank you
he stripped that title after you left
Josh well America no executive producer
oh you got demoted and then made
emeritus is what happened after the fact
it took a big hit on majority of work
pension yes big hit super big hit all
right so Josh for folks who don't know
you you worked on Russ Feingold's
campaign you've worked in the past for
for Harry Reid amongst others give us a
sense of what's going on in Wisconsin
Scott Walker yeah well so folks are
already looking at the turnout in
Wisconsin in a national context it's
huge and people are predicting that
Wisconsin may actually get the highest
voter turnout in of any state it's going
to Crestor the 2016 turnout in in Dane
County which is
where Madison is and a huge dense area
for for Democratic votes
and I think that the for Scott Walker
look he he's running for his third term
and he struggled in the polls for a
couple reasons one is he doesn't have a
liberal boogey man to go after like he
did what he was bashing the unions and
he lost a lot of popularity after we ran
for president and I think that it's
really you know if there's such a high
turnout of Democratic voters in Dane in
milwaukee County's you know he's got a
look at actually at Waukesha County and
a couple of the other counties around
Waukesha to really pack in numbers he
needs to exceed 70 percent of the vote
in in Waukesha I think in order to hold
on because Republicans might have a have
a drop-off problem they needed a reason
to turn out they're not all that excited
about Walker and plus Tammy Baldwin is
not a rallying figure for the GOP she's
her approvals above water so right I
really feel I feel really good about
Tammy and I and I'm cautiously
optimistic about Tony vers beating Scott
Walker
all right and are there any
congressional races that are in play
there Bryce well obviously the big one
is Randy Bryce right right to replace
Paul Ryan in the first congressional
district and you know because they're
not a lot of district level polling you
know that's one a little part of the
forecast but I think that Randy ran an
incredibly strong fuel program and you
know that would be a friendiy win it's
going to be a very very good night can I
give a shout-out with someone on that
race sure shout-out to campaign manager
David Keith in that office he's been
kicking butt old friend of mine
I talked to him last night and he said
he felt good so that doesn't come from
campaign manager his mouth was very you
know one of the things that I heard that
that people were talking about is that
the the Rust Belt
you know places like Wisconsin Ohio
Michigan Pennsylvania in some ways in
this race the
the states that essentially gave the
presidency to Donald Trump are sort of
returning in some ways you know I mean
the South maybe is still a reach but
these are places which the Rust Belt
could very well end up coming here you
go that's kind of that's a pick up right
in Illinois I mean Pritzker and
Pritzker's terrible but he beat Larry
Hogan just one now but yes people knew
but that's not surprising and Gina
Raimondo won in Rhode Island she's sort
of horrible but but what do you think
about that Josh the Rust Belt well I was
interesting that you bring that up
because if you're looking in the
southwest corner of Wisconsin about six
counties six or seven counties
traditionally Democratic in presidential
years that you know they were actually
Trump Feingold counties in 2016 and it's
seen at just the next spring when there
was a statewide Supreme Court race which
is in theory nonpartisan those counties
return back to sort of the Democratic
default so I think if you see those
those are going to return back I think
to the Democratic column Rock County
where Janesville is and even some of the
northern counties up by Green Bay I
think you're going to start returning
back to the sort of a democratic trend
and if so I think that says a lot about
you know what happened in 2016 and I
think it's very optimistic for for for
2018 and 2020 and it was interesting to
see obviously the exit polls and
nationally had health care is the most
important issue by 20 points that was
true by 25 points in the exits in
Wisconsin Tom wolf was just projected
winner in Pennsylvania so that's a
crucial you now have Illinois and
Pennsylvania
obviously Pennsylvania is still
democratic the stays Democratic Illinois
is a flip
and I guess you know is now roster is
great particularly on racial issues you
know it's a very enlightened guy it's
not looking great for Donnelly no it is
not looking good for Donnelly only
demographics are not great for good for
Donnelly and that is that's worrying I
mean the polls had Donnelly pretty tight
right I mean was in within the margin of
error and so if and Donnelly looks like
he's not he's losing outside I mean he's
it's it's significant I haven't seen the
latest numbers Cordray is up with 31% in
looks like Donnelly's 39 to 56 yeah that
is I mean if those numbers hold then the
polls overestimated Democratic support
there by about 10 points and that's
disturbing
in terms of its implications you know in
other places around the country and it's
hard to say like what so you know the
this feels like you know people are
going to be doing studies over what were
the what were the actual slices of the
electorate that they got wrong because
well one reason one look reason for
optimism in Indiana is it looks like
Marion County where Indianapolis is only
maybe a fifth or just under a fifth or
just over a fifth in all right well so
fair enough let's we will we will hold
on to that like 7 points or another
glass of gin and then I'm gonna work my
way this is looking
I mean hopefully this is a similar
dynamic in Georgia where the just the
wrong counties come 64 percent they're
in and Stacey Abrams still down by
60,000 that's that's quite a bit a lot
of they would have called it if they say
Broward has some votes left to come in
about over over half are in but Broward
County I remind I remember being a
teenager and that was the first Broward
County mattered a lot for our
that's disturbing all roads lead abroad
I don't want to deal with Broward County
do that I just want to Andrew Gilliam to
win this race if there's any basic like
chance of human survival
well Josh so I guess basically the long
and short of it is we got to pay
attention to Waukesha County and if
Walker is on pace to win over 70% he's
in better shape if he's under 70 pretty
careful job don't get hurt out there
yeah I think that's I think that's right
and especially to compensate for the
just a raw number of the just
record-breaking number of notes on teen
County where Madison's so we'll see
interesting how much do you think Josh
does voter suppression you know account
for what's going on in Wisconsin these
days I mean there are a couple studies
and you know the more conservative
estimates are at least in the in the low
tens of thousands there were I think
about 300,000 people in Wisconsin who
were legally and properly registered to
vote but who lacked the this is 2016 but
who lacked the ID to vote and so you
know the question is how much of that
300,000 were were attempted voters or
likely voters but it is significant and
in the last days in the campaign last
Friday or Thursday Friday Scott Walker
announced that he was activating the
National Guard for cybersecurity reasons
right I've never heard of that and it
seemed like an obvious throw every every
suppression tactic at the wall to maybe
have people imagine National Guardsmen
standing at the polls and perhaps
intimidate voters away but it's a huge
thing and they're there this is one
again one of those states where the maps
are so so rigged and you know the other
thing in Washington Wisconsin is Dems
need three state Senate seats to get the
majority of the state Senate which is a
huge huge deal considering the
redistricting case basically got punted
at the Supreme Court right isn't isn't
it that
Wisconsin's most segregated state in the
in the Union well Milwaukee is certainly
one of the most segregated cities in the
country I don't I don't have the stats
for the for the state overall but yeah
it is it's the Milwaukee has been
notoriously segregated and in not just
geographically but in in public
resources and you know the the counties
around Milwaukee of mixed transportation
funds so the people in the north side of
Milwaukee can go to surrounding
communities to get jobs it's it's really
lenez's held odds in his seat sorry to
interrupt Bob Menendez no I didn't think
this would be I mean they must have exit
polling because they've just called it
with 1% in and he's losing right yeah
that's weird but I mean Bob Menendez not
too corrupt for New Jersey right well no
he's not it's New Jersey no one's to
correct relationship I totally dig this
attitude from public advocate you just
saw a plane it's what's the problem I'm
the public advocate they're frightened
sex-positive and friendship positive
check our data nothing is running about
even with Andrew Gilliam no one really
expected that right I mean there may be
I mean there may be some of that wilder
effect or the you know III understanding
is that a lot of that talk of like the
the idea that people lie in this day and
age to pollsters about voting for a
black I was more apocryphal but but it
sort of feels like maybe that's what
happened there I mean you know it's a
little bit early to tell but the you
know Gilliam was up by three four five
six seven points in some of these things
in it
like he was pulling bill Nelson across
the finish line and it sort of feels
like Bill Nelson is outperforming him
right now
never trust the white man polls or other
was still there Josh
yeah yeah and I think that no and and I
think that Nelson got a little bit more
profile you know he really I think he
connected with some communities after
the after the Parkland shooting and and
and sort of stepped up in his role so
you know I think that he he may have
introduced himself to voters that really
didn't have any contact with him before
but he certainly didn't have the the
movement of Gilliam and so it's you know
I mean we'll see how it shakes out but I
and this is you know people generally
expected him to to run you know three
four points or so ahead of all right
well Josh Orton thanks so much for your
time today but anything we're missing or
what well I'll be and I'll be I'll be
with you when we're having the recount
show tomorrow right in coming weeks when
we're done in bro Broward hope this is
up now to about a point point two he's
up about yeah about 85,000 votes with
nine percent still to come in so one
thing just a side note um thinking about
how this effects down ballot when you
have states like Florida and and these
swing states and these swing districts I
mean this this happened in in Long
Island you know king representative King
is being challenged by Lou bear Gretchen
Shirley and in the last few months
the Republicans have poured in an
unbelievable amount of money into Long
Island speaking of Massapequa and as a
result you have a state senator who's a
Democrat you have a an assembly woman
who flipped that seat 40 points within
Trump's election and we came in one as a
Democrat but now they're in very serious
you know there's a very serious chance
of both of them might lose and part of
it is because
King was challenged and the Republican
Congressional Committee poured all this
money in so I'm wondering how that plays
a role in places like Florida like could
we actually be winning the legislators
by not winning the governorships meaning
if we just didn't put the money into the
governorships when they're that tight I
mean there's no way predicting this but
right the Republicans just have so much
more money that it's affecting down
ballot and that's where they win is the
legislature says we are basically saying
lay low
in certain areas and be I mean maybe I
don't know
yeah hey Josh what's your sense of that
high also well I also think that if
you're just talking about money I think
it's not necessarily a zero-sum game
right now because a candidate like
Andrew Gilliam actually you know makes
the plane feel bigger right he it's not
just sort of a set pot of national money
that gets distributed it's not just a
certain amount of grassroots fundraising
that that's get solicited by email lists
right it you know a candidate like
Gilliam can actually bring in you know
well you know who speaks to people and
can can actually energize folks can
bring in money that obviously would
never have come into that race to begin
with so I think like you know if when it
comes to money I don't think that's
necessarily a zero sum you know I do
think that that sometimes it's difficult
when people get sort of electrified but
some of these statewide races that it's
definitely hard to especially if there's
not necessarily a great coordinated
campaign in the state it's hard to sort
of have that trickle down to the to the
to the state to the to the local or
state legislative elections for sure and
they don't have the volunteers and they
don't have the budgets so I saw it was
in Long Island this weekend and yeah the
John Brooks campaign and and the
Pelligrino campaign were offering you
know great rates for volunteers
meanwhile Luba had lines around the
toilet scene district and even if
they're coordinated it's still
complicated it's a very complicated
situation and that's why it's important
have strong Democratic parties which we
don't have in yards in New York State
for sure for sure we know know that it's
the shape of the state Democratic
parties are atrocious and I you know
there's just the obvious thing that it's
sometimes given that the state
Democratic Party here choice there's not
a great Democratic Party bench and it's
much harder to recruit great candidates
are electrifying candidates or
progressive candidates in the state
legislative districts Josh thanks for
your time tonight but talk to you later
he in southern Florida yeah I guess so
all right Mike and I mean he I think he
I mean I don't think he's talking
specifically but it's conceivable there
is a recount I mean we'll see where that
last nine percent goes but yeah it's
gonna be another one of those nights
folks I was sort of you know hoping for
for just a blowout where we could just
sit back and drink and not have anxiety
until 11:30 at night but I have a
feeling there may be some of that the
number now is that 21 I think I missed
the the next pick up we picked up
Virginia obviously remember those days
when elections under Josh Holley is the
candidate running against Claire
McCaskill whose own child has a
pre-existing condition and here at an ad
lying about his position on pre-existing
conditions using his own kit so I just
wanted to yeah nice register that one
nice guy there was a time when
Republicans would be like all right I
have a gay kid I'll stop being an
 and this guy was like what if um
instead of my kid having a problem
increasing my empathy I could harness my
kid for an addict right exactly hold on
I think we may have another guest on
line I'm trying to look we have 28
callers on hold at the moment let's see
so what is uh how many seats have been
picked up so far we have picked up two
two House seats
I believe there's 21 to go and I'm
trying to
twenty-one left you okay there was a
there was a pickup in Florida is that as
well yeah flippin Florida 27 in Virginia
ten shillelagh Donna shillelagh
there you go Mickey's favorite candidate
will make he likes you a lot
come from a five military code who's
this where you come from 503 503 take
your time
okay ocula calling that is another funny
that is also gonna be PI problematic in
terms of their as far as I know there is
no congressional races in Transylvania
not of interest of us tonight calling
from a 2-1 Sutton area calling my league
a little tougher with these callers wow
that wasn't that was low-hanging fruit
that was a little hanging fruit call
from a 2-1 7 area code
hey :
Cole so uh Pritzker is now your governor
Congrats yeah great thank you where the
Jimmy Dorothy replays in tonight
where where where the Jimmy Dorothy reek
plays in tonight you're a sellout
right you're right
 sellout nice huge thing yes the
well I mean I feel like that theory has
gotten pretty threadbare I think what
the caller is referring to is that the
the idea was that if the Donald Trump
would destroy the Republican Party and
by 2020 by 2018 I think he said that the
Democrats would take the Senate and the
house another filibuster I'm gonna can I
present Jimmy throw his ideas as Bill
Clinton please look I don't I mean I
think then there would be a mass
outpouring and straights I think it'd be
elected president in 2019 because they
amend the Constitution so just let
Trump Lynne and then there'll be a
 revolution but you motivated by
fear III I hear I hear your point
I mean why what's even worse than that
though is that like okay so yes a
Democrat won in Illinois that's good
that's better than if you had a
Republican but it sprits ker like you
know like it like the the revolution is
a progressive just doesn't see it's not
as good as Tulsi Gabbard but he's pretty
fun I mean my biggest problem with that
theory if it worked was like all we're
going to do is get back to baseline yeah
and and then we're gonna try and build
from there I mean that's the problem
with that theory why do you love Chuck
Schumer so much it's my question call I
appreciate the call maybe if your motor
motivated by thank you could have change
come from a 307 area code who's this
where you come from
hey this is Josh Mayo me Josh what's
happening in Wyoming well it's imagine
it's gonna be a full great way to sweet
yeah well it's Wyoming and what are you
doing there yeah themselves with with
great stress yeah
the stress is warranted I think and you
know but with that said your stress my
stress will not do anything
Wyoming's auberge 95 95 percent to hang
in there Gilliam is down by 1.2 percent
with 95 percent in oh you you races
garbage what yeah being could look at
those two people on stage and say I'm
gonna pick the small defensive oily guy
with connections to every type of
repugnant individual imaginable who
looks like a pedophilia poster over the
nice mayor from Tallahassee like that is
that this is this is how deep the races
it has to be huh
now that is a pewter race 49% in that's
a battery that's by 52% to 48% I mean
you know that's a perfectly nice this is
another one if you would go in a room
and say I would spend 12 years with Ted
Cruz over better or work then you should
be institutionalized I mean listen we're
talking about you know Texas isn't sort
of like the pure south neither is
Florida for that matter no but there is
a slight difference between Beto
O'Rourke and Andrew Gill yes what that
was kind of my point right wasn't that
sort of my point let's see if you can
yeah I mean right you know one of the
things one of them is in a
criminal sellout last week I was on a
Hayes's program and there was this
notion of wanting to be very positive
and I said you know and I said this on
this program but it's quite possible
that this election will show us
something very very dark about our
country I mean it's one thing about you
know like sort of you know people didn't
like Hillary Clinton for a myriad of
reasons and there was a lot of baggage
and there was a lot of other but fours
and you know come--and
and mistakes by the campaign and this
and that but you know we're now at like
we're more or less at you know at sort
of I want to say gut-check time but I
basic want to say like things are pretty
obvious now right like there's no you
know to the extent that the American
public can be anything can be
communicated to the American public
things are pretty clear but we'll see
the how quest race is a great example
you know Vermont is not the south right
right right right I mean that's not I
mean that's we have a long way to go
Josh I appreciate the call hang in there
we'll all come skiing it's your best
friend Chris sellout Hayes hold
on for one second I'll be doing this
impression rest of the nice the only way
I'm gonna get through this absolutely
[Music]
she believed David Pakman is Lorient
he keeps telling me the wrong number
that he's calling from and I can't find
him
no Mickey has a future-oriented vision
for New York City and the Democratic
Party wants to work across aisles with
interupt consultants that represent the
Bronx he's telling me it's a
weird-looking number from Skype
I literally thanks baby that's very
helpful
you need to Transylvania that was what I
need you to do now yourself tell me what
the idea is was David from transyl all
right like that for a second I'm gonna
get a pizza and better would vote okay
kind of a dumb question which is Chris I
know that you've been through a lot of
races like this you've been through
losing and winning races you've been at
headquarters as the votes have come in
just from your own reporting in your own
sense do you think that the better
O'Rourke campaign believes that it will
win tonight or do they believe that they
will lose tonight they believe they will
win now that's a that's a crazy belief
in some ways because of the history of
statewide Democrats notice I mean if you
I guess the only thing that's really the
orange actually is a real shot at
winning this race and I have always said
all of these debates about zero
racism and massage
all the rest that some of these things
also come down to just like whether or
not somebody is charismatic or not
whether or not somebody's really
exceptionally weird and bizarre and sort
of almost non-sentient and I was hoping
that that principle would apply in the
Gilliam DeSantis race though seems like
the racism of Trump voters in Florida is
overcoming that but it looks like it's
not over yet and if you're there please
stay in line I don't even think the
polls have closed yet I think they have
they have okay so it's not over yet I
don't want to be too pessimistic about
Georgia in Florida but it looks like in
Texas that's some of the principle of
just one person being a somewhat sort of
nice approximation of a decent normal
person that you might want to interact
with versus the other person being
arguably I would say I mean Ted Cruz
basically is the most repulsive person
in American life I don't really think
that that's a debate it looks like maybe
that's working I mean you know besides
this I wonder I wonder in general if we
just have to get used to the idea that
there aren't gonna be waves one way or
another anymore in some respects even to
even 2016 was a way for Republicans
because they suppress votes and they win
presidencies without getting the popular
vote I mean if we have a divided
electorate I need a few more examples to
make sure that Republicans can't win a
wave right no I mean yeah that's a fair
point
but I just think it just seems to me
though that like essentially I mean the
electorate is really divided and that
might be a cliche but it's it's
obviously the case and there's not that
much work you can do on these margins
I'm looking at Florida yeah some
different it looks like you know there's
a few of the red Panhandle things a
little a few of them are completely
reported now but I'm looking at Palm
Beach 507 which Gilliam is winning that
could be good
gillum's winning it by 90 thousand votes
and it's 572 of 871 since left out
Broward County Gilliam is winning that
by almost two hundred thousand votes 152
to 347 and that has like 295 to 577
it also shows some big counties their
big cat and also that still if they'd
looked the Republicans that's why voting
suppressions their number one priority
you
in a multiracial America unless they
literally ethnically cleanse and
engineer the electorate which is their
political project right now while
there's no difference between Donald
Trump and Justice Roberts frankly right
interesting
oh well no me speaking of white
supremacy
I have to go head to Brooklyn we're in
Brooklyn but I have to go back to Bay
Ridge because and rügen Ardis is a
Democrat running against Marty golden
who's a Republican state senator who's
chief of staff organized the proud boys
event speaking of white supremacy guys
so Andrews a dear friend he's he could
possibly flip the state Senate in New
York which is supposed to be blue and
it's not it's holding up like literally
everything like New York is it's holding
up stuff for the nation as New York goes
I mean they could be a template for the
nation
all right well know me if people want
more information about your race I
solicit donations here this is really a
grassroots effort so we do that all the
time fantastic wonderful it is no Miki
Kahn's calm that's n om I ki kon st
dot-com we are in a fight because we
have three months I know we're paying
attention to the nut tonight but our
elections in about three months so
special like a special election all the
donations you can get if you live in New
York and you want to be a volunteer you
want to help out go to the website we
have a volunteer button go to my Twitter
message me everything every dollar every
person counts because it's a low turnout
special election in the middle of winter
all right well we will put on the
podcast and you know me thanks so much
for taking the time today let's win it
gonna have a few good ones fingers
crossed fingers crossed I was like that
least support democratic consulting
firms need more appreciation they're
making the money I know that right now
interesting things interesting tweet
from Ezra Klein which I think is
accurate I don't think people are ready
for the crisis that will follow if
Democrats win the House popular vote but
not the majority this is what happened
in 2014 if im not mistaken maybe it was
2012 as well there were more Democratic
votes cast than Republican votes
nationally but because of gerrymandering
you had significantly more Republicans
who who won their seats let's go to the
phones I think Backman dropped cuz I
couldn't what am I gonna do he's got to
we've got to figure this out calling
from let's see let's go to the IMS great
news in North Democrats came out in
force in Wake County even the
long-serving Republican sheriff and
daughter Jesse Helms Clerk of Court
being booted that's in North Carolina oh
wait here we go we gotta go back down to
this 90 stand up Sam how's everybody
doing tonight have you seen the news
about all the new hate groups these days
have you heard about this I mean why
would okay great all right that's good
shy stripper no need to vote today Jimmy
Doran for me the Dems can just
filibuster the midterms until we take
the Senate Shawn voted straight blue
ticket in California congressional
baseball fan have to follow up in the
prior discussion in addition to pee-wee
Herman Donald Trump also identifies with
several other pee-wee's Playhouse 'as
characters including king of cartoons
and Randy the bully puppet play ball UK
socialism for the win hey guys I'm from
the Channel Islands in the UK been
watching you all night fingers crossed
it's looking good
love you guys dump Trump it's looking
okay we're gonna see it's pretty
inscrutable so far well there's a couple
of good congressional races that have
gone the right way and so we will see
from there I was brought up as young
Tory but since researching politics I
was not going to just follow my father's
politics now I'm a socialist my dad
hates me for but my mom and sisters
basically all girls I have any interest
in have the same point of view being the
right-wingers WAC and the right will
lose in the long run
I hopefully agree a facepalm USA split
times our states split within two time
zones sub Gorka business card help I'm
listening to you guys on YouTube but my
dad as the TV set set to Fox News at
least the megyn kelly look-alike hasn't
said anything about black face Josh
Frome as you guys drinking yet yes max
and Mary I live in exurban Maryland I
had to wait in line today for the first
time in the last couple elections
majority people of color and women John
from San Antonio Grant Lee to keep up
with the sonoma city council race total
nail-biter at guys where is John why
hasn't John called in John if you're out
there I was anticipating you calling by
now I Rasheeda Talib one in Michigan 13
becoming the first woman ever elected to
Congress I don't think we mentioned that
yet that was to me that was anticipated
though right Andy Barr also one in
Kentucky fending off a mimeograph that
is that is a tough one and it is not
that does not bode so great Joe Donnelly
has lost now oh and I believe Kim Davis
lost her bid for re-election to I
believe somebody that she denied a
marriage permit to yeah so that's a nice
moral victory but Joe Donnelly has lost
the Senate would appear to be out of
reach though there is still a path right
we can lose Heitkamp and Donnelly if
Nevada goes blue if era if Arizona goes
blue Texas goes blue and Tennessee goes
blue that is a steep climb right now
Rick Scott has taken the lead from Bill
Nelson in Florida and there's not much
left that would be bad as well
hey you know DeSantis sucks
voting blue in Florida cancel out my
father-in-law's vote voting for Gilliam
Nelson and Sean Shaffer AG Gilliam could
bring Medicaid expansion jacopo Florida
out of the lawsuit of pre-existing
conditions this is the thing do people
still think that after two years of
control of all branches of government
that Republicans are going to change
health care in any significant way over
the next two years it is the most
important polled issue in this rate in
this election I'm not convinced that if
the Republicans were to maintain control
of the house that they wouldn't they
look they missed rolling back Obamacare
by one vote
and that vote is gone so you know let's
not forget that a column from an 801
area code who's this where you calling
from hey Carson Carson where you calling
from Salt Lake City Utah Joe Manchin is
just morning in West Virginia go uh go
ahead Carson today I went to go vote for
the very first time hopefully to get rid
of Mitt Romney well you'll see how that
right well I appreciate the vote on
house yeah I just want to talk about how
crazy Utah is with gerrymandering I live
in Salt Lake City and the districts for
voting are split up in four different
districts throughout the entire state
and Salt Lake City is mostly blue and
what the Republicans have done with
their control since they've controlled
Utah for so long is made it's where Salt
Lake City is split up into three
different electoral maps and sections
and so I'm voting basically with people
that live
500 miles away from me because the
Republicans of gerrymandered the
districts so much it's um it's pretty
ridiculous that what they've done yeah I
mean this is the case around the country
you know we see it in in state after
state you know Pennsylvania was was
horrendous but fortunately the state
Supreme Court was reversed it
so grabbed Greg Abbott
wins re-election in Texas not a huge
surprise Wisconsin still too early to
call Arizona Senate still too early to
call well listen Carson I appreciate the
phone call and I think unfortunately
Mitt Romney is going to win but I you
can feel proud about your vote all right
you have a good night I'm gonna go there
to fight racism and fight sexism psyche
there you go
Carson how much do you making here to
see whether or not you're all right
thanks bear with us callers we have 43
people on the on the line so you got to
bear with us column from a two five one
area code who's this where he come from
this is Wesley from Alabama Wesley
what's on your mind that's best want to
talk about we have I've been a longtime
listener for about two years now and so
we have three minutes on I'm about there
one was for abortion taking it where the
Constitution would not cover it and
another as well where dude you breaking
listen you're breaking up I'm sorry I
can't I can't make out what you're
saying right now
there's something wrong with your phone
this any better
no is this any better slightly all right
it's not again good yeah I wanted to
talk about weird
we had three amendments all about today
where one was to try to take the I'm so
sorry
I'm really sorry your phone is just it's
just I can't do it I apologize calling
from a 901 area code who's this okay
come from a two one five area code who's
this David Blackman from Philadelphia
David Pakman okay and with my Fred
Walter block and goodnight come from an
eight four seven area code I got 43
people on the line so I'm just not going
to be that dracula impressions get them
going yeah exactly be ready really work
these bits up hey this is a day that
similar do it youtuber that you know but
silly uh-huh from an eight four seven
area code who's this where you calling
from it let me workshop so many hey
Garrett miami-dade County is only 87
percent in so a lot of those votes are
still out there and Gilliam is up 6040
there some that are extant right so it's
still possible in Florida still possible
although in Broward completely in I
don't think so baby it's one of the ones
copy County does not look too good
either but we'll see what Miami's
alright go ahead I'm sorry what's your
name
Garret from Wisconsin all right Garrett
what's on your mind
I just want to talk about getting Scott
Walker out of the office as soon as
possible well hopefully that'll happen
tonight oh yeah you would know better
than I I think so I saw more people on
the ground this year than even
presidential election Wow Wow the boots
really moved it yeah it's like eight
people knock on the doors leaving
pamphlets all that well also Michael you
need to kick off the Bill Clinton and go
for nation is when I'm Obama okay I
appreciate the the directional advice
Thank You Garrett
fingers crossed appreciate the call good
luck little devil wow this is crazy so
restoring voting rights to felons is
winning 64 to 36 percent there's some
clans like restore the vote didn't know
the measure no it's it's clearly the
Florida scammers who all turned out for
DeSantis but also my right hey I got a
multi-level marketing scheme and I'd
like the exact I support white supremacy
imagine you know I use Elsa but don't
ever think I mean isn't that sort of a
stunning no parity the same things gonna
happen in Idaho I predict that that
Medicaid expansion is going to crush it
and they're gonna vote for a bunch of
atrocious Republican candidates I don't
know it doesn't I mean I does n't stun
me that much but Medicaid expansion is
different than reason franchising fellas
and it's let's hear what elections your
nephew explaining how close it is I can
tell you that having worked in a couple
of that vote you know when I was not in
in media was working in politics but you
know is coming in at the end of the road
is always Broward County my former
County it's always bringing up the rear
and so for Democrats basically what has
to happen as Steve mentioned is that
you're gonna have to get a big piece of
the boat in Broward is the largest
County it's the county with the heaviest
kradic registration it's a County that's
heavily african-american it's a county
where the Cuban American population is
younger and so they tend to vote more
democratic but it also is a very slow
counting County it takes a long time to
get that vote so basically for Democrats
to win they essentially have to run up
the score in places like Tampa
Hillsborough County in places where I am
now Leon County and they have to really
max it out in Broward so it is tight all
Florida elections are tight never listen
to polls that say anybody is up two to
four in Florida no one's ever of 2 to 4
in Florida it's always tight until the
very end you really won't know really
until even the absent E's come in so
it's up but I think people here are
cautiously optimistic you always have to
be optimistic because Florida I mean I
don't have to be optimistic I've gone
this far
again I mean you know he just gotta I
choose to be I'm gonna get out let's
choose calling from a for10 area code
who's this where you calling from give
us a half hello hello Marilyn Derek
what's on your mind sad to report Bob
Hogan Republican that beat Ben Jealous
sadly yeah we knew that by to pers yeah
I'm positive it was more than 2 percent
it was more than 2 pi the positive side
ben cardin beat he the Democrat Senator
for Cardin beat Derek I mean we ya know
we know we know we know Carter and
Cardin one in a jealous yeah good I just
want to thank him for
[Music]
bringing me - of course I claimed up
when I get answered I just want to thank
you for changing my mind I used to be a
libertarian but now I just like to thank
you for bringing me on to the left I
started watching you and now I'm
left-wing well I am NOT a I'm sorry I
just listen we're all happy anyways
we're just sitting here there's a lot of
anxiety and I'm I'm 17 by the way so I
have invoked but I yeah I'm probably
your youngest viewer yeah that's a good
age I mean that's awesome I'm getting on
the libertarianism that early yeah you
bailed on it before you're gonna have a
great college experience I've been kind
of watching you for months and I just I
just hope that we win and dies and has a
heart attack and dies on the toilet I
think you have a break I think you have
a bright future I appreciate the call
just take it easy take it easy take it
easy
I appreciate the call Derek you have a
bright future
Elvis Reapers we don't get to perfect
Elvis year so I definitely like the
cheeseburger totally appreciate totally
appreciate what you're certainly like
the idea raging on a toilet eating fast
food um I think you come from a 3-1 Oh
area code is this who I think it is if
you're talking to me Digby hi Jake B how
are you I'm glad it's you for some
reason you didn't have you registered
there and now I've just lost a my there
dig yeah I'm here okay can you hear me
all right there we can hear you
yeah our our phone system playing is a
little funky so ladies and gentleman dig
me oh do we play the theme zone oh we
can't play the theme song
I'm sorry so Heather you're out in
California are you watching what's going
on it is nerve-racking
a little bit but you know can I also say
that just you know if you're sitting in
California you know the Sun just went to
hell and people are still standing in
line here voting and there's a whole
half the country that hasn't you know
nobody's counted their votes yet so you
know it's it's always a little bit
disconcerting to be watching these
nights you know having said that I'm not
an idiot and I can see that this is not
going to be so far anyway the gigantic
blue tsunami that we were hoping for but
you know I want everybody to remember
there's only one thing that matters
tonight and that is that we get one more
vote in the House of Representatives
then we need that's that's all that's
necessary and it's all we should have
ever been really hoping for because that
changes everything and tomorrow morning
if we have a majority in the house
starting in January Donald Trump's
agenda is done it's over it's not going
to happen I mean they may you know throw
put through some more judges and I'm
sure he'll strut around like a
conquering hero if they hold the Senate
but nonetheless it really doesn't matter
what that what happens then is that we
have one branch of government that will
be doing its duty and will be will be
doing the oversight that's necessary and
he will be stopped in his tracks from
doing you know from from carrying on
with this agenda there will be no more
Devin Nunez running any intelligence
committees there won't be any more Trey
Gowdy's you know running oversight
committees that will be over and that is
really the most important thing because
we have two years now and you know I
hate to tell everybody I hope I hope
y'all are ready for this tomorrow
morning the presidential race starts in
earnest oh my god but it does and that
preset that is a whole new me of the
people in this office just passed out I
should tell you I know I
we basically kind of you know I went
into a little feud stayed there for a
second I mean this is what's happening
and I mean this this in the end
we're actually midway through this you
know horrifying situation we're in and
if we manage to eke out a win in the
house and I suspect it's going to be
bigger than just eke out a win to be
honest they think I mean here in the
West you know they're gonna win a bunch
of seats there it's it
they're probably it's probably just
going to be what what everybody said it
was going to be right they'd win the
house and and you know the Republicans
would hold the Senate and in but that's
all that's necessary for the moment and
we're gonna have the presidential race
we're gonna have a bunch of oversight in
the Senate we've still got Robert Butler
on the line everybody needs to just kind
of hold themselves something in this
head you know this is a we are in a
situation here where we've got half the
country and there are tens of millions
of people who worshiped discreteness
imbecile that we have in the White House
and they do they really really like this
guy I'm sorry it's not a delusion it's
not like you know they're mistaken or
they have economic anxiety or there's
some kind of a problem they really like
this guy we need to accept that and we
need to recognize that in order to you
know preserve the country we're gonna
have to fight it on that level so you
know I'm not really feeling despondent I
mean I would have loved it if there was
a huge tsunami but from what I you know
I look at these people or you watch Fox
News just look at the Trump rallies I
mean they're a bunch of people out there
who really really are getting off on
this guy and everything that he stands
for and we got to deal with that we
can't just pretend that that's not real
because it's real and we're gonna have
to fight it so here we are tonight
hopefully it's going to be better than
what it looks still early right like I
said people are still voting here but we
have to you know grapple with the fact
that this is happening and we're going
to have to have to fight it and it's you
know well yes and and and that's true
and and and if you know a year and a
half ago
somebody said to me you know the dentin
we're not there yet obviously so but
that the Democrats will control the
house after 2002 and they'll lose only
two seats three seats in the Senate Max
and I think I would have been like that
sounds optimistic but and you're gonna
pick up one or two governor seats in you
know in the Rust Belt let's say I would
have said that sounds a little bit
optimistic but the I guess the thing
that is sort of disturbing well yeah I'm
telling you this you know this and I
guess I want what I want you to do is to
give me some type of answer that's gonna
make me feel better but the thing that I
think is disturbing is the the the
singularity I mean like I think that
most people within my bubble right in my
bubble I think encompasses maybe
slightly less than 50 percent of country
maybe slightly more there was a sense
that that everybody was activated right
like I mean that everybody's hands were
on deck and to see that and to see that
it does not have a and I guess maybe
this is just you know
sorry Virginia there's no there's no
Santa Claus or whatever it is but to see
that level of effort and it not sort of
cut through this like butter right like
to see that energy and all it does is
like eke out a slight win is scary I
think and and it's not like you know I
was talking to Sean McElwee today you
know a good 50% of Democratic candidates
were running on a platform that was you
know to the left I would say of of 75%
of the remnants at ran ten years ago and
and yet we're not necessarily seeing
we're gonna see I think significant
results in the house but we're not
seeing that sense of like we're not
seeing the Blue Wave
per se right we're not seeing the
tsunami that it felt like was coming and
I think that's scary to people it is
scary and and I'm disappointed I mean I
would have hoped that we could have cut
through that as well but I gotta tell
you it look you've got you know don't
first of all midterms just traditionally
are not as interesting to the American
public as a presidential race right but
but reality it felt like people were
pretty we don't we're significantly more
interests don't like it right it felt
like it but you know look and and I
think that there it's true I mean
everybody was activated of the activists
interested political base of the DEM of
both parties apparently it looks at both
were activated so what you had was a
head-to-head race of the base and I
think what we were expecting was that
maybe we'd see a bunch of independents
come out or maybe there'd be a huge
surge of non voters you know all this
kind of thing well you know what is more
likely is that we'll see that in a
presidential race I mean that's just how
that works I mean a lot of people you
know and and I wouldn't blame people if
you've been sitting there last two years
I mean you and I have to do this because
we do it for a living right we have to
pay close attention we've got a play
pace place you know pay close attention
to don't prompt and every word he says
and we're following on our Twitter feeds
and all the other stuff but for a lot of
people you know this is just that you
know it's just insufferable and and they
have you know many people have just
decided yeah you know and and so here
what you had was a race where you had
Donald Trump dear leader of the Trump
cult and now the head you know the dear
leader of the Republican Trump cult it's
the party itself and then you have this
sort of you know ephemeral old
democratic resistance that's just sort
of it's not really centered on any
person or any particular platform it's
just sort of ugh you know we're coming
up against Trump maybe that isn't enough
to activate you know the huge number
people that are going to be necessary to
really defeat him maybe we have to find
you know there has to be an actual
person around which you can build a
campaign maybe it's got it you know I
don't know if we'll have that god help
us I hope we do but there are a lot of
you know new stars in the in the
Democratic Party I think who've emerged
in this I mean I think we're seeing the
building of a new Democratic Party which
is the other upside of this right I mean
all this all this activism and
organizing and all these new candidates
that are running I mean that's the
building of a party that's a building of
a movement really and that that that is
they're building the infrastructure for
something that's going to be there for
the future regardless of what happens
tonight but you know also for the next
two years I mean you know this is the
beginning of the Democratic Party
building what should have been built you
know which we all had hoped would be
built during the Obama years and instead
sort of atrophied and and didn't really
happen so you know I think that that
it's going to take you know the
presidential race is really where the
focus is going to be or it's Donald
Trump on the ballot we all felt he's on
the ballot tonight and in many ways he
is but we literally on the ballot
what is hopeful that focus really comes
into play and that there will be you
know someone there that can articulate
the other side nationally with the same
level of attention that Donald Trump
gets let's not forget he dominates
everything the guy is you know I mean
he's just like an oxygen suck everything
he's there
you know 24/7 you can't get rid of the
guy he's in your head I dream about him
it's horrible I mean that's what that's
what he does to us and so you know I
just feel like like you know just again
I feel like this is the halfway point I
think we're still building and hopefully
we will have built some kind of a
backstop in the US Congress to stop him
from doing his worst and then you know
we've got two more years of this stuff
where we're just gonna have to keep
going so anyway yeah I'm not going to
give up hope I'm just not well I mean
well you know we're gonna have to be
here tomorrow
and really and speak for yourself buddy
well I I am I'm giving you a pre-emptive
notice on tomorrow's day off but do you
so but that's injured like so that the
idea is that if I'm if I'm hearing you
correctly that so both bases are
activated and then and yeah that there's
just still whatever that middle swath of
people is they're just not enrolled well
that makes that makes do we know that
though I mean do we know that there
hasn't been I mean do we have the data
in yet I mean I haven't been listening
have they been able to crunch the
numbers and say how many new voters are
actually here I mean because we saw a
lot of that in you know we saw these
records being broken about early voting
and new voters and youth as a percentage
of the vote etc etc we don't know yet if
that materialized or didn't materialize
or I mean well let me let me point out
and this is something I kept noticing
they kept saying that we were beating
records for midterms and they did
there's no doubt about that the early
voting beated I think that the the young
voters beated I think all of that that
they beat all of those records for
midterms great right but that's midterms
right so you know I don't know that that
really says where those people I mean
the independence and in
middle-of-the-road
you know sort of you know people who
don't vote all the time like we do they
don't vote in midterms now more of them
did this time than usual but that
doesn't mean that we've hit the sort of
you know the the total limit of how many
people are going to vote altogether
I mean I just don't think that that that
this midterm shows that this is it this
is that we've reached all the voters and
there are more Trump voters than there
are us I don't think we know that either
I I just suspect that we've had a really
great midterm turnout but it's still not
presidential level and I think
presidential level has to be
more than anything we could expect that
requires a really good candidate by the
way I mean that requires somebody
special and I don't know who that's
going to be but it's got to be somebody
special because that's what it takes to
really get people activated their side
you know they've got him and the
Democrats have to find something to eat
will that so hopefully I mean there's a
Lucia County right there that's
interesting in Florida the DeSantis is
to gillum's vote mirrors exactly Trump
to Clinton - 2 % for Johnson so there's
I mean that that just there there has
been there's been nothing that Donald
Trump has done that has in any way
shaken the foundations I guess of his
support and that's the other like what
he does they love it all right
I don't know I don't know how to explain
these people but I'm sitting here today
looking at this and thinking you know
these are people who listen to him speak
gibberish night after night I mean they
do in his rallies I don't know if you've
been listening to his rallies in the
recent days I mean he's not even making
sense I mean it's ridiculous and they
cheer him and they love him so I don't
know what to say about this these people
are walk among us I mean that is I mean
that's that that's the fear right it's
just like that yeah we have hit a
critical mass and that there are not the
you know the resources to reverse this
now I should say certainly there have
been times in our society in the history
of this country where people must have
felt more desperate than we're feeling
now or situations that have been more
desperate I mean certainly obviously I
don't know it's a really good patreon
system in the in the Weimar period well
I mean I think I mean on but but but it
does feel like I mean you know on one
hand we have this narrative that we're
in late stage capitalism which suggests
that we everything is the the aggregate
that
that the weight of history is landing
now which and there's no evidence from
from this election that people are open
to a solution to that as opposed to
enjoying it I mean we can we can wish
that but like I say the Democrats have
run you know the most progressive
candidate in the field to the Democrats
won the primary and is running in
Florida in Florida and still possible he
could win but he's certainly not walking
away with it he certainly does not
appear to have you know shaken the
foundations of of where people were in
in Florida so I don't know I mean it's
um it's disturbing
now Federer Arc is sort of jumped back
into the lead with 70% in by 2% that's
encouraging I don't think he's quite as
progressive as Gilliam but I think he's
he's whiter and it's Texas and he's
Texas so I don't know also it is like
that people a lot of people are talking
on Twitter about that fell and Riaan
franchise mint and that is like that's
these we're gonna do a lot for DQ for
2020 it's gonna do a lot for 2020 I mean
presuming presuming it's not overridden
by the Florida Legislature right right
right right just because the referendum
Brasserie but but but digby how do you
like how do you do you have any way of
reconciling that the the Rhian franchise
'men of 1.5 million felons that that
referendum is gonna win by 15 points in
florida it makes it makes zero sense to
me it is it is impossible for me to
believe that all those you know that
that many of the DeSantis rick scott
voters want to re in franchise felons I
mean I just how can that be
I mean did they is it a weirdly written
you know proposition on the ballot and
they didn't know what they were voting
for I mean I honestly that is that is
really a stunningly weird anomaly and
and you know it's Florida so who the
hell knows
you know what the butterfly ballot god
only knows what happened there but it's
very strange very strange super yeah I
don't get it either and III don't know I
mean it's just it's very very weird I
feel like somebody could write a book
about just that that that Delta between
those two things but maybe it was the
way that it was written people just
misinterpreted
maybe maybe I mean it doesn't make any
sense that conservatives and you have to
be I mean look Ron DeSantis and Rick
Scott both I mean they are very
right-wing the idea that people who
would vote for them would simultaneously
want more you know ex-felons to vote you
know that just it's just not it's it's a
weird weird anomaly I mean somebody
really should look at it honestly they
should they need to do an analysis of
how that could happen and do some some
polling to find out how something like
that could happen down there the floor
is so weird you know it's I mean our
elections just hinge on it you know all
the time and we're always just riveted
by everything that's going on down there
but it's just bizarre and and I guess
people could could feel that way but
maybe they just don't like you know
Gilliam you know and and Bill Nelson I
guess I mean maybe but it just makes no
sense I don't know you know I'll never
figure that state up high well I won't
get it say have you heard yet whether or
not Dave brat and this ban burger
and the last I saw brat was in the lead
but only by a pointer to with about I
think 75% in so I don't know yet
Matt do you see anything else about that
or brat in Virginia
has not been called yet don't know what
the what the spread is but that's looks
New York time to say in 151 to 150 total
votes and 94% reporting so it's close
one yep oh well I'd love to see that guy
go down he's one of the the people I was
glad to see Barbara Comstock go down
there will be a number of you know House
races where we can take some pleasure in
seeing some of the worst the be taken
out and I think that will happen and you
know you've got the West here California
and you know I feel like a lot of these
people are going to go down here these
you know and right knows I mean maybe
seven minutes I don't know in New York I
mean I think you know with the numbers
that that Cuomo is racking up he was he
by 75% to 25% something to that effect
so I anticipate we're gonna see a couple
of pick ups here in and in Pennsylvania
has yet to come in so you know the house
obviously still very much in play you
can't take anything for granted
Digby thanks so much for your time today
we will my pleasure thanks for having me
we will talk again soon and hopefully
all right we will yes hang in there
folks okay all right thank you
Digby let's go to the IMS we're gonna
I'm anticipating I think David Dan will
be calling us in a moment and let's go
to the IMS here political jargon Florida
amendments yes done restoring voting
rights yes on banning offshore drilling
I mean it really is strange Gulag Greg
long time no talk
mr beauty's TYT is jimmy dore doing
election coverage tonight in case anyone
hasn't done enough etat intoxicants for
the election wants to kill some brain
cells that way and in Portland here I
swear there's zero correlation between
my donating beer to the show and a
nail-biting oh and in Portland sent us a
bottle
of really nice yes wow thank you man yes
thank you so much and we have not
cracked into that I was a little bit
nervous about that frankly and I feel
like that was a smart thing to be
nervous about
I think we're gonna hear from David day
and in just a second hold on for one
second multiple storylines at this hour
big picture freakout that is genuinely
bipartisan is the freakout in the
Democratic Party that might actually win
Texas and the freakout in the Republican
Party that any Democrat might win a
statewide race in Texas which does not
happen in the last there was a school
board race no peso
let's 19 you go to the phone on the
phone
ladies and gentlemen he writes for any
publication that is worth anything in
anywhere David Dahon welcome to the
program thank you thanks for putting me
on here tonight so all right let's start
with this how is it that amendment for
in Florida is going to be ratified or
the referendum I should say by you know
a 15 20 percent margin and Andrew
Gilliam looks like I mean 99% in he's
down by almost a hundred thousand votes
bill Nelson a little bit closer how do
you reconcile that I think it's hard to
reconcile I mean I I really don't know
how we the the intercepted a couple
reports on amendment for and I think it
was you know kind of framed as a
fairness issue that in the successful
way obviously
and the it wasn't sort of sucked up in
this nationalized vortex the way that
seemingly these other races were around
Donald Trump now might just been
oversight on his part he he certainly
would have fit with his you know law and
order stop crime kind of idea to you
know encourage people to vote against
that but I don't know I think he
overlooked it and so and also I'm not
sure that there was any organized
opposition on the air to amendment for
I'd have to check that again but I'm
pretty sure there wasn't so I you know I
mean your guess is as good as mine that
does seem like a discordant result but
of course there's some some votes still
outstanding and some some liberal
leaning districts in in South Florida so
we'll see what happens
well yeah I mean it's it's conceivable
Nelson is down by you know I don't know
60 70 thousand votes with I don't know
how many votes are extant I mean 2% but
I don't know what that what that figure
is I suppose I could do the math but I
can't and so it's possible you know
Nelson and or Gilliam could win but even
still it's still a huge disparity all
right so what give me your 30,000
Colorado governor jared Polis yeah just
won with 52% of the vote in he's been
declared the winner by NBC anyways and
the the Twitter machine is telling me
that Fox News just just called the house
for the Democrats but you know take that
for what it's worth that's weird because
they're still there still seems way too
early to actually do that well I think
it's rather early to make that call but
I
Republicans are going to hold their
poorhouse there you go
ja responsible alright well
reverse reverse jinx yeah there you go
alright well so okay I gotta say though
nineteen to say this Broward County only
there's still 17 percent that is
outstanding in Broward County and Nelson
is up 69 to 31% there so I don't know
like look I'm 15 again well now he's
doing the math there I think that means
that there is quiet I can't tell what
he's writing but if there's seventeen
percent if they're almost 20 yourself
why are you looking at carnac you know
there's there's another yeah there's
another hundred thousand votes they're
almost so right you know that's that
could be the difference so I guess we'll
set and we'll see on that I mean Florida
aside the the races are shaping up
similar to what was expected no not the
perhaps the blowout that some have hoped
for it's still tracking like a
democratic victory in that tonight yes
I'm not tracking like an overwhelming
Democratic victory in the house but it's
still tracking like a democratic victory
in the house and that's particularly
true of these seats in the Midwest I
think we're going to see some pickups
and they will annoy there are those
there's a seat in Oklahoma that actually
Kendra horn is still leading with not a
whole lot in those two seats and Kansas
look like they're gonna flip so I mean
they're still you know things are
tracking sort of the way as expected I
mean it's still none of these
Pennsylvania seats have been called none
of the new jersey seats have been called
where where you expect some pickups
their new your well I've got at least
one or two I think yeah I mean I I think
I think the drama of the Florida races
is an and the fact that some that the
you know reach for
in Florida in the house went the the
Republicans way is kind of coloring the
the sort of mood ring of of the Liberals
right now but not a whole lot has has
changed
I don't right right I mean I think there
is just a lot of I feel like there's
been a lot of emotion invested in
Florida and in Georgia that may that may
be outsized in terms of their actual
practical implications but I feel like
from an emotional standpoint it would
have been just a big victory now of
course also it has implications for you
know 2020 to have the governorship of
yeah of Georgia and the governorship of
Florida absolutely that's that's a big
deal that's a really big deal in terms
of the the the 2020 election but but in
terms of the immediate practical
implications but also you know to see
Donnelly go down so Robo you know I mean
I mean one here's one thing that we can
say right so you have those three races
now I know Indiana is traditionally a
more conservative spot and Ohio and
Wisconsin but but all three of those
raise US states went to Donald Trump in
2016 and you had Tammy Baldwin wind
going away you had sherrod Brown win
going away both of them running populist
campaigns on you know pretty pretty
progressive issues
neither of them deciding to vote for
things like the bank deregulation bill
both of them running on you know kitchen
table issues and and winning early like
running quickly going away and you have
Donnelly who's advertising was all about
running away from the Democrats trying
to sort of toe this line in the middle
and obviously voted for the the banking
regulation bill
on the Senate health write it he was on
the Senate Banking Committee and and and
it didn't help and and there was never
any belief that showing this
bipartisanship with Donald Trump was the
thing that was going to help you in 2018
and and and and so I think that's a
story that you can tell right and I
guess you know I think that was part of
it what the the the allure of of Gilliam
is and was because it tells a right
progressive narrative I mean Chuck Todd
at the beginning of the night in you
know was was extolling to the other
members of the MSNBC panel the Democrats
probably have a lesson to be learned for
the way that you know Abrams and Gilliam
are running in the south and right you
know at that point I was convinced like
oh my god they're internal numbers must
be you know they must be convinced but
there's a lot I mean Chuck Todd doesn't
go out on the limb with all due respect
to Chuck Todd and agenda for socialist
politics in the South though he is
playing the real long game there
Michigan Governor 44% in that's not that
much but Whitmer seems to be in the lead
will see by significant amount but you
know 44 percent in that doesn't mean
that much so okay so you David you are
been named the the chairman of the DNC
what do you do on rack what do you do
this week I mean towards let's let's
I'll give you till Monday well I mean I
mean obviously we're a long way from
from knowing what's going to happen here
but I I do think that there's there
needs to be a recognition that all races
are national now right all races are
national and
explain we know by the worst and explain
what you mean by that because it you
know she's looking a race like yeah it's
not just that it's national it's that
they are extremely tribal yes absolutely
I mean you look at something like I mean
we were just talking about Indiana so
you know there are local issues that are
specific to Indiana that just don't
amount to a hill of beans anymore
this is about expressing your discontent
with one political party or another that
that's that's that's kind of what these
elections have come down through they're
just they're just a primal scream really
I think what we're going to see is that
Donald Trump is discontented among women
and particularly suburban women and
that's going to show through in the
seats that they're going to pick up in
in the in the house and and you know
whether you're talking about the seats
in the Illinois suburbs Lauren Underwood
who is likely to win that race there or
whether you're talking about the seats
in Pennsylvania I still haven't seen the
seat from my parents area Pennsylvania
one which is Bucks County where I grew
up but you know you you can but that is
not sort of an expression of local
differences I don't think you can say I
think you can say that that is an
expression of discontent with the
national political party whether it's
the Republicans or Democrats and what
you saw in Florida is Gilliam and Nelson
outperforming the numbers that everyone
traditionally thought you need to win in
Florida in those those you know the i-5
corridor and and southern Florida uh
they
they hit the numbers but the the areas
outside the metro areas were where
Republicans you know picked up more
votes and expected and then and and
that's what we saw in 2016 - right right
now that has held for the southeast but
that hasn't necessarily held for the
Midwest which is what one Donald Trump
the presidency
yeah hasn't held in the Midwest I was
just having that conversation with Josh
Orton as you know is who's in Wisconsin
that the oddly enough the Rust Belt
which is supposedly what one well
supposedly but I mean I guess you know
every every time he won a state people
in the electoral votes but the Rust Belt
was sort of the hinge and it appears
like they're returning back to the
Democratic pole isn't that track though
so I was out in Iowa just a month ago in
the northwest part of the state
following the campaign of Chaney Shelton
who was running against Steve King white
nationalist Steve King and you know
spent three or four days there had the
opportunity to really dig in on what the
feeling was there and you know saw a lot
of former Republicans talking about how
they made a terrible mistake you know
obviously I was I was deep in farm
country you're talking about areas where
the trade issue has has punctured a bit
but also the issue of the USDA not being
on side of family farms that might have
been even even more of an issue in that
in that area so you know that became
looking like that
this swing yeah I mean there there was
part of that I mean but you know the the
the the undercurrent of the king shelton
races obviously King's white supremacist
rhetoric and and but that leads to the
critique that he's Incred
ineffective and that he's not helping
the constituents in in that area who are
largely rural and infirm communities so
yeah so I mean I do think the Midwest
has swung to an extent I think we're
seeing that in the numbers still but
again it's a long way to go what do you
think account is it because there are
localized issues but I mean that you
know like Wisconsin Ohio Illinois
Michigan I mean you're talking about
those rates you're racist you're talking
about how the short-term trade issue is
affected people and you're talking about
you know the economy has been on the
same trajectory as it was you know at
that point in 2016
it really has there's been limited
change to that trajectory the tax cuts
had given sort of a short-term punch but
the the trajectory has been relatively
the same
well that's rejector wasn't very good in
the Midwest in the Rust Belt so you know
it could just be look he's been there
two years and they haven't done that
much for me certainly Democrats won the
messaging battle in the tax cuts they
certainly won the messaging battle on
health care and in those Midwest
districts that you know which are far
from the Mexico border that may have
mattered quite a bit more right they're
less racist I mean I'm not saying
they're less racist I'm just saying that
this is just a different environment
right now maybe yeah maybe a little bit
I mean you know that it's it's I know
there's going to be in what's your sense
of the the youth vote I mean do you have
I mean you know obviously we don't have
any of the day
and I'm just curious if do you have any
sense of like did that materialize are
there do you think there's more slack
I guess in the Democratic vote because
it's a midterm in other words if if we
say like okay
Democrats outperforms making up numbers
now but they outperform their normal
midterm whatever that baseline is
performance by 25% or 30% and
Republicans outperformed it only by 15%
but their baseline was hired to begin
with and that's why it comes in about
let's say just even if I'm just throwing
out numbers here is there more slack I
mean because Republicans a higher
percentage of them come out for midterms
just generally speaking is there more
opportunity with the same amount of like
democratic energy let's say that because
of the differences between these off
year and on your elections that more
people are going to come out well well
let's talk about a few headwinds by the
way I'll throw out that Florida 26w
cárcel Powell has won according to AP
beating Carlos Cabello so that's a
pickup for the Democrats down in Miami
area and I actually have seen that the
Attorney General of Texas is actually
slightly behind his challenger Ken
Paxton who's under felony indictment
right now is losing at the moment to his
Democratic challenger Justin Nelson okay
so to answer your question there are
going in there were tremendous headwinds
for Democrats
number one the economy is humming along
right unemployment is at pretty much low
levels it's as I say on the same
trajectory but it's it's the the the
economy is doing well and and usually
that means that were downs to the
benefit of the party in inside the white
house and partying Congress is leading
Congress right now is the same that's
number one number
- is you know we've heard since 2010
that drop-off voters transient voters
voters that don't frequently show up in
midterm elections are on the Democratic
side the demographics of those voters
younger more minorities is is that's on
the you know more on the Democratic side
I saw an exit poll that showed that
Democrats basically split the senior
vote that was early I'm not sure if it's
correct now but by the way Kansas third
Charice David's is projected now to win
that's an district in Kansas City area
we should say so Kobach is in its
getting it seems to be going down which
is also nice Wow so there you go so
anyway so I'm setting up these headman's
right right I and you know the that's
significant you know just those two
alone are fairly significant headwinds
that that would have you know put the
Republican Party in front the the
headwind on the other end is that two
years in the party and power in the
white house tends to do badly in midterm
election we haven't had an opportunity
to see that with a Republican president
since 2006 that was a very good election
for the Democrats 2002 was not that was
right after 9/11 it was a fear-based
election and and Republicans were able
to succeed they had a very good map in
the Senate in 2002 and that's the other
similarity between 2002 and 2008 eeen
which is the republican map in the
senate is one of the one of the best
maps for republicans that you could ever
hope for
there were very few pickup opportunities
so you put all those things together and
this this outcome is is not completely
out of the
blue and and the outcome we should all
say is still tracking toward a
democratic take over the house triplet
right I mean I've seen nothing in the
numbers to show that Republicans are
going to pull out the House of
Representatives now that that's you know
maybe maybe that will happen down the
road here but you know Fox News is
called it right are the Democrats MSNBC
is at ninety percent confidence that the
Democrats will take the house here's
another one New Jersey eleven Mikey
Cheryl this was expected is a Democrat
pick up in in one of the New Jersey
districts I expect probably three New
Jersey flips you know there there's
there's a scenario where there's only
one Democrat or one Republican from the
house left in New Jersey after tonight
you know it's it's what we thought I
just got a report from in the delgado
faso race in new york's 19th now this is
out of this is out of Hudson which is in
Columbia County tends to be more
favorable the Democrats but I mean he is
Delgado is destroying him there now the
strength of fantasy that that that fast
a lot of one years ago and against after
T Challa so you know once again now well
with that said she also won Hudson too
so but I think he's outperforming her
there as well I mean he's right Hudson
is not indicative of that district
there's a lot of other areas but it you
know and I should add that you know
people have been going crazy over the
538 real-time forecasts for this for the
House and Senate it was I think as low
as you know a four in seven chance that
Democrats win control and now it's back
up to 70 percent so as these as these
races come in you're seeing a decent
outcome now is it a wave outcome
you know I don't know what a wave means
necessarily but it's it's an outcome
that's going to get them control in the
house in in in all likelihood I don't
want to be a dude
defeats Truman person but it's likely to
get them the house does you know is are
the numbers big enough for Nancy Pelosi
to have a mandate to to take the House
of Representatives by the way Laura
Kelly NBC News is projected wins the
Kansas governor race over Crisco batch
yes a big victory
that's an enormous victory America and
and the citizens of Kansas and shows how
that's a race where local issues
absolutely mattered because Sam broom
Brownback destroyed the state of can I
was just getting a slight wing tax I was
just gonna say to me that the the
failure of the entire left establishment
and anti-establishment for for us not to
be able to say like these Arkansas
politics right in the way that we say
San Francisco politics there's got is is
to me just a stunning failure I mean you
know Kansas is the best example of the
Republicans running their experiment
everyone who's listening to the sound of
my voice knows this story because I've
said it over and over again Sam
Brownback gets in twenty twenty twelve
he basically adopts Ronald Reagan's
economic plan he brings in Arthur Laffer
the Guru of Reaganomics if you will and
slashes the taxes the way that we've
seen on a national level of course
Kansas can't print their own money
cannot deficit spend they supposedly
they're slashing of taxes was going to
increase revenue and all did was
bankrupt the state destroy their
education system four years later a
republican-controlled Senate and
raises taxes again because they're in
such dire straits they're on their
employment lagged by their neighbors
their economic growth lagged the whole
thing was a tremendous failure and you
never hear anybody talk about it on the
last anyways it's absurd and when I when
I when I reported on the primary race in
that Kansas House seat that Cherise
David was victorious in tonight that was
the headline like the sam Brownback
destroyed our education system and this
this is is all we're going to talk about
between now and November yep and and and
so you know it's I think this election
has been nationalized to an extent but
has it been fully nationalized can you
still break through with certain ideas
and policies absolutely and I I think
the experience of folks in Kansas
obviously led to a pretty strong victory
for a Laura Kelly in a race that was
seen as a much closer yeah I mean yeah
it is it's going to be fascinating if
not depressing maybe it's both now now
Crisco that's by the way is going to get
some sort of counselor job in the Trump
White House there's there's almost no I
know there's no way that doesn't happen
right that will happen you will he will
get something in the Department of
Homeland Security probably not eh
probably not a confirmable position some
sort of counselor position or something
like that
nothing nothing where I'll have to
actually get that confirm right
or maybe so if Republicans I mean the
problem with this outcome that we're
looking at a Democratic House and a
Republican Senate is that this nation
just me 52:53 seats for Republicans and
there they can afford to release a
couple of guys to not you know to not
support to you know to just be a
judicial confirmation fact they can just
be a judicial confirmation factory I
mean
that that's what they've been since the
tax bill yeah essentially all that has
been done in the Senate has been
confirming judges and who they just
called max Rose in Staten Island as as a
flip oh really crap let's show your Dan
Donovan now I say that rose yeah I mean
and he ran against both parties he he he
was very but he got all the support I
mean from I never write in the entire
time I have lived in New York for 24
years I have never heard more people I
know say the word Staten Island before
and they're they're out in full force
trying to flip that's the only district
in the in the five boroughs that is
Republican and it got the I mean
everybody in those other boroughs was
focused on raising money and and
volunteering for four rows that's great
though because you win that seat I mean
that is you know Staten Island yeah
Staten Island they they almost reelected
that the the former FBI guy can't
remembers neighborhood threatened to
throw somebody off the the balcony of
yeah Grammys on TV that was the same
district yeah same district exactly yeah
so you know I mean also Elaine Lauria
who is in the Tidewater area defeated
Scott Taylor who was a Republican who
was in a bit of a scandal over over
issuing fake signatures to get an
independent candidate on the ballot like
a scam the trying to kid votes to drive
votes away from the the Democrat looks
like he came up short tonight so this is
it's it's likely to be a situation where
where both sides will have something to
talk about and let me ask you how does
it how does it impact
Trump does this does this dislike musi
nice thank you um has already
telegraphed that he's going to and any
and he now has reason with the Indiana
victory and with the possible Florida
victory do it even more he's going to
say that I came I saw I conquered in
those states I won the Senate races
there's no such thing as a House of
Representatives I won I was on the
ballot and I walk I think that's all
you're going to hear and yeah you know
as far as his agenda his agenda is
focused on you know executive orders and
and confirming judges which the Senate
will be able to do so remember you have
John McCain no longer than Senate you'll
have Jeff Flake out of the Senate you'll
have bob Corker out of the Senate you
have these these sort of fake
adversaries of Trump gone and in their
place you know Marsha Blackburn it was
going to vote down the line with with
with Trump so you know I I extend and
also Mitt Romney will be in the US
Senate for some reason this time around
and I joined it he won't he be the fake
the the the the Jake yes he's going to
take their place
he's gonna be on Face the Nation every
week for the next two years and he's
gonna he's going to be the new person to
take up the mantle of Paul Ryan in terms
of deficit politics that's that's gonna
be what he'll talk about about because
he supported it and is in his
presidential run he supported the Ryan
budget he is going to be the new guy
he's going to be the new gramm-rudman
saying you know I didn't get here I
didn't vote for this tax bill but we're
gonna have to do something about
spending it's you know I wrote this
feature for Talking Points Memo about
social insurance
and what it would mean next year
depending on the election and there are
some sort of cliffs first of all there
there needs to be a spending deal done
in December in a lame-duck Senate
lame-duck Congress that's number one and
number two next year there needs to be
another budget deal or sequestration
comes back and the debt limit comes back
next year as so there are these you know
high-pressure must-pass situations where
this this you know this kind of stuff on
spending particularly on social
insurance programs can come back into
play and it's very dangerous you're
going to have you know essentially Trump
and Senate Republicans saying look we we
are either going to destroy your your
non-discretionary spending programs by
returning sequestration on on
non-defense or we're going to you know
we're going to cut Social Security or
we're gonna we're going to do something
to Medicare this is a very real prospect
especially with the way things are
shaping up right now and it's it's going
to be something I think you're going to
need to mobilize against if you're you
know in in the position to not want that
to happen
and people are going to have to mobilize
based on an on issues set and that's
right that's right and it's gonna and
it's you know it was one thing to see
and III mean if they don't have the
house they won't be able to do this but
it was one thing when people were going
to have their health care taken away I
mean it's going to be interesting to see
and and you and I went through this back
in 2005 right but it was a slightly
different dynamic the assault on Social
Security but
David I think we'll have some time to
talk about that in the future thanks so
much for joining us tonight I really
appreciate it all right thanks a lot man
talk to you soon I have a map pick you
have a mat pick yeah Minnesota's third
congressional district Dean Phillips as
a Democrat Eric Paulson is the
Republican I've been trolling not an
official staffer for Eric Paulsen but a
guy that's volunteering to be his
Twitter meet Twitter person no wait a
second this is different from the the
actual Minnesota Republican Party who
you've been trolling on Twitter no this
is for a year ago for a year that's that
it's the conditional district man 3
Minnesota account GOP and it's it's sort
of a loosely affiliated with some of the
Republicans they're like Jeff Johnson
and it was more focused on Eric Paulsen
but it's been more focused on Jeff
Johnson lately because well it looks
like Dean Phillips is going to win that
and flip it for the Dems
with 56 over 44 with 96% reporting I
mean it does appear that the Democrats
will take the house at this point the
Republicans have all but locked up a
majority in the Senate there are 12
seats that are undecided Republicans
have locked up 49 the 12 seats that are
extant are probably mostly in the in the
west I mean Florida obviously Florida is
super close like III you know they say
it's gonna be recounted it appears that
it's going to be recounted in the last
the numbers I just saw a moment ago were
like 60,000 with one percent extant for
you know and Nelson was down so I I mean
that is going to be a recount it may
even be a recount with Gilliam although
it doesn't seem to be quite as close yet
but we will see and and then presumably
I don't know if the numbers we're seeing
include absentee ballots and provisional
ballots I mean so this is the
is gonna be one of those things like we
may not know for a week or two what's
going on in Florida yeah I don't know
that the balance of the Senate will will
be implicated right now it appears that
Ted Cruz has taken the lead and in
Arizona only 36% in so to close to tell
right there they're they're separated
but it feels like we have a fairly
divided cut oh okay yeah so all right so
I'm looking at the Scott Nelson 55
thousand votes 99 percent in so that's
I'd rather be I'd rather have 55,000
vote lead frankly and not me too
let's take some phone calls called from
a 6-1 to area code who's this where he
called from ATM this is Logan calling
from Florida Logan in Florida what's on
your mind Logan man this is pretty much
a disaster as far as you know the
election could have gone here the
scientists had so much energy Sam he got
his people out we had young people
voting we had an American Santa sir
Gilliam Gilliam yeah okay Gilliam
Gilliam and De Santis was able to
channel the Trump support and I have to
say I really haven't seen any decline in
the level of Trump support within the
state of Florida since he's taken office
all the people who supported Donald
Trump in 2016
still support him just as fervently in
2018 and I don't know how to break that
well the only thing you got rick scott
is a relentless campaigner yeah and he's
at some point will Nelson didn't like to
leave the house right Bill Nelson didn't
like to leave the house and Andrew
Gilliam had energy and momentum but I
think between Rick Scott's relentless
campaigning
and just the sheer Trump factor on the
Sansa side there it was unbreakable I
don't think we're gonna pull it out here
it certainly doesn't look good I mean it
doesn't look good
eighty-five thousand votes with 98 with
Gilliam down yeah I mean the only thing
I can tell you is that when you look to
2020 theoretically there's more slack in
the Democrats right like that there is
Democrats come out more during the
presidential elections and and and maybe
they've made up some ground there but
they right now I mean that's immaterial
and it's just sort of hypothetical and
Ted Cruz would just projected the winner
of taxes all right man well and his
history suggests that you're right that
the a presidential election will be a
better turnout for Democrats but at the
time being I mean it's a big be
mentioned earlier the the true thing to
look at tonight is whether we can take
control of the house yep and all
indications appear to be we will so I
can rest somewhat easier tonight with
this absolute disaster in Florida with
the fact that the House of
Representatives is in Democrat intro
right
appreciate the call thanks man thank
that was Logan in Florida come from 561
area code who's this I think so
Gretchen wittmeyer looks like she's
winning Michigan
she's been projected the winner or she's
I'm see Abdul I see else ie it has
congratulated the governor-elect Kristen
Lamar come from a 5x1 Aragon mark in
Palm Beach County
yeah mark in Palm Beach County good how
you doing mark what are you doing here
you live in the house what are you doing
leaving the house I don't wake up the
baby so yeah I was the one of the first
people in lines at the polls at 7:00
a.m. this morning
although I could talk your ear off about
Florida
I'm a native down here we're all
crazy but um this is incredibly
important not just to you guys because
you're not in Florida and you don't know
Florida politics but for already ins to
know when I was in line first thing in
the morning 7:00 a.m. I know exactly how
to vote I need one of two things in my
possession I need an ID and I need that
you know registered voter registration
and I show up to vote the guy who's
doing my polling tells me that he can't
find me on the voter registration rolls
because he can't scan the barcode on my
Florida issued driver's license so I
have to fill out a provisional ballot I
told him to off and next returns
than that and to look me up manually and
he did and of course I'm there on the
voter rolls manually so I tried to get
the word out as much as I could but if
you have a new ID the actual state
issued new ID with a hologram photo of
your own face on it the new version of a
Florida driver's license if you go to
vote with that they can't scan the
barcode on it you have to manually enter
that from the voter registration anyone
using a tablet on you know Florida you
know precincts when they're actually
doing the voters they're telling people
that they need to use provisional
ballots so when you're talking about not
having absentee and provisional ballots
then I would be highly surprised if
there wasn't and like an absurd amount
of provisional ballots this midterm
because if it wasn't for me literally
like causing ruckus at my precinct say
you guys are giving out false
information the vast majority of people
just would have went alright fine and so
that a provision about so and that's
coming from like yeah if you have a new
drivers license in Florida they don't
scan the barcodes they say you need to
sell out either a provisional ballot or
you need to talk to the person who's in
charge of every precinct has their own
like whatever election supervisor and
you got to go wait in the line and talk
to them and most people have to get to
work anyway so I just don't do it
yeah hey when it's this close stuff like
that is scary you know when you talk
about voter suppression usually people
being turned away from the polls this is
that weird kind of voter suppression
where it's you know you do everything
right and then turning around but yeah
Florida's crazy I'm not gonna take up
too much of your time but it's calm I
did call in appreciate it have a going
thanks
interesting we'll see meanwhile Pete
sessions gone Republican from Texas
beaten by Colin Allred I think that
takes the number down to maybe ten now
that the Democrats need to pick up and
you know we haven't even talked about
New York or California yet or
Pennsylvania so I think it's you know
relatively safe to assume at this point
that the did you hear that 538 shut off
their needle for a moment earlier in the
night I think it might be still off but
they they had it shut down and at one
point they had the Republicans yeah like
an hour ago they had Republicans
projected to win the house or hold the
house and they shut everything down
they're like we think the models being a
bit too sensitive but now their model
has Democrats up to seven and eight
chance of winning control of the house
and and then Senate looks obviously very
unlikely yep that O'Rourke came pretty
close
Ted Cruz projected winner he was laying
the groundwork a new way that the sort
of thing the reason it sort of feels
like more of a downer is because I was
actually expecting Gilliam to win and
then I don't know I thought Ted Cruz was
gonna win this - this is the only reason
I realize I actually thought Abraham's
and Gilliam are the only reasons I feel
bad everything else I think the
Democrats ought they take the house I
did not think they take the Senate and
if those expectations haven't been
elevated it would be Kris Kobach is gone
big win in Michigan Democrats get the
house on very super I'm sad and
disappointed that Mike DeWine took out
Cordray in Ohio oh did that get called
apparently um we should maybe wait on
that but I am seeing it doesn't look
great all right let's go to the phone
it's John from San Antonio John I've
just noticed that you've been hanging on
for a long time I'm sorry we have
literally 50 calls on the line John
what's going on yeah I just want to
reiterate that you know the main thing
but basically what Michael said you know
the main thing I've been looking at is
the house and you know like 538 right
now as a what is it uh it 33 you know
their projection right now which of you
know before I think it was 34 so not
really much of a change I mean
everything is kind of moving along I
agree obviously the Abrams I don't know
that's been called yet but she's very
likely going to lose and Gilliam you
know and and obviously the the Nelson
race they're obviously disappointing but
you know they did tighten up a little
bit and so I mean they were margin of
error races so it wasn't it's not
totally shocking but obviously
disappointing the house the Hat there's
still a lot going on in the house but I
mean it looks like it's pretty much the
projections among the the 16 out of the
18 are pretty much all coming true I
don't think any of those people are
going to lose and you know they're
picking up too and uh it probably in
Virginia
the second in the seventh like you said
that that's thirty-second
Colin Allred is going to win they're
totally shocked about that 11th district
max Rose Rachel I think her name is a
bit Cofer she's a Poli Sci professor at
at where's Christopher Newport
University she picked that that race she
said that the Democrats are going to win
46 so I was very surprised at that I
mean things are things are still you
know looking real totally on track you
know with a few I think they actually
may go over that total 33 mean like
Carolyn Bordeaux's up by 744 two percent
in in Georgia and I mean is just I think
you know things overall are pretty good
one another surprise Matt Long John up
over fred Upton in Michigan sixth with
49% in with a four-point lead you know
that was way down on people's list as a
possible win also a Betsy laundry again
on Illinois 13th up by 9 with 47 percent
over Rodney Davis the Republican so you
know i the the 16th this is this is the
one thing where there was the outlier
poll in the Susquehanna PA 16th that
nobody you know really did on it but I
thought that they were going to win I
have it I think number 50 on my on my a
most livable district and he's up by 2.1
with 77 percent in over Mike Kelly so
you know I just think tits yeah you know
it started out really disappointing I
actually was looking at the numbers for
for Donnelly and I kind of was like they
know he's not looking so great but I
think it just shows that the divided you
know between the rural areas and
and the the the urban areas are just
wider than ever and you know that's
obviously the Democrats are doing pretty
well in the suburbs I think they're
going to hit their numbers you know or
at least hit what has been projected
anyway and there's going to be some
surprises I mean like there's already is
the 11th so both of those Virginia's
races I didn't have them winning that
Kansas second district I didn't have
them winning that and I think it's what
60% in I mean that was those extreme
toss-up for a 69% Paul Davis leads so I
mean yeah it's it's been it's been
disappointing I mean Gilliam was I just
thought he was going to be you know a
possible you know presidential candidate
and he made well be because of his
charisma but yeah disappointed in the
voters of Florida I mean obviously they
they had to two seats in the in the
house there was or the car Bella
Karla's Cabello that wasn't a definite
thing more people and they won that one
and so I mean that's that's a nice
pickup so I mean generally I'm pretty
happy Maine second district we have a
lead on that the judean was mentioned
the 14th district I was talking about
that a couple days ago Lauren on Laura
Underwood that looks like she's going to
win she's up by three with 65% in
Mindy's district PA Scott Wallace up by
1.7 with 26% and a lot of people had
Fitzpatrick barely winning that race the
10th district Lizzi Pannell Fletcher of
Texas 10% in but up by four over
Culberson the eastern suburbs so you
know I just think it's it's it's been
it's been ok I mean
the governor's race is obviously Co Bock
winning great I haven't actually like
losing right Co cycle losing right I
really haven't been following what's
happening with Scott Walker is that
let's see well I see cruisin in your
Bryce lost I haven't seen anything I
haven't seen any numbers for him I'm
just looking at 52% in within the the
governor's race it with eavers up by a
3.14 forty-five thousand votes so that's
looking pretty good
let me see this Kristi Noem race Kristi
Noem up by 1.5 in South Dakota let's see
the core jury I guess has that been I
don't think that's been called right but
a seven seven point lead that's that's
pretty bad right yeah so yeah I mean
it's just they're still gonna have the
house they're gonna have subpoena how a
power you know things it's going to be
drastically different I mean I you know
I think that I mean of course you want
to hope against hope and think that they
can take the Senate but you know the
rule route you know are strong in
America and one of the things that you
know I kind of railed against they've
lost Herman's piece that he put out last
August I was mostly angry about it
because he was like saying that this is
the most fruit Republic that the the map
for the Republicans is going to be so
hard to beat you know in the Senate you
know for a long time and you know and he
compared it to like you know it was even
worse than the 20s which is ridiculous
but I mean you know I have to say that
it's he's got a point there I mean you
know like you think about Indiana you
think about Missouri Florida see how
still deep in the south not not really
country up to 92 percent reporting I'm
not sure who this is from but Brian
stell is
been declared the winner with almost 55%
over Randy Bryce who came in at 43
I mean cloud okay yeah yeah I mean he
was one of the main people obviously
that I was that I was promoting uh you
know car Eastman was down only by four
with 63% in you know and that's so oh
here's that here's an interesting allows
only five percent and that McMurray
leads Collins and see if the people who
are going to get indicted you know are
gonna possibly lose you talking about
miss Collins up in New York upstate New
York twenty twenty seventh ride in the
twenty seventh District now brand DC is
looking real good again now okay no
Richard Oh Jetta
he lost 58 to 42 percent I mean you know
yeah the there's there's a problem
there's a problem because the candidates
who the the left were determined we're
going to win I mean I can tell you and I
I take no joy in this at all I mean
obviously this is upsetting to me but so
much was put on the back of Richard Oh
Jetta as being the model uh you know I
presumed that there were polls maybe
there wasn't I mean I don't know whose
polling a house district in West
Virginia I don't know where the money's
involved in that you know who's sinking
money into that poll but he lost by
eight points and so the you know the
narrative of that simply you can
overcome this tribalism and you can say
that that tribalism is rooted in one
thing or another maybe it's rooted in a
certain amount of racism hard to a
imagine it's not because you'd have to
overlook a whole lot of it to just you
know to consider yourself a member of
that tribe but to say that you can
overcome this this tribalism with you
know economic populism there's no
evidence that we're seeing that that
works well just to slightly refine that
because I think Dane was saying this
earlier and I agree with him and it
actually does track the much more
limited version of that argument which
is that specifically for a very small
amount of voters in the Rust Belt states
it might play some role in terms of
mitigating Trump's influence and so in
the halls when Baldwin but we have
Baldwin sherrod Brown and those races
and a sort of return to democratic
voting patterns might indicate that I
don't think there's any what he was
saying was out he was saying that they
were actually being damaged by Trump in
terms of the trade right like it wasn't
necessarily they were attracted to
policy they were just mad at somebody
for f'ing them over right right right
right in 2016 and now they're coming
back I think the people well that's what
I'm saying these are two different
things right right right I mean I'm
saying that the that the the strategy or
the tactic of simply providing populism
to certain to think that that's going to
win over certain tribal people that
isn't necessarily the case definitely if
people are specifically aft over by a
certain candidate they're gonna they may
still react well against that a can I in
specifically some of the types of voters
we saw in the Rust Belt specific super
specifically but I mean Oh Jenna I've
heard so many people talk about yes
always I mean he ran a great campaign
but to me like one of the reasons I
never went in all in on that I mean I
shouted them out I thought I did a good
job but it's like there is a I think
obviously you can't just say that we're
not going to compete in places and try
to win and I still think that both
morally and politically Universal
programs are absolutely the right way to
go among other things yeah I do
and I know you agree with that but there
is a fixation that some people have on
like going to like the heart of enemy
territory and like for what it's worth
like you know Trump pistas are not
figuring out how to get like George
McGovern at the state you know out of
the out of the the house in
Massachusetts right like winning as a
Democrat in West Virginia apparently
unless you're Joe Manchin is super
 heart right and I wouldn't hinge
like I don't hinge my argument for
democratic socialism and Bernie Sanders
on Richard oh Jetta figuring out how to
win an unbelievably improbable race and
I appreciated him and I wanted to give
him props but I think races like that or
where people on our side need to think a
little bit more strategically about what
we're looking for case studies yeah I I
agree John anything else we should we
should we should
okay well now somebody reminds me that
Oh Jenna made up forty some odd points
in a Republican district it's great
that's that's good that's great it's not
a win but but it's but it's not a win
and it there's no guarantee that he
would do that in a 48-52 districts are
clearly different in that district right
right and so you know that's great that
he lost less then somebody else may you
know might have in a specific district
there's differential but at the end of
the day that doesn't really that may
suggest that maybe you shouldn't be
focusing on the fifty what Virginia I
mean again I think that these economic
left arguments are really vital and
relevant for the Rust Belt which is
vital and relevant and I think like I
mean I don't want to say I don't want to
say forget West Virginia because I know
like what's good but but be a focus of
our electoral energy a differential is
what
you're gonna hang your hat on right then
joe manchin is an amazing model right
because Donald Trump also cleaned
cleaned up in West Virginia and Joe
Manchin outperformed Hillary Clinton and
then and there is lessons that are
terrible double the lessons from that
are catastrophic so you know yes John
what else you got what else should we
maybe sherrod Brown having a great real
life that's the place we should be
talking about well I just think that
it's you know if you look at Bernie's
vein you know energy you know it came
from rural areas and I think it's just
you know I was hoping you know that he
would come really close and maybe he
will in some of those rural districts
you know but some of most of them you
know that I've seen so far
you know those candidates haven't done
well and so then you have the people who
you know who won it cuz they've card
says you know receipt it to leave ill
hello Mar he onna Presley and they're
all from urban areas and so you know I I
really didn't I was like trying to pick
out you know people who who were really
progressive from these tipping point
areas and it was really kind of hard to
find I mean Katie Porter and Sean
mackelway mentioned Colin Allred and
harder you know in the tenth District of
California but I mean you know we just
really you know need to be realistic
about you know where we stand and just
keep pushing for our ideas and you know
2020 in the primaries you know don't
don't give up I mean this one right so
of course you know I mean it's just
gonna this is just one continual push
you know to make progressives you know
win and so I mean that that's what I
think we should be looking at but yeah I
mean some of these some of these losses
are are pretty pretty harsh in the
Senate and obviously you know with the
in Georgia and you know and possibly
Florida so so it's obviously a mixed
night but in the end you know Trump
won't be you know he doesn't get a man
they'd even though he's going to
consider it a man
and date but I mean we'll see when the
subpoena starts flying and I mean it'll
it'll it'll change things you know that
there's no doubt about that
and I hope they are they actually have
some some gumption and try to enforce
this but I mean you know this could be
the next constitutional crisis though I
mean how well is he going to comply with
subpoenas I mean right right about not
so good John not so far
appreciate the call buddy
thanks man okay thank you you know what
I mean just against cuz I I think like
we're some people are slightly not on
this show but I'm just noticing a lot of
a lot of despair and winning the house
is really not nothing and you said last
year that people were worried about
sherrod Brown which is true people were
worried about Elizabeth Warren for a
minute over a year ago like that's true
this is not like I think that this is
not a nightmare done we're over
catastrophe and it's really not great it
wasn't dream that ends up kind of like
fine yeah I mean yes and also like this
is the political project of our line
right I mean I don't like sorry it's
gonna be a long haul it's gonna be a
long haul you want to be like the
breakdown of the global economy and
ascendant global authoritarian politics
like and the fact that you know well
it's like the thing what I mean just to
go back to the race and an economics
thing like I I think you actually can
understand racism by looking at it from
a Marxist distribution of labor thing
historically but that has been brewing
for like four centuries right so like
some policy prescription or like is not
by any Democrat is not going to address
that in any meaningful way not except in
certain marginal areas and yeah that
doesn't mean it's not the right thing to
do and what like the thing we should be
voting for we just shouldn't expect it
to deliver US Congress yes there's no
that is the frustrating though yes
there's another is this sort of there is
a desperate desire and I certainly
understand that desire to have a one
size fits all
strategical set of positions that are
going to win elections and that's just
simply not the case you need to build
power step by step layer by layer
leverage what you have to build upon
that and that's basically the bottom
line let me let's go here wait a second
I just there's so many callers on the
line that I can't even it's nuts hold on
for a second I just it's hard for me to
bear with me I had to call her queued up
and I think they dropped let's go to a
303 come from a 303 area code who's this
where you come from
hi this is Brittany I'm calling from
Denver hi Brittany I've been listening
to you guys sorry hi um I've been
listening to you guys like every day for
the past two and a half years well not
every day so thanks for walking me
through my second election how this is
super stressful yes um I've been on an
emotional roller coaster in the last two
hours I've been on hold so I'm not
really sure what to talk about anymore
but I do want to just tell Michael he's
being like a little bit of a bully
lately and I think that's a social
justice warrior on the Left I got to
tell you everyone's nervous on the phone
you know just talk laughs madam Oh
anyway I cannot promise that my social
justice warrior hood will apply to all
behavior hard non-commitment on that one
but I'm not laughing at you sir right
but don't be giving these young boys and
more reason the things that maybe
they're right for better place I've
heard I've heard crazier okay all right
feeling bad for a lot of people
ajayan call in but anyway it's
definitely top concern tonight I mean no
but don't even want to be more inviting
innocent perhaps I could have been bored
brightening but there might have also
been an onslaught the good news is guy
Poulos you got a good governor I did
anyone ok so here's that I caught stuck
in talk to you guys about sorry I'm deep
into this numbing so I've had a couple
drinks but you and I both I think
appreciates but go ahead I'm from Kansas
small-town Kansas
I have a super liberal immediate family
thank God but all of my extended family
is super hard right which is very
difficult but I've also just find myself
to be attracted to men who remind me of
you know what I grew up around so I tend
to date conservative men and my only
deal is you can I know this is a problem
so you can what the thing is I was
already dating someone when I you know
found out that they had voted for Trump
canceled idea about it but he doesn't
really care about politics but I do feel
like people on the right tend to just
vote right all the time so by just
blowing these people off anything you
can't talk to these people is I think
the wrong attitude because of him my
boyfriend anyways sorry but it for Trump
but he with him I just talked to him
about it every day everything on the
news I show it to him I make him look at
it with me I tell him why I'm upset
about it especially with this Cavanaugh
stuff with all this recent racist stuff
with Trump and today was the last day to
turn your ballot and we have take home
ballots in Colorado so you can you know
do him at home and he asked me to sit
down and look at it with him and which
you know asked me which ones that I
thought were important any voted
Democrat on all of them so well I mean I
I think you know same people with mine
you can I mean but it sounds like you
have to date them for a while
do you have like a deployment strategy
for endlessly patient girlfriend all the
timers who are like these people are
never going to change well bring it to
them but you I do you think a lot of
people just vote the line all the time I
agree with it and clearly if we give up
on people we're gonna lose we are barely
hanging on as it is but boy wait a
second let me just let me just push back
on that because the question isn't the
question isn't we're not making some
type of like well maybe some people are
but moral Proclamation the question is
is you have a certain amount of
resources well Britney hold on for one
sec nothing you don't understand what I
I didn't I didn't say anything so I
don't know what it is that I don't know
hey it'd be nice to caller Sam but do
you think they're making a moral FoxPro
me no no right you misunderstanding what
I'm saying I'm not talking about those
able I'm not talking about I'm not
talking about people like your boyfriend
I'm talking about people who say we
should forget those people I'm saying
the people who say on this program and
in other areas we shouldn't try and
convince those people we should look for
other people they're not making a moral
proclamation they're making an
assessment of what is the most efficient
deployment of resources so now for you
you're dating this guy so you have
access to him every day and you have a
certain amount of leverage with him if I
saw him maybe once a week at class or
every day at work I wouldn't have the
same leverage as he does but people who
might be more inclined but people who
might be more inclined to agree with me
the argument is that we want to go and
bring more people into the electorate
and motivate them and convince that
because you don't have to persuade those
people all you have to do is motivate
them and it's a little bit easier than
actually trying to persuade people who
have you know all of these pre-existing
you know tribal affiliations that that's
the point I mean okay you're right I do
understand that but here's okay sorry
you're right I went a little hard on
that point again I've had a couple of
drinks I panicked I didn't know where to
go Brittany I make the ladies out there
who are dating men or who could be
dating men who are Trump quarters and
I'm saying pick one and turn them we got
to do it now all right fair enough
there you go yes I love the arc of that
salt first of all Michael be nice you
might create in cells and and women he
really has the fate of humanity rests on
you converting some maggots heads I mean
we I mean it's it's a slower project
it's a longer-term project to actually
breed out all the Trump supporters I
mean I think there's a sort of the ones
that are close to you yeah you can try
to turn those guys but I am at generally
you're going to be in for frustration
right unless you're like literally
sleeping with it I also thought it was
funny how she asked me not to laugh that
was late I have asserted that of
leverage calling from an eight five nine
area code who's this where you calling
from this is David a good one from
Kentucky for David what's going on David
um so we're race down in Kentucky six I
really think that there was a lot of
effort put into that because you know
you've got it incumbent you've got a new
candidate the president has a stroke
personally to get that in the bag and it
only switched by a couple points so
that's Kentucky six but getting back to
the point of to meet communicating to
the other side from your guys's
perspective I guess a couple things like
one up here in Kentucky for you know we
have a tea party guy and we've got a
libertarian guy and when you look at the
stats it appears that he votes with
Democrats more than Republicans but it's
best not really the case he's voting
very strong libertarian stats
what I don't think that the electorate
cares or understands is that he votes
against the president a lot and that's
something that I sort of see different
from the left and the right is that you
know there's a spectrum of left and
right but when you look at where the
right is at the moment you've got this
Trump thing going on which you can say
is part of the right and then you've got
this old party thing that they started
six or eight years ago those two things
are very different and I know when you
put them on a line they both look like
right but they're different and they
don't help each other which is why
they've got nothing done and then just
one more point before you jump in so I
went all up and down this district
during this election and I do think that
on certain issues people are going to
the left like even like the
establishment Republicans here were
behind him several years ago I saw many
local Republicans behind legalization of
marijuana at least medicinally so
there's certain issues where I think the
world's going to the left that I don't
think that that means that they're going
to go to the left on everything yeah
well let me just do it let me let me
just jump in here two things one is I I
think it is I think it is the case that
more people who support marijuana
legalization are to the left than to the
right but that position is really it's
just people coming around on a commodity
you know I mean honestly like at the end
of the day it's not there there's
there's not much there's there's like
old vestiges from the 60s of tribalism
there it is not you know the the ability
of the conservatives to essentially
release the relevance of an issue is I
think we we can't overestimate I mean we
saw it with the deficit I think you're
right in terms of there's these sort of
so-called tea party strains and Trump
strains but this idea that they can't
get anything done what are they
to get done like like the the agenda of
both of these groups at the end of the
day is to destroy government and they're
doing a great job of that
they're there they are packing the
judiciary the federal judiciary with
with judges who do not think that
government has the ability to do most of
the things it does and will slowly chip
away at that they are giving more power
to corporations they have that the the
tax bill that passed completely favors
money over labor they have been able to
destroy public sector or at least one of
the key means in which public sector
unions fund themselves I mean they've
done a lot and I don't know what the
other agenda that people think that the
right has I mean they want to get rid of
Obamacare but not based upon any
ideological grounds or even it's just
because that they said that they wanted
to and it makes it seem like they should
do something but at the end of the day
like their agenda is pretty simple it is
a destructive one when it comes to
government and it's one to just empower
corporations and money and they've done
that and caller if you have a girl
you're dating who might be a Republican
that is exactly the type of tirades you
should give her every single day
take a flipper to the Democratic Party
yeah I mean can I just go define I get a
hundred percent Pro legal weed but like
John Boehner is on the board of a
marijuana company like right it's not a
radical thing at all any of course it's
even being separated from a broader
ending of the drug war I mean it's not a
thing call him from a 509 area code
who's this were you calling from Tim
yeah Jim yes the Ronald Reagan Ronald
Reagan how are you what's on your mind
Mike asked me Mike asked me is taking
the Mississippi Senate race to a runoff
no I did
are we winning or way I mean yeah we are
I just tuned in and he gave me caught up
when was the last time you tuned in Wow
how many who the candidates are I'm
playing Legos right now and I can you
text me after I gotta go okay appreciate
the call
good bye bye bye boy yeah Democrats so
far I have a net gain of 16 see House
seats obviously they need 22 but people
projecting they're gonna get that or 23
I should say calling from a two one five
area code who's this where you come from
hello hello hey what's up Sam how you
doing man I'm doing good how you doing
oh good man this Erickson Philadelphia
big fan man
oh well thank you Eric I appreciate that
what's any money and big fan of Mike to
hilarya preciate that a little bit less
but nevertheless oh well after seeing
what's been going on around the country
my topic well what I was going to
comment on has changed I know this might
sound bad or sound pretty racist but the
biggest victims of white supremacy are
poor white people I don't understand
poor black yellow that might disagree
with you on that lies on let's not go
with that track let's not do that no
doubt I'm saying that so I'm saying that
as a black person yeah like it's there
roaming in that Panhandle Andrew Gilliam
was clearly the better choice not
because he was a Democrat but because he
was for everybody and the census had
shown on stage he has zero composure he
can't even answer questions he's
incompetent I would say this I would say
this I think that there is an argument
and you know this came
up in the conversation I had with Carol
Anderson about you who who wrote white
rage and and wrote one person no vote
and we were talking about the in the
antebellum South the or maybe this is
actually it was I'm sorry it was posed
to post-reconstruction the the the white
upper-class basically made the decision
like look we're we're going to we're
going to disenfranchise white poor
people with our poll tax too but that's
okay like it you know we're that's the
way that we're going to get black people
not to be able to vote and same with you
know literacy tests and we're also going
to disenfranchise poor white people but
that's okay and and in that dynamic
where the where we're white people
living in poverty pay for white
supremacy I think that's true
you know but I also think that there's
that's different than saying that
they're the biggest victims of it
because you you're still walking around
society as as a black guy and there's a
whole nother set of of things that I'm
sure I don't need to tell you that you
are gonna deal with right but but I
think the I the notion like being
 cool no but the the notion the
notion that white that there are groups
of white people who they may not realize
it and they may get something from it
you know emotionally on some level but
they certainly suffer in you know in a
material way because of white supremacy
because they are you know it's like you
go fishing you know we want you cast a
net for for dolphin and you get or you
cast enough for tuna and you get dolphin
in there that's immoral you know like
the idea is that you're you know that's
just the price of doing doing business
but I think your points a good one yeah
it's I'm sorry if I explained it poorly
I've been drinking heavily I think look
I hate clocks bugs me that someone will
vote against their interest like you
work in a sardine factory and rural
whatever and you think you're voting
against me because you think I'm going
to get something for the government I
never got any of that free stuff I was
promised from Obama apparently all this
free stuff I supposed to be getting
smartphones and Eric yes care and all
that Eric got the right coupon Gilliam
Gilliam is giving his concession speech
right now I just want to hear Gilliam I
appreciate the call Eric here we go that
we need to be as a state y'all I want to
encourage you not to give up I want to
encourage you to stick to the fight I
want you to know that every step of this
way even though I won't have the
blessing of serving as the next governor
of the state of Florida I still plan to
be on the front lines right alongside
every single one of you when it comes to
standing up for what it is that we
believe in as I said all along the
campaign trail power sees nothing
without a demand it never has and it
never will we still have to be willing
to show up every single day and demand
our seat at the table we got to be
willing inside of elections and outside
of elections to say that our voices
still matter that we still have
relevance I still believe and I still
trust the voters we may not have all
shown up in the way that we thought
thought and hoped that we would but I
still believe that there are still more
of us who believe in what is common and
what is decent and what is right and I
believe in the long run good always wins
out over evil
I still believe that many of you are
along the trail heard me talk rather
repeatedly about my grandmother someone
pointed out that she was a real winner
of the governor's race my grandmother
who poured so much into us because my
mother and father as I would often share
would have to get up so early in the
morning and go off to work they would
load us up in the car and take us over
to my grandmother's house where we would
sleep just a little bit longer and my
grandmother would often have a ritual
there was a two-step ritual the first
phase of that is this she'd grab her
bottle of olive oil
sometimes cooking oil whatever the
shiniest oil was as she can get her
hands on and she would build a cross
across my forehead it was her way of
sending us out into the day with a
blessing that no harm would come our way
and then she would have this refrain
where she would say boy go to school
mind your teachers get your lesson and
one day bring that education home she
would say bring it home for your little
brother and your little sister who don't
know what it is yet bring it home bring
it home for that little boy down the
street that you play with God knows
where he's gonna end up bring it home
she said bring it home for your mama and
for your daddy who get out there every
single day going to work on somebody
else's job in order to keep a roof over
your head and clothes on your back and
food on the table bring it home as I
share with you on the campaign trail I
didn't always know what my grandmother
was trying to communicate but I would
come to learn that what she was saying
is that it wasn't just about me
y'all I'm reminded this evening that it
is not about me that it's not about my
wife not Chris King not Kristen this is
about all of us it's about the
collective this is about the belief that
if we all do good we can all do good
and we can do good by doing good that if
we all put our oars in the water and row
in the same direction that we can all
get further than by ourselves I still
believe that to be true this evening
even in defeat I believe that to be true
the question is we have a choice to make
tomorrow morning are we gonna wake up in
Baskin sorrow in defeat or are we gonna
get up and reassert ourselves to the
mission at hand are we gonna get up and
fight for the things that we believe in
are we going to get up and say that we
still deserve our seat at the table
look I said before that I believe that
we have to take it happens have a table
in the state that is long enough that is
wide enough that is deep enough to fit
all of us I still believe that we gotta
have that table but y'all we just gonna
have to do a little bit more work in
order to build that table we're gonna
have to do a little bit more in order to
make our way to it if there's not a
chair there for us let's pull up our own
I don't know let's show our let's make
sure our work here a little bit here's
what just happened
we got alerted that Gilliam was giving
the speech we're calling DeSantis the
apparent winner in Florida though this
had not happened we had not called the
race before the speech started and last
that's not terribly interesting to us in
New York's 19th del Gado
wins over faso this is the race that
this is the district that Zephyr
Teachout lost to Faso last go through
Bursar's had put in a ton of money seven
billion dollars into this district which
is just stunning to me knowing that
district quite well it is pretty rural
like I know seven billion dollars could
could do a lot in just any one of those
parts of those of that district but
Delgado wins this
they very racially charged race and by
racially charged I mean Faso was
incredibly racist with his with his
electioneering referred to him as the
rapper yeah this is the guy who I think
like he's a Rhodes Scholar
yes something similar he also ran his
second LP was called old scholar us
build our oh yeah brat looks like looks
like he maybe they just called it for
brat I mean they just called the purse
Pam sorry man but a brat Goes Down
that's a big that's great if swamp is
going to win there the sixth District of
Illinois outside Chicago feeted the
first District of Iowa this is one of
those places that surged by double
digits towards Donald Trump in 2016
Northeast Iowa rod Blum Republican
incumbent he is going to lose a beef ink
now I think see he was poised to be the
youngest woman ever elected to Congress
and then he had that big upset in Joe
Crowley's district earlier this year I
think she will never become the second
youngest woman jersey second district
here Jeff van Drew has declared victory
according to the Philadelphia Inquirer
here
but Seth Grossman this is an interesting
story that is this close
Seth Grossman was disowned by the
National Republican Party and denounced
by the chairman of the New Jersey State
Republican Party for racist and bigoted
comments the word and then he gained
prominence amongst Republican sitting at
50 to 48 and we haven't officially
called it at this point at this hour is
somewhat noteworthy but if Andrew does
hang on in our projection then that
would be a democratic pick up there as
well
also just coming across the wire the 7th
District of Texas Wow this is in a lot
of places in Texas suburban this is
another one that goes green here a
Hillary Clinton districts in 2016
flips to their Democrat Lizzy Fletcher
taking out John Culberson you want to go
way back in time a half a century when
the Republican Party was in its infancy
in Texas where did it have one of its
first big breakthroughs it was in this
district in Treme it was by a man named
George HW Bush who won a house see here
about 50 years ago seats been Republican
since then no longer Democrat Lizzie
Fletcher takes that we have also we said
there were a couple of a couple of seats
here that Republicans were targeting up
for oh there were democratic seats that
Republicans were targeting Republicans
have picked up House the 8th this is the
area that's really swung hard to kind of
blue conditionally so Democrats you know
I it's too difficult right at the moment
to sort of break down exactly but
there's clearly a different pattern here
then I think people and Steve King is
still winning Mindy Oh Sam can you hear
me we've been listening to everybody no
oh my god I'm so embarrassed
okay every single person who's going to
the show has been dropped right but now
not how were you listening to me for a
while Mindy look don't worry about it
about a half hour no one's gonna
remember this tomorrow well man I'm so
embarrassed so no I was drunken now not
by you sober Oh we had no right we had
no right requesting I mean we were gone
ups with the Senate we knew we weren't
gonna get it I mean we're taking their
house that's real
it's keeping everybody in the game we're
still going to be engaged I mean I'm
upset about you um I'm upset about
Stacey Abrams and it's upset about bado
but you know the country is just not
there yet I mean it's up but
they're not and we just got to wait it
out a little longer
we took some really good seeds we love
Steve a bride who else do we lose we
picked up spam burger we look we lost
the chick in my area the Chinese chick
that was running against the other chick
in my area who was running as
Republicans ridiculous
I think my neighbor's losing your
neighbors I think my name right now I
think my neighbors losing and who else
was Lee rough-ass oh right we will
converse wait who else do we lose we we
picked up a lot of really good
governor's I think we should be happy
this guy so much better than five so
much better than 5:30 they're already
talking about about knocking on the door
first tax returns that's right
I mean we are we are gonna be ball him
for the next two years it's gonna be fun
we're gonna what D ball him OD ball
they're probably inverted right they're
probably not even on the outside we're
gonna make him so crazy I mean it's just
crazier
it's gonna be great we're gonna have a
great time with this everybody needs to
be optimistic was gonna work out good
fries okay well alright don't be rude
don't I don't want to turn Minnie into
an insult but well Mindy Mindy right no
great great this is how's the voodoo
doll going Mindy yeah what's been going
on with it
gave up on the voodoo doll at the
beginning was so confusing you couldn't
like figure they were they were like not
telling us who was getting seats so I
was like trying to make charts with
different colored sharpies that well I
was trying to be Tim Russert it wasn't
working out so I don't know how to I
never did that but but but that's I get
your point Tim Russert into voodoo dolls
we now on the last time you wrought beat
the press I gave you one prick for lying
about your stance on the capital gains
Mindy I I think I think that your your
words are words to live by people should
keep their heads up I mean I think there
was a lot of like emotion invested in
the idea of Stacey Abrams winning or
Andrew Gilliam winning or bet O'Rourke
winning or two out of three I think I
was telling myself like that would be
amazing and I think you know there
people are really really the the thirsty
for you know some type of real
significant victory and we may just have
to settle with you know this somewhat
incremental but like you say the dynamic
has changed this is going to mitigate
some of the damage that Donald Trump
could do that's certainly not nearly all
the damage in some ways this will not
make a huge difference it's just against
the the counterfactual of them losing
the house and validating the last two
years would have been indescribably bad
so Mindy you're right and wait wait
we're saying first things just remember
this to a lot of these senators like Joe
Donnelly and Bill Nelson they weren't
real great senators I mean I know they
were Democratic senators but they
weren't Angier Gilliam they weren't
cesium's they weren't bado I mean you
know we can come back with them they
weren't they were just bodies so
DC yeah no I agree we're gonna want
those hello tell the Chinese chick that
tomorrow I tweeted about her ready I
already told her make the reverse hidden
inside she was like totally on the wrong
team she was cute though drunk my
transgender joke was not a transgender
Mindy thank you for by good night make a
make a shrine to Ruth Bader Ginsburg to
keep her alive well in the meantime you
know spelling that out sounds somewhat
invidious and we don't really have time
to clean up the mess alright let's let's
take a couple more phone calls what do
we got another like 15-20 minutes and
then our stream dies so we have 12
minutes all right we got time for one
more call I mean we have callers who
have been on the line for over two hours
we still have 50 i guess 50 is the max
and which can hold on to the line and
I'm gone from a 2-0 5 area code who's
this where you come from they skedaddled
come from a 702 area code who's this
where you come from
yeah it's Paco from Las Vegas what's on
your mind
gotta be quick for me it's this thing
that everybody doesn't have confidence
and that's the country's more
progressive than it is I have this
with gerrymandering I think that's the
main issue I don't know what you guys
start on it word but is there any way
that we can fight this like what what
the house can do or how do we fix that
issue well I mean really there's only
one way to fix it I mean the Marco I
mean the and it you're right it is an
issue and it's going to be and I
appreciate the call and we're gonna see
you tomorrow maybe a day or two we will
see the difference between the
percentage of votes nationally that
Democrats won in congressional races and
the number of races that they won and
where they land in terms of
representation so in other words if it's
232 you know one 90s whatever I can't do
the math right now the percentage we'll
see how the votes match up with that
percentage and but the the fact is the
only thing you can do about it is to win
state houses take another quick one call
from a five seven one area code who's
this I didn't think I would get on no
yeah this is um cold wall from Virginia
what's up hey yeah sorry no don't worry
Mike I'll be quick um two quick things
why why don't you think that men
neutrality is a wedge issue for
Democrats like earlier talking about we
need all this systemic issues fixed
voter suppression all that all that
stuff right but to do that we need power
why don't mm that they keep coming back
to in order to get that power to fix
those systemic issues I think net
neutrality it can be semi effective but
you know I think I think most people
don't know about net neutrality and so
you know health care seems to me to be a
pretty good issue I mean in terms of net
neutrality where it would work I mean
what what House districts are you
talking about what states do you think
that net neutral
would be a wedge issue in I'm in
Virginia one so I'm pretty close to DC
the this area is a pretty big tech
sector yeah I just feel like if it's
explained well I know but it would get I
think a large amount of the younger
people I think Virginia is one of the
few states that it could theoretically
gain you some traction but I think
that's pretty rare to be honest with you
and so I mean I think you know that
that's basically it I mean you know this
that net neutrality is a perfect example
of an issue that Garner's a lot of
attention when you have a democratic
would the white out that's exactly I
appreciate the caller would be pretty
concerned about this Guatemalan Caravan
that's gonna turn this into an Islamic
Republic but on the other hand the
bisexual Democratic candidate is into
you protecting the open pipelines and
the Internet's that are is in a
corporate monopoly so I'm gonna flip my
vote on that yeah I just Debbie won
that's all right
debbie Stabenow returns all right folks
listen I am sorry but I think we have
run out of time in about five minutes
we're gonna lose our stream and we will
lose they don't even record this video
and we've had that happen to us only go
back four hours and so we don't want
that to happen we will be here tomorrow
noon subscribe to this channel if you
had don't already subscribe to this
channel we do live shows every day noon
Eastern and of course we have a bunch of
other videos on this program on Tuesday
nights
usually when we don't have midterms the
Michael Brooks show happens live 7:00
p.m. Eastern
every Tuesday there'll be a special
edition this Sunday there's gonna be
special edition next Friday and no
Sunday's the patron content with Bill
Fletcher jr. not live not live no to
live shows next week Tuesday and Friday
Tuesday and Friday next week
all right folks thanks so much for
joining us we will see you
at least spare to stop sign out or at
least just do the Sam Harris drop over
it alright fine but it's not true we won
the house it's true dice lights - so
true - no man there's two people on our
side the election results tight are
complex and in some ways terrible and in
some ways actually good yeah
the house is really not nothing I think
oh no it's you those people you know I
get it
I'm gonna sleep a lot better tonight
than I did when I went home in 2016
well that's true one in the house
nothing now with that said the next
three months are gonna be - now that's
you're gonna borrow crap show yes so
buckle up folks I think things are gonna
get absolutely insane over the next two
months that's my my humble prediction
tomorrow is alert time indeed and we
will see you at 12 noon bye-bye
but I know some
[Music]
I was
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option well you don't get paid
[Music]
break
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
