so Heather this week started off I guess
it was maybe last week when she she came
to New York me boo it was a week or two
ago but Greta thunderbirds she is a 16
year old girl from Sweden
she took a ship across the Atlantic to
come to make the point to the UN that
our leadership in the world the world
leadership is failing it's failing the
next generation is failing generations
to come and she was an an amazingly
eloquent and a passionate speaker and I
you know I think it's possible to
overestimate what the power of one
person has to implicate the the fight
against climate change but it's also
there's not you know it's going to take
a series of people like this before we
start to you know the see stuff and
obviously the climate events themselves
also have probably much more of an
impact but this is important and I know
and I think it is possible to
underestimate how important it is to
young people in particular oh absolutely
I mean we were talking the last segment
about how you know Sanders is has been
working on this sort of you know labor
democratic socialist kind of movement
well this is other that led you know
it's sort of led by her I mean she's one
of the leaders one of the main spokes
people for it and she's extremely
effective that in the way that she
conveys the urgency of this problem to
people of her age and a God knows you
know you know you've got kids you must
sit there and go oh my god you know what
are the what are my children facing here
and there she was were saying this out
loud but that movement is global I mean
they had this client disc strike this
climate strike just in the last week it
was kids all over the planet skipped
school went out and got into the streets
you know helped along by some adults who
who actually care her but back
love their children and you know it you
can see the you know the deep sort of
passionate commitment not just from from
her but from these kids who are you know
being awakened at a very young age to a
crisis that they are going to be facing
and taking it very seriously it's funny
because I was watching the footage and I
was wondering you know hey yeah okay
they're all getting off school you know
is this just it was not just fun and
games I mean you could tell these kids
were serious and this was in the in the
marches all over the world that this was
a you know they mean it they get it they
understand it the signs they were
holding the interviews that they gave it
was very moving to me you know I mean
I'm leaving this world behind and
they're the ones who are going to
inherit this and it's terrifying to me
as I'm watching what's happening with
the climate and the unbelievable
obtuseness of leaders everywhere who are
in not just ignoring it in the case of
Donald Trump it going taking affirmative
steps to make it worse I can hardly
believe that that's happening in the
face of this crisis so you know this was
the I think that this was a very
meaningful moment I mean she she you
know is a symbol and she's also you know
a spokesperson in her own right but this
idea of a 16 year old girl from Sweden
one day deciding not to go to school and
holding up a sign outside her school
saying I'm on strike because of the the
in action on climate change and then
turning this into and you know what is
growing into a global movement you know
it just it well for one thing it kind of
gives me hope because you know you can
see that that for all the talk of
cynicism and politics and all of the the
idea that the youth doesn't really get
it or they're you know hooked into their
phones or whatever the other you know
criticisms are this shows that that that
that actually isn't true and if they can
they can find a way to make people move
to make leaders move on this and and I
think maybe
maybe they can that you know this could
be one of those times in human history
they I mean this is an existential
crisis
you know the humans may actually live
through this if they don't do something
you know I think that it is it is a very
meaningful thing you know and you sit
here in the United States and watch this
political system completely you know
just whiff on the idea of actually doing
what needs to be done you know you just
got a hope that we can survive long
enough for these kids to take over yeah
and we should say that the IPCC put out
a report that does not look good for
particularly for the oceans they report
night climate climate change has already
had staggering effects on oceans
it's killing claw coral reefs
it is obviously sort of empowering these
super storms it is creating heat waves
and record losses of sea ice we're
seeing you know it's already here it's
just that it's it's a little bit you
know it's gonna it and I think people
are starting to get the idea of like
when they start to see these events that
it is it's impossible maybe to attribute
a specific event to climate change but
the totality people are starting to I
think become aware of it and you know
whether it's extreme floods you know
these so-called hundred year floods that
we're now seeing like multiple times in
a decade
these are our major problems and I don't
it's it's scary because it's not hard to
think that maybe we're just not going to
see any activity by governments around
the world until there is more like just
more death more pressure on
the government's whether it's you know
refugees or whatnot it's it's it's scary
it's terrifying Sam and the fact is I
mean of course we're already seeing this
I mean we're seeing the the part of the
the migrant crisis not so much here but
although that has been part of it but
around the world
well apparently massive migrations the
the the we heard reporting I think was
the past week or two that Trump's own
custom and Border Patrol put out a
report that many of the migrants were
seeing from Guatemala are a function of
climate change and they suppressed it
for a year and it just you know sort of
leaked out I mean so this is the type of
stuff that we're doing it implicates
every single issue that we deal with
climate change does like you say from
migration or anything else and hopefully
hopefully we took a step in the right
direction this week although you know
impeaching Donald Trump is gonna help as
much as anything probably at this point
Heather
we'll talk more next week I imagine
we're gonna have a lot more impeachment
to talk about I always as always I
appreciate it
