[Music]
well do a couple more stories in the fun
app but I want to go over this briefly
because this is sort of amazing to me
we've talked about this so Steven grat
Crowder is one of those guys who has
been avoiding you know any real debates
on policy is an interesting program and
I just heard the other day from from a
friend who I don't talk to too often her
son said to her hey I heard Sam might
debate Crowder I hope he does cuz that
guy's horrible and the kid is a kid I
know he's like 14 15 and this is the
thing that's problematic about steven
crowder that it's really twofold one he
spews this right-wing garbage he debates
college kids over it and if you're
fourteen or fifteen you can't quite tell
like hey wait a second that doesn't make
sense why doesn't he have a real debate
about it he pretend he has these pretend
debates it's like when you're a kid
thinking like wow these Harlem
Globetrotters they're the best
basketball team in the world every time
they play this team from Washington
the Wizards they beat them why don't
they just play in the NBA
why don't we win every single Y they
probably aren't in the NBA it wouldn't
be good and that's what you think is a
kid and the other aspect of what Crowder
does because he's speaking to right-wing
inclined teenage boys who are get jazzed
about guns and imagine that a you're an
adult
if you smoke cigars and drink a bottle
of whiskey I mean this is this is all
stuff I've been there I was a kid I was
14 you look at that stuff anything
like that's what it is to be an adult
and you assume like that's all the adult
stuff that you get to do and crowder
also sort of mixes in a very healthy
dose of racism and gay bashing in a sort
of jocular tone right I'm just I'm just
telling jokes but how gay people talk
like this I mean it's really the most
juvenile level of of comedy I mean it's
not even a juvenile it's not even a
level of comedy it's just juvie
it it's almost definitional a juvenile
and so one of the the ways that he mixes
this in is to go after this guy on Vox
what's his name aza Carlos maza
and who does these YouTube explainers on
different issues and we played a clip of
of Crowder that was assembled of Crowder
basically every time he does one of
these rebuttals to Carlos maza which you
know of course you should be doing
rebuttals if you're if you're if you're
you disagree politically but he always
like sort of buttons them with like he's
gay and he's Mexican so not terribly
relevant it's just it's just gratuitous
not that there's non gratuitous but it's
just gay bashing and in racism out
homonyms are not arguments well I mean
add homonyms are fine too it's just that
when you make it about about someone
being gay or Mexican what happens is is
you're sending a message to those little
kids those teenagers who watch you you
know if it's odd homonym somebody says
like oh look at Sam cedar four-eyes
or this guy's you know condescending or
he's a shill or whatever it is there's
no kids out there who hear that and then
go and ostracize bully beat up other
kids because you're condescending but if
they're gay if they're Mexican that's
what it breeds so I have no problem with
autonomous autonomous
particularly if you're broadcasting out
of Austin Texas and you're attacking
transgender folks and you're attacking
Mexicans maybe you've read the paper and
you realize that there have been two
murders of transgender women in the past
two weeks and Dallas half a dozen I
think it is now five maybe in the past
two or three years in Dallas I don't
think it's somebody who listens to
steven crowder but if steven crowder
keeps working at it and keeps preaching
like this maybe someday he'll succeed
and be able to reach somebody who does
that I mean why else right I mean if
you're going to go on and attack
somebody essentially attack gay people
attack Mexicans what is your end goal
your goal is to get rid of them right
and so it's a success for you if one of
your students goes out and beats the gay
out of somebody and so Mazda's
complained to youtube about it publicly
because he gets a lot of harassment for
being gay
and I don't know what the solution is to
this obviously you could dimana ties his
entire channel he can keep doing what
he's doing but you can demonetised it
like you're not silencing anybody by
completely de monetizing a channel there
was a lot of people who were demonetized
almost all politics were demonetized
about a year and a half ago and it
sucked it sucked but if that's what it
takes let's do it if it's unfair for the
guy who's gay bashing to be demonetised
and not us be to monetize to monetize us
too because at the end of the day
anything that we do here has no
relevance if our getting money from this
allows him to keep doing what he's doing
and getting paid for it and here is here
is a and the reason why I say this okay
I mean this is there was a time actually
where some members of Congress right
when air America started where they
wanted to institute the Fairness
Doctrine they was Louise slaughter
actually and she invited me down to talk
about it because there was no other
talkers who would come and support it
and because right and left they knew
that the business model is not
supportable in the way that it would be
if there was a Fairness Doctrine people
don't like to mix in their left and
right commentary on the same channel and
my attitude was like you know the reason
why I'm doing this is because I mean I
need to make a living but that's
secondary to doing this if I want to
make a living I'll go get a different
job and if you're worried about the
suppression of free speech
then the first thing you should be doing
is saying D monetize him and D monetize
me if that's the concern because if you
don't do that then I get a question like
what your motivation is here I'm not
worried about censoring in it and if
people are worried that that that
YouTube is too dominant and cut it up
decouple it from from Google's
advertising revenue make it a different
company have competition for advertising
make it more transparent so the
corporations can know what they're
associating themselves with make it less
financially viable if you're worried
about the censoring that's involved if
you tell gay bashers that you can't make
money off of your channel like you can't
use that as a loss leader I don't care
if they D monetize that one video do you
monetize the whole channel as we know
how this works right this is a business
model Netflix HBO they all have the same
business model the shows that you read
about aren't necessarily the ones that
everybody's watching those are the shows
that get people to buy the service to
come in that's called a loss leader and
so even if you D monetize his gay
bashing that's a loss leader it brings
people onto the channel they make the
money the other way so I have no problem
with people going after a steven crowder
I'm we're not going to be bereft because
he's gay bashing we're not gonna get
enough of the joking about lisping and
whatnot and if it's a slippery slope
then let's just slide down it everybody
gets demonetised all politics
demonetised let's do it
and the reason why I say this and we
talked about mozzie yesterday is because
there's been some people ostensibly on
the Left who are taking issue with with
the with maza calling for Crowder to
stop doing what he's doing what's this
is this uh Jimmy yeah yeah here's our
old friend Jimmy Dore who was so toxic
they had to jettison him from TYT oh no
I know he wanted to go tour you want to
go to her here is awful to create smart
thorough engaging content for Utah's it
this is he's reading off a Carla Carlos
Moses uh tweet where he is contacting
YouTube and saying like look I've been
doxxed because of this guy we also got
this video for a progressive voice and I
think he pulled it from his
paywall stream so it's a little bit low
quality but oh is this a UH one of
Jimmy's paywall this what you gotta pay
to hear yeah a company that claims to
give a about LGBT creators and it's
miserable to have that same company
helping facilitate a truly mind-melting
amount of direct harassment really is
this what your complaint it's not funny
my family sees this oh really
really you heard about the families of
the five thousand kids that have been
killed in Yemen what about those
families really really it family sees
the I had to explain to my much
younger sister what the is steven
crowder is and asked my siblings not to
respond I have to explain to my nephew
what a news dupe is who pushes
wark for military-industrial
complex
24/7 explained to them that Wolf Blitzer
Jake Tapper Rachel Maddow and Chris
Hayes are war mongers and they're tools
of the establishment and that's why
they'll never tell you the truth which
is why we have Trump as president I had
to explain that to my nephew my family
sees this
this guy what a snowflake this
guy is this isn't about silencing
conservatives I don't give a flying
of conservatives on YouTube disagree
with me sounds like you do but by
refusing to enforce its anti harassment
policy YouTube is helping incredibly
powerful cyberbully I'm being bullied
Carlos maza Jesus h christ
anyway if you want to help i guess you
can go to this dude's videos and flag
them but youtube isn't going to do
anything because youtube does not give a
 about clear creators it cares about
engagement and homophobic racist
harassment is very engaging again the
problem isn't Crowder there will always
be a trying to
get attention by being bigots the
problem is that YouTube is designed to
give those of megaphone push
new followers in their direction and
keep them listening it's a weapon uh-oh
sounds like he wants to get rid of
YouTube let's see harassment isn't
siloed either every time he makes one of
these videos his fans flood the comments
on the original Fox video so a piece I
spent four weeks working on is drowning
in homophobic and abusive comments and
downvotes
other all right so there it is jimmy
dore pooh-poohing the idea that this
guy's getting attacked for being gay is
a bit more here finishing that thought
comments and downvotes other other Fox
Vann see it it's humiliating what is
wrong with you what is wrong
with you are you kidding me you're upset
that people are down voting your videos
and you're humiliated what in the
 is wrong with you whatever
I mean the the the the I'm less
concerned with his feeling humiliated
and downvoted than Jimmy just saying
that well who cares if steven crowder is
gay bashing you because there are kids
dying in yemen
Mozza incidentally one of his videos was
about the the media promoting the
heritage how the media weapons fetish
Prime's us for war that's not like maza
has been a cheerleader for Yemen but
somehow door justifies Steven Crowder's
and this is you know you know what this
is about this is about Jimmy worried
that he's gonna get demonetized if this
is what it's all about
and there are some youtubers who are at
the very least I've seen who are at the
very least honest about it but this is
Jimmy worried that he's gonna get
demonetised to that we're all gonna get
D monetized because a youtuber is
complaining about being gay bashed talk
about hip hypocritical Jimmy tore his
entire channel has been built upon
saying that people who make money are
you gonna make too much money on on
cable television that Chris Hayes is
responsible for Jennifer Donald Trump
being elected how is that the plan I
thought the plan was Jimmy was gonna
make sure that Hillary Clinton lost so
the Democrats could learn a lesson so
they could nominate Elizabeth Warren
look that up like you for that was that
was he said that in his debate with you
oh is that what he said yeah I don't
know Elizabeth Warren who he's now
attacked himself but but this is this is
this is the point is that you know like
Jimmy's making a very good argument that
really the whole thing should be
demonetized and I would say that tmv is
doing pretty well and I'm not totally
sure I agree with all this whole do you
monetize everybody think I just actually
I just think it's incredibly
hypocritical to say like we can't figure
out how to deal with someone being gay
bashed and in to equate to pooh-pooh the
idea that maza doesn't care about
conservatives disagreeing with them and
then laughs like oh it seems like you do
I think what do you
referring to his I don't like the fact
that he's calling me you know he's
basically queerbaiting me we all know
that if you complain about being doxed
that means that you don't care about the
genocide in Yemen well he's making kind
of a weird argument he's saying like
don't hate the player hate the game
YouTube financially incentivizes people
to do hate speech therefore they're
gonna do it and then YouTube is what
hypocrites if they censor it but like
that that kind of argument could be
extended to like capitalism as a whole
right it doesn't get the abusers off the
hook yeah I mean I'm Jimmy Dore is not
an anti-capitalist way the third I mean
the other thing that just strikes me is
like one you could just do monetize all
political channels for sure - you need -
regardless of that start breaking up
these companies I don't think that that
that to me is a separate track that
needs to happen and then three there's
the other aspect of companies these
platforms acknowledging that their media
publishers and in fact hiring and paying
well human editors and content curator
you know whatever the hell they want to
call them and in recognizing that look
there's a journalistic platform we need
to actually invest in it
YouTube is quite efficient at giving you
copyright strikes well there you go okay
if we were to go and use material that
is copyrighted material we have three
strikes there's two things that can
happen one if one of our songs hits the
stream we get demonetized for the entire
video it can be one minute of a song and
a two and a half hour show and we get to
monetize for the whole thing fine that's
somebody else's content there no they
want the money for it whatever we can
also get a community strike against us
if we use copyrighted material without
the permission without the credit and we
don't we don't have fair use for it so
YouTube can de monetize we get three
copyright strikes three community
strikes
we are demonetized period as a channel
there's no reason why they can't do that
I mean I just would say I mean obviously
they can do that with machines and
algorithms and AI and stuff like that
but I think with you know what I would
say about the need to actually have
editors and so on is you know I mean
before what it's worth like I think that
if you were a channel that did forget
even maybe you could even make a
distinction that okay whatever or if you
do political opinion D monetize it sure
okay you know that's one proposal but if
you did anything having to do with an
actual journalistic enterprise and one
thing that I do see is a potential
problem that's much bigger than jimmy
dore whining about this but as i say
like the way facebook has treated telus
or as an example is a huge problem and
these companies are both ideologically
and business-wise not equipped to
distinguish between Alex Jones and
somebody doing an actual documentary
series on as an example that's why you
break them up that's when you break them
up you break them up and I think though
frankly even when they are broken up
their media platforms and media
platforms are eventually going to need
to have actual journalistic components
to them and be treated as such and hire
as such and investors I think that you
need I mean look you could base your
your conditions upon you know something
like I don't know the way that we do
anti-discriminatory housing practices or
something like that because obviously
there is ripe for abuse soon as you know
Institute that demonetised the whole
platform the whole channel type of thing
we're gonna get attacked Sam stiff you
know calls conservatives a-holes or
whatever it is but you can make it about
religion you can make it about and you'd
have to assess it on a complaint by
complaint basis and there would be
certain amount of channels that would be
targeted for it no doubt but
the idea that you're just gonna say like
okay we're not gonna worry about that
because of the policy and Yemen how
about what it kind of shot wait you know
like whoa like who are you kidding
jimmy dore cries like a little baby and
i know this for a fact because I know
the people he cried to about it when he
was made to look stupid
I didn't raise it because these people
are mutual friends but I got I had
people talk to me
Jimmy's upset he's upset because you
made him look like an idiot
well I'm sorry he made himself look like
an idiot I wasn't gonna say anything
about it because he told me he was ill
and he was suffering whatever but if
this is the game we got a plank you're
gonna cry about your illness when there
are people dying in Yemen seriously
you're gonna cry about that stuff when
there's there's climate change but give
me a break
what a baby what a disingenuous baby all
right
we've gone too long well it looks like
we have some new news about this
actually what's this
YouTube will now block discriminatory
content just a day after saying it
didn't violate his policies YouTube
announced Wednesday that it will
prohibit videos that promote
discrimination or segregation based on
things like age gender race caste
religion or veteran status the
announcement comes just a day after the
video platform was criticized how it
handles homophobic content thousands of
channels are expected to be affected by
the policy change shortly there you go
YouTube's new anti Supremacy policy is a
joke a shiny prop meant to distract the
reporters and advertisers from the alley
which is YouTube doesn't actually
enforce any of these documents ask you
ask yourself
this if YouTube actually has been
enforcing these policies against hate
speech bullying why does it need an
additional policy for supremacist
content isn't it already included it's
all a smokescreen they don't enforce any
of this don't well this is this is
the capitalism component because when
they do this there's two components of
this I mean one obviously you know
whatever they all decided to go after
Alex Jones together and you know sure
but but a vast majority of these things
it so far maybe this will be new but
this would be my guess effect relatively
very marginal channels like the reason
that Crowder didn't face any consequence
is not because the employees at YouTube
think he's funny or agree with his
politics necessarily it's because he's
got a lot of views alright that's it
that's how it works and then the other
part like a Twitter you know like just
even the games like some of these people
on Twitter are like they've gotten
really aggressive at rudeness so you see
people who say like hey fu you know they
get banned or whatever fort or taken
offline but there's accounts of like you
know Spencer or Molyneux or whatever
they know how to keep in thin side the
parameters of what has been established
as you know quote unquote
non-threatening non bullying or whatever
so everybody around that has plausible
deniability and again all of those
counts I mean you know Twitter wouldn't
exist without all right accounts
starting with you know Donald Trump but
but but look none of this is ever going
to be perfect and you're not going to be
able to do that there's there's no
perfect way of doing it but the bottom
line is how do we diminish the number of
like there is research that shows that I
mean you go back to the Milgram
experiments you there is plenty of
research that shows that the context in
which stuff happens that predispositions
that people have are impacted
by the context the societal context
whatever that is and so if you diminish
the rhetoric Richard Spencer may still
be on Twitter what not but if he's out
there saying stuff that's like
marginally less offensive somewhat less
offensive somewhat less supremacist and
I don't know that Spencer isn't
necessarily a good example for this but
whatever that's going to help somewhat
there's no way to eliminate it all the
way through but you know and the issue
is less about like Carlos Moses feeling
he's just indicative of what's going on
out there for the thirteen-year-old boy
living in some town in Texas where the
kid is afraid to admit to himself even
that he's gay because of the hostility
around him or some other kid who gets
beat up because he's gay or some other
kid who gets killed because he's gay
that's the point we just know that
Carlos maza is got this problem because
it's directed at him and he has a
platform to discuss it but there are
literally thousands of other kids out
there who are living with this stuff
it's not like only Carlos Mazda hears it
it's not like just that kids who may be
gay are gay watch this and feel bad
about themselves it's that all of their
the kids that go to school with they're
watching this and Crowder sits
there and he's a voice of authority to
them I mean to us he looks like a
whose daddy has to follow him around for
whatever reason well I think like maybe
if we does but 2013 kid they look at
this guy and they think here's a role
model and it's cool to make fun of gay
kids
it's normal it's it's the way things
should be and I don't know I mean to
have to to say like well you shouldn't
complain about it because what's going
on in Yemen I seriously are you effing
serious my god how demented do you have
to be how much how dangerous are those
chemicals that you're putting in your
hair
oh is that childish to make fun of them
for his bad dye job should I be banned
I think that is an example of the
appropriate kind of ad hominem exactly
exactly one that kids are just not gonna
deal with all right
I get a little caught up caught up and I
just think that's disgusting I just
think it's absolutely disgusting I mean
my god I get it you got a brand yourself
because Michael Tracy went on and said
something about it and so now you know
that's your your crew your tribe I said
we're not going to we're not going to
you know we're not gonna side with the
guy from Vox because I don't like Vox
you dye your hair when kids are dying in
Yemen he's serious why don't you send
that money to uh
why'd you send that money to Yemen
instead of buying your hair dye that's
what it ad hominem is that doesn't
pertain to a whole class of people but I
know he's not gonna be bothered by that
I don't think our channel should be
financially demonetised
just sitting with that idea I don't like
it yeah yeah it's not it's not not solid
thinking I know there's a lot of you out
there are gonna clip that little segment
where it says like we're specifically
where I said you're you're crying about
kids with the Yemen and the hair dye and
oh you're gonna clip it so okay
sometimes we accept the world as it is
yeah what am I gonna do God give me the
grace to accept what I cannot change you
gotta use they gotta use the serenity
prayer a lot we're gonna take quick
