here is Donald Trump in Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania he is back on the rough up
the protesters but wink wink don't rough
up the protesters kick and we're gonna
see a lot more of this I mean this is
people should prepare themselves here is
you don't hurt him don't hurt him please
they don't know they're dealing with
very tough people in this room
they don't know who they're dealing with
I don't know who they're dealing with
they just don't understand all right
go home to mom explain to mom that you
tried to take on very powerful people
and many of them physically as well as
mentally that's not a good thing to do
not in this room be careful make sure
you don't hurt them please thank you
that's incredible because it there's the
incitement aspect but then it's also
just you know I hope people will get the
reference but please watch the Tonya
Harding movie and there's the guy who
sets the whole scheme to attack Nancy
Kerrigan in motion in the Tonya Harding
movie and that's like the Trump base so
the fact that he keeps flattering them
as being powerful it's also like this
perfect psychic symbiosis it's it's
amazing well and and then we have
footage right Brendan if I'm not
mistaken this is footage of the
protesters that were being thrown out is
that right yes who is he's suggesting
you know you're gonna be intimidated you
you're dealing with powerful people
these are a Jews who were responding to
the tree of life shooting that took
place in Pittsburgh at a Jewish
synagogue and happened a year ago and
here they are so these are the people
that Trump was was basically saying
careful you're gonna get beat up here
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
there you have it yep be careful go home
to mama
it's amazing the impulse of the people
that are there for Trump to hold like
jobs and energy growth you know closer
over those people's faces to try to
block their protest like we tapped and
why you jus
