all this stuff needs to be released and
I'm curious do you think that this
report is McCrea lie on this report as
opposed to anything else from a
political standpoint because I don't
necessarily get the sense that that's I
mean the 2018 election it seems to me
was very much about health care and it
seems to me the Democrats are gearing up
to make it about 2020 about health care
again - well I think they I think they
are yeah I mean they can and especially
since Donald Trump walked into this
ridiculous you know Maelstrom over
health care by saying that he was going
you know by joining that lawsuit and
then you know insisting against the
advice of his Attorney General and
others in his administration to join
that lawsuit to overturn Obamacare and
then say oh well you know we're gonna
replace it with something really great I
mean this was a big political mistake I
mean even Mitch McConnell isn't
nihilistic enough to say that you know
it's a great plan to overturn Obamacare
with nothing to replace it and then you
know try and squeeze the Democrats to
pass some horrible Republican plan just
to save some of the lives that are going
to be lost from that so even he would
didn't go along with that idea which was
Trump's plan I mean that was a strategy
right I mean he wanted it overturned and
then that we'd be looking at this horror
of people suddenly overnight becoming
uncovered and you know that that was the
method by which he'd strong-armed the
Democrats into doing it his way that was
what they were going to do and and you
know McConnell's going no that's not
going to work for us and they they
backed off and said well we're going to
do it and you know after after the
election so Democrats understand that
that is that is what they're going to
run on and a look at if you look at the
candidates out there they're not running
explicitly on Trump I mean of course he
comes up and of course they talk about
you know what what a devastating
presidency it is but that's not they're
their top line they're talking about all
the other all the issues that stem from
this presidency and from the Republican
agenda of health care and they're
talking about
you know income inequality they're
talking about college loans they're
talking about you know a lot of
bread-and-butter issues you know in
Quentin and not so bread-and-butter even
things like immigration I mean that is
that's a big part of both Lillian Castro
and bado Rourke's
pitch I mean there are a lot of things
you know there's prison reform there's
there's a homeless agenda that the
Democrats are going to run on
but Trump of course is part of it and I
don't see any reason why that precludes
them doing their job in the in the
Congress and in fact that is one of the
reasons why they won in 2018 was that
people expected them to come in and do
that oversight I mean they people
understand that Democrats are not going
to pass any laws in the next few years
that's not happening you know the best
they can do is kind of you know pass
some bills in the house that that lay
out what their agenda is and what their
wish list is and they're doing that
they're they you know they pest it gun
control bill they passed HR 1 the
government reform and election reform
bill I mean they passed bills and they
have those to run on and they'll
continue to do that but this oversight I
mean that's something that does that you
know they have to do it's their duty to
do it and it's also I think what
Democratic voters expected them to do so
I you know I don't think this idea that
they can't walk and chew gum at the same
time I I don't see that I don't see that
happening you know I mean whether or not
you know you mentioned the
demobilization demobilization of the
Democratic you know grassroots that went
into 2018 and made such a big splash and
I think there is some danger of they're
right but I'm I'm kind of thinking maybe
people are taking a little break you
know Trump is still in the White House
and I think we're coming into 2020 I
think I think that mobilization will
will return you know I mean I think it
you know this is exhausting stuff and
most of these people who work in
grassroots politics are you know they
have other lives - they've got jobs
they've got families and I think maybe
you know I sort of suspect I don't know
that for sure but that I just can't
believe there is going okay well we're
done now
I mean look he's still there and all
this awful stuff is still happening
so anyway hey you know and there's an
interesting way to maybe perhaps test
this thesis and that was there were some
elections this this week there was one
state Senate seat in Pennsylvania there
was a very very important election in
Wisconsin for the state Supreme Court
and there was some a you know local
elections in Chicago not such a small
town the results of all those elections
are fascinating both and when you look
at them individually but also you know
you can compare them because they all
happen on the same day so we have this
sort of like temporal control we got to
take a break when we come back in the
next hour I want to talk about those
elections I want to talk about what's
come out this week in terms of of the
2020 primary we are only now about two
months away from from the first debates
and as terrifying as that sounds we
heard about we're going to talk about
candidates which come out about Joe
Biden and what's come out about
fundraising all that and more in the
next hour if you'll join me Digby in the
meantime we got to take a quick break
we'll be right back with more ring fire
radio
