[Music]
what comes after you have to just like
you talked about sort of heading down a
road of fascism right like you know who
knows different people have different
definitions but who knows how far down a
road you go until you are called fascist
right because it's very easy to look in
retrospect and say this regime was
fascistic this regime was pure fascism
this had elements of it the thing about
the Trump administration has been that
it is it may not have crossed that
threshold I don't know where that is I
don't want to litigate it at this moment
but there are certain paths you have to
take to get to that point where history
looks back on this era and say this is
fascism and it inevitably the way that
these fascistic governments regimes
whatever it is operate as they start at
the weakest people weakest in terms of
political power weakest in terms of
their the most marginal perhaps they
have the least amount of support
materially and politically in society so
you know immigrant children they're not
even citizens they don't have the same
rights that other children have
immigrant parents then maybe you move to
like all right folks who have been here
for a while they didn't come here on
their own but we're still gonna sort of
terrorize them then maybe people who are
literally like their lives depend on
their being here thousand people with
like sort of getting life-saving
medicine in this country that you would
boot out maybe you also target
transgender folks
like this administration has done harder
for them to do it with gay people
broadly speaking but maybe you can
attack things like marriage equality and
each time you do it you know one point
it was the Muslim ban but just Muslims
who are you know terrorists and then and
then maybe maybe it's like oh we're not
gonna let in any of the people from the
Bahamas despite what went on there under
a temporary protected status in fact
we're getting rid of a lot of the people
who are here under temporary protected
status and you basically it's not it's
not perfect
you basically just step up the rung of
of people and each time you're able to
do something to people down on the totem
pole in terms of resources materially or
political and then you take a step up
and you widen your net a little bit and
you widen the group of people I mean
this is the way that fascistic regimes
work and that doesn't mean necessarily
that you're killing all of them it could
just mean that you're deporting them
you're putting them on trains and
sending them to Poland or wherever or
you're just denying them entry into
places or you're starting to limit their
their rights that they have and Donald
Trump is taking the next step not
talking about immigrants talking about
people who are US citizens essentially
abstence we have a wide swath of rights
and here's Donald Trump saying that
despite the fact that you remember that
his party is very very adamant about
states rights right which which is not
even code it is literally you cannot
come in here and tell us how to treat
our slaves or our free black people or
then it just expands but that's
basically what the history of that that
that form
elation here's Donald Trump just I think
yesterday at the making a statement know
what's happening it's like look at
what's happening San Francisco
take a look at what's going on and we're
gonna have to step in and do something
about it because we can't allow that to
happen to our great cities Los Angeles
is a great city
we can't away and then the
not-too-distant future you're gonna see
we're gonna step in we're not going to
allow it to happen where major major
companies are leaving their cities and
leaving our country when they see that
you walk in they pay a lot of rent they
walk into a beautiful building the best
street in California and you have a site
that nobody even can believe nobody can
believe and we're gonna have to do
something about it and we will do
something about it we're gonna give them
notice fact we gave them a notice today
clean it up they got to do something you
can't have it these are our great
American cities and they're an
embarrassment what the Democrats have
let happen Republicans want to rebuild
our inner cities what he's talking about
is sweeping the streets clean of
homeless people and the proposal that
they're floating now is using some
former air terminal as like basically
I'm trying to think of how you would
call this a way of concentrating them in
an area a small area you know call it
some type of like campus or like a camp
of some sorts and they want to
concentrate them there so that they're
not on the streets just coincidentally I
am sure according to media matters Fox
News began increasing its coverage of
homelessness in America maybe because
they became very concerned with that
issue they were using it as a bludgeon
suggesting that it's because of
democratic policies that homelessness
exists I mean it's really what they're
saying is Democrats tolerate homeless
people and that's the problem the
problem isn't that there
we have a lack of policies to address
the problem of homelessness it's that
Democrats don't punish homeless people
enough and that's why they congregate in
areas where they don't get punished
Media Matters showed that the network
aired 53 segments since May on Fox News
about homelessness and so this is
obviously like The Brain Trust at Fox
has been test-marketing this stuff and
they're rolling it out and they're
suggesting it to trump and that's what's
going on here and here's Ben Shapiro
this was in May but I've noticed him in
like Ruben mentioning it on their shows
more often lately yes there's no doubt
in my mind that they're all getting the
message whether they whether it's you
know formalized or something or they're
talking about it this is back in May
Newsome called the growing homelessness
in California and national disgrace he's
announced he's launching a task force to
find solutions and he's working on it
because it obviously requires money and
housing support I mean these are pretty
basic things the problem is that there's
very little of that you also need the
support for mental health a lot of these
people who are on the streets have
mental emotional issues maybe they have
addiction issues some in some instances
that's causal in some instances it's a
function of where they are and they
can't get out of their situation
domestic abuse plays a part in this the
immigration policies that we have
undoubtedly do because they scare a lot
of people and they're afraid to go to
the authorities for help and you want to
talk about the big companies that are
supposedly going to leave these cities
because of the homeless problem they're
causing the homeless problem
gentrification in many respects that is
a big part of the the problem so
rounding them up putting them in some
type of case
not solution but here is the states
rights guy basically threatened in
California because they want to make
this a political issue and that's
basically what's come down to
