[Music]
well actually I have to say I guess I
will talk about this a little bit um and
I guess I it does require that the yes
TMDs is monetized as is this channel but
even more so than majority report which
is over 90 percent memberships CMBS is
99% 99.9% patrons and memberships and I
like it that way
and if our channel got demonetised we
would fight and complain about it
because it shouldn't be frankly and and
it would affect you know I mean you know
it would be bad because there's like a
person who does it for us and I like
paying them to do it and we'd have to
you know recess a few things but and I
also think it's important we're on that
platform but it's uh it's all about the
members all about the patrons and that's
certainly the way I want it and I know
that's the way Sam wants it but I I do
want to talk about this Steve Crowder
thing because I think there is a big
problem here that people are missing on
both sides of the equation and I just
want to say out of the gate it is not
Carlos Mazdas fault in fact this whole
latest round is revealing a structural
problem of Google and YouTube and
Silicon Valley more broadly but will
keep its focus and it was also on steven
crowder steven crowder to be really
clear in the most narrow sense which is
YouTube's own hate speech guidelines uh
I'll read them hate speech is not
allowed on YouTube we removed the
following content removal in sore hatred
against individuals or groups based on
any of the following attributes age
caste disability ethnicity gender
identity national
race immigration status religion sex
gender sexual orientation victims a
major acts of violence and event and
their kids or veterans so I'm somebody
who absolutely is very much generally
for both values reasons but also
strategic reasons very much on the side
of you combat what you don't like you
mock it you confront it you don't ask
for it to be removed now here's a
problem into broader internal
contradiction of course of right-wing
people who whine about this stuff is
that we're all doing this on private
corporations platforms that can do
whatever the hell they want there's no
First Amendment protection on YouTube
it's a private platform there's no any
protection they could they could say the
company's done tomorrow that's it so the
smart analysis is to say to yourself all
of these conversations and businesses
and politics are generating on these
private comments which already pose all
sorts of structural threats to everybody
privacy the economy and so on how are
they either made public or broken up in
such a way that people's ability to be
on them isn't fundamentally jeopardized
but as long as you by the way you
support unregulated monopolistic capital
they can take down your channel they can
D monetize they can do whatever the hell
they want with it
now what Crowder did with maza is right
up at that line according to uh what
YouTube has said he constantly endlessly
did racist homophobic garbage about a
specific person and there's a flow out
from that
and it is not a flow out and Sam will
talk about the Joe Rogan thing tomorrow
I thought in some ways it was pretty
funny because part of my interpretation
of that was that Joe was kind of saying
like hey if we're gonna all of a sudden
be so sensitive you got to be nice to
somebody who's a little touched like
Dave Rubin I could be wrong aaaghh
natively limited I think where his words
I could have been wrong but I I sounded
to me like maybe Joe was saying that
Dave Rubin that that maybe there's a
very broad bipartisan trans partisan
huge consensus that maybe Dave's a
little bit limited but that that being
said if you say Carlos maza is I don't
agree with the content he's putting out
on my channel and he's promoting a
policy set or media ideas I object to
and you should go politely and
respectfully but also could be
humorously tweeted him about it and
suggests that you have a debate together
if you don't see the difference between
that and doing a bunch of dumb pure I'll
targeted at teens to teach them to be
 Lisp impressions and then having
an audience of those same teens
calling a guy a all day on you to
uh on Twitter and in some cases I
believe he said he was boxed uh you're
delusional
and again the crisis that were in if
you're from the perspective of a content
creator is at Steve and Crowder's feet
not Carlos masa for saying hey I read
your Terms of Service they're being
violated I'm not asking you to do
monetize political content I'm not even
asking you to go after any type of an
atom by the way you shouldn't I don't
you know don't do monetize a Dave Rubin
show my opinion that's dots and the lane
of mock the hell out of it
debunk it work it over
uh it's not Mazda's fault it's Crowder's
fault but the bigger structural problem
here is that one
these companies are unaccountable
monopolies that's the bigger picture
piece but the second thing in my opinion
is that these are media entities that
refuse to act and acknowledge that they
are as such these whole company's
business models have in fact run just
sort of a bull vicious bulldozer through
media cost tons of people their jobs
destroyed business models disrupted the
ability of to do investigative
journalism there's one gentleman I
believe it's I'm forgetting his name I
believe his name is Fisher who's Mindy
monetized his whole channel is dedicated
to covering fringe politics and he is a
journalist
Carlos Moz I believe has tweeted out
saying this is exactly what I did not
want to have happen historian had their
channel D monetized because they
embedded speeches of Third Reich figures
because their historian they're not in
any way promoting this they're giving a
historical description and the reason
that YouTube will not handle this
responsibly is the same reason that they
allowed their algorithm to be used to
ferment a whole culture of fascism and
hate to begin with on the platform which
is that it's a capitalist incentive
structure and it's run by algorithms so
what you have and just and Carlos Massa
again who we need to absolutely 100%
have his back he said himself he's like
look I not only did I didn't say go do
you monetize all political content and
now he's gonna get harassed and blamed
for that when his only singular
complaint to YouTube was can you deal
with one specific high-volume critic
creator that is constantly on me because
of an other trait that you have listed
in your own terms already that doesn't
require real wheelin reinventing but
ultimately if you get to a conversation
where you start saying YouTube needs to
curate a little bit
and think a little bit and disaggregate
again even the distinction on a
continuum between someone who has odious
right-wing garbage views but should
absolutely not be removed needs to be
confronted analytically and so on versus
something like the Crowder thing if you
can't make that distinction you're not
making it because you're not employing
any number of tens of thousands of
really good unemployed journalists
because of your business model so my
opinion is that YouTube there needs to
be a demand that companies like Google
hire ombudsman hire editors hire people
and those people by the way we should be
fighting that they come from independent
backgrounds and not simply recreating
mainstream media ideologies because what
you've had so far is what is Facebook
done Facebook has outsourced things like
okay we'll deal with Russian propaganda
by outsourcing things to the Atlantic
Council a right-wing neocon think-tank
and then all of a sudden Telus or is
undermined now Telus or shouldn't be
here only source of news on Latin
America but it's a very important source
of news and ain't no garbage conspiracy
stuff what is YouTube do YouTube has a
freak out every once in a while because
of some you know bigoted idiot like
Crowder and then all of a sudden runs
through the whole media space including
de monetizing people who have come to
rely on that to do good work so the
demand should be you are a journalistic
organization hire and staff people who
are journalists not algorithms because
then the other thing that is gonna
happen is that this will again
structurally favor the right because a
Crowder a Reuben all of these people yes
they sell trinkets yes they have some
people that pay them yes there's YouTube
ad revenue but we all know that at the
end of the day if this platform and
other platforms like it become entirely
demonetized who are the people in the
media ecosystem who can go with hat in
hands and already do get money from
Foster Friess and the Koch brothers what
in fact are Ben Shapiro or steven
crowder they're nothing but mouthpieces
for
America that is the sole purpose of
their existence so they'll always have
that inbuilt funding advantage so I hope
I'm being clear here
that my three takeaways are if you are
getting demonetised blame Crowder not
maza
if you have a concern about these
blanket D monetization without any
analysis and strategy an ability to make
basic distinctions and establish smart
and intelligent human focused standards
blame Google and YouTube and that the
answer in addition to the Brig or macro
answers of breaking up monopolies
antitrust laws and in my view absorbing
some of these as public utilities you
have to deal on those three fronts yeah
I totally agree with you on all of that
but I don't think it's gonna happen
anytime soon because hiring actual
journalists and editors and humans to go
through this content would go against
the entire business model of what a tech
company is of course right because some
people think that tech companies make
money because they invented something
new in the world and sometimes that's
true but a lot of the time they're just
taking a pre-existing industry and
quote-unquote disrupting it which means
doing labor arbitrage doing regulation
arbitrage and finding ways around all of
the rules that we have in place for
doing business in like kind of a
civilized way right like uber is another
perfect example right it's not a tech
company it is just an illegal taxi
company and judge they're finding in
more and more places that uber drivers
are actually not small business owners
but workers and employees and we know in
every single one of these cases whether
it's Carlos Mazda saying hey I'm getting
docks because of this
or somebody realizing that working from
for uber is actually a horrific
financial situation in labor situation
being there isn't us yes it runs counter
the answers were on counter to the
Silicon Valley model because
the aunt ultimate answer to all of these
questions like how do you have a
flourishing vibrant diverse broad in
every category on independent media on
new platforms that doesn't just recreate
old corporate media which will be where
these companies will go if in a way that
also monitors you know things like
incitement again yes total contradiction
and reworking the Silicon Valley
business model how do we protect drivers
in a you know in in in the new you know
in the quote-unquote sharing economy yes
a contradicts the uber business model I
mean we know that that's our answer to
you know fundamentally to all these
things and we need to at least start
putting them on the table
I think demanding some type of actual
journalistic oversight though to me that
seems like an area that actually could
get some buy-in even in the more short
term from the sort of like Jonathan
Chait sivan of the world like you know
like well by golly that's you know
they're doing content they ought to have
some people who know how to do content
so that to me I think that's an
important idea to try to push because I
think that that's one that you can start
to build a pretty broad organizing base
around if you present it properly yeah I
agree and Lord knows there's a lot of
really good people that need those jobs
absolutely I mean I used to work in the
written word and I no longer do I'm here
right now because of what's going on and
the media byzant you know I'm very lucky
I'm very grateful for this job but a lot
of people we're not so lucky
absolutely
