[Music]
Donald Trump didn't know what a
category-5 is you know whatever Donald
Trump's an idiot I mean some of them are
fine
the thing that's weird about Trump is
that the only time it's like there's
three grids there is actually keeping
track of Trump in the Republican Party
as the greatest threat to the survival
of the human species which we kind of
all have to do then there's occasionally
and we're about to basically play
something that is so dumb that it still
actually crosses the bar it is kind of
funny and then other times he says stuff
that is legitimately hilarious and then
pretty much everything else like I'm on
Team mostly ignore the guy like just
stop stop freaking about freaking out
about everything he says and does
frankly but here is uh particularly
everything he says or tweets I should
say but here Donald Trump is he made an
ass of himself about the hurricane last
week he has no clue what's going
on excuse my language and uh and here he
is in the White House saving face with a
sharpie we got lucky in Florida very
very lucky indeed
we had actually our original chart was
that it was going to be hit hitting
Florida directly maybe I could just see
that first and see what has affected a
lot of other states none that was the
original not only Florida but Georgia
sort of was going toward the Gulf that
was what we what was originally
projected I know that Alabama was in the
original forecast they thought it would
get it as a piece of it it was supposed
to go actually we have a better map than
that which is going to be presented
where we had many lines going directly
many models each line being among the
original path that most people thought
it was going to be taking as you know
was right through Farah we're on the
right would have been Georgia Alabama
I don't know I don't know I don't know
lot of offers a lot of artists know
where other models came from where we
have the best models folks trust me I
know how to pick them out the modeling
agency folks oh my god all right
