in the last segment we were talking
about the Republicans who really have
shut down Steve King who is the
congressman from Iowa who has a long
history of overt racism and they shut
him down for something that was you know
for saying something that was you know
highly problematic like I don't see what
the problem is with with white supremacy
but frankly it's in the pantheon of
racist things that Stephen King has said
I wouldn't even know if I would that
would make the top quartile conically
and it's not I mean it's really that
much different than Donald Trump saying
look there are good people on both sides
of the charlottesville marches you know
white supremacy marches and but
nevertheless they felt the pressure and
maybe it was because they're already
weakened by the Democratic win in
November they're already weakened by
their ownership of the government
shutdown which I think they suspect
could end up as a real real disaster for
them and we spoke about that earlier I
think I think they're I think they're
right if that's their assessment and we
also saw this week another crack and we
should say they're gonna remove Steve
King ohrid they're gonna keep him from
being on the committee's and and in
terms of like his reelection chances
being on the the Agriculture Committee
is is huge when you're from Iowa that's
a big to lose that opportunity as a big
deal for for that guy but aside from
that we saw in the Senate a fascinating
development where eleven Republican
senators voted with the Democrats in a
attempt to to push back on the Trump
administration's rollback of sanctions
of a a major Russian oligarch what am I
reading too much into that what is it
what is that supposed to mean well I
think it's interesting that this has
been look just sort of you know if we go
pull back
a little bit and look at the big picture
here that the issue of sanctions Russian
sanctions is the issue perhaps with the
you know along with the potential
withdrawal of the u.s. from NATO those
are the two big Russia you know US
foreign policy issues that are dogging
Donald Trump because of his very strange
and as yet unknown motivations for going
so far afield from what has been the
normal us consensus on those issues
these sanctions are that you know
central to the Trump Tower meeting
they're central to the Muller
investigation having to do with Ukraine
and you know Paul Manafort on on and on
and on this is a central central issue
and yet Trump from the very beginning
his administration and he has been in
the process of lifting sanctions of
doing you know of basically trying to
you know as Hillary Clinton put it
during the debates you know talk the
Putin line on this and it's very very
strange so I mean this week this one was
about a Russian oligarch who was an
owner of a big aluminum company in
Russia and you recall that their
sanctions you know on that had been put
on these this firm some time back there
apparently has been an intense lobbying
effort on the part of this guys names
Oleg Deripaska to lift those sanctions
on the aluminum and there has been some
you know within the business world and
in the you know in that in that area
remember Trump has has imposed tariffs
on aluminum and steel from China so
there's intense efforts to try and
ensure that aluminum can be bought from
other places for instance from people
like Oleg Deripaska these sanctions were
on him because of the you know the
alleged interference in the Russian
election his association with all of
that this has been going on going back
and forth well he minuchin and the
Treasury Department
sort of out of the blue just before
Christmas decided to lift the sanctions
on Deripaska allegedly because he had
reduced his ownership share in this in
this company which would allow Americans
to import this this sanctioned Russian
aluminum it's all phony Deripaska
you know it's all the paperwork a matter
of paperwork he's still of course is the
owner he's an older gark right I mean
you know say okay yeah well you know
rebuild you know fix up the paperwork
we'll be fine
you know so that's what he did and they
did it kind of in the dead of night it
when they do these things there's just
this short period of time for the
Congress to object before it just
happens right and often that's how these
things work Treasury Department does
this Congress just let it slide and
nobody has to vote on anything it's
partially and it's not just that
Republicans came over it's the fact that
they decided to take this up at all and
they were very alarmed when they found
it they came back from the holiday and
went whoa what what is this and they and
they decided and even you know good old
Mitch he was pretty good at avoiding any
kind of responsibility
he let this vote come to the floor which
is also kind of unusual and they ended
up having the vote I don't think it
ended up being enough to completely lift
the sank to stop the sanctions but it
did show resistance to Trump on this
issue and not the first time they did it
before when Trump tried a passed a bill
98 to nothing with votes to override
Trump that he would not be allowed to
unilaterally lift sent the earlier
sanctions on Russia over the Ukraine
incursion and also the interference in
the election so that there is something
in the Senate as what a rare kind of you
know slight consensus that this may be
even more important than you know
salvington panned giving him you know
kids licking his boots which is highly
unusual but this does seem to be one of
those situations my suspicion is that
this is Mitch McConnell's way of saying
to a lot of those senators are up for
re-election and who are not coming from
states that are so a blood red that they
that Donald Trump is in positive
territory they're like
okay I know I'm I'm screwing you guys in
terms of the government shutdown but
here you can have this vote which will
you know show some type of independence
but it's not going to go anywhere I mean
that you know there are times where the
the leader basically says I'm giving you
a freebie and here's your payback for
for you know putting up with the fact
that I'm not going to end the government
shutdown that's that that's my
interpretation of this but it's a
fascinating story and we got to take a
break but when we come back in the next
hour I want to talk about Bill Bar and I
want to talk about wheeler as well we're
gonna have a new EPA chief we're gonna
have a new Attorney General it appears
and it's we're going to try and preview
that it's a little bit scary and then we
will also obviously talk about the the
major Russian stories this week
involving the president I'm Sam cedar
this is ring of fire radio we'll be
right back after this
