in the light of CNN or I guess in the
wake of CNN putting on half a dozen
Republican women who are literally
Republican operatives for their focus
group without mentioning in the
Republican operative part like we just
took six women who vote for Trump just
to get a feel for what's going on with
them I mean it it assess basically what
Republican operatives who are women
think about Trump but they decided to
put on some independent voters on the
midterm election motivations unclear how
these people were dispersed but
interesting let's just listen to a
couple of what their takes are you all
are the all-important independent voters
that so many people are watching for the
midterms Anthony how are you feeling
afraid of what the dictator in the White
House and why he has no empathy for
anything he will never admit when he
makes a mistake
what were you imagining when you voted
for president Truong we don't have to
show me more of this video it's
literally one person after another
saying he's rude he doesn't seem to know
what he's talking about he lies and
that's the question should be asked of
everyone in like it's unclear nobody
answered it I know I would make it a
two-parter uh what is it you were
imagining and who was it that made you
imagine that right they were all
literally hearing Trump deliver Obama
speeches the whole campaign well
honestly like what what I mean the only
answer that suited me would be like to
be honest II I didn't pay attention I
mean they wanted changed and they all
thought like oh we can just vote for
somebody who's gonna mix things up a
little bit and not really understanding
what that meant
there's in a red America of America
there is the United States of America
there's purple there's LD punish my
try to slice and dice us into this side
liberal and conservative Muslim
non-muslim whatever what is it what is a
like what was surprising this guy's a
guy who has no empathy for anything like
honestly did his empathy come across I
think this is the type of person that
was like when Trump said we're not gonna
leave anybody out on the streets for
health care there's yeah this is that's
what they were hearing people
underestimate the impact of his economic
nationalism that's why they liked him in
the first place if you say if the first
question is like why have you abandoned
Trump and your answer is because I don't
find him empathetic he doesn't care
about other people my question is like
wait a second that's not new you could
say like oh I thought he'd be competent
he's not competent or I didn't realize
just how divisive he would be as
president I thought that was more of
like he would do that as a candidate I
mean but there's the idea that like I
didn't pick up on his lack of empathy
during the childhood he was a said that
guy around child inside Queens I can't
read that makes my life that's what it
is it's even how long often you're
dipping into it and these people dip in
like once a month the park right and I
think you're I actually think the
biggest line the biggest pole is mad
that that when he said it's not only
that he said he's like you can't let
somebody die on the street he said it
like it was a moral obvious I think that
that if you were towed and it's an
interesting mix actually because they
have some totally low information
independents who clearly weren't
following anything and we're just like
yeah he'll mix it up like you're saying
and then they have at least one woman
who's like the only Christian
conservative in the country who's like
basically I think if she was being
honest she probably would have said I
voted for a Supreme Court right and I'm
really uncomfortable watching like I
didn't know what the price Oh totally
support all these other people that I'm
going completely subordinate their
values to this but I'm actually not
comfortable with the adultery lying the
crimes you can
like I've learned something about myself
like I'm yeah I'm willing to make a
certain trip because I think there's a
big distinction in this panel actually I
think there's a big if you're an
independent voter it's a nice way of
saying like well I mean the one woman
dare to her credit it's like a one hand
I want to appreciate her for saying look
it's totally disgusting like when a we
go 30 40 turn woman who said you know
children in cages I couldn't deal with
that you know good for her then it may
be there's also some element no not her
it's the woman in the back row she's the
yeah not her that woman with the leopard
print sort of but like maybe it's also
just the fact that everybody's so used
to politicians not keeping their word on
anything that they're like oh yeah he's
gonna say this xenophobic stuff and he's
gonna because even even
Republicans when you pull immigration
even a majority of Republican voters
still actually support what the
Democratic position is well the problem
is it just like just abortion have a
path to citizens hate immigrants with
more passion than people who don't know
that's a separate and no and the ones
who do hate and we're actually listening
we're the ones who were right but I also
wonder if part of this dynamic is just
some people just being like it's so
baked into the cake that people aren't
gonna follow through in some ways that
like why wouldn't that apply to Trump as
well
yeah let's continue a little bit but
Obama I'm not even thinking about fair
I'm thinking about what he's done to our
country our country is supposed to be a
country for other people and you know by
the people for the people and I don't
see that it's that way anymore and I we
should also let people come in like the
immigrants and what really broke my
heart was I saw those children being
torn away from their parents is this the
America that I grew up in I don't think
so character issue is it fair to say for
all of you has superseded the even the
issues that you voted on is that what
you're saying
of course I'm mortified everyday what
happened with Christine Ford the the
accusers that accused Donald Trump the
way that they
there always did accuse him well before
the election yeah yes I didn't see that
that is that is the part that does get
maddening yeah I'm not saying that
they're being in any way consistent but
like if you dipped in before the
election maybe took the messages that
you wanted to take and ignore the other
stuff because maybe these people don't
care that much about racism or maybe
they don't think he's gonna follow
through on it and then like some more
information makes its way to them
eventually then yeah they're gonna I
mean I guess I guess you could have not
been aware of a dozen plus women who
accused him of sexual assault or
inappropriate PSU could have been aware
that I don't know how CNN finds you now
I've said this before though I don't
think it's actually has anything to do
with the new information coming in I
think it's changes in their social
environment became make it less
sustainable to defend that guy right and
then so it's like yeah it's his tweets
or yeah about the women when really that
was there all along but now you just
need to make use of it and an ad hoc
that's like the guy who discovered that
he's racist when he's like well how did
it what made you all of a sudden think
he's racist he said LeBron stupid I mean
there's this u-kiss cross why'd you go
after King James they were able to
ignore it before for either the reasons
that Matt said or because it just hadn't
been driven home to them like that
because he hadn't gotten after someone
that they cared about yet yeah but note
this is not you know at least with those
independent voters not nothing
ideological no it's it was all there was
some Russia stuff in that there was some
Russia Russia Russia
there was definitely Kavanagh and then
there was also just generally he's an
unstable and so dick there's a bit of it
what maybe not know where I'm afraid of
him being a dictator actually the thing
about this isn't the country we knew or
this was supposed to be a country for
the people it's like welcome aboard -
all right the system if you follow the
logic of that and you start listening to
the issues like fine reading a little
Matt Taibbi or something like finding
out that the entire you know like the
entire country is basically like the
Howard
turn show like that except it's not
ironic right except for it's not ironic
well that's the thing about Howard Stern
it's like it anybody could enjoy it it's
that is a similarity with trumpets turn
it's any anybody could tune in you could
be taking it at face value or doing a
deep read either way it's funny
