[Music]
welcome back Michael Brooks here on the
majority report joining us now is Cain
Aronoff she is a fellow at the type
Media Center and a contributing writer
at the intercept she's also just written
and co-edited this series for the
Jacobin magazine on the foundations of a
green new deal Kate thanks for being
here how you doing I'm doing great
thanks for doing this so let's start
with the green new deals five freedoms
this is one of several pieces that you
and your co-authors put out the Jackman
magazine what are the five freedoms of
the green new deal so sort of following
in the mold of FDR's Four Freedoms and
we laid out five that are really set for
the first century and various crises
that we face and so those are freedom
fear freedom some time to move freedom
from domination and the freedom to live
so this sort of crux tying all those
things together is that you know the
climate crisis has often talked about
this thing that we can only sort of
defeat if we sacrifice so many things if
we you know give up hamburgers and
vacations and the sort of things that
make our lives so wasteful and
carbon-intensive but what we think is
that that actually really breaks down a
lot of the power relationships that are
embedded in how this crisis has come to
be and so that plays out on the
international level so United States and
with what are known as historical
emitters are the most responsible for
this crisis but maybe even more so than
that fossil fuel companies are are
extremely responsible for this about 100
companies 100 companies exactly have
been responsible for 71% global mission
since 1988 and so those fossil fuel
executives right will have to give up
some things
very very wealthy individuals who take
frequent plane trips between London and
New York for instance as many bankers do
who live hugely carbon-intensive
lifestyles
they'll have to sacrifice some things
right but for the rest of us life can
actually get much better and so what we
lay out in sort of you know supporting
soar vision furthering their deal are
these freedoms in the kind of way that
are that most people's lives can really
improve as we transition to a low-carbon
economy so take something like freedom
from fear so um you know we're already
locked in for a certain amount of
warming we're probably on our way to
about 1.3 degrees no matter what we do
and that means more more extreme
temperatures that means stronger storms
that means some level of sea level rise
and and sort of what we put about is
that nobody should have to fear that
they won't you know have a roof over I
have when that happened that it won't be
but they won't be protected from those
from those things and moreover that
people should never live in fear of
things like food scarcity or water
shortages or moreover from the kind of
racist colonial and sectional violence
that sort of define and make so many
people's lives so difficult people
shouldn't you know hear that if they
have to leave their country locate some
militarized border and be interned in
inhumane facilities that we're seeing
along our southern border I can go into
each of them but yes yeah I would that's
great and maybe actually I would love
another couple of examples because I
love how it follows and expands on FDR I
think that's a really really effective
model for communicating this but I think
it's really important to really
underline this kind of like critique of
lifestyle politics that I feel like
you're doing and because for a couple of
reasons
in my mind at least one obviously
there's gonna be changes I think you
know particularly hopefully in how
we get around and move right look a lot
more public transportation a lot less
cars a lot more density and a lot more
you know tighter communities and more
efficiency and so on but the frame that
you know we have this like cataclysmic
global crisis and the answer is that you
individual consumer should buy more
recycled goods eat less meat and I and
as always I always have to stipulate I'm
not critiquing these things I I buy
recycled goods I I'm not a vegetarian
but I you know I certainly don't eat
that much meat and the ones I do is you
know organic and so on but I understand
people have a million responses to those
things but my point being is I'm not
leveling a critique in anybody's
personal choices I think that's great
but I do think that the frame that any
of your personal choices are going to in
any way really fundamentally deal with
this crisis is just absurd on its face
connected to which the rhetoric of
lifestyle ISM actually does correlate
with evading the fundamental questions
that we have to ask about inequality and
capital that contribute to this crisis
and and then I just want to put on the
table too it also does start to kind of
manifest in sick ways like if it's all
just about your kind of individual
output well an oligarch I you know I
think this is basically a scam but you
know sure I took a private jet but I
bought carbon offsets to plant trees in
Swaziland so I'm fine now you on the
other hand you know poor person in the
Bronx or Mumbai you should use less air
conditioning during the heat wave
because we have a climate crisis and
that actual synthesis of the covering up
of the inequality and capital dynamics
behind the climate crisis with an
emphasis on lifestyle ISM starts to get
really clear I think in those
contrasting examples of the kind of
social and economic pathologies that
they put forward yeah I think I mean I
think you said it exactly right and
I know that we couldn't understand how
this rhetoric plays out in the climate
world without sort of understanding the
last 30 to 40 years of history and what
neoliberalism has really done a good job
at convincing people that no is Margaret
Thatcher said there's no such thing as
society and so you know in this focus on
individual responsibilities for
everything you know we hear similar
veteran around poverty like if you are
in poverty it's because you didn't work
hard enough right and it's that kind of
logic extended and you know maybe more
subtle ways to the climate and it's just
as absurd right just like you know
people often can't get a job because the
economy doesn't want to give them a job
and often people consume because the
economy structures the way they consume
right and so I I don't think it's really
useful to shame people for eating meat
or for you know even going on vacation
or something and taking a taking a plane
just they that they find a ticket for
that's really cheap and I've never you
know traveled out of the country or
something like I don't think it's really
useful to shame people for that
especially you know when we haven't
created really robust alternatives and
again I think the key point as you said
and I said earlier is that this really
just covers up so many power
relationships and the really sort of
absurd way in which responsibility for
this crisis is concentrated in such a
small number of very very wealthy people
in industries yeah and I would just also
I think oh they had we'll get back to
maybe a couple of other examples for of
these freedoms which you outlined so
well but I would also add you know
having children to that list
right because you look at the history
both I mean going back particularly to
like the 70s and how ideas from like the
Population Bomb and stuff were applied
to trying to shrink population growth in
Africa and Asia he's just like I mean
the rhetoric was horrifying and the
context enormous ly disturbing on these
highly exploited continents to say well
yeah but the real answer
you should have less kids but even down
to today that every kind of you know
lifestyle politics article about like
well I'm lessening my carbon footprint
by not having a kid is actually just
sweeping under the rug and I know you
know there's been pieces published by
about this in the Jackman recently just
like actually the fact that there's a
horrific hole in the safety net for
young families for regardless whatever
reasons people are having kids and it's
another it's a way in which this stuff
is actually getting marshaled to justify
bad punitive policies in general and
actually undermine the basic decency and
well-being that everybody should have
yeah I mean I don't think I can say it's
better than that but I would just add
that you know this is a really sort of
convenient line for Pospisil companies
it's a really convenient line for the
people who actually hold responsibility
for this process to sort of cast that
off and talk about these sort of you
know sustainability measures or whatever
you know whether that be a banning
plastic straws or or you know until
having kids and talking about population
assess and I think you know that just
really sort of whether it's fossil fuel
executives who are saying it or not
really just does play into covering up
their role in having known about this
crisis for decades now and not just sort
of gone in the other direction and
continued to do something they knew they
know is so bad for the planet and for
the people on it and but actively
funding disinformation campaigns to you
know obscure the reality of that of that
crisis and the findings of their own
scientist what about freedom from toil
yeah so I this is one of my favorite one
that we included I think something that
doesn't get talked about enough when we
talk about the green new deal is that
people could probably work less and so
we have this idea right when we talk
about green jobs of people putting up
wind turbine
putting up solar panels on homes you
know that's certainly all part of it but
I don't want to focus overly on how much
there is a lot of work to do obviously
to create this transition but if we set
it up right people can also work much
shorter work weeks and so you know why
is that if you think about a lot of the
work that people do in the country it's
not a it's not necessarily productive
and any sort of like sass tidally
meaningful way it's productive for
corporate profits but you know there's
no reason why if you are taking a job
with under a federal job guarantees for
instance and you're doing something like
remediating wetlands for instance or
you're hanging out with old folks which
is another thing that that a federal job
guarantee could do or writing plays you
know that's a thought you know hopefully
labor that's less alienated so it's
things that are you know improving your
community that you can find value in
it's not just sort of producing widgets
or so that a few corporate executives
can process so I think that you know is
what is one way in which solving the
climate crisis or mitigating climate
crisis helps to take away toil but it's
also that you know people can like have
vacations and things like if you're
working 20 hours a week because we
decided as a society that we don't need
to produce mountains of junk and fell
that cheap debt to people and there's
more time to you know go to the beach to
take high-speed rail which we will
helpfully build as part of a green new
deal to go hang out with your friends
and other cities there's all this sort
of like realm of life that I think it's
so sort of tragically lost under
capitalism because um people you know
are working too many jobs the
unemployment rate is low in the United
States but how much of that is people
working you know awful job
two or three jobs at a time and so I
think this is you know a real sort of
quality of life question and that we
people can have a better quality of life
and there's no reason why in the United
States where we work so much more than
so many other parts of the world people
can't can't sort of you know have their
eight hours for what they will feel
labor saying go there hopefully much
more definitely reminds me of a book
wasted lives by Sigmund Bauman where he
drew the connection between it's
obviously you're in a more privileged
position mostly just as a kind of
generic statement if you have a job than
if you don't obviously there's different
types of exceptions right you're sitting
on a bunch of income and not working but
overall if you have a job you're but he
did draw this correlation just of the
theme of wasted life so whether you're
totally grinded out and just you know
literally physically or emotionally
destroyed by work that's a way of sort
of being grinded and wasted and
discarded and then there's also the
overt waste and discard of you know you
are structurally useless in this system
which is the sort of like strongly
unemployed right and then also
implicitly saying right because there's
plenty of people who are you know quote
unquote
unemployable but they might actually
have a lot of the assets and traits that
you outline in terms of like being great
mentors or good people to hang out in
different community context or
contribute art or contribute you know
all sorts of other forms of labor so it
also like I love it because it's like
you both decrease all of the trash work
that we use to just create surplus for
companies but we also sort of open up a
much bigger set of human capacities that
we can harness yeah yeah exactly and
it's such a sort of narrow realm of what
we consider to be productive right and
capitalism and I think you know as
happened during the original New Deal
you know you can pay people to like put
on great plays for anthems and and you
know go around the country writing
Travel Guide for different states like
that was a Works Progress Administration
program but it's awesome like those
travel guides still exist and they're
really fun to read you know I think
that's totally with them great murals I
mean sometimes you will just randomly
see some like great building in upstate
New York and like what when did that
happen
it's like oh right that what New Deal
thing they paid people to do you know
just to create something that looked
great
and usually could serve some really
excellent community purpose um the Nancy
Pelosi said I think yesterday like
everybody likes the New Deal green new
deal but nobody knows what it is and
right so okay I think we kind of do but
that being said I mean you point out
that the green New Deal rhetoric has
been around for a long time and maybe
there's a socialist version of it maybe
there's a kind of progressive II version
of it maybe there's a straight-up
Bloomberg and third way version of it ao
C's unveiled her version today but just
broadly so this this term doesn't get
lost what are we looking for in terms of
the details for a plan that really does
carry out those five freedoms yeah so
this five page resolution that
representative Ocasio Cortez introduced
along with Senator ed markey there's a
lot and then I'll go through the the
sort of policy highlights and then get
into the politics of that so the main
goal is to get to a hundred percent meat
a hundred percent of the demand for
power in the United States with clean
renewable and zero and emission energy
sources which is eyeballed it's in line
with the scientific consensus on climate
change unlike a lot of other climate
policy and this would provide all people
in the United States with clean air and
water with healthy and affordable food
high-quality health care affordable safe
and adequate Housing and Economic
Security it would do things like create
a federal job guarantees we were just
talking about massive infrastructure
build-out building efficiency upgrades
robust investment in public transit
it would ensure that in you know
building up low-carbon infrastructure
we're not infringing on indigenous
peoples land rights or abusing the power
of eminent domain it would provide a
just transition and ensure a dignified
quality of life for workers and
communities that have historically rely
on coal oil and natural gas jobs I you
know could go on it's a five-page
resolution so I won't list out list out
everything but really sort of what this
what this does is to set a standard for
a green new deal and say look this isn't
just a talking point we're talking about
very concrete things that we'd like to
do this isn't you know the sort of most
this isn't the legislation that will be
passed that implements the green new
deal right they a copy of protests had
asked for Select Committee on a green
new deal which which Nancy Pelosi
decided not to create which would have
spent a year looking at these sorts of
proposals and coming up with that sort
of detail plan and so that's something
that some folks are very interested in
doing how you know outside of Congress
and hopefully as much as possible sort
of in within Washington but you know
this sort of says to especially you know
potential 2020 contenders who have said
they all support agreeing to deal this
is what you're talking about you know
you can't just talk about a couple of
renewable energy tax credits for a
select group of entrepreneurs as a green
new deal you know you really have to be
committed to this this really wildly
ambitious goal of getting to 100%
renewable clean and zero emission power
by 2030 and it's about the public sector
and it's about democracy it's not about
like offloading it in these sort of like
public-private partnerships to
incentivize this or that it's mobilizing
our resources as a collective to achieve
massive goals yeah yeah exactly and it's
not um it's not a pose per se to private
investment it's not saying that can't be
private capital as part of it
what it what it does is hurt even sort
of in the in the preamble is say that
you know the United States has done big
things before as they as I say that the
federal government led mobilizations
during World War Two and the New Deal
that created the greatest middle class
the United States has ever seen and you
know we've done this before like we can
do this and this is kind of what we what
we want to be the principal's carrying
that out talk and we have a couple
minutes less left and I think you know
the corollary of this is another piece
in Jacobin that you published it's time
to try fossil fuel executives for crimes
against humanity make the case so I
mentioned a bit of this earlier but but
conflict real companies have known for a
very very long time since as early as
the late fifties they have been doing
research into the existence of climate
change and what they found
not too long after they started doing
that research was not only is this a
massive problem but a massive problem
that will you know create untold
suffering for so many people that our
product is causing it our product has a
has a massive old lioness shell in the
80s found that they were responsible for
four percent of greenhouse gas emissions
that's a figure that they got they
identified and so even with this
knowledge they were very very active and
imploring pouring so much money into
disinformation campaigns that we all
know so well that you know allow allow
for think tanks to send out sort of
climate denying fact sheets to freshmen
everyone from sort of freshmen state
senators to Senators in the Congress and
just blanketly deny the existence of
climate change and so and all the while
that they were doing that they were
continuing to they got more fossil fuels
to explore explore for new reserves and
to lobby Congress and to you know
against
passing any sort of using common sense
regulations on them to tear up
regulations that they did exist and
basically to give them a free rein and
to give them you know the twenty billion
dollars a year they collect annually in
subsidies in various forms and so the
industry it has a clear knowledge that
they that they have been causing this
problem they know you know even beyond
Exxon and she'll who we have no
documentation proving that they do this
for a while no one can deny the mass
suffering the climate change will cause
no one can deny it but the fossil fuel
industry is causing it and yet they
continue to do that and so under the
Rome Statute which would have lays out
what constitutes crime against humanity
my case is what that calls us I agree
with your case thank you how are you
gonna pay for a cape I was getting the
real question is is how are you gonna
pay for it a lot of people are talking
about the Rome Statute but that requires
additional court space at the Hague so
I'm Steve Inskeep
how do you pay for that Kate Aaron off I
really appreciate your time check out
all of the pieces on the Jacobin and
follow all of Kate's work of course we
have links to her Twitter and all the
other ways you can follow her she's a
fellow at the type Media Center and a
contributing writer at the intercept
Kate thanks a million for doing this
thanks for having me all right folks we
are gonna go to the fun half right quick
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become
member that's how this show happens
just coffee dot co-op you can check out
our sponsorship page there'll be links
in fact to all of the sponsors of
today's show that you can check out and
sorry I didn't I got only two
hold on just before we get to that Nancy
Pelosi in this this is the actual quote
about the green new deal she said it
will be one of several or maybe many
suggestions that we receive the green
dream or whatever they call it nobody
knows what it is but they're for it
right the green dream and Natalie sure
when it's dollar Ashman that under it of
those some aspect of this is her
intentional botching of the name she
this is natalie speaking so I'm not
gonna sense her she knows what
it's called and is being willfully
disparaging green New Deal explicitly
evokes one of the most popular moments
in presidential history green dream
evokes childish nonsense that's
precisely it like as a Marco Rubio once
said she knows exactly what she's doing
she knows exactly what she's doing and
it's really you know and it is it's
absolutely shameful
