meanwhile speaking of a laugh riot
here's Dave Rubin
I'll tell you what's interesting about
this tweet which is well it's like I
don't follow a Dave Reubens tweets that
often well that's not true either but
this one was actually somewhat
interesting to me
let's go can you play the original video
that he's reacting to somebody the susan
b anthony lista they the anti-abortion
who-who Susanna but here it is a state
delegate yes
working to save babies okay so let's
play the video the the the fact of the
matter is is that third trimester
abortions virtually every single one of
them is a medical necessity that there
is some measure of danger to the mother
or we're talking about fetuses that will
not survive more than a couple of days
if that outside the womb because they
they some people born without a spine
competition would start kicking in here
is this is I guess coming from New York
I think according to this I'm not quite
sure but let's listen to it because the
impact that's having on on Dave Rubin is
both stunning and totally predictable
because this dude has already figured
out what his business plan is delegate
ran yes sir how late in a pregnancy
would your bill apply if a physician
would simply willing to certify that
that the continuation of the pregnancy
would impair the mental health of the
woman how late are we talking about it
also so the way the suggestion that
we've made in the bill is to say it's in
the third trimester and at the you know
with the certification of the physician
so so how late in the third trimester
would you be able to do that you know
I'm its variant
fortunate that our there are physicians
witnesses were not able to attend today
to speak specifically I'm talking about
your bill how late how late in the third
trimester could a physician perform an
abortion if he indicated it would impair
the mental health of the of the woman
the mental health or physical loss okay
okay I'm talking about the mental health
so I mean through the third trimester
the third trimester goes all the way up
to 40 weeks okay but to the end of the
third trimester I don't think we have a
limit in the bill so speechless where
it's obvious that a woman is about to
give birth she has physical signs of
that she is about to give a birth would
that still be a point at which she could
request an abortion if she was so
certified she's dilating oh my god mr.
chairman that would be a you know a
decision that the doctor the physician
and the woman understand that I'm asking
if your bill allows that my bill would
allow that yes all right so let's just
talk about what this is you need a
licensed physician to make an assessment
that a woman's health could be mental
health could be physical health but a
woman's health is impaired is imperil
enough that continuing of the pregnancy
is wrong or not medically indicated
there is no example of a woman dilating
where a physician has or would sign off
on that there's just simply no example
of it this is the there's 24 hours and
there's a nuclear weapon in the bottom
of a of a well with a kidnapped child
and we've got to torture everybody
because I've seen this on TV think about
it so this is just absurd right this is
just absurd
here is Dave
even responding to this video with the
falling this strikes me as true evil are
any Democrats or anyone on the left
pushing back on this and you know I've
noticed he's been doing this this
calculation lately quite a bit
I consider myself begrudgingly
pro-choice up to twenty weeks he says
what does this mean
begrudgingly pro-choice he knows that
it's bad but he's willing to compromise
with the Chinese but it's getting harder
and harder to even say that now why
would like this is him working the pivot
like I've thought about how would I
become a conservative as a I have a very
plain yes right ivis I think yes we have
contemplate we've contemplated yes we
did how would you do it yeah I think
that this means that whatever this new
patreon system him and Peterson are
talking about mine ends up fusing with
the new blaze merger and that an at
Glenn back Peterson Rubin fusion could
be in the pipe here's my prediction
ladies and gentlemen
within six months Dave Rubin will call
himself begrudgingly pro-life I was
talking with booth Schneider I saw
another video that made me decide that
there was a state senator who presented
a bill I didn't like and therefore women
don't have autonomy over their bodies I
I was forced into this position did you
see like who comes up with their their
positions on this based upon that you
see this Louise anyway anything but
dissing job this sign language
interpreter for the City Council in
Tulsa that's pretty bad stuff I think I
can't support legal abortions yeah
exactly
he's gonna be he is going to be like his
he's going to hire a producer who's
gonna be like you've got to get me the
video or the article that's going to be
the one that I pivot off of being it's
eat those doctored those fake Planned
Parenthood videos from like four years
ago
they'll be hurting like they're already
like literally have led the criminal
convictions that he'll just retweet the
medic had no idea this is really bad
didn't he have a book that he was
writing yes he was writing a book and
they probably had to retain he's had
probably had to read because he had two
years ago he's writing a book and I
didn't work my way through the Johnson I
have to do the book because I just
realized I could just go to the right
with my podcast two years ago was really
hard because it was they haven't read
her book got ideas and freedom it was
just like hey I'm gay but I support
fascists hey love it just came along I
remember the day I realized that I could
support total intellectual freedom and
be against the woman's sovereignty of
her own body and that was the day I
realized I can quadruple my revenue
year-over-year if I can just invite on a
couple more people to the right yeah I
live in this stuff I think about ideas
of time yeah what are the ideas they
encountered it would need to disturb me
like this clip of an assistant toll
meter made in Milwaukee saying that
mothers should be able to actually kill
their kids six months after birth so any
Democrats gonna speak a deniz 80/20
analysis of decided I'm not gonna be
pro-choice like when he says it's
getting harder and harder to even say
abortion is okay at all what's happening
in his brain like is he going through a
religious conversion it's like coming on
like it's like this does not implicate
abortions up to 20 weeks at all
maybe sjw's are pushing it too far in
causing a backlash like all the IDW
people say if you want to look at it in
terms of archetypes this is a Class A
captivity narrative he's he's pulling
off here when he started his hustle he
was you know cuz I mean one is obviously
has this very malleable personality
because you know he just sort of right
the first who everybody anybody's
primarily talking to I don't want to
give I don't want to credit him with too
much thought behind all of this but it's
likening it was all it was Sam Harris
and atheism but now it's like you know
their bench peer was around in Georgia
Peterson's around and a little bit of he
did the stuff of Glenn Beck awhile ago
so you know there's another marketplace
there and there's any new things to
consider
I look if you like raccoons are
considered very smart for animals like
they but if you watch a raccoon and I
have I've actually spent a lot of time I
know you've made us watch record but if
you watch a raccoon looking for food
they cover everywhere and then when they
find the food they just keep going back
to that place and they keep going after
it so it's not like they look at
structures and say there's food there
it's just that they comb everywhere and
then they find and I feel like that's
what he's doing it's just like I'm going
to cross the the entire plateau the
whole all I'm gonna cover every inch of
this Plains and wherever I start to find
something that will you know nourish me
I'm talking about cash I'm gonna just
keep hovering around that area and
that's what it feels I founded talking
about Lita mabushii was vini
yeah I would not degrade the good name
of raccoons by comparing them to Dave
Rubin I think they are noble creatures
they are clearly some kind of an Tifa
and our kiss with those little masks on
and I think's Lobos shishak might be one
Oh much smarter than caiman much smarter
and much nicer also I would encourage
everyone to read Jezebel's interview
with a woman who had an abortion at 32
weeks because it's a really tough
situation to be in
anyone who has a late term abortion like
that has a wanted pregnancy that has
gone wrong and the amount of unnecessary
cruelty that these laws inflict on
people who are already going through a
heartbreaking situation is despicable
horrific horrific
