so Jose in the last segment you you told
us about the 53rd district which is a
district that is one of the the most
populous in California consists of a
strong contingency of Bernie Sanders
supporters the greatest concentration of
donors in the country is in your
district consists of a significant
military vet contingency San Diego of
course a lot of particularly Navy
presence but others and a large Latino
population in the district and you
certainly have had experiences and share
the ideas and the experiences with with
folks from all of those different and
sometimes I would imagine overlapping
backgrounds but let's talk about the
specific issue sets that you are running
here and why it's your sense that this
is going to appeal to folks in the
fifty-third absolutely and you know what
the the ones that are you know the
progressive major issues
medicare-for-all green New Deal
education for all student loan debt
forgiveness and and and and bringing the
troops home with dignity those are the
major issues that were focusing on so we
actually have a litany of different
policies but I really wanted to focus in
heavily on the hero's promise now the
hero's promise is a military veteran
Bill of Rights that I have authored that
basically is there to address an end
Eitan veteran suicide because we're
losing 20 veterans a day now let me put
this in perspective for you
so since 9/11 we have lost on around a
hundred and thirty nine thousand vets by
their own hand with suicide it is it is
one of the biggest epidemics that we are
facing in this country and we are not
doing a thing about it and it was
actually one of the biggest reasons why
I decided to run as well because when
when representative Davis was part of
this district she was the ranking member
of the Armed Forces can
and nothing was being done so I wanted
to pass a cop I want to pass a
comprehensive bill that actually
addresses all the major issues of
transition and also deals with the
traumas that exist within the military
inherently like meal and sleep
protection the right to file a grievance
you know the right to mental health
services because I as a new as a reactor
operator if I went and saw a therapist
and got the prescribed antidepressants I
lose my job I can't operate a reactor
anymore losing my career and we need to
give people the option to seek mental
health without reprisal of losing their
careers in their livelihood we need to
have an in the service pension for our
vets to make sure like for example for
up to six years a time match so if you
serve four years you'll get four years
of pension of your base pay and every
month that is something that's going to
help people transition into the economy
without having the fear of having to go
and get you know a nine-to-five little
you know a retail job just so you can
make ends meet and if you have a family
sometimes that exit isn't available
because then they lose those benefits so
we need to make sure that we provide
that economic stability for these vets
and then on the veterans side once
they're out we got to get how housing
for all bets healthcare for all veterans
citizenship for all veterans and
education for all veterans these are the
things that we need to provide our
veterans with no questions asked
because these are the things that will
affect people in the long term because
we should not allow four years of your
life to determine the rest of your life
and that's what's happening to most of
our vets four years of your life and
then ten years later they're still
trying to hold down the job right and
those are the things that are the
problem Hosea I want to get to some of
the other stuff and I think you know
folks obviously and add to your website
Jose for Congress dot us to define more
the issues I mean the you tick them off
you were full-on Bernie supporter I
think people can you know glean at least
from that what your issue said is but
this this number I mean the idea that we
have we're losing a vet every 65 minutes
or so in this country is stunning and
and now to be clear like do we have
is there a way to make an apples and
apples comparison with with vets of
other Wars I mean we were coming out of
Iraq Martin Luther King I think said
famously every time there's an explosion
in Vietnam it go or bomb has dropped in
Vietnam it explodes here and largely
that was also like the implications of
what we're doing to the people that we
send on these wars and so I mean I
wonder like is there do we have a
particularly unique problem or do we
just do a worse job of taking care of
our people well we have well we have a
unique problem because we were in so
many wars right so we spend more more
personnel two wars than any other
country does and and and and then it's a
inadequate problem because the fact that
we still have that to the street like
you can see the fact that when you walk
in drive down San Diego one in four
people or veterans right and and that is
that is unbelievable but think about
right so so we are allowing our veterans
down the street we are turning away
veterans when they're seeking mental
health we are turning away veterans when
they want to go to high level and
educational institutions we're turning
right veterans if they want to seek
masters and PhDs because they lose their
benefits after 36 months of in schools
and school time so we are we're
scratching the surface of what needs to
be done for these veterans and and when
you when you look at other countries
they actually give a ton of respect and
a ton of benefits to all of their
veterans in those countries
now we could we could say that well we
just have more veterans than most of
most of the world so therefore we'd have
to put in more money
well that doesn't stop the defense
contractors from asking for billions and
billions of dollars every year the fact
that we the fact that we've had a
defense budget around 325 billion
dollars after the year after 9/11 but
now we're sitting at seven hundred
billion dollars yet the personnel
haven't gotten those raises at the level
that they should be the personnel
haven't also got those benefits when
they get out but we've been making
plenty of bombs planes and tanks and and
in ships we need to change the narrative
and say look if we're going to be
defending the defense budget
we need to make sure that for
predominantly of that money goes to the
vets when they come home so they can be
safe when they get here well Jose we're
out of time but if pokes will folks more
information Jose for Congress dot us
know it's it's an incredibly important
issue you are obviously very attuned to
it and it's obviously one that resonates
within your district folks can go check
out your support for the green new deal
for student loan debt forgiveness for
criminal justice reform education for
all and and more at your website Jose
for Congress dot us and we will put that
link on ring of fire radio Jose thanks
so much for your time today and good
luck in your race
