look I want Harris to take something out
of Warren I think that's good for
Sanders I also think Harris I rely mean
I was absolutely right about BAE know I
was definitely wrong about Harris I
really thought she was a much more
formal candidate by significantly more
formal can I frankly think the world
would be a better place if she was like
as formidable as Joe Biden was and
there's no chance that's gonna happen
Jesus Christ not at all I don't know
what the hell is going on with her so
she's she's all set up the body language
is strong and she's talking about
two-tiered justice system and of course
like wow the lady who arrested truant
parents but let Steve minuchin walk free
is talking about two-tiered justice ism
okay hell of a stretch but let's see
what she's got and then it's a Twitter
ban and what's great is you can
literally see Warren smirking because
it's hilarious and embarrassing but her
and her campaign I don't know I mean
ultimately it is up to her but like I
mean she's stumbling and judging by
Twitter contact her surrogates are out
of their minds very dumb people stupid
not good she comes she took he'd said
she was like who are the dumbest people
in the most disastrous campaign of 2016
I want them and here she is still trying
to push this even after the debate that
he has he has lost his privileges and it
should be taken the bottom line is that
you can't say that you have one rule for
Facebook and you have a different rule
for Twitter the same rule has to apply
which is that there has to be a
responsibility that is placed on these
social media sites to understand their
power
they are directly speaking to millions
and millions of people without any level
of oversight or regulation stop so she's
not talking about breaking them up she's
not talking about the people or her own
relationships to uber and the industry
she's got she's literally saying let's
get Donald Trump off of Twitter which
incidentally in addition to his Twitter
being it being in a ridiculous insane
thing to focus on like yes he's got how
many million Twitter followers how about
how many nukes are under his discretion
right okay in addition to an
embarrassing ridiculous it is one his
Twitter sometimes is extremely funny too
and I'll make this less cheap point his
tweets might actually be evidence in an
impeachment trial it actually could
serve a purpose and nailing the
 what are they doing and you
know we make people have been making cop
mala jokes since she announced basically
but the way she talks about this imagine
if she's not talking about Trump but
just like people expressing themselves
without sort of government oversight
generally doesn't listen to this part it
sounds a lot more chilling and their
power they are directly speaking to
millions and millions of people without
any level of oversight or regulation
stop that sounds like I don't trust
these people to do that 100 Oh I mean
look they people are already checking
journalists they're demanding I mean not
obviously refugees are being terrorized
by this but journalists who are having
their Facebook pages checked their
contacts checked we already know how
horrifying the Obama administration was
with whistleblowers the Trump
administration is prosecuting Julian
Assange for journalism Kamala Harris
would be horrifying on journalism and
civil liberties to be the sheriff of
posting yes I mean this obviously you're
right I mean there is a serious point to
it that's actually incredibly chilling
and dangerous all right let's do all
right Brad hominem Josh you aren't the
only one who felt like that from the
8:47 we stand with Ellen Ellen not me us
what are you looking for a minute so we
have more
the surrogates like losing their minds
over the okay let's do similar this okay
so behold this amazing exchange between
BuzzFeed Ben and the c'mon okay so I'll
take this part okay who are you
this is BuzzFeed this is now this is a
surrogate of Kamala Harris reaching out
to BuzzFeed been about a right of
campaign writers BuzzFeed okay okay hey
I have talked to her directly a few
times when she's tweeted out stuff like
this and I told her I was glad she
deleted this tweet but this kind of
stuff is just a really horrible look for
you guys frankly its whiteness manifest
if Kamala shrugged off a Warren critique
about how she wasn't with her on
Facebook we'd get raked and she would
get lauded as taking on the corporate
power the blithe mockery here of Kamala
while Laden Warren style is just not up
to par I say this to you just to be
super frank and because I really like
your guys work the platform and your
reporters we work well together across
support I'm glad they don't think we
work well with Garuda yeah yeah we don't
work well as art is their response okay
hard to know if last night wait this is
the tweet that this all excuse me so
Matt you got okay so this was the tweet
mare was this is a bit problematic of
course problematic alright I do you want
okay this is a treat hard to know if
last night helped harmed or helped
Warren but I think we can all come
together and agree the debate highlight
was Warren telling comma Harris no he
Trump from Twitter and then just
continuing with her point in the manner
of shrugging off a Greenpeace clip so
now I have a problem with this because
let me tell you something being a
Greenpeace clip or a person is hard work
and people should be a little bit nicer
to those kids okay so I don't like that
part of it but yes we can all agree that
Elizabeth Warren brushing off that
absolutely embarrassing humiliating line
of attack was a good time and pretty
funny alright and then is this BuzzFeed
Ben yes do you seriously not have
problems
this text makes me think you're totally
totally unready for an actual
presidential campaign yeah drop out come
on yeah it's time to drop out or is
there very or yeah drop out and or is
Bernie or you know yeah look Warren's
been super disrespectful you shouldn't
where's Bernie yeah yeah Trump did read
the Terms of Service Ward was
disrespectful birdie to do that here
Bernie has a plan coming up what we
can't tell ya yeah yeah you gotta dorsum
what are we doing ah I am what we're
we're doing a ridiculous symbolic move
on Twitter as dangerous no liberties
consequences no no Bernie we're just
filming this and we're gonna send it to
Kamala and act let and tell her that we
posted Donald Trump yesterday yeah yeah
he needs to get off I guess we can make
a meme of it for the Eid Sam guy Donald
Trump this is cringe Oh yikes
like when I think of being too online
it's like there are people doing things
in the world that are like going around
you and like basically like right you're
missing the actual playing field these
people are just online or just that is
the field
I mean honestly like honestly I still
maintain I gave her way too much credit
in terms of her capacity as a candidate
but I still maintain that she is
violently underserved by the staff like
I know who I mean Isis of most of her
staff is a lot of former comms people
for Hillary hello hello this is Hillary
class like yeah you know you should do a
comma you should hire the most idiotic
people for my disastrous campaign you're
a young talented candidate who appeals
to the corporate ring of the party
because of your right
leaning record but also has charisma and
a potential broad appeal what you should
do immediately is hire a bunch of
complete weirdos who up my 2016
campaign who'll spend turn your campaign
into a internet meme joke you always
wonder what the Clintons I wonder was
like we need to stop Carla because if
she finds out we did in Haiti you never
know she might all of a sudden she
decide she has a conscience need to
prosecute us we've got to stop her
Hillary quick and all your calms people
yeah at least competent who was that a
insam guy that kept on trying to do
funny stupid pictures with you from
BuzzFeed that even you have the good
sense of turning down is there any way
we could get him to work for her what if
she finds out we did in Haiti who's that
[Laughter]
who's that one that taught you that God
for saying made a business get her to
calmly Harris who came up with that
children I mean if you think about it he
fired Comey gave us tax cuts what the
hell we knew in anyways Trump 2020 he's
less corrupting the Democrats less
corrupt and Democrat because believe me
with us it's structural lace in his case
it's honest stop how do we do it quick I
can't just use our people yeah Hillary
said I wanted to get Ian Sam's to
Bernie's campaign Bernie's got too much
integrity and intelligence for that he
won't take Ian Sam's no quick who we
gonna bust this grenade on they do like
a process of elimination it's like what
about Warren she criticized me for the
bankruptcy bill she won't hire Ian Sam
she does basic background vetting of
people it's gonna have to be calm Allah
I'm sorry to say I mean how bad this
grenade on somebody if like you were the
person who sold Kamala on the whole
Twitter ban pit
like I wrote this I wrote a white paper
of yes the Terms of Service you see uh
and I'm the person who will bother
BuzzFeed about light-hearted tweets
about it we really will seem like we're
up to date on the most important so
crazy to go to like the biggest guy at a
huge media company and be like listen
this tweet is out of bat listen here's
an opportunity for you to very easily
look like a good guy and defend one of
your staff because this is the most
petty embarrassing complaint that you
will ever get I mean what businesses
they are they think they're in where
it's like you you tell a media company
like we think we work well together we
want to see like you're a trash campaign
media companies don't care about you
they'll forget about everybody that was
working there will forget about your
campaign in like like three years
yeah you better by the way you better
mind your P's and Q's because I think a
not inconsequential number of these
comms people will be submitting BuzzFeed
listicles for a job in a couple of
months yes you better be gonna be polite
[Laughter]
