you walk through this dynamic that
exists now in the White House and where
we have a vacuum of power but for or I
should say a vacuum of power within the
executive branch for or a vacuum of
reason as it were in terms of our
relationship with Iran all of the people
who were worker being Donald Trump's
worst impulses to rollback the agreement
with Iran and perhaps escalate further
with Iran are gone there is a vacuum it
seems to me of power in terms of just
institutional bulwarks against someone
like a john bolton who is in there who
specifically has an agenda to go to war
with Donald with Iran and Donald Trump
is a guy who though he may not be
inclined to get into a war because of
domestic concerns may not have the savvy
to realize what he can and cannot get
away with in terms of shiny objects that
involve Iran and john bolton it sounds
like it's taking advantage of that tell
me what what the steps that john bolton
has taken because there s the only
analogy I would have is it's like John
Bolton is basically tying a a brick to
an accelerator in a car and and Trump is
saying yeah I got no problem with the
brick on the accelerator doesn't realize
where that car is gonna lead and I think
John Bolton has some has some hopes of
where it will lead tell us what a John
Bolton has done over the past month or
two to increase the likelihood of war
with Iran well first of all let's
establish this with Bolton and Prime
Minister Bibi Netanyahu have convinced
Trumbo is that if you go for a maximum
strategy of pressure against Iran
maximum pressure strategy the Iranians
will eventually cave
they will bake for mercy and that's when
you Donald Trump will be able to get a
much better deal with the Iranians then
Obama God and you can prove to the world
that you are smarter than Obama this
this is what Trump wants he wants to be
able to say I got a better deal now
Netanyahu and Bolton of course know very
well the maximum pressure strategy will
not work it will not lead to the
Iranians becoming more flexible on the
contrary they will dig in their heels
and eventually it will become so bad
that the Iranians may lash out do
something to increase the cost on the US
for pursuing the strategy and then they
can use that as a pretext for a war and
if the Iranians don't if they show
tremendous discipline which frankly they
have done for the last year or so and
the US has been outside of the deal and
the Iranians have done nothing to
provoke and how completely abided by the
nuclear deal well if that happens we'll
just keep on pressuring them with more
sanctions and then we may even fabricate
something in order to get a causes belli
in order to get a smoking gun and
something just happen in the last two
days now any important to mention that
in the last month you know the US has
done something completely extraordinary
they have put the Iranian pollution Airi
parts on the terrorist list this has
never been done before and it's gonna be
very difficult to undo and it really
closes a lot of paths for diplomacy and
the escalation but then the explicitly
explain to us though explain to us how
that works I mean my understanding is
that it possibly allows for the
administration to use the AUMF the
authorization for use of military force
that was signed into law in the wake of
the 9/11 but what else does it do from a
bureaucratic I mean what else does it do
to ratchet up tensions there's a couple
of things first of all it's very
difficult to undo so the u.s. in almost
a permanent state of enmity with Iran
even if Bolton doesn't get his war
because future administration
that actually may want to go back to the
nuclear deal or actually wanting
something constructed with Iran I'm
gonna have a hell of a difficult doing
so as long as the IRGC is on the
terrorist list because a lot of Iranian
officials have a background IRGC and as
a result that would be designated
terrorists okay and world good can be
used as part of the AUMF from 2002 and
as say that as part of the USA's war on
terror the US can start targeting IRGC
in Syria or anywhere else and by that
completely bypass any vote in Congress
for starting a war with Iran but
something else has happened just in the
last 48 hours which is that the u.s.
warship has been heading towards the
middle Iranian and now Bolton issues is
very unusual press release saying that
it's going to go to the Persian Gulf and
it's going to be in response to
provocations to Iran and that Iran that
US is ready to essentially strike Iran
if those provocations continue no
provocations have been no nothing has
been in the public us intelligence
officers have been telling off record
journalists that you know there's been
some imprecise things and some
intelligence but they can't point to
anything clearly and then it is revealed
that actually part of what this is based
on is a report from these railey
governments but the Israeli government
did not come within any intelligence on
anything that is about to happen but
rather they came with an analysis of
what Iran might do so so let's get take
a step back and really realize what
happened the Israeli government provides
a report of their analysis of what Iran
might do and John Bolton uses that as
clear evidence that Iran is about to
attack the United States and issues a
press release saying that we're sending
a warship to the Persian Gulf to deter
Iran this is what former folks in the US
government who work with will Bolton
have consistently warned about his
desire for war is so strong that he will
take things like this and make up
completely other scenarios in order to
push the United States towards war okay
and so we send this battle carrier group
under false pretenses
essentially you're jinda pretenses that
bolton has said that we're addressing
some type of threat or some events that
are happening or have happened or could
happen and so how does that what is that
it in Bolton's mine and if we're using
that metaphor of like he's trying to put
this on autopilot where the pressure
will cause something to happen that will
trigger a conflict like what are what
are the range of things that could
happen when you have that carrier fleet
in the you know near the Strait of
Hormuz well you have carrier fleets near
the Strait of Hormuz in the past so the
presence of it in and of itself is not
something that oh this can trigger war
if everything else around it that Bolton
is doing so for instance after all of
this pressure the Iranians are now
really tired of the Europeans and others
not really being able to live up to
their promise of making sure that the
nuclear deal survives so you want is the
only country that currently truly is
adhering to the nuclear deal and they've
just announced that by Wednesday they
may come up with reciprocal measures in
which because the US has pulled out of
the deal because the Europeans are not
buying Iranian oil which they have
promised to do as a result of that Iran
is gonna scale down its collaboration
with the IAEA and its adherence to the
nuclear deal rest assure john bolton
will use that step as a provocation and
say well the iranians are pulling out of
the nuclear deal we have to take
military action all we have to ratchet
up pressure further he's trying to
instigate essentially a cycle of
escalation from both sides which
eventually will lead to war even though
that may not be the intent of donald
trump it's fascinating it's it's it's
it's terrifying to i mean people have to
understand that iranian politicians have
you know the same domestic pressures as
any other country i mean they may be
different in some respects but they
can't continue to to sit and and get
broken promises and not respond treated
Parsi i
I have a feeling we're gonna be talking
more in the near future but I appreciate
your walking us through the goings-on at
the beginning of this week thank you so
much
