[Music]
in 2009 I say this all the time but it's
crucial the coup that removed Manuel
Zelaya from office in Honduras is the
Nexus and the basis upon which there's a
broader reversal of the pink tide which
our progressive governments across Latin
America which brought cumulative ly7 D
million people out of poverty 40 million
in Brazil alone Manuel Zelaya was
following that trajectory in Central
America and what you saw coming out of
that coup is military Hunta right-wing
narco governments there's mass protests
happening in Honduras against the
current state all of which have been
backed by the United States in drug war
partnerships in terms of trade in terms
of sweatshops and so on queen Hillary
legitimized it around the world I
don't think she legitimized it but she
certainly backed it wasn't legitimized
in like it wasn't legitimized in Latin
America ever but the Obama Clinton Obama
and Hillary Clinton as Secretary of
State
absolutely legitimate absolutely backed
this coup and so you can't understand
anything we're talking about at the
border without that coup being in in the
primary context then this clip from
Democracy Now with Sonia nazara who's a
bold surprise winning journalist with
Amy Goodman really helps broaden that
context I think Amy the the level of rot
that starts at the top and goes to the
bottom it affects people having
medicines that are basically don't work
because people get kickbacks to buy back
bad medicines it affects the lack of
teachers in schools one in four teachers
don't exist their ghost teachers because
of corruption it affects people's daily
lives and I think what I'd want to say
is that we need to have more compassion
towards these people who are running
from these very violent circumstances
and I believe that we should not cut off
US aid to Central America I know that
this is a controversial point of view
but I think some of this aid I have seen
especially humanitarian aid not military
not police
Seyed humanitarian aid has been used by
the u.s. to lower violence to lower
impunity to lower corruption this is a
10 to 20 year effort but it is more
humane it is more effective it is better
to find a way to allow people to stay in
these countries and improve conditions
there and it's way cheaper than to lock
up all these people in these horrible
prisons in the United States which is
costing us billions and billions of
dollars so I have no problem with the
idea of humanitarian aid in the region I
mean the concern that comes with
humanitarian aid particularly in Latin
America is that that can be easily be
correlated with the political forces
that the United States wants the support
and propagate in these regions and
that's a global pattern that's a tool of
US foreign policy there's never any pure
altruism that's totally naive
however on balance some of these
programs could be beneficial and
corrects but the broader structure here
if you want to get away from this type
of crisis you see is you need to
fundamentally pull back from the drug
war and from treating Central and Latin
America as a giant natural resources and
sweatshop factory for u.s. corporate and
commercial interests that's always been
our policy there that is truly a
bipartisan thing another thing you know
I we shouldn't be destructed from is
looking at Joe Biden's record in Latin
America specifically it's atrocious it's
appalling
and it's completely inseparable from his
criminal justice and imprisonment record
but if you want to actually deal with
migration you actually have to deal with
the types of foreign policies you see
from Yemen to Honduras and that needs to
be at the fundamental structure of this
conversation and then of course that
bleeds to the rising authoritarianism of
the United States
