[Music]
the last thing I want to do and then
we'll go to just a couple of phone calls
and uh and then then we'll get out of
here though is this interview from
Melinda Gates because I found this sort
of stunning
so Melinda Gates was interviewed in the
New York Times on tech innovation Global
Health and her own privilege and let me
start with that one she you know she
says to her credit you know nobody's had
to argue with her like you're privileged
in this to her credit we have to think
about our privilege I have to think
about my privilege every day she says to
her credit good for her
that's good and they were they were
asked what's a recent epiphany you've
had about your privilege she wrote that
it's not over she's answered it's not
enough to read about it you have to be
in the community with people who don't
look like you when I read about a
shooting maybe in the south side of
Seattle I'm not living the experience
where if I have a friend who's a person
of color they most likely are living
that experience or know somebody who is
part of that community and so my
youngest daughter and I we have a lot of
friends who I'm meeting him there of
very mixed races I love that we have
this motto we go by every single person
who walks through our doors should feel
comfortable in our house despite how
large it is
and that it has nice art so here's a
person who I think you know look she's
obviously well-intentioned and and there
is no doubt in my mind that Bill and
Melinda Gates for the most part are
well-intentioned or let me put it this
way one of those things I can't possibly
know so let's assume it which is all the
more reason why we should have laws to
protect our society from people like
this
because they really do feel like they're
well-intentioned and maybe they are
well-intentioned but the problem is that
the amount of money that they have can
have such detrimental effects on society
when they attempt to be well-intentioned
that it is unfair to the rest of us it
is undemocratic to allow two individuals
who are so well-intentioned but so
clueless about certain things like
anybody would be clueless about things
do have that type of impact I could be
completely clueless but all that I'm
saying into this microphone all the
cluelessness that I'm putting onto the
microphone is not going to have really
any type of major impact on society but
when a billionaire is clueless they can
have an enormous impact on society so
they ask her to get back to philanthropy
what about the notion that the
Foundation's work on an issue like
public education is inherently
anti-democratic you've spent money in
that area in a way that maybe seems like
it's crowding out people's actual wants
in that area what's your counter to that
criticism what this is in reference to
is over the over 700 million could be up
to a billion dollars that they dumped
into the educational field invested in
just a few districts in the country to
test out their theories of education can
we run this like a business can we
assess what an educator is doing in the
classroom if we if we use metrics in the
same way we would do like how many
widgets are we turning out and they did
this over the course of like five or six
seven years I think it was an experiment
and she writes or she responds bill and
I always go back to what is
philanthropies roll it is to be
catalytic remember that remember that
it's to try and put new ideas forward
and test them and see if they work if
you can convince government to scale up
that is how you have success
but philanthropic dollars are a tiny
slice of the United States education
budget even if we put in a billion
dollars into the state of California
that's not going to do much so we
experiment with things if we have been
successful David you'd see a lot more
charter schools I'd love to see 20
percent charter schools in every state
but we haven't been successful to your
god we haven't been successful I'd love
to say we had outsized influence we
don't now here's the thing
she is so clueless she's right about the
fact that what she does is to be
catalytic because if a billionaire sinks
a billion dollars into an industry what
else is going to happen right her
billion dollars don't measure up against
what society spends on education but all
the money that's floating around out
there that is looking for a future all
those schools that are desperate for
dollars to get some type of program what
are they going to do she understands
they're catalyst but what does the
catalyst do it creates change in the
marketplace even if it's not a direct
function of what they do so if I tell
you that Warren Buffett is going into
you know he's but he's cornering the
market on flip-flops guess what
everybody's gonna do everybody's gonna
go and buy into the flip-flop industry
that's what happened with this the
so-called race to the top No Child Left
Behind value added on teaching
high-stakes testing all a function of
this experiment that the Gates
Foundation ran and they found out a year
and a half ago that it was a complete
and total failure
that's not my assessment that is the
RAND Corporation which the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation hired to assess
their experiment and it failed that's
why she says we haven't been successful
because they failed now you didn't hear
about that maybe if you listened to the
one or two episodes we talked about on
the show you heard about it but you
didn't hear about it if you watched the
news and you barely
about it if you read the newspapers but
they failed catastrophic failure to the
point where the RAND Corporation and
their internal audit basically said it's
probably right that we should just do
what the educators have been saying God
but yet those ripples that they created
are still reverberating people are still
fighting against this what they assume
to be the case that high-stakes testing
is the best way to get results because
of the billion dollars they dropped in
there and the problem with that is not
that they're bad people or that they're
clueless the problem is they had a
billion dollars that they got a tax
benefit from to try out this experiment
and that's highly problematic that we
incentivize and allow for just two
individuals who have some kooky ideas or
not so kooky ideas to change things in
the public sphere something that is
supposed to be so democratic is public
education and this reporter pushes back
certainly you have more influence than
say a group of parents not necessarily
she says I went and met with a group of
three dozen parents in Memphis we
thought they had a good idea a good idea
for them they were having none of it
so we didn't move forward a group of
parents a group of teachers they can
have a very large influence in other
words I don't understand what the word
influence means we might not go and dump
a ton of cash in a in a district where
there's a lot of pushback by by parents
but we're gonna dump it somewhere and
when we dump all that cash anybody who's
involved in any type of investing or a
philanthropic work it's not hard to find
a school in every district well I you
know I don't how many schools people
have in their districts where it's like
oh we're pursuing a tech curriculum
because that's the way we're going to
get a big funding from the Bill and
Melinda Gates
I mean there's multiple of them so we
tour around looking at middle schools
and high schools and and just in the
district and my daughter goes to school
in Brooklyn there's a couple of schools
hurting for cash who are completely
reconfiguring their curriculum so that
they can look appealing to these type of
foundations in not these type this
foundation so it's just absurd to say a
billion dollars dropped into education
in a concentrated way by one entity
doesn't have influence I mean come on if
she believes this then she's totally
clueless if she doesn't then she's being
liar but either way there's only one way
to deal with this and that is to say
we're gonna take that money off of your
hands well we're not gonna allow you to
make it we're gonna distribute that
money before it ends up in your bank
account and we're gonna put it into the
education system where we actually have
decades if not centuries of experience
in dealing with public education and
what we lack is funding to make it to
distribute across the country and across
the socioeconomic areas to deal with it
and create a quality education for
everyone and then actually what we're
gonna do is we're gonna take some of
that money and we're not gonna put it in
the schools we're gonna put it into the
communities because educators will tell
you Bill and Melinda that inputs are the
most important determinant as to what
the outputs will be at the end of the
process and they came to understand that
if you go read their rand report that's
what they ultimately learned but
meanwhile there was a seven ten year
period where the country just went off
the rails in terms of education and
there are a lot of people still think
that these theories that have now been
debunked by the very people who are
pushing them are still operative and the
problem at the end of the day is not
that they're bad people
it's just that they had too much money
and it created an unbalance let's help
them yeah and they were you know
incentivized by these kinds of
narratives to believe that they're
special and they're smart and they know
better than everyone I also like how she
describes the meeting with parents and
the teachers like oh it's just a
friendly conversation when I'm sure that
these parents and teachers are expending
time and energy that they would rather
use on other things just to stop these
cockeyed billionaires from messing with
their kids school right we could have
had a bake sale today and made some
money instead of having to ward off the
the invading hordes of extreme high
stakes testing frankly I mean even that
would have been a net positive but it's
not a nice thing to make people do this
is the this is the this is the the
fundamental problem with the this sort
of philanthropic model is that that's
why I don't give it doesn't it mean I
don't give money it's why I keep it it
really is in in in you know I mean bless
their hearts I'm sure they're very nice
people
but but it's too much responsibility for
them human beings aren't supposed to
have that kind of money because it gives
them an outsize power right that's why
they have mad Kings every couple of
hundred years you get a nice one that's
sane but then they end up getting
assassinated probably and that's the
that's the problem with giving you know
a billion dollars to somebody we're
allowing them to make it allowing them
to you know exploit society in such a
way that they accumulate that kind of
money
yes it's it's it's a real problem
there's nobody in this room who if I
gave them a billion dollars or gave them
five years and and they got lucky enough
to make a billion dollars wouldn't be
completely diluted we would all go crazy
let's go to the phones
