[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 16th 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland to America of America
downtown Brooklyn the US and a sweep
we're broadcasting just to the heartland
of America the rest of you stop
listening
what's up Kowalski everybody else tune
out on the program today in the wake the
fourth democratic debate taking place
somewhere in Ohio a OSA AOC Ilhan and to
live endorsed Bernie Sanders meanwhile
the impeachment inquiry moves forward
former State Department official
McKinley in a closed-door deposition
today and yesterday's testimony puts
Mick Mulvaney in the center of the
corrupt White House plan for Ukraine
meanwhile Rudy proves the old adage he
who acts as his own attorney as a fool
for a client new ProPublica
investigation shows why Donald Trump has
been hiding his taxes it's not because
he's not a billionaire it's because it's
perpetrating fraud yeah there's other
things to do with the money
the trade front meanwhile air Dhawan
cuck Spence and Pompeyo
Ilhan Omar introduced a bill to provide
universal free school lunch
the new report investor-owned hospitals
are dumping tons of cash into the fight
against Medicare for all meanwhile a new
report of the global hunger index shows
that climate change is driving alarming
levels of hunger around the world and
congratulations
labor you're being taxed now at a higher
level than capital for the first time in
ever all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen welcome we
are all exhausted in studio last night
too late in the evening although I'm
sure Jamie was out out even later but I
was in bed in bed staying awake so we're
all tired right definitely okay good
we're all exhausted and but we are here
today to give you a bit of a recap on
the debate last night and a bit of a
update on where we are with impeachment
and these two stories you know moving in
more or less in parallel there was a the
first question of the evening was for
every person on stage as to whether the
president needs to be impeached they
largely all agreed as far as I could
tell except for you know Tulsi Gabbard
sort of gave a I mean a slightly
convoluted answer I have to be honest
she both said that it was highly
partisan but that she supports it but
that it's right right but it's a little
bit raw
and so she came out strong with a
tremendous amount of ambivalence on that
everyone else on stage though was quite
supportive of impeachment and how could
you not be at this point I mean both
politically and ethically and I mean
it's quite obvious you can be suspicious
of the CIA but at this point now the
Intel committee has heard from multiple
members of the State Department
diplomats career diplomats who have
defied Mike Pompeo and gone in and
testified some who have resigned like
the guy today
resigned and is in there testifying
today and certainly what came out
yesterday and we'll get into this a
little bit more later but today they'll
hear from Michael McKinley he was a
former senior advisor to Mike Pompeo but
not one that came in with Pompeo he was
already there career a career State
Department official yesterday George
Kent who was the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for European and
Eurasian affairs basically told the
lawmakers that all the Ukraine experts
were shoved aside in dealing with
Ukraine policy by Mick Mulvaney and
replaced with Gordon sundaland
who is a hotelier and was the ambassador
to the EU I would like to see him in a
Wes Anderson movie now that you say that
exactly
and of course Rudy Giuliani a simple
country lawyer with simple country
interests kurt volker who was an unpaid
emissary with his own sort of strange
and of course oh there was one other guy
who was in charge of this and I
shouldn't necessarily include
Rudy in this Rudy was sort of like the
fourth wheel the third wheel was of
course Rick Perry who it was
energy secretary because they had sort
of a side deal going on where they
wanted to get members of their buddies
on there on a corporate board in Ukraine
and they apparently called themselves
the three amigos and of course you put
the three amigos in charge of the
relationship with Ukraine when you don't
want career people who would say like
hey wait a second what are you doing
that's not what you're supposed to do
with other countries you don't want them
there there'll be the little rascals it
they sort of are it's absolutely true
and Spanky really went too far this time
but at this point I mean there's no
there's simply no denying what's going
on there really the question is that I
think are the Democrats are facing at
this point is do they go ahead and take
a vote on this and I still haven't had
my question answered as to whether they
can do just a rolling impeachment
hearings like we're gonna vote on
impeachment for this one and then in
three or four weeks we're gonna vote on
impeachment for that for the next one
obviously they're being stonewalled
Giuliani refusing to provide documents
Pompeo refusing to provide documents
pense refusing to provide documents
failure to comply with the subpoena and
the question becomes do you waste time
trying to compel their testimony go into
the courts etc etc when you already have
enough information to impeach the
president because they clearly do I mean
frankly they clearly did before any of
this happened I have a highly
impeachable personality it's sort of
prima facie I should be impeach exactly
and so that is really that the the
question that the Democrats are trying
to figure out right now and and and I
have to admit it's not I don't think
it's a slam dunk
I just want to speak this into existence
cuz people love to make photo shops the
grand Kiev Hotel there you go yes I love
it think about it the grand Kea yeah
grand budapest wes anderson the--maybe
oh I see all right yeah I mean
something's going on there it's gonna be
so whimsical do you very much all right
mr. president you cannot meanwhile we
have another burgeoning disaster in
northern Syria which is not to say that
what's been taking place in Syria for
the past eight years nine years hasn't
been a disaster but the real the real
challenge with Syria in terms of or I
should say the only challenge to a large
extent that I think the United States
could have played and throughout this
has been to make sure that it doesn't
turn into a wider conflict and that
would have involved providing a lot more
resources for refugees escaping Syria
and in this instance leaving the hundred
troops that were there and basically
telling Turkey like hey no you can't you
cannot go in not happening and they
should have supported an earlier
diplomatic process with Assad yeah and
the Kurds that I'm holding out and
instead of holding out on this regime
change nonsense which has been over for
years practically speaking and so
there's a lot of crocodile tears there
as well
but now we are looking at a situation
where we could be on the brink of some
form of ethnic cleansing and genocide I
guess to a certain extent it depends on
how much Assad feels that they want to
fight Turkey at this point here's Donald
Trump basically insuring everybody that
he's got his guys
on it and they're gonna take care of it
and he's gonna send some tough words to
Turkey cuz I apparently didn't do that
on the phone with air21 and but look at
all the tough guys behind me God he's
such a yeah here he is like he's
going to that's what everyone's it's
honestly like oh we're getting a hockey
team coming here straight out of central
casting all right beautiful
put him by me with tough guys we like
the Jets but not like the football team
like the Jets and the Sharks and not
that the cocky sharks where the shots
check Jets and the Sharks we're gonna
tell everyone what's what they're gonna
do a menacing this is yesterday Mike is
getting ready to make a big trip he'll
be living tomorrow we have a delegation
leading today and Mike is heading it up
with secretary Pompeo they'll be leaving
tomorrow and if we're having very strong
talks with a lot of people to bring on
there he's announcing that Pompeyo and
pence are going to Turkey tomorrow that
is today
he announced this yesterday and they're
gonna talk to a lot of people strong
tough tuk-tuk-tuk strong talks with a
lot of people we want to bring our
soldiers back home after so many years
and they're the greatest warriors in the
world they're policing they're not a
police force they're a different kind of
a force we want to bring our soldiers
back home every kind of force and would
be very tough to one turkey and a lot of
others have to maintain their own
properties now they have to maintain
peace and safety what happens the
delegation we're asking for a ceasefire
c-span put the strongest sanctions that
you can imagine but they get a lot we
have a lot in store if they don't if
they don't have an impact positive okay
so the the strongest sanctions you can
imagine but we have a lot more where
that came from if they don't have any
impact and so he's going there telling
him he's got a he's calling for a
ceasefire he just called for a ceasefire
he's sending his vice president and Mike
Pompeo in to get a ceasefire from Turkey
continue in-store if they don't if they
don't have an impact including massive
tariffs on steel they ship a lot of
steel to the United States
Stephen make a lot of money shipping
steel they won't be making so much money
I just want to tell you that there you
go we got so many things in store for
them
why don't let's just see what air21 this
guy who's got about to get some tough
stuff coming to him today what he has to
be very scared that I talked like that
he's gonna watch it oh here's a clip of
everyone hope he doesn't soil himself
because they're tough job can be
embarrassing the American delegation is
coming here are you worried about it
will you be seeing American teenagers
[Music]
why would we survive what will you be
saying to them negative there are lot of
us with you I'm standing I'm not thanks
doctor unlock our study de Guiche they
will be talking their counterparts let
them get it open when trumpet comes here
all the talking he's a gangster there
you go I don't know if they're don't
heard that what Trump wants to be so bad
what he said was why would we be worried
and she said well they're coming here
and he goes I'm not gonna be meeting
with him they're gonna meet with their
counterparts I'm not gonna talk I'll
talk to Trump if he shows up that's it
tough talk well you steal you steal you
gonna lose you steal there I mean it's
so amazing it just the typology like
balsan ro is a freak and a weirdo who
worships Trump so he can sort of have
that dynamic with him but Modi and air21
just know exactly how to play Trump for
their purposes like every single time
yeah they're the big kids they just cut
them and is he sitting there one right
here is this is your this is the the
Donald Trump let the genie out of the
bottle as it were and he is not gonna be
able to stuff it back in and that is a
real problem
tough talk that is a real problem I mean
you know I don't know if this will be
that moment but at one point the total
incompetence catches up with you there's
I mean clearly what we've seen with this
experiment where you put in just a
rancid charred see Gardner into the
presidency we have seen that you know
this experiment we're seeing it play out
how much of the institutions that make
up the United States government how much
inertia is there and starting to get the
sense that the the inertia the things
are starting to sputter a little bit and
this is without a major crisis or at
least one that wasn't self-inflicted but
we will keep it tabs on this obviously
one of today's sponsors is news voice
it's the first ever entirely open crowd
source and democratized platform for
news you can download the app for free
at news voice dot-com slash majority as
you know the majority the vast majority
of news owned by the same five huge
corporations it's important for you for
all of us to understand where the news
is coming from that we are reading who
owns which media outlets which political
biases may be in play it's fine to read
this stuff but you always going to know
the assumptions that undergird it and
that's what news voice helps you keep
track of it's a free crowdsource website
and mobile app lets you create
personalized news feeds and maintain a
clear picture of where your news is
coming from and what political slants
may exist helps you aggregate news from
corporate outlets international outlets
local news and independent media it
gives you access to every side of every
story it's fueled by a community of
users who contribute to the news voice
platform by fact-checking submitting
stories and sources that are missing up
voting stories and writing story
summaries you can also comment on
stories and debate politics with other
members of the community through staying
active in the community you can level up
earn perks on the platform the news
voice play feature lets you listen to
your personal news feed every day
through customizable audio news
playlists it's your own personally
tailored radio station for news news
voice is a next-generation news
aggregator and social media platform
that values transparency good journalism
and productive political discussions a
couple of stories today in my stack
pulled it from news voice it's just it's
going to give you a cross-section of
news I mean in some ways it's you know
I've done this with my Twitter feed
where I have sort of over the years
curated the different news sources that
I think will give me a balance of in
different perspectives on different
stories news voice does it for you you
don't have to do this for 15 years to
figure out who you should be following
on Twitter you get totally active free
access by going to news voice dot-com /
majority I put a link underneath
if you're watching on YouTube we have
one in the podcast description check it
out also babel will get you speaking a
new language quickly and most
importantly with confidence choose from
14 different languages including Spanish
French and Italian speak your new
language within weeks what else they
have Russian and Portuguese right do we
know what are the other languages are
Russian Portuguese French French he has
Italian Spanish said those Swedish
Turkish seriously Dutch polish learn how
to say I won't be meeting with anybody
besides Trump and Turkish you don't want
to do a good air21 impression here's
your opportunity to brush up on it I
would like to do a narrative one
impression
babbles teaching method and their speech
recognition technology has been proven
to be effective across multiple studies
the lessons
babbles lessons they're created by real
human beings over a hundred language
experts so no translation machine no
algorithms no rigidity these are these
are created by language experts they're
engaging and convenient they last only
about 10 to 15 minutes you could learn
through interactive dialogues so you can
perfect your pronunciation and your
accent make you feel like you have a
friend to babble is available as an app
or online you use your progress it syncs
across all of your different devices
we're gonna get this on we're gonna do
language challenge we're all sitting
here talking about like I want to learn
Spanish I want to learn
well everybody sees wants to Spanish
Portuguese oh yeah Michael wants to
learn Portuguese because you listened to
the show Babel has a special offer for
you go to Babel dot-com select the
language of your choice once you try for
free and are ready to sign up select the
three month option Babel will give you
an additional three months for free with
the promo code majority so that's six
months for the cost of three that's two
for one for those you don't know math
with the promo code majority babble ba
BBE elle.com enter promo code majority
babble speak a new language with
confidence alright let's get into this
debate review you will hear today if you
turn on the cable news that Amy
Klobuchar and Peabody judge have really
they just shined and now look obviously
if you've listened to this program for
more than five minutes over the course
of the past nine years you will know
that all of us here would receive that
information with great skepticism
we watched the debate Amy Klobuchar the
only thing I can tell you that really
stuck out for me was that she had a sort
of like a comedy hook on every one of
her responses and and by comedy I mean
something that's not funny
she had just some it was like really
Michael Scott energy there that's what I
was exactly meant working for her and in
addition to air like you've just been
forced to shave her legs okay now you
got a laugh of the jokes I don't think
that she I don't think that the jokes
are hers like I don't think they'll Mars
no but I know Mars but I don't it's not
just that I don't think the jokes are
hers I don't think she jokes that way in
real life because what it clearly is is
a way they they have internal polling
this is my guest that says that she's
not that she comes off as too harsh and
and uptight and the stories about her
being a bad boss we need to show that
you are a happy warrior and so they come
up honestly because these are your I
can't I think you're right
that this is so deliberate like it's not
one of those let's let Amy be Amy it's
like let's manufacture Amy
because and here's the thing she should
ask for her money back she should ask
for her money back because she's not
going anywhere anywhere she's not going
anywhere
and she's dancing I mean it's not I'm
having so much fun yes look at me
I'm signaling fun you don't think that
that's authentic oh that's a me being a
me bro Buddha judge Buddha judge
actually I think sort of also just a lot
of pablum I do think that's who Buddha
judge is though I had a hunch he is a
walking McKinsey chart and one of those
Russian dolls it's just the same doll
all the way down to the bottom and then
there's nothing exactly but I will say
this I do think Buddha judge may and you
know his numbers have been D I think
this is a guy who could do well in Iowa
could I don't think it's I don't I
wouldn't I wouldn't say it's a 50%
chance but I would I would say it's in
the 40s he could do well in Iowa which
could have implications on the race
going forward but beyond that I don't
think the debate is going to change
anything the the top line here Bernie
looked strong which was important and
basically won the debate by announcing
the endorsements before the debate was
over and he was fantastic
I mean honestly well that was important
yes this is the best debate I've seen
Bernie deliver in his whole presidential
career yes we're gonna play some clips
important for him to come out and show
that the the the heart attack was not in
any way impacting his ability to
campaign Warren took a lot more heat
than she has in the past but it also on
some level probably helps her insofar as
it it drew a distinction between her and
people like butta judge and Klobuchar
and Kamala Harris to some extent and
we're going
play this key difference between the two
of them
Biden's star is falling too well but
it's a function of Biden star I'm
following and there's a perception that
she's the the front leader and they're
going after her Biden also had probably
what was his best night and part of that
I think what it shows is that Joe Biden
chokes under pressure and that is
something to be very concerned about
because I mean he did well last night
but nobody challenged him and to the
extent that he was challenged was the
one time that he was incoherent and so
this is indicative I think of a problem
that Joe Biden has but now let's get to
the clips I don't think there was
anything else really of great merit oh
the other thing just just to put two
button hold this little a digest of the
debate one fun fact
Tom Steyer was on stage
Tom Steyer has raised 48 million dollars
in this campaign which is pretty
impressive but if you go to the next
level of understanding his fundraising
you find out he actually raised what was
it three million dollars and put in
forty five of his own and oh I'm and and
here's the thing I'm sorry yeah he had
49 million dollars
he has spent 47 million dollars on this
campaign and maybe we need a solution to
it that risks the imagination of a new
kind of possibility 47 million dollars
to get on that stage most of you did not
even know he was running
most of you did not know he was eligible
I would say 85% of the people watching
that debate were not even aware that he
was gonna show up that day it cost him
$37,000 per word that he spoke in that
debate but I just want you to
contemplate something we heard a lot
during that debate about whether
billionaires should exist I don't know
if there is a more perfect example of
how wasteful and stupid a billionaire
could be then someone who spends 48
million dollars presumably in pursuit of
promoting politics that have nothing to
do with him but are to save the country
as he said in all it amounts to is
$37,000 per word that he gets to speak
on that debate stage and for the life of
me I can't remember one single word he
said it was a completely useless
endeavor and how'd he spent that 48
million dollars on state houses in
Colorado and Arizona and Virginia and I
don't know half a dozen other states
bill you do a dropping 48 million
dollars into into state Senate races
state Senate races not federal Senate
you could literally change the outcome
in multiple states across the country
you could save abortion rights for women
in multiple states across the country
you could change redistricting you could
change representation in the house I
mean you could do so much with that
money for the presume it goal that
you're up there talking about you could
give a ubi to 48,000 people you could do
that now would be a waste of money too
but you could have had a genuine genuine
political impact and
the idea that I mean frankly when Bernie
was asked do you think that billionaires
should be existed he should have just
gone like this look at that guy do you
know he spent 47 billion dollars to get
on this stage 47 million bernie is two
nice boys people are always saying that
all right let's get to the clips I just
the more I think about it the more
enraged I get I mean it's just sort of
it's it's grotesque to see that type of
I mean I it's grotesque
to see that type of of money that that
just that level of incompetence it's
pure narcissism it's pure narcissism but
it's so incompetent to like you know
yeah I could totally get being a
narcissist great but why not just be the
guy who like Walker like you can be the
guy who walks around and says like oh
yeah I changed the outcome of four stay
tuned you always say yourself he's
literally expressing himself it is it is
a man his own supply sure I mean it's
one thing yes like oh I'm the power
behind throne or whatever but this is
pure unmitigated like I always wanted to
do since I was kid now I'm gonna do it
I join a local theater company really
there are two two clips I want to play
first about with Bernie this was the
only exchange with Biden that Bernie had
that was you know basically I wouldn't
say an attack on Biden but to some
extent an attack and Bernie and Warren
still studiously it appears are
attempting to not attack Joe Biden and
which leads me to believe that they both
believe that Biden will fade and they
don't want to alienate his voters
presumably older african-american
who are a big part of Joe Biden's base
of support and there may be a sense that
older voters and just older voters in
general right I mean Bernie's not doing
great with older voters as well
Warren's looking for those from Biden
and I suspect they feel that older
voters get a little bit put off by
attacks that's why you've seen what
happened to Kamala Harris and what
happened to Castro but this is the one
instance where I think I think Bernie
could not help himself Warren has stuff
at the chamber for Biden when the time
comes I think but I don't know if we'll
ever unleash it but here is Bernie or a
total of four months four months where
do you get the rest where does it come
from okay Sanders responding two ways
Jodie talked about working with
Republicans and getting things done but
you know were you also got done all
right saying this is a good friend you
got the disastrous war in Iraq done you
got the bankruptcy bill which is hurting
middle-class families all over this
country
you've got trade agreements like NAFTA
and PNTR with China done which of course
was four million jobs and let's get to
Medicare for all let's be honest we
spend twice as much per person as
through the people of any other major
country on earth and the answer is if we
have the guts that I would like to see
the Democratic Party have that guts to
stand up to the drug companies and the
insurance companies and tell them that
the function of health care is to
guarantee care to all people not to make
a hundred billion dollars in profit we
stood together we could create but great
all right in that last part
we're in Bernie pivots to it quite
quickly after basically saying Joe Biden
you you've gotten some stuff done with
Republican stuff that you shouldn't be
very proud of he pivots to the appeal
that he made multiple times throughout
the night and we will will play a
clip of that in a moment he appeals to
Democrats to sort of take a position on
this be let's be the party that is for
guaranteeing everyone health care
guaranteeing a means not only can you
not lose it it's there regardless of if
you have twenty bucks in your pocket or
not and that was the theme that Bernie
hit multiple times here is one of those
moments where Bernie Sanders in the
night basically again calls on the
Democrats there to stop messing around
and just go for the gold
like why there's there is no reason to
believe there's a single plan being
offered by anybody on that stage who has
you know the chances of getting any of
it passed through a
republican-controlled Senate and so if
the bottom line is we're gonna have a
Democratic House and a Democratic Senate
and a Democratic president to pass this
whatever plan it is then the question
becomes which Democrats are going to
stand in the way and why there is no
great constituencies out there for
people who don't want free at at
point-of-service
health care there's no constituency out
there that is like I want the ability to
fill out forms and send it in now if
you're you're very wealthy you probably
don't do that you probably hire somebody
to do it or your assistant does it I
don't know who does it
here's Sanders basically calling on the
entire stage of folks to embrace this
just on a moral level
senator Sanders do you want to respond a
little bit
tired I must say a people defending a
system which is dysfunctional which is
cruel 87 million uninsured 30000 people
dying every single year 500,000 people
going bankrupt
for what reason they came down with
cancer I will tell you what the issue is
here the issue is whether the Democratic
Party has the guts to stand up to the
healthcare industry which made a hundred
billion dollars in profit whether we
have the guts to stand up to the corrupt
price-fixing
pharmaceutical industry which is
charging us the highest prices in the
world for prescription drugs and if we
don't have the guts to do that if all we
can do is take their money we should be
ashamed about saying no so good
um so much clay the the only thing
missing from that and it is a little bit
NIC picky is you know the hospitals and
which is a which is a which remains a
big problem little bit picky I mean from
a policy standpoint I mean it's it's
hugely important but from a rhetorical
standpoint I mean I think like we all
get the picture right the there are
people who are profiteering off of the
misery of other human beings they're
just doing it in the guise of being a
hospital and they're they're doing it in
the guise of investor-owned hospitals
more often than not and they're doing it
for the purposes of maximizing
shareholder value and so they are
omitting people they are putting them in
bankruptcy they are keeping them
insecure we also know I should know our
employee based health insurance is a way
of controlling their employees because
you know the the big riddle is like four
years you know back in 2008 two thousand
four five six seven eight you'd hear all
the time whenever health care
came up you would hear some figure like
2,300 bucks of every car that comes off
at GM's a lot it's paying for the health
care of retirees or something whatever
it was some health care plan and so you
would think that business private
business would be the first in line to
say yeah like even if I'm paying as a
business even if I'm paying the same
amount in taxes maybe if I'm even paying
a little bit more in taxes than I would
in that health care the administrative
cost of all that would be much easier
for me to deal with I would save money
because the realities they probably
would save money these businesses but
that's not the only value proposition
for them in this it is also that they
basically have leverage over their
workers and we see we see it in the GM
strike and you see it all the time
like you want to leave this job you
don't want to get paid good luck hope
your kid stays healthy be a real shame
if something happened to sick kid and so
that is a big part of this but there's
no reason why the the people on that
stage couldn't be supporting this stuff
they want to differentiate themselves
and it's it's a little bit appalling but
I guess it's just part of what you have
to do and I love the fact that Joe Biden
in that first like as soon as Bernie
said like we're defending these people
and he sort of smiles yeah man that's
very and then he realizes like oh I he's
talking about people dying I died not
being covered not at a Comcast watch it
again a little bit tired I must say a
people defending a system which is
dysfunctional which is cruel 87 million
uninsured 30,000
jobox oh yeah coffee shop Talk hey look
at the hippie over here he wants to
defend people ha oh oh I guess I'm not a
horizon fund raiser cover your mouth
yeah concerts of the factors in the back
like dad I gave up an awesome Chinese
people to do this Matt don't blow it
it's a lot of money bro
goodbye don't laugh at the people dying
I know he's a stupid old hippie but
you're out stage dad oh it's my
brother's life I mean the and Joe Biden
did come out yesterday and say that his
family has agreed not to take any jobs
on foreign boards if he becomes
president and better get me simply
backup Amtrak what are they they're not
gonna have to travel to Ukraine at that
point Jared hey dad dad would have a
Budweiser dad Wow coke in the White
House though meanwhile a lot of money on
the table Pro Hunter is I think my age
but but here is so Joe Biden he's so
slow Biden's elder son well yeah and Joe
Biden still Joe Biden and he can't help
but smile when he's accused of of
protecting a dysfunctional business and
he just can't help himself but lie and
condescend in the exact same moment here
is Joe Biden as Elizabeth Warren is
talking about the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau david dan who has
spent spent months months and months and
months back in the day reporting on on
the financial crisis quoted a guy who
wrote a literally
wrote a book about the financial crisis
saying that Joe Biden was not a player
at all involved in the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau he showed up
for the signing and that was it
but listen to the guy not just lie about
his role in it but condescend to Warren
about it simultaneously that that's
impressive stuff folks because you got
to be you you got a you get you're
getting high on your own supply that's
really what that's going on there refers
me I agreed with the great job she did
and I went on the floor and got you
votes
I got votes for that bill I convinced
people to vote for it so let's get those
things strong user deposit
Sarah Warren that is not accurate
according to all of the journalists who
covered it and the people have literally
written about it but whatever I got you
dad you're not talking to me that's
Elizabeth Warren why are you so mad good
I agreed with the great job she did and
I went on the floor and got you votes
I got votes for that bill I convinced
people to vote for it so let's get those
things straight - she knows she knows
he's full of it right here and she's mad
about it and she's trying to continue to
watch this
[Applause]
I am deeply grateful to President Obama
who fought so hard to make sure that
Asia was passed into law and I am deeply
grateful to every single person who
fought for it and who helped pass it
into law but I can't understand it a
hell that job your job thank you but
underst
well in addition to mansplaining he's
gonna Pat her on the head now yep yep
and say I have to say there was a lot
communicated in that thank you
so petulant right little person who
fought for it and who helped pass it
into law but understand it held that job
your job thank you Christ people
told me go for something little go for
something small go for something that
the big corporations will be able to
accept I said oh let's go for an agency
that will make structural change in our
economy and Obama said I will fight for
that and he sometimes had to fight
against people in his own administration
willing to make mayor boo tonight a
structural change Bernie's like I'm 99%
of the people in barest on behalf of
other people in this room right now did
you see his hand go for his tie he's
like whoa boy Joe I understand your
virility is Robert Lee leaving your body
and your brain job your job gotta calm
down job your job can you guys play that
next time I skip working and she and
look and she knows she knows what role
he played there and as I think like I
mean that was it sort of a very
a telling moment I think about her as a
candidate and as just an operator like
she she could have said yes and I thank
you Joe and then moved on but she knew
he was lying I would be very surprised
if he wasn't one of the obstacles
frankly to what she was doing based upon
who his constituency is so there's a
mixed report on this from Ryan grim
which is interesting Biden did nothing
absolutely did not help now for whatever
reason
Biden's top Biden's he could not have
mean coffee a Kaufman but Jared
Bernstein specifically backed her
extremely strongly so Biden had the most
progressive people around him in the
White House with regards to economic
policy which I guess is a credit to him
because at the end of the day he did
staff with them but it was them not him
yeah the idea that he was out there
getting votes on the floor do not the
case I wouldn't be surprised if Jared
Bernstein was was helping in terms of
the development of of it but from the
political aspect she was very clear she
could have said yes thank you Joe but
she made a very strong point of like I
think everybody who is involved I mean
she's not gonna say this obviously
because there's no you know cuz it would
benefit Sanders and she's not gonna want
to attack Obama but I believe the real
story is not only I mean not only Joe
not helped when Bob AMA was finally
convinced to do this he wasn't
necessarily a yes you know she was
rightfully pissed that he wasn't going
to appoint her and there's a meeting
where Sanders is campaigning for her to
get the head of the the congressional
yes CFP and Obama looks at Sanders
apparently and he goes see there's the
problem progressives you always think
the glass is half-empty you get in the
agency but you're upset she's not gonna
get the head of it at birdie look at him
he's like Jesus Christ your prick okay
or any supports women Biden did not help
but his economic team did which is in
trade people like Kaufman and Bernstein
are interesting relative to to Biden's
record here is
both Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren
both attacked the protection of of
billionaires first here is Bernie
Sanders on taxing billionaires play this
one and you introduced your wealth tax
which would tax the assets of the
wealthiest Americans you said quoting
you senator billionaires should not
exist is the goal of your plan to tax
billionaires out of existence
when you have a half a million Americans
sleeping out on the street today when
you have 87 people 87 million people
uninsured or underinsured when you got
hundreds of thousands of kids who cannot
afford to go to college and millions
struggling with the oppressive burden of
student debt and then you also have
three people owning more wealth than the
bottom half of American society that is
a moral and economic outrage and the
truth is we cannot afford to continue
this level of income and wealth
inequality and we cannot afford a
billionaire class whose greed and
corruption has been at war with the
working families of this country for 45
years so if you are asking me do I think
we should demand that the wealthy start
paying the wealthiest top 1/10 of 1%
start paying their fair share of taxes
so we can create a nation and a
government that works for all of us yes
that's exactly what I believe now
technically the question was actually do
you think we should tax billionaires out
of existence and the short answer to
that is yes I can see to a certain
extent I mean I think the fact that he
doesn't feel comfortable just saying
that yes I think is probably a function
of a like a diseased society that we
have on some level well where you know
like there would be some type of offense
like well wait a second you can't
so wrong it's an affront on freedom - to
tax a billionaire out of existence -
where there would just be a hundred
millionaire first of all it's just a
bizarre like threshold to say like is
where freedom lies right I mean the the
idea that we would have confiscatory
taxes is for some reason well first of
all all taxes are confiscatory on some
level but one that is aimed just to to
be confiscatory is also about keeping
maintaining some like remote and very
remote semblance of political equality
and the ability to allow the the the
directions our society moving to be at
least remotely determined by all the
people who live in society I mean we
have seen the damage that can be done by
billionaires based upon even their best
of intentions even if I don't believe
that Bill Gates didn't see an emerging
market in schools and therefore I mean
and and I don't know whether to believe
that or not but let's just assume that
every single dollar that Bill Gates
spent on reforming education quotation
marks was spent with the purest of
intentions and he was able to divorce
the way that he well he's not able to do
that for the purest of intentions they
spent seven hundred and fifty million
dollars a quarter billion dollars on
enhancing school education by doing that
they convinced a lot of other money to
follow suit they convinced an entire
country to pursue these notions of high
high stakes
testing of a way of measuring
value-added to teachers and at the end
of this experiment after literally
school district after school district
pursued grants and whatnot after the
entire country in many respects changed
their perspective of how to assess
education and what to do with it they
did a study the RAND Corporation so it
is Rand is that they're one of the they
did it and at the end of 2018 maybe it
was or the end of 2017 I can't remember
and they found that their experiment was
an absolute failure and in fact that the
rand said we should listen to educators
more and we should basically do what
they've been saying this whole entire
time it was a big oopsie
it was barely reported in the press if
at all I mean I remember when we were
talking about it and III was certainly
looking around is anybody gonna even
acknowledge the fact that a billionaire
was able to take our entire education
system and drive it into an iceberg and
then just walk away go on like my bad I
tried that tried gonna give me prime at
points for that on to the next thing
if you do not if you have one person or
three families or five families who have
the ability to change the direction of
policy in this way it is not only
incredibly undemocratic but more often
than not will be a complete disaster
because it will not bring in a
sufficient number of people who are
involved in that area and you get
disasters like this maybe this is why I
do a slight tangent on Bill Gates new
New York Times piece very conservatively
reported Bill Gates went to great
efforts to minimize his relationship
with Jeffrey Epstein
well okay but that's that is that as a
tangent I said that told you it but I
think it's worth it's worth noting but
the the bottom line is is that
and then of course you know from a
political standpoint I mean it says
there's no difference there political I
mean that is that is a political
standpoint that is a just a broad swath
of society that was just driven into a
people's feedback let me get interrupted
in addition to all of that stuff being
true as I've said time and again
billionaires aren't billionaires because
they worked a billion times harder than
everyone else they're billionaires
because they got other people to work
for them and they exploited them and
other people's work made that money and
it's not asking too much to get some of
it back I I totally agree and that is
like a fairness question on some level
but even if even if we had an example of
a billionaire who somehow while they
can't write I mean I'm basically saying
like if we had the ability for Dino for
someone to fly if I had wings I would be
able to fly but it's not just a question
of of fairness in whether they deserve
the money or not
because of course no one it's not
possible for someone to deserve that
money you get it cuz you're lucky I
don't even feel like I deserve the money
that I make doing this nobody deserves
anything nobody nobody who's in Syria
right now deserves to have lost their
home nobody deserves to have their their
their their their parents or their
children killed
I mean workers do deserve the fruits of
their labor well I look I think to a
certain extent of course but I mean
there's no there's no question of
deserving there is there's a question of
fairness but this notion of deserving
the bottom line is society it is
dysfunctional for society it is
anti-democratic and it is dysfunctional
to allow people to have this much wealth
which inevitably allows them to have an
outsize amount of political power and I
think the different messages will
resonate differently with different
people I know I respond better to this
is what's gonna be better for society
and some people might respond
these stole something from you
and we're gonna get it back right and
it's look and and you know we're we're
sitting on a time now where there's a
report whether for the first time ever
workers are paying a higher tax rate
than investors and owners play this this
graph the first time ever and understand
and this is a function
Emmanuel Saez and gabriel zucman of
university of california berkeley their
new book triumph of injustice present
data that's showing in 2018 labor income
was taxed at a higher rate than capital
income for the first time in modern US
history the proximate cause of the shift
was the 2017 tax cuts and job act which
dramatically slashed taxes and corporate
profits and on estates both forms of
capital income is according to their
analysis they note however that the
trend has been happening for decades
driven in part by the large part by the
same forces that have pushed
billionaires tax rates below bad of the
worker working-class from the 40s to the
80s the average tax rate on capital
exceeded 40 percent while labor paid
less than 25 percent since its peak in
the 50s however the average capital tax
rate has been cut by 20 percentage
points at the same time labor taxation
has risen by more than 10 points driven
by the upsurge in payroll taxes I mean
this is just absurd and understand what
this also represents is not only a
tremendous amount of you know obviously
of unfairness and instability we're
giving capital so much free stuff right
like all the services they use all the
features of society that have worked so
well for them in allowing them to accrue
that much wealth they are getting at a
discounted rate and we are paying for it
like they say there's no free lunch
they're getting a free lunch and we're
paying for it and
look that's the way society works well
it's a snowball effect right the more
money they have the more power they have
the more power they have to amass even
more money indeed indeed but they also
have been set up we have a you know
since nineteen eighty you can see it
right there I mean the graph is right
there even in maybe 1970 mid-70s you can
see that the context is set up there and
of course I can accrue more money you
give me free stuff
I will accrue more money if I give you
guys all here free and somebody's gonna
send me you know half a dozen of audio
editors and video editors that send it
to me for free more free services this
office becomes free guess what I'm gonna
do I'm going to amass more wealth and
I'm gonna do it wrap more quickly and
I'm gonna do it more efficiently and I'm
gonna be able to increase the rate in
which I acquire more wealth because I'm
getting free stuff that's what
capitalism is all right we gotta take a
break free stuff speaking of which
speaking of which and we'll create
billionaires out there so we're not
gonna give you any more of the show for
free so I'm sorry Tom Styer go get your
free political content somewhere else
more look Tom don't Troyer
yeah sort of like that folks we're gonna
head into the fun half we've got a
little more footage on the debate we've
got more on the big announcement and the
implications of the squad three-quarters
of the squad endorsing Bernie Sanders
this is going to be a big deal
it's going to be a big deal in about in
a multitude of ways it's going to be a
big deal because you're gonna go out
there and they're gonna campaign
extensively aoc top
top three fundraisers in the house and
she is now going to have another
platform where you know the campaign's
gonna be sending her around and so this
is not only going to she's going to
build support for Bernie Sanders but
she's going to be building support for a
new generation of people to make sure
that whatever Sanders built regardless
of what happens with the presidential
campaign that there's going to be a
movement and a and leaders for this
movement going forward and that is huge
that is I think hugely important and
will have will will pay dividends I mean
this is this is good news for my kids as
far as I'm concerned so this is going to
be really important gonna be a big week
we will be talking about that for for a
while to come I mean I I it's gonna be
fascinating to see what happens with a
OC out on the campaign trail and you
know because you usually don't get this
level of you know you start to see some
of this like in in like a when it's in
the general election you start to see
surrogates go out and do speeches in
front of like 5,000 people 10,000 feel
like I think we're gonna see that it's
gonna start early and I get it too I
think
ilan home or draw several thousand
people - it's gonna be fascinating I
just wanted a dozen urban people not
yeah urban I just want to think make an
honorable mention I think particularly
with regards to Omar um I think her
political commitments are very clear but
you know Bernie really stood out in his
clarity of supporting her when the
pile-on was happening and you could
chart a graph from his clear clarity and
solidarity to warn decent ish okay and
then just going down to I mean some of
the candidates like Gillibrand who
dropped out was just
awful right and so I think you know
another huge testament to Sanders and to
that relationship folks your support
makes this show possible you can become
a member by going to join the majority
report calm when you do you not only get
the free show commercial free but you
also get the fun half and occasionally
we drop down you know some extra bonus
content and we go through the debate
last night you would have got in the
debate last night oh yeah we gave that
audio we're still working out the video
stuff we get shut down by twitch we lost
our channel see them playing but we'll
we'll be back up on twitch soon and we
will get that stuff nailed down also
subscribe to the AM quickie did you
download the new app okay I think the
app has been we have a new app on
Android and we are waiting for it to get
approved on on the iPhone but the the
news is I think I think you're going to
be able to get the a.m. quickie on the
app now too so check that out but in the
meantime go to am quick e.com sign up
listen to it five minutes every morning
gives you the top headlines in the
politics for the day and very tough to
keep on top of all this stuff these days
believe me even for me also I just
coffee co-op tire trade coffee tea or
chocolate used the coupon code majority
get 10% off today was Wednesday
yesterday was Tuesday however we had a
debate so in many respects today is
Tuesday certain as far as this office is
concerned isn't that right Michael
indeed at 6 p.m. livestream with Andre
Damis who is a writer for McLane's
and just an interview with jog meets
Singh we're gonna be talking about the
Caribbean Canada Bernie Sanders check
out the standalone live stream very
excited to do that patrons have heard us
convert talk about exiting extremism
before and then on the main show
a little bit of a update connecting
Haiti and Ecuador in the history of
World Bank IMF policies and then Ryan
Grimm is coming in studio and we are
talking about the mega endorsements the
debates and probably getting into Hunter
Biden especially because I think that
basically he's the new Mike Flynn jr.
impression I'm gonna want to melt that
patreon.com slash TMDs Michael Brooks
show on YouTube where we're about to hit
our first 82,000 subs so and you can
find additional standard alone streams
snag your tickets to Philly at World
Cafe November 23rd with crystal ball
Ortiz your ball dropping him a villain
link on the home page Jamie so this week
on the anti Fattah we've unlocked a very
premium offering for anyone who's not
yet a subscriber it is history is a
weapon number four the pivotal decade
obviously the 1970s with Matt Chrisman
and Sean KB so going back to that graph
we just looked at they really go into
detail about exactly what happened in
the 1970s that swung power back from
labor to capital so they talked about
how the global crisis upended the Golden
Age of American capitalism how Richard
Nixon bro rode a wave of aggrievement to
become the voice of a silent majority in
backlash and how the uneasy alliance
between organized labor and the
Democratic Party began to fracture a
stagflation undermined the post-war
compromised check it out folks Oh folks
Matt will do this we got to play that
that clip again if you want to if you
have a question about our inside that
that our inside a glossary inside joke
glossary can help you with send an email
with the subject line means to majority
reporters at gmail.com memes
at majority reporters at gmail.com and
we will include it in our glossary Matt
literary hangover we're going to be
doing some a witch Salem witch trials
so I check that out folks all right see
you the fun Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you you nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defensive we're just going
to get rid of you all right yes
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars
you're scum you're not paying me
you right gonna take quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
of the libertarians out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber classic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to aizen's evil Shitler with such
No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
oh look at that I'm wearing the same
shirt today as I did at the end of that
thing and uh this is tough for me to say
but I've worn this shirt so much that
it's ripping in my elbows so I'm gonna
try and sew it maybe I'll do an interior
patch it's that like I feel like I have
that'd be good for your credibility I
feel like there are people who I know
who would be rather distressed if they
knew I was doing an interior patch of my
my shirt why just cause like it's I
don't know just a little bit sad like
you know give up on the shirt the shirts
not that great you've had it for a long
time I got a lot of use out of this
shirt I've worn this shirt a lot of
times yeah I know you know just gonna
throw it in the trash no I'm not I'm
gonna I'm gonna wear it like this
sleeves up for a long time that's the
way I roll I did that with my striped
shirt for a long time nobody ever
noticed anyways um I just happened to
see the same shirt on the end of that
video so I got a little bit carried away
folks
Pete Buddha judge what the heck is wrong
with this guy you know I know
Millennials they don't have they don't
place roots down right isn't that the
thing about Millennials they're very
mobile rootless Cosmopolitan list right
well Pete Buddha judge is showing us how
easy it is to move through stuff
when was this video from do we know
this is from January
do you remember January what's that
February sorry February
do you remember February that was a long
time ago folks February that was oh gosh
eight whole months ago let's look and
see how far peabody judge has moved
again he's a millennial here he is on
Morning Joe talking to some dude on
Morning Joe I think what we have to
decide is are we going to keep being
defined by these where these fence posts
are or are we gonna do what the right
very successfully did over the last 40
years and redefine them medicare-for-all
is a great example again you know ACA
which was a conservative proposal came
to be caricatured is left-wing by a very
disciplined right-wing message machine
right what is Medicare for all it's a
compromise I mean in the UK you got
national health care that would be the
left wing the true left wing position
the true right wing position is free for
all all corporate and the compromise
position is a single-payer system where
you have private doctors but a public
payer we've got to stop allowing the
right to move the the goal posts and
characterize the it's not okay so there
he is Pete Buddha judge in February
saying the center the debate is actually
Medicare for all and we've got to stop
allowing the right to move the goal
posts right I mean that's what we've got
to do but ladies and gentlemen that was
all the way back in February that's not
where we are today right Pete talk about
that moment that we just played in our
intro where you went at it with senator
Elizabeth Warren about her Medicare for
all plan and you wanted a simple yes or
no answer of will she raise taxes and
and what she ended up saying time and
again was Americans household costs will
come down with her plan what does it
matter to you what bucket it comes out
of well not only is it important to have
yes or no answers to yes or no questions
at a time when people are so frustrated
with Washington speak but all
so there's still been no explanation for
a multitrillion-dollar hole in this plan
I have a lot of respect for Senator
Warren but last night she was more
specific and forthcoming about the
number of selfies she's taken then about
how this plan is going to be funded and
that's a real problem
especially when there's a better way to
deliver health care coverage to
everybody look what most Americans want
is to have an opportunity to walk away
from their private plan to have that
what I call Medicare for all who wanted
alternative but also to be able to keep
their private plan if they would prefer
and I think that's the right answer
especially when you do the math and
realize it's also an answer that is paid
for
unlike the Medicare for all whether you
want it or not plans that still have
this giant question mark over how it's
supposed to work you know that one of
the things I love about juxtaposing
those two clips is you hear him back in
February where he wasn't sure what lane
he was gonna run in and he was just
maybe speaking from actual just like you
know policy knowledge and like lik let's
be honest medicare for all is the down
the road center middle obvious thing and
we shouldn't allow the right-wing to use
their talking points to convince us of
otherwise and then he learns from
himself like he's got artificial
intelligence almost because by October
he's actually spouting some of those
right wing talking points but let's see
if we can't get this his algorithm to
relearn why he knew back in February hey
I'm a different time the Medicare for
all plan is a better plan with the help
of dr. Don Berwick the former Medicare
administrator who's going to explain why
a public option a Medicare for those who
want it won't work this is simple and
frankly I'm very I think that Bernie or
Warren should have delivered this
message
they both had opportunities to do it and
they didn't do it they need to do this
they need to start pointing out that the
plans that people to judge and others
are presenting is basically unicorn
plans they will not work as they're
talking them about this it can be
cheapest all hell if they want but they
won't work and here's Don were Berwick
to explain why I'm a little worried
about the public option for a kind of
technical reason insurance companies
want to provide insurance to people that
don't need it
that's how they make money and so
anything that can be done to game risk
so the public option will be used by all
the people who really need the insurance
and insurance companies would then try
to find ways to have people who really
need care go to the public option which
would enrich it would make it would it
be a good business case for them and
that's not good for the country it's not
good for the country because then it
becomes even more expensive that's the
other half of that equation when the
sicker people the people who need the
insurance go into the public option it
becomes more expensive because you don't
have as many people paying in you don't
have the people who don't use it 80% of
our medical costs are borne by 20% of
the people you just don't know which 20%
they are until they get sick and then
when you do if they all move to the
public option and the healthy people are
all are in the private option then
instead of people's payments into an
insurance fund paying for the sick
people
it goes to shareholders and is frankly
inflated for how many people actually
use it in that private sector and then
as a public sector standpoint we have to
pay more because essentially those
shareholders those CEOs those Board of
Directors they're taking the money that
would make the system work for everybody
it's going in their pocket instead of
being spread around to people who need
it for health insurance I'm going to pay
for health care and so it's time for
Bernie and Warren to shift the debate
instead of addressing like how are you
gonna pay for it because we
no how you gonna pay for it you're gonna
pay for it with taxes and it's gonna be
a net savings to people in terms of cost
but then the next step is to say your
plan doesn't work because of the basic
functioning of insurance in fact
insurance companies used to be in favor
of a Medicare expansion or buy-in at age
55 and why because they calculated that
they could make more money by offloading
people from age 55 to 65 because
statistically speaking you'll probably
have people with more ailments in that
age group then you will in younger ages
or to the extent that they have in
younger ages you already see them before
they get before they come for your
insurance you can price it better and
that will be offloaded to the public
sector but then they didn't need to do
that with the ACA because they got all
the subsidies from the government to
sustain their business and that's why
they changed their mind on that and
that's why Joe Lieberman changed his
mind on that back when the ACA fight was
happening but the bottom line is the
public option it just simply does not
work in my work in the context of the
exchanges insofar as you're talking
about a limited pool of people defined
by people who don't qualify for other
insurance like at work but we know what
the the point of having employer-based
insurance is it is to control their
workforce that's why they anticipated
there was a surprise in the way that the
exchanges worked within the context of
society there was an assumption that
companies would stop offering health
insurance and say to their employer in
employees like look I'll give you a
small subsidy you go buy it in the
exchange because that way I don't have
to deal with any of this mess but it
didn't
happen nearly to the extent that was
projected and it's because it wasn't
just about cost to the companies it was
about control over their employees and
you want to empower a laborer
one of the ways you do it a big way is
by not making them beholden to
management to make sure that if their
kids get sick they're not going to be
indigent yeah and then once the public
option is weighed down and bloated and
crashes because there is still a private
market they can point to that and say oh
look the public option doesn't work the
worst part about it it's not even the
existence in my mind it's not even the
existence of the private markets that
you're not making everyone pay into the
public one that is the problem you need
to have everybody pay their premiums to
the government to make the government
insurance work those premiums I mean
their attacks but it's all attacks it's
just a you know one's a private tax
one's a public tax so paying premiums
feels like a tax it's I mean it's a you
know like the the concept of tax is a
little bit fluid they called the penalty
to the ACA attacks it's not it was a
penalty but at the end but you know my I
get a budding lawyer Matthew actually I
was introduced to this notion he would
give his kid you know its kid wanted
like an orange juice he brings the
orange juice over and he goes he takes a
big sip and the kid is like what are you
doing why are you drinking then he goes
stacks it's a little tax or you know a
bite out of his ice mine taste whatever
it is exactly exactly that's cool that's
good pair tax can mean a bunch of
different things is it safe to assume
that all of the people fighting against
Medicare for all and for plans that are
not gonna work
understand this
it is him well we know that Peabody
judge understood it in February now
maybe he suffered some type of head
trauma and forgot it by October but he
knows he knows I mean you know I mean
maybe it's just maybe it's the political
cowardice that is a function of I just
don't know we can sell this to the
American public it's conceivable that
that that's one thing like you know Adam
Green would come on the show years ago
and say you know one of the things that
they were trying to do at the p triple c
was to go in and show candidates that
they can take these positions and show
them polling that that suggests that
there's a lot of support for them out
there and candidates didn't actually
know this I mean I think you know you
can never underestimate ignorance as an
explanation for a lot of stuff but I
imagine people to judge understands this
I mean he was a McKinsey you know
consultant he's so smart all right here
is another moment that was worth
watching in the debate if you want to
understand cuz a lot of people ask me
like what happened to Kamala Harris like
why isn't she doing well I don't know I
can't quite explain why she's not doing
well but I can show you an example of
just somebody who does not have a
someone who has a ten year I think right
like this is fascinating she is going
she is going out Elizabeth Warren cuz
Warren has talked about you know the
question is good you know breaking up
big tech companies you know is that
problematic because Warren is you know
has been an antitrust person for an
extended period of time she has called
out Zuckerberg directly and she wants to
you know antitrust across different
sectors but and so here's how
is going at her and it sounds like
Harris is about to question Warren on
some element of antitrust in and about
monopolies that Warren hasn't thought of
and I you get the sense that Warren is
like is girding is just like she's yeah
because they still think of Harris as a
formidable opponent so Harris needs to
cut into Warren so she's like alright
here it comes here it comes and Warren
starts I mean what Harris that starts
off with like you know okay Elizabeth
you say this about about monopolies but
why haven't you dealt with this of what
should be the rules around corporate
responsibility for these big tech
companies when I called on Twitter to
suspend Donald Trump's a account that
you did not agree and I would I would
urge you to join me because here we have
Donald Trump Oz it no we're gonna go
back and no no keep it keep that because
I want to just play the smile one more
time here listen I like he okay she
thinks she's about to get caught on
something like you know and I've been in
this position before like I prep I prep
I prep oh my god I'm gonna be debating
this libertarian professor and he shows
up and he's not as formidable as I
thought he might be and here is
Elizabeth Warren so Gert
you know girding herself for this this
attack and then she has to hold back a
laugh when it's how come you haven't
called for Trump to be banned from
Twitter watch this the rules around
corporate responsibility for these big
tech companies when I called on Twitter
to suspend Donald Trump's a account that
you join me that's pretty good
alright so let's play the whole clip
because it's pretty amazing like are you
seriously talking about antitrust and
then bringing it into the question of of
banning Trump from Twitter like what was
amazing too is that Harris was on was on
Twitter
later boom owning the fact that a bunch
of different topics weren't brought up
and she spent an extinct like you know I
don't know what percentage ever time I
would say maybe a sixth of her talking
time I mean how much did you speak for
like nine things rice was two minutes of
right I mean they think that but this is
an incredible trend because okay she
goes after Biden on busing which is a
real issue but they and they have the
t-shirts literally ready to go right and
then within days she's like yeah but
actually I essentially have the same
policy I just wanted to use that then
you know we criticized her on the straw
thing I think that that's in some ways
very analogous of like here's something
I can signify but I don't actually want
to talk structurally like I'm not
talking about a green new deal I'm not
talking about radical emissions cuts and
now we go to this she's not even just
talking structurally she's getting
recently ridiculous if this goes at
least a straw I don't I don't think that
that's smart politics but you could
still say okay there's plastic pollution
like okay there's something material to
it even if it's not the way to go I
think and now we're just going into all
right let's talk antitrust Donald Trump
didn't read the Terms of Service and
what about shadow pen and what about
shadow bit I mean no honestly I mean
this this is resistance Maria Bartiromo
stuff it's embarrassing but I do want to
also say this what we're talking about
is a grave injustice when rules apply to
son but not equally to all and in
particular when the rules that apply to
how she said you don't apply to the
powerful and so Senator Warren I just
want to say that I was surprised to hear
that you did not agree with me that on
this subject of what should be the rules
around corporate responsibility for
these big tech companies when I called
on Twitter to suspend Donald Trump's
account that you did not agree and I
would urge you to join me because here
we have Donald Trump that's 65 million
Twitter followers and is using that
platform as the President of the United
States to openly intimidate witnesses to
threaten witnesses to obstruct justice
and he and his account should be taken
down we saw in El Paso that that shooter
in his manifesto was informed by how
Donald Trump uses that platform and this
is a matter of corporate responsibility
Twitter should be held accountable and
shut down that side you know what it is
you know what it you know what this
reminds me of moral umer because it
chaining myself in front of Twitter
headquarters start off because dude's
gotta go you're gonna introduce you're
gonna talk about the premise is that we
live in a society with two-tiered system
of justice we have a two tiered system
of rules those for the powerful and
those for the weak
that's fan I am shocked I am shocked
that you will not join me in calling for
this guy to be banned from Twitter I
really honestly when you think of all
the disparity that exists in this
society that's why I would like what you
cats why senator Warren I would like you
to join me in condemning myself for
putting the mothers of truant truant
children in prison and letting Steve
minuchin get away with multiple
financial crimes because of this whole
two-tiered justice system I was just
talking about I just the thinking like
you you could do that Martin Luther King
bit essentially with like you know just
sort of the smallest of like why Wallace
get extra editorial space it's even it's
even worse think of anything yes just
like I couldn't think of anything
actually analogously small huh Drive my
car and on Thursdays when the parking
rates are a nickel more that's the sign
injustice that we have or you know I
don't even I can't even no that wouldn't
even work there's literally nothing that
you could think of that even like she
almost like Warren almost doubled over
and laughter like cuz she thought like
oh there's something big coming over
it's quite a wine various the first part
of the wine up I thought she was
actually gonna go into Warren's like
corporate legal advising stuff I was
like is she gonna talk about that
fascinating and then she went to and
then she went to the to the to the
monopoly stuff and I was like I mean you
know Harris is another like she's an
attorney obviously maybe she may be
Warren missed something in her plan and
sorry Donald Trump easy keep keep yeah
keep going the way and then just quote
Donald Trump pull up this tweet - after
we love Donald Trump since I'm still
knocking it's we look at you
sorry and shut down that site it is a
matter of safety and corporate
accountability Thank You senator Warren
you can respond don't lurk I don't just
want to push Donald Trump off Twitter I
want to push him out of the White House
that's our job but the way join me in
saying why it is that we have had laws
on the books for antitrust for over a
century
and yet for decades now we've all called
on how the big drug companies are
calling the shots in Washington big AG
how the gun industry big tech you know
we really need to address the elephant
in the room
and that is how campaigns are financed
responsibility announced this morning
that I'm not gonna take any money from
big tech executives from Wall Street
executives we've already agreed Bernie
and I we're not taking any money from
Big Pharma executives you can't go
behind closed doors and take the money
of these executives and then turn around
and expect that these are the people who
are actually finally going to enforce
the laws we need campaign finance rule
thank you senator Warren senator Harris
you can't support us all you can it is
it does not represent a system of
justice to say that the rules will apply
differently to different people this is
a matter you are saying of holding
big-dick accountable building big tech
accountable because they have an
outsized influence on people's
perceptions about issues and they
actually influence behaviors we all have
to agree this is their power it is
immense senator Koehler garland
[Music]
I'm still talking about banning that it
seems to me that you would be able to
join me in saying the rule has to apply
to truckers anyway does to Facebook I
think all of the rules should apply
across the board I don't have a problem
with that is that if we're going to talk
seriously about breaking up big tech
then we should ask if people are taking
money from the big tech executives if
we're going to talk seriously about
breaking up big drug companies we should
ask if people are financing their
campaigns by taking money from okay now
I do have a theory that occurs to me as
I'm watching this let's put up the tweet
though that Kamala Harris tweeted out
you just watch what was that a two and a
half minute exchange that she borrowed
out on xanax after after the debate she
wrote three hours not one question about
climate crisis not one question about
LGBTQ rights not one question about
immigration these issues are too
important to ignore after you talk about
banning Donald Trump from Twitter now I
do have a theory there have been
instances most of this granted in
fiction where you make some type of
Faustian bargain where if you say
certain words or get certain words to be
said by someone else then you get
something it's quite possible that she
had some type of deal with the devil
where if she could convince Warren to
say those words Kamala Harris would be
present I got just one of my theories
because otherwise it is completely
baffling as to what what she thought she
was getting she's so marginal right now
that it wasn't even worth - worth it to
say to tear just the system Steve
minuchin thank you next I mean like we
were saying earlier in the in in prep
that I mean Warren wasn't even that
great in response because it's like when
you're playing tennis with somebody who
has like this totally bizarre game
without like any proper strokes and they
somehow just keep lobbing the ball over
the net you can't actually really get
into a rhythm yourself it's like III
guess I'll turn this into a question
about campaign contributions this
person's really obsessed with this
really trivial thing
yeah she's clearly getting up on that
sand she used to be much better at this
and now she's uh well you saw you know
you lost John loved it might not be long
for Kamala Harris that's right Jon
Lovitz said Kamala Harris going after
Elizabeth Warren on banning Trump from
Twitter is one of the more pathetic
stunts I've seen in a debate and then
who's Ian Sam's it's uh come on National
oh okay well that makes sense I was like
oh wait who's this guy saying this is
wild John he's violating Twitter like
who's still hitting this oh of course
it's the guy who advised her to save as
probably oh I've got the perfect thing
for you to say you can nail her cuz
Warren has not come out in favor of a
banning a trump from Twitter I mean that
Wow
I could imagine like maybe oh there's a
lot of like Twitter Donuts yeah there's
a couple of like weirdos it says the go
to the phones you're calling from a four
and put four for seven or four maybe
four for a zoo you come from overseas
for four just Britain yes who's this
Jerry from London welcome to the program
what's on your mind
hello hello Michael Brooks loves
Michonne Sam you're a great guy I love
what we're doing and Jamie you've got
quite cute so yeah anyways so these in
London yeah we've got Corbin you've got
Jonathan all clapping things are going
on I think that looks so good at the
moment I'm just wondering
is it like what the points are quite bad
money and by the looks of it it's coming
as a win they give you hard breaks that
do all sorts of things going to go
wrong and I just wondering what advice
would you have to say to get involved to
get more yes get more involved and
looking at visual as an individual to
increase the prospects of the German
Court wing government oh boy I
appreciate the call we'll let you go and
answer it what can you do to increase
the odds of a Jeremy Corbyn government I
mean to be honest with you I've been you
know obviously watching what's been
going on in Parliament I have no as far
as I can tell I maybe it has something
to do with like how many buttons on your
coat I have no idea I mean I think look
the idea is I don't think it's a
distinct from what we talked about here
is find your your local you know
organizing find local organizers and
then get involved and you know go out
tell your neighbors talk about it I mean
I don't I can't quite figure out how
anything happens there is there gonna be
an election there of the problem in
existing what's gonna have to be an
election sooner or later I would just
say the Labour Party under Corbin and
McDonald are putting forward some of the
most interesting ideas in global
politics today they're talking of new
ideas on land ownership I mentioned this
recently like the even just the
distinction between improving access to
home ownership of course but actually
really saying like no land is a Commons
right like on your house not the land
underneath it right to buy for workers
and worker cooperatives a few of
protecting the NHS so I would just say I
mean even more extreme leaning here
there's a war against Corbin and I would
hold firm and support a real agenda
appreciate the call gone fern ein 1:3
who's this where you come from and I'm
one three hey say this is Philip in st.
Louis how are you guys good Philip in
st. Louis what's on your mind
not much so I I'm a pharmacist you
and unfortunately when you guys kept
quiet when clove achar was talking the
one thing that kind of stood out to me
was this plan that she said like 2% tax
on every milligram or something and have
you guys looked into that at all I mean
I know it's clapping sharp but I didn't
know if you guys were familiar with it
no okay percent tax on every milligram
of opioids yeah yeah so like like I said
I kind of trickle through and when you
can when you guys quit talking briefly
and I kind of was very perplexed by it
because I was like so as a pharmacist
I'm like that's the by far one of the
dumbest ideas I've ever heard of in my
life because you can have like say
there's this one drug that's an opioid
called dilaudid
well those usually are dosed at like 2
or 4 milligram tablets and you're gonna
then you got like a oxycodone which can
go up to like 30 or 60 milligrams so
it's like so all these drug companies or
let's start going to these smaller doses
and then like who's you can attach the
pharmacy the the drug companies like I I
guess me like that made zeros absolutely
zero sense to me
my guess coming from my industry yeah my
guess is that she knew she was in Ohio
Ohio has been one of those states that
was particularly hit hard in the by the
opioid crisis and coming up with a
proposal that is just like we need one
quick we need one that doesn't you know
that it sounds like it's doing something
not well thought-out and drop it in that
would be my guess but it's again it's
Klobuchar I would be willing to bet that
the bump that she gets from this debate
will not be measurable in whole numbers
I was gonna say I think between like
David Axelrod and Bill Maher
it'll be about it
or maybe Chris I got oh my god Chloe
show what a witty with the zingers
incredible dad was passed out drunk and
how she wants to do a tax credit I bow
deeper
sorry then what other kind of thing is
with related to Medicare for all and the
opioid crisis I've you know Medicare for
all actually the new kind of thing that
people want to think about it
it by having a single insurer the
doctors will be able and the pharmacies
will be able to see where you know
because there's one single I'm sure
people can't be going doctor shopping
and pharmacy shopping because there's
one single insurer and everybody's got
to go through it so there's a you know
new argument for Medicare for all that I
haven't really heard and I guess maybe I
don't know if it's just a little too
wonky but I think that I think it I
think that's I mean I think it is I
think it probably gets that you know
gets a little bit to sort of granular
for you know a broad argument I mean I
and I also I wonder how much doctor
shopping I know doctor shopping was part
of it but it wasn't a huge part of the
problem the biggest problem was simply
that the drug manufacturers in some
instances misled doctors in some
instances doctors were primed to be
misled and the system the the system
broke down insofar as the distribution
companies that want the distributors
they they basically and that's why
they're gonna get sued and they're gonna
lose a lot of money the distributors
needed to be more diligent in reporting
what they saw was a massive spike you
know they tried to massage their numbers
to say like oh what we're seeing here is
to be expected when in fact no there
shouldn't be significantly more pills
than people entering into a county at
any given time
but but I mean I think you're right
about I mean yes there will be the sort
of like ancillary benefits to having a
single-payer system you'll be able to
track this stuff a little bit better
but appreciate the call thanks Lewis hey
Philip in st. Louis I should say I'll
just come Louis let's go here this is an
Ohio number three three zero come from
a330 who's this where you come from
hi this is Nick from Canton Ohio bingo
hello Nick what's on your mind well so I
guess um one of the questions that I
wanted to sort of get get out of the way
was um if if you were to have a
situation where Sanders were to win the
Democratic primary and you're to have an
ideal VP pick I think that probably
personally if you if you were to choose
from the crowd of people that probably
Warren would be the best pick but I
think that you know because of the fact
that there are very important
differences between Warren and Sanders
that it would also be important to
consider a larger amount of people in
that equation so who would be the ideal
pick for you guys wait I'm sorry could
you say the first party just wants to
know who would be our best pick if our
deal of Sanders pick for VP basically
that's all he wants Oh best pick for for
Sanders yeah who should Santa's pick P I
think I think there needs to be a woman
on the ticket and a person of color on
the ticket and you know regardless of
who is the the president those I think
but can you be a little bit more honest
though because I mean you sleep
something different off air what are you
talking about just want you to be
transparent about what you've said that
Bernie should pick you for a reinforcing
Jew ticket well I mean I think like my
first choice of course would be me
I bought yet with both data the plan
will have a commitment to Social
Security the plan core in Clinton the
plan would be I get nominated to be VP
I stepped down before the election
because I say I can best help Bernie by
running against Chuck Schumer in the
hour but I not the Makaveli and player I
need the crane to get out of my er doubt
of like you know I need to get some
brand some national name recognition and
the way I would do it would be yes but
but but after and I stepped in I asked
Michael quick thing
yes yes yeah okay yeah so I wanted to
ask about Afghanistan so I recently the
unit's for Chicago Global Affairs some
podcast where essentially the situation
in Afghanistan has gotten so bad that
the ethnic Tajik and respect population
in Afghanistan has started to turn in
favor of the Taliban so under a Sanders
administration what would be the ideal
policy to try and make sure that we're
able to promote democracy but also
ensure that we're doing it in a better
way you gotta get out of Afghanistan you
have to I mean it's it's we haven't done
it after 20 hours we're gonna do yeah
this is not I mean in this is the
problem with some of the even the best
thinking that can come out of these
think tanks though is that there still
is an incentive structure to keep
engaging and I'm not I mean I don't know
all of the specifics maybe there's some
small you know all economic development
work or whatever but they need to make
an agreement and get out there and
incidentally even when you're talking
about you know these other problems our
civilian casualty rate has increased in
the last couple years we don't even talk
about this week which is what we took
out 17 to appeal at farmers they gotta
get out and it threatens a Pakistan to
and India's there and that's actually
another point of tension in that whole
triangle they need to get out and stop
looking for reasons to stay in and well
you know what it the reasons to stay in
is it's good money after that it's good
money after bad as well what's your
favorite phrase it's a soft looking ice
cream cone the arms contractors make it
the Pentagon gets budgets that the
Pakistanis get it different parts of the
Afghan
get it it's a money system and it needs
to stop they need to get out get out get
out appreciate the call let's see we got
time for a couple more calls oh let's
play the Ilhan Omar Bernie Sanders
endorsement video and then we will allow
John King to critique it here it is I am
so proud to endorse senator Bernie
Sanders for president senator Bernie
Sanders is the only candidate that has
build a movement and continues to build
a movement that transcends gender
ethnicity religion and we know that in
order to take on Trump we're going to
need a unifier someone who understands
what the fight looks like and someone
who is ready to defeat him I'm one of
the people that was inspired by the
movement that the senator has built
there was an America that I dreamed
about there is an America that most
people
believe in it is an ideal it's not
reality yet and he started the work of
organizing for that America and that has
inspired me to get involved and run
myself to help others also organized for
that America one of the amazing things I
think about the senator is that he
understands we have to find solutions to
our greatest problems we don't wait for
what the poll numbers are on proposing a
particular solution the senator is the
only candidate that is proposing a
complete cancellation of student debt
the senator is the only candidate that
is proposing to provide universal
students the senator is the only
candidate that wants to make sure that
we end our endless wars and will fight
for human rights and hold everyone
accountable regardless of whether there
are an ally or foe the senator is
someone who understands that our
movement isn't just for you it's for
everyone the senator is the only
candidate that isn't about leaning a
particular way but being true to
yourself and fighting for what you
believe regardless of what the obstacles
are the
is not just the fight for our lives this
is the fight for our democracy this is
the fight for a better future one that
we can all be proud of
she mentioned it in that ad but I had
mentioned at the top of the show that
she has introduced legislation to
provide free school lunches universally
in the country Bernie Sanders has
introduced that same bill in the Senate
so that's something that they're they're
working together on but folks I know
what you're thinking oh that's great
but there's some people who see that it
could be a liability for Bernie Sanders
because well let's let John King from
CNN tell you why the source is that
special guest is going to be
congresswoman Alexandria Castillo Cortez
she's the fresh woman phenom from from
that part of the country that part of
New York she's going to be endorsing
Bernie Sanders and I'm also told sources
say that
Ilhan Omar and congresswoman Rashida to
leave congresswoman Omar congresswoman
Talib from Minnesota and Michigan
respectively also going to be endorsing
Bernie Sanders so even if he's not a
headline out of this evening he has some
headlines coming it's an extension of
what we see tonight a debate about not
only who is going to lead the party but
where is the party going to go which
part of the party is going to lead the
party into the 2020 election they are
more of the younger fresher face more
aggressive more liberal less
compromising let's talk about working
with Republicans and one of the
questions for Bernie Sanders has been in
a very different race this time can he
find a lane to victory there is no
doubting his fundraising there is no
doubting the depth of his support across
the country but is it in the teens can
you get into 20s how do you win that
will certainly help him but it will also
I think senator klobuchar coming in to
join us now we have some of the other
candidates say wait a minute
you know is this too far left is this
too uncompromising is it too urban is a
to Internet does the Democratic Party
need to find a broader audience it is
going to stoke the very debate we saw
play out on the stage too now I can't
tell if he's talking about the
endorsement
and or if he was just talking about
somehow Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren's policies are to urban now he
comes from Vermont which is you know a
pretty rural state I mean Burlington is
a fairly small city as far as this goes
Burlington is where KR us what if he's
were talking about if he's talking about
if he's talking about the endorsement
from AOC yes she's she represents an
urban district the ohana Mars district
particularly is in Detroit but how could
a Democratic candidate win without there
being like what Democratic candidate has
won in in modern times without winning
urban centers in fact that's all that
they earn I mean have you seen that gif
is that what you're digging for the Gipp
I mean it's a weird twist of phrase but
maybe he wasn't talking about the
endorsement maybe he was talking about
something else let's go to John King on
Twitter to get him to describe it please
don't take a snippet and twist my words
I said they are leading new voices in
the party but also part of the debate we
saw on stage tonight some candidates
argue parts of the party are too liberal
too urban what what does that mean who
was literally never heard anybody say
that phrase I've heard you know this is
so disingenuous and I'm gonna actually
defend Pete and Wade what's not to say
it was a policy point nothing to do with
color I don't know what the policy point
is what is what to urban about the
policies of the Democratic Party yeah I
mean absolutely and people like Amy
Klobuchar and mayor Pete are talking
about like in fact you need to appeal to
the urban areas of the Midwest as an
example nobody is saying including ones
that I really hate
you know the future strategy Democratic
participation I mean F New York City
Mayor Pete the voice narration is a city
exactly James to City drop dead I mean
but this is just incredible because it's
like they always reveal themselves and
every conversation about Bernie and I
have no doubt though that John King
being who he was was woman the person
who several years ago was saying like
Bernie just can't move out of the white
rural base that's better I'm in the
Democratic Party so whatever it is
they're always gonna lie and minimize
about whatever it is that benefits
Sanders looking like watching people be
surprised that people would endorse
somebody who shares their politics
it shows how just childish and stupid so
many people are in politics I think to a
certain extent to you know this is this
is the old not getting the Young's right
like where this this sense of just sort
of like this is they what he thinks is
urban energy whatever that means is just
like young people yoyoyo
this is Ilan Omar John King step aside
like the rural urban divide is something
that you know you can win this
throughout history and it's always
there's it's always either racialized or
like they worry about the cosmopolitan
Jews it's always racial thing if
Bernie's policies were extensively
focused on only urban centers but he's
also got like a huge plan to help rural
hospitals out he's got all kinds of
stuff got a big AG in the thing it is
I'm sorry
there is the he is describing a debate
in the Democratic Party which has not
been there I mean it just has not been
there between you know wait and and I
don't care if you I mean if you look at
Michigan Wisconsin and Pennsylvania the
bottom line is if Milwaukee has a higher
turnout if Detroit has a higher turnout
if Philadelphia has a higher turnout
it's a different election I mean but
aside from that like where Ida he's
sort of superimposing that urban thing I
will say this back when I used to do
voiceovers way back in the early 90s you
would you would get like a voiceover
easily a little more urban we're going
with more urban direction and that was
their euphemism for saying black yo yo
yo yo samcef
t-mobile do you want to have a super
fresh cat yo yo what's up yo yo this is
not the gif have you know which one I'm
talking about
there is one where someone took that
image of who voted for Trump and it's
all red except for a little tiny blue
and then you know and then someone wrote
like it's land doesn't vote people vote
and in in the map turns into actually a
population center and you see how what
actually happened there it's a
fascinating map look for it will show it
another time by the way if some Bernie
person had said the urban thing about
one of Bernie's opponents like I don't
know Biden kamala anyone there would
have been such a show today on
liberal Twitter and across the media
well it's always I mean you know there's
this case I don't want to get into it
too much but I mean you know look there
there's a Warren Saget who absolutely I
don't believe in holding people's past
against them if they've evolved but
she's actively terrible about Sanders
today and the stuff they dug up that she
had put out on Twitter eleven years ago
exactly the Sanders person did a
twentieth of it it would I mean MSNBC
would bump impeachment coverage so you
know we need to fight the double
standard ah let's go to the phone's
calling from a two one five area code
two one five who's this where you're
calling from - Mary Ann Wow long time no
hear from I know that I would like kind
of check out some politics for a while
because I was like getting nuts
right now you're not nuts no I'm not but
I only listen to your show and hmm boom
good yeah I only listen to your show so
I'm basically getting my news from your
show that's it
and your five minute quickly cookie or
whatever that's what I'm getting it but
I my husband like went to walk the dog
so I put on the beat for five minutes
last night so I put on the defeat and
the first thing I hear was Joe Biden
saying we have to reach out to the
directory couple you have to reach
across the aisle and that was it I well
that's yeah that's basically it but I I
just want you to know I cannot stomach
Biden cannot stand him and I'm torn
between Bernie and I Elizabeth Warren
that's where I was last year so well
Pennsylvania you have some time to make
a decision yeah so I have to be honest
with you I'm going around too you know
where I live it's very ready or but the
women are coming around the suburban
women are definitely so even though that
women seem to be like really pissed
interesting tax breaks are wearing off I
guess well I think Garrity and the kids
I think to be honest with you I really
think it's the no toothpaste and I know
like you know the stuff at the border
with the kids with the no toothpaste and
like some others think well they're the
key for rotting it like for my mother's
point of view right like and the acne
from the gnome from the no soap you know
all that like all those problems in the
headlights you know all the things that
mothers read so I think that's that's
really upsetting some and whose
vulgarity is upsetting them and the
Syria thing
like I didn't I didn't talk to anybody
seriously but I know that's going to
push him over so the conservative women
around there's a lot a lot of them I
mean a lot of them they seem to be like
definitely Sarah and they definitely
like fighting but they're staring on
Trump which i think is a positive thing
and I'll keep you up to date I'm only
listening to your show and basically
that's it I lost like thousands of
Twitter followers oh well if I stop
tweeting some hmm well that's okay don't
worry about that Twitter I made so
87,000 a lovely thousand I mean just
everyday like 500 followers okay so they
are not really on Twitter oh yeah I know
they're not you know listen Mindy this
is what I would suggest I would just
start saying to these women just sort of
like I wouldn't blame you if you just
stayed home I mean if I was you I
wouldn't even vote I would be so
disgusted I wouldn't vote because if
they don't go out because you know what
if they don't go out and vote they're
not just taking away votes from Trump
they're taking votes away down ballot to
so you we have a really good chance of
slipping our congressman Patrick mm-hmm
that's what I'm saying
Mindy I'm saying you tell those those
women who are your friends you say if I
was you I wouldn't even vote they're not
my friends
they're not your acquaintances people
you know pretend that they're your
friends to Lowell them it's not voting
tell them voting doesn't change anything
I like Warren I like Bernie and that's
it this is what I would say logging Bush
Booker I would say do not do not make
don't don't fall for the old lesser of
two evils thing just don't vote that's
what I would tell them no really they
start playing they used to play the news
like it you know we get a pedicure and
they stop playing man that's I'm not
even in the pedicure salon anymore
that's a very
a deer scimitar brand cumin summons her
bride kill me that they wouldn't play me
at the dance life sucks no I thank you
for the call there's great to hear from
you miss you by human d-dry also this
reminds me I want to just blow the
shofar for David and I hope that he is
who will recover quickly
it's near season there's a shofar we got
time for a couple more calls folks can't
promise too much here we got a lot of
people have hung on for over an hour
calling from a tu-16 area code who's
this where you come from hi yes um yes
it is who's this where you come from
[Music]
daddy issues from originally from
Cleveland Ohio but I live in Columbus
Ohio okay
I like your name from like I come from
like a real conservative family from
Cuyahoga County like I was raised in
Catholic school but I've like always
been a leftist my whole life before I
even knew like what being left was like
until I went to college and kind of got
educated on things but I'm just calling
today because I went to rally for Bernie
yesterday at the dumb debate so I was
out there giving him visibility and just
yeah a little bit about that I saw there
was a lot of people forgetting their
yesterday a lot of people forewarn but I
was a little surprised at the turnout
for Bernie honestly there was not as
many as I thought I would see so it was
a little disappointed and what was it
relative to the other crowds there what
I'm sorry what
how big was to turn out relative to
other crowds there's a lot of Trump
people that came they stood in front of
people judge is watch party which was
kind of like uh I'm sorry beta overworks
like watch party which I thought was
kind of like messed up you know because
they were you know neither trying to
take their guns a lot of more armed
there was a lot of Trump supporters you
came with open weapons there was and
they actually kind of came and
confronted a group of Bernie supporters
while I were there there was a guy with
a megaphone stay
if this place turned into immoral
socialist country that they'd have to go
through them first which was kind of
scary to say the least
yep but it was it was more like I said
weren't there was more the biggest
turnouts I saw were for Warren and for
for yang there was probably three times
as many people there fur game three
times as many people there for Warren
but uh yeah if only there were excited
it who could synthesize Bernie's concern
with material needs with Warren's
oh I got that wrong Yang's concern for
material needs with Warren's abundance
of plans oh wait it's Bernie
hey what about MLK Andrew yang take
$1,000 a month move to higher terrain
with the UBR and then they were they
rented a huge big semi-truck that said
truckers for yang doctor over round why
did they have the right to lose a
trucking job and a thousand bucks a
month is gonna make up for your loss
salary it's just so patronizing
causations coming the jobs are going
blue solutions that put you man my first
like a v8 e-tax on Amazon this is just
breaking negotiators from general
Moore's and the United Auto Workers
Union have reached a tentative deal to
end the 31-day strike by almost 50,000
workers details have not been released
at all it needs the approval of the
wider union leadership
the rank-and-file members at GM so who
knows there's no dates for workers to
return it's been a the biggest strike at
a u.s. business since the GM strike in
2007 but that strike only lasted three
days so this has been the longest major
strike in the auto industry in more than
20 years and you know it's not over
there they're saying they have an
agreement we'll see strike and hopefully
they they came out ahead in this deal
all right one more clip oh and this is
the we don't need to show this we'll
save this for another time but that is
it it is impressive let's play this clip
here is Donald Trump was this yesterday
or when did he do this do we know this
is today of course two days after the
holiday here's Donald Trump I realized I
missed an opportunity to basically tell
my followers that everything they love
about white supremacy is threatened and
so I'm going to go back in time and do
this we pay tribute to the Italian
explorer who led a voyage of discovery
to the New World
a gentleman known as Christopher
Columbus and to me it will always be
called Columbus Day some people don't
like that I do we pay tribute yes you
will never call it indigenous peoples
day I believe it's now in four states
that it's officially called indigenous
people day it's happening and I would
predict that within 10 15 years it's
gonna be in the vast majority do that of
guys at Columbus connect to guys made
guys over my dead guys who were
connected to things mate guys let's see
good call from a four six nine area code
who's this where you come from
hi this is David Dallas
David in Dallas what's on your minds
isn't it hey so I've got a ticket to the
Trump rally tomorrow and I could
potentially bring a sign and see if I
could get myself in a certain place you
know if you were in that situation what
would you put on that sign
well you know I don't know if you'll be
able to bring in a sign to be honest
with you I would think about a Kapernick
shirt see I liked seeing that that was
pretty good
what would I say on I would say
something about the effect of like
basically you know stop kidnapping
babies I mean if you want the most
powerful the message that's gonna
resonate the most and I think like with
audiences that might be you know if you
were going to be on a you know the news
let's say because of it that would be
the one that would reach the most people
which turd Mindy say that you know given
her conservative friends non friends
around that area are most concerned
about what's going on with kids and
there was just a report that just came
out I think two or three days ago that
literally there are parents whose kids
have been taken from them parents do not
know where the kids are the kids are in
living with foster families in this
country and there is does not seem to be
a record of where they are whose kids
they were and I think there are people
who will never see their children again
and children who will never see their
parents again because our government
purposely kidnapped these kids I mean I
I mean that's just a stunning thing to
articulate and to the extent that you
get one person to contemplate that I
think it's it's worthwhile good luck and
take some pictures and videotape
yourself and have someone else videotape
you if you can and
and send it to us okay all right pretty
sure your talks get roasted a you too
thanks David there was a guy who went to
a trump rally in a Kaepernick Jersey
yeah yeah
yeah I thought that was great oh yeah
all right he's like come from a 786 area
code who's this where you come from
hello hello 786 who's this week on it
yes this is I'm Jay I'm calling from
Miami Gardens Florida I'll be real quick
I appreciate this appreciate everything
you guys talk about and the topic I want
to bring up earlier Michael mentioned
something about the labor van Commons
issues about private property and he's
talking about Jeremy Corbyn I just
wanted to inform you guys about a
struggle that's happening down here in
Miami Gardens actually that has to do a
lot to do has a lot to do with private
property the few guys I know but the
Dolphin Stadium is a location that's
located right in the middle of a
community 875 80 percent black and what
they're trying to do in that in the the
Dolphin Stadium area they're trying to
bring Formula One racing to the middle
of a bedroom community like they're
literally houses across the street from
the stadium and they're gonna deal with
air pollution dust pollution noise
pollution it's like 120 decibels coming
from those engines and it's really crazy
because you have Stephen Ross a
billionaire another one of those
capitalist really looking for another
opportunity to exploit this community
now we've been trying to fight back
against it but the Dolphins Formula One
they've drawn up their deals and they're
trying to push this issue like it's a
done deal so it just I don't know if you
guys can speak on the fact that you know
private property is something that a lot
of capitalists use a lot of billionaires
use in order to make the situation
around communities anti-democratic we
don't want to hear we've had town hall
meetings arguments discussions all kinds
of stuff with our commissioner leaders
and there
still we'll Wasserman on the issue and I
just wanted to bring some national
attention to it because it's just
another issue where is democracy gonna
fall when these billionaires and
millionaires are speaking the truth in
the shot I know if you guys could speak
today even Jamie because I know she has
a lot to talk about capitalism and
things of that nature well we'll look
into it all I can tell you is you know
keep keep the pressure on the longer and
more sustained and the greater the
pressure the better chances you have of
fighting this and winning but we'll look
into it and I appreciate I just look up
the general concept of the Commons I
mean this is an example of an in common
closure right I mean and sports stadiums
in general or something to look at it's
incredible the sports stadium hustle
across all sorry it's also a taking
right I mean it's also that's what it is
yeah it's a theft it's a theft this is a
silence though you're diminishing you're
diminishing the value of your property I
mean that's you know speaking their
their language I mean of course you know
it is a it should be a decision that is
made by the community but there's you
know you want to deploy every possible
argument you can ones that are you know
maybe ideologically consistent maybe
ones that aren't necessarily
ideologically consistent if you want to
win this you got a deploy all the
arguments you can and one of them it
seems to me would be a taking like for
instance the kilo case from New London
Connecticut the yeah where property was
being was being taken by the city
government to give to Pfizer so that
presumably they could build their tax
base and in this situation look the the
the sound diminishes the value of your
properties and their you know it's one
thing where they say we've got to build
the airport here and the flight patterns
are going to create sound and may
diminish the value your property but we
as a state government or city government
we need an airport we need the
transportation is you know there's
state interest in it there is no state
interest in having a different types of
you know race cars there there's other
things they can use that stadium for
that will not create that type of
pollution and that air pollution and
noise pollution and you know it's hard
to say like well you know the traffic
because the traffic is already a problem
with the football games but it's a it's
a taking it's a taking and I think yeah
you know I I mean do you guys have
lawyers is there a lawyer representing
any type of like group that is
petitioning the City Council yeah a
bunch of groups are getting together
it's a petition of City Council on this
mg families unite they're getting
together um a pact never bunch of groups
I have four there China rally basically
every Sunday every Dolphins home game
they're hosting rallies and protests
about this and we're trying to make that
as big as possible and just speak to the
point you just made I mean this is a
seventy five eighty percent black
community and this isn't the first time
they've tried to do this in Miami they
try to put the Formula One racing event
in Miami downtown but that's a wealthier
area that's a a wider area to be quite
frank and they threw them out and
they're looking at us a black community
they're saying listen we can roll over
these people yeah so we're trying to do
everything we can to fight that J I
would say you know I would imagine these
groups have a lawyer I would continue
putting on the pressure I would look
back on any type of news reports you got
from that fight find out what arguments
that they used and deploy those same
arguments because that that's going to
you know provide a contrast of you know
basically this is really less about you
know whether there are rational
arguments and more about who has less
political power in the context of the
city and yeah who's gonna who's gonna be
absorbing the costs of of this and and
it's for people who have to hear it and
you know get sick because of the air
pollution the noise pollution but
appreciate the cause they're people own
property that's being devalued or not
they certainly have a right
to clean air they have a right to a
noise free environment like the
environment is a comments we've been
talking about the comments yeah
and that includes the air that it
includes the land it includes the right
to you know be able to put your kids to
bed at night and I have a ton of noise
and this is an issue all over the place
with companies just dumping toxic waste
into the environment and taking from the
comments in places where people have
less political power and the answer to
that is it's it's not gonna be easy but
it's you're doing it already it's
solidarity it's rising up it's using all
the tools in your toolbox and yeah
eventually I think we do need to take
the property away from the people who
are who are abusing you appreciate the
call Jake good luck keep us updated
thanks Mike will do alright folks we've
run out of time we'll be back tomorrow
and then we'll be back the day after
that and then the day after that well
know that it's the weekend let's skip
two days then the day after that then
the day after that then the day after
that then that you know what I mean you
know where we're going with this next
week I will be heading to Las Vegas
weird scheduled next week the conference
is landing on a different day it's my
biannual trip if I said that correctly
biannual is twice a year not biennial by
biannual trip to Las Vegas for the mass
torts conference they suspect we may
hear a bunch about opioids although my
understanding is that there's a couple
of judges don't want too much to be
talked about in the media
we'll see notice like a slowdown in the
amount of stories that we've been
reading about this until there's like
actually like a resolution to some of
these cases but we'll be hearing about
some other stuff quite possibly we'll do
some news a news day to when I'm there
we'll just we'll just have to wait and
see what's happening but until then
sorry if you were holding on the lines
for a long time just ran out of time
today one of those days see you tomorrow
[Music]
that guy to get to where I want but I
know some
I'm going
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
see
