majority rum or with
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat come
on Jordy rapport with Sam Sita it is
Friday September 20th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today Ben Dixon from
the Benjamin Dixon show be with us also
a special report from the New York City
climate student strike protests from our
chief youth correspondent milah cedar
who will be on the scene hopefully
that'll work out look out Greta also on
the program today the Trump suppressed
whistleblower complaint apparently
involves a promise to Ukraine
Betsy DeVos tells Duke and UNC to make
their midday Studies program more
judeo-christian friendly or lose funding
[Applause]
Pentagon presenting Donald Trump with
military options in Iran just hope
that's chitter-chatter the massive
student climate strike is on today as I
mentioned meanwhile Pentagon claims they
really need that money that trump
diverted to the wall as Trump looks to
divert more money to the wall and the
customs Border Patrol issued a report a
year ago blaming climate change for
increased migration Trump administration
buried it North America has lost three
billion birds since 1970 scientists are
freaking out cult suspends its
production of ar-15s of course we'll
still have plenty of knockoff ar-15s
available for you you want to shoot up
any type of public space bill de blasio
is out of the race
college students doubled their voting
rate between 2014 and 2018 could be a
big story in 2020 meanwhile Mitch
McConnell shuts down any type of gun
control legislation in the Senate all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen welcome it is casual
Friday we have some guests in studio I
didn't realize he was wearing a shirt
there you go
Amy Chloe char fan in the house glad to
see that
full complement of folks here today it
is a casual Friday as such I am wearing
a soft collared shirt I hope you enjoy
it
only happens on Fridays when we have a
casual dress day here for me
everybody else dresses casually for the
rest of the week as well
true but welcome my as I said up upfront
we're gonna hope hopefully hear from my
daughter who is somewhere downtown New
York City at the climate protest or at
least I think making her way there from
her school she goes to school in
Brooklyn and my son already apparently
this morning his first grade class
marched around the school went back in
quickly
they made a show of it so New York City
the the students are protesting all
around in the schools and the schools
find it a good opportunity to talk about
something that is real climate change is
real it's 2019 all sane human beings who
are not either insane or lying for money
know that climate change is real and
anyone who knows anything about
education knows the best way to teach
kids are to get them involved and in
meshed in a subject so they're not just
reading it out of book to try and make
it three-dimensional so this is a great
opportunity for educators and I think
everyone would agree with that
unless you belong to one of the two
categories of people I just referenced
and of course I bring you Fox News
Channel today thousands of kids across
the country will be walking out of
school today to demand action on climate
change let's bring back our a team Juan
Williams at Henry and Jenna Ellis Reeves
right obviously you know I don't want to
get I don't wanna get too pedantic here
on this day but if this is the a-team I
would be very
very nervous to see the b-team but go
ahead
yeah I'm said Henry and Jenna Ellis
Reeves all right Jenna I'll start with
you when I hear kids partaking in
protests I just think okay whose idea
was that
whose idea was this right and you know
obviously I think that kids can have
their own opinions I mean my little
brother has been very politically active
and you know has been a consumer of the
news since he was probably 12 and so you
know we can't say that kids are always
just informed by adults but I think it's
an eval aquestion to say whose idea was
this and on school time right because
this is also something that if you're
going to make a you know political move
here is this something that is being led
by the school administration is it
compelled is it something you know all
of these questions are very important
and especially when we're talking about
something like climate change I mean
this is something that you know if you
look at the Democratic Left and you look
at everyone on stage they had a
seven-hour debate over this I mean who
even watch that watched all oh my god
pause it now for one second I'm gonna
walk through some of this here now I
remember the extended piece that the
a-team did on all the children in church
that they see and who's responsible for
that
I mean sure I've known some kids who
pick up the Bible on their own but I
mean who's how are all these kids
getting to church who's putting that
idea in their head and then of course
maybe she doesn't have a child who goes
to school but they take field trips all
the time they leave to things like
historical places where maybe they'll
learn about slavery now I know that's
also a political issue or they will go
to places like you know they go down to
museums I mean the idea that somehow
there's something particularly toxic
politically toxic about teaching kids
and making kids aware of their ability
to to push back on something that
threatens their very future is is pretty
bizarre and then of course like they
talked about it for seven hours
it's it's just stunning that that's
actually like they cut away from her
saying that to a shot where you see
America's newsroom right underneath
there and they talked about it for seven
hours that's crazy
but let's here at Henry who comes in
with tries to have some like semblance
of like the self respect that he's still
on this network something like climate
change I mean this is something that if
you look at the Democratic Left and you
look at everyone on stage they had a
seven-hour debate over this I mean who
even watched that watched all look my
daughter's 15 into your point about your
family I mean she's very serious on
climate change he's been talking to me
about it she's following it I think it's
awesome I think that young people being
not just active but engaged caring about
these big issues in all-seer
I think that's great and we shouldn't
dismiss it but I think when they start
walking out of class over it just like
they did that I saw the same at my
daughter's school it was last year about
gun control again I think it's very
important it's great for kids young
people really not kids anymore young
adults to be active on these issues to
be educated about them know the actual
facts but to just say hey you can be
politically active you don't have to go
to class I mean they should be in school
doing what they're doing to learn right
and I think it's great they're learning
about all these things but just this
here XenApp or add here is like I I need
to be able to go home and look at my kid
in the face and not say that I
denigrated you for actually doing
something that I secretly think is
correct but I do need to come up with
something that is going to allow me to
come on to the next episode of the 18 so
I have to sort of mitigate this by
saying like it's great that they're
learning but they should be in class
because they're supposed to be learning
so you keep going unbelievable you
really threaten the needle on that one
dad as ed Henry comes home and hey dad
I'm so sorry that you had to watch all
of the climate forums what a tough job
you have yeah that's repose
isn't it weird how your workplace
colleague couldn't watch all of them but
I did as a teenager it's exactly and the
thing is can we go back just to look on
her face after she says that because I
actually think I think for most of this
like you know a guy I did upfront that
you need to be sort of out of your mind
to not take climate change seriously or
you just need to be a paid lying shill I
think for most of what she was talking
there she was the paid lying shell but I
think in this moment where she actually
reacts to the idea of like seven whole
hours of talking about climates
ingenuity illogical collapse the people
are predicting literally the deaths by
the end of the century of billions of
people possibly and it's just like
you're gonna dedicate seven whole hours
that she is literally if you guys have
seen contra points climate change video
the character that Contra boys plays it
just wants to like drink champagne in
the bathtub and she's like I don't want
to know about this you nerd it's this is
watch this something you know all of
these questions are very important and
especially when we're talking about
something like climate change I mean
this is something that if you look at
the Democratic left and you look at
everyone on stage they had a seven-hour
debate over this I mean who even watch
the head watched all just gives you like
staring into the abyss what do you think
about that do you even care there yeah
but you know we should say this the
these protests are taking place across
the globe
millions of people participating in this
so you say this whoever's organizing
this has global reach of course the
global Democratic Left actually is has
promoted these these marches in a
hundred and fifty six countries around
the world including Nepal Senegal Quebec
Rome Kyrgyzstan Sweden Bolivia Peru I
think they were playing some footage
from Poland
so there's 1.1 million school students
in New York City who are going to be
participating so it's a lot of good
matt'll who want to put off the rapture
and God's judgement I know it I can't
believe they would spend seven hours
though like what are they so afraid of
it's crazy all right well we will get to
depend Dixon in a moment but first
support for today's show comes from
mobile globes as I've said many times
before this is now like a regular staple
all keeps asking me where's my globe but
these things are pretty awesome they
turn all on their own
with or without a base see that they
sort of float in they're covering you
can spin them or it's a little bit
hypnotic I'm gonna try and get through
this without myself
there's no batteries needed nothing like
that they come on a couple of different
cases I've got the acrylic one or stands
I got the acrylic one right here and
they just they sit on your desk they sit
on your on your mantle wherever it is
they're over 40 different designs
including world maps outer space
different planets
famous artwork there's something for
everyone the outer space collection even
features a graphic that's provided by
NASA complete with planets moons
asteroids and constellation designs and
a version of like what the earth looks
like from space
great gift for someone who has
everything or for kids graduation
Hanukkah and of course you could also
just use it as as decor
I love having at least one or two globes
around at all times and so any
derivation I can get they have one where
James Cook the captain who he was a
British explorer and he I don't know
it's like 1700s maybe and so they have
his paths around essentially the globe
or his voyages
there's no Antarctica because they
didn't know about a time which is pretty
cool they have the the van Gogh and
Monet Globes a Mars globe it's cool
stuff check it out and you can check it
all out by going to mova Globes comm
slash majority use the code majority for
10% off your purchase
that's MOV a mova Globes dot-com slash
majority use the code majority for 10%
off your purchase of course this will be
in the podcast notes as well another
sponsor of today's program
zip recruiter as you know hiring can be
a laborious ly slow process for example
Cafe alturas co o Dillon miss quits
needed to hire a director of coffee for
his organic coffee company who's having
trouble finding qualified applicants he
switched the Zoop recruiter zip
recruiter does not depend on candidates
finding you it goes out searches and
finds and brings you candidates it's
technology identifies people with the
right experience invites them to apply
it to your job you get qualified
candidates fast we've been there we've
done this brendan is a zip recruiter
candidate that we ended up hiring and I
mean that's worked out pretty well right
Brendan yeah he says so and Misco it's
you zip recruiters candidate
to filter his applicants so he could
focus on the most relevant ones just
like I did I don't know we brought in
I must have brought him probably a dozen
people maybe I don't want this to go to
your head Brendan but but that's how
Dylan found his new director of coffee
in just few days and that's how I found
my new director of Brendan in a few days
that was one of the things that gave
Brendan a leg up it was named I already
had the name and I just needed to find
somebody who could fit in there but with
results like that no wonder for or out
of five employers who post on zip
recruit or get a quality candidate
within the first day and we did I could
have stopped after the first day but
nobody was named Brendan and so that
would have made it impossible can zy0
cooter is effective for businesses of
all sizes zip recruiter you can try it
for free at sip recruiter dot-com slash
majority that zip recruiter dot-com
slash majority zip recruiters EIP
recruiter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter it's the smartest way to hire
all right quick break we'll come back
Ben Dixon
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the proprietor of the
Benjamin Dixon show Ben Dixon himself
Ben welcome back to the program Sam
thanks for having me it's always a
pleasure so let's start with the what's
going on in terms of impeachment and
whistleblower complaint this
whistleblower complaint I mean they're
they're unrelated at this moment in some
respects but I think they're related in
terms of this battle that seems to be
going on within the Democratic caucus
where we now have I think 136 Democrats
who are on record in support of
impeachment that would leave I don't
know about 80 some odd or maybe about a
hundred plus who are who are not out
publicly for impeachment at this point
Nancy Pelosi there was a story in
Politico two or three days ago that
apparently about a week ago she was in
chastising the staff members of the
Judiciary Committee in front of the the
entire caucus and said I don't care if
this leaks out now I mean she clearly
has been stifling this thing we had some
pretty interesting testimony I thought
from Corey Lewandowski this week
particularly after he was I mean and
almost specifically when he was
questioned by the staff attorney Barry
Burke I think his name and so I mean
just put all this in context and we can
get a little bit deeper into this
whistleblower story which seems to be
drip trapping it drip dropping out in
fact let let's do this let's play this
clip of Adam Schiff apparently the story
goes that a whistleblower went to the
the DNI said I've got a problem here
with something then went to the
Inspector General of the director a
director of national intelligence mm-hmm
and the IG said this is a urgent come
spelling issue that we find at least
credible and this whistleblower
complaint by statute needs to be given
to the relevant committees in Congress
and the the DNI denied basically
suppress this whistleblower complaint
supposedly on the orders of the Justice
Department which I don't know why they
get to do this either I mean Frey I
don't know why anybody does and the IG
went to the House Intelligence Committee
testified behind closed doors as to what
the nature of the complaint is so Adam
Schiff presumably
in this clip this was from yesterday at
about 1:00 1:00 o'clock knows what was
what what the complaint was and here it
is mr. Atkinson wrote I set forth the
reasons for my concluding that the
subject matter involved in the
complainants disclosure not only falls
within the dnis jurisdiction but relates
to one of the most significant and
important of the dn eyes
responsibilities to the American people
this is what's being withheld from
Congress right now we do know that the
Department of Justice has been involved
in the decision to withhold that
information from Congress we do not know
because we cannot get an answer to the
question about whether the White House
is also involved in preventing this
information from coming to Congress we
do not have the complaint we do not know
whether the press reports are accurate
or inaccurate about the contents of that
complaint
but what I do know is this if in a
matter within the jurisdiction of the
Director of National Intelligence you
have an employee of that community or a
contractor or detailee who follows the
law and makes a complaint and it is
possible for the subject of that
complaint to essentially quash the
complaint or keep it from Congress then
this system is badly broken okay and let
me just clarify one thing here so
apparently this guy Atkinson who is the
IG he was not authorized to tell the
committee anything of substance about
the complaint only he was testifying as
to his analysis that in fact from a
statutory perspective it was a
legitimate complaint and needed to be
communicated to Congress which of course
the DNI lawyer disagrees with is I mean
so they you know this is another process
thing that's being bogged down but this
is why and we saw part of that this this
week with the Barry Burke I think it is
a testimony or I should say questioning
of Corey Lewandowski and that is when
you move into a an impeachment mode
there are all sorts of rules changes
that to the process that can expedite
things and shake things loose and yet
Nancy Pelosi wants none of it that's the
that's the best the refrain that's the
course that's the hook of the song for
the season right Nancy Pelosi for
whatever reason doesn't want to impeach
anyone we saw with Brett Kavanaugh more
evidence has come out against him we're
seeing it and here's the disturbing part
about this it's not just that we have a
president who is not only criminal in
his own personal behavior whether it
reaches high crimes and misdemeanors
that that's up for debate and that's up
for that's why we have the impeachment
inquiry but it's the fact that he has
the ability to get different parts of
this government to act in a manner that
itself creates a constitutional crisis
right the fact that we have the DL J
overstepping its bounds once again to
suppress information that
so happens to be a threat to the
president and yet the one remedy that we
have to actually address these issues
the Speaker of the House the leader of
the opposition party if we can call it
that at this point chooses not to and
I'm still not clear as to why because
there's really no justification if your
fear is a political one then you are
literally putting politics before your
job and before your oath I mean let's
putting that question aside for a moment
now the the politics one because I think
that you know that's but I I agree with
you it's stunning and I've said this
half a dozen times this week I'll say it
one more time the framers of the
Constitution the people who wrote the
Constitution contemplated Donald Trump
Donald Trump is not the is is is it was
contemplated he is not the moment that
America doesn't become America what the
framers did not contemplate was to have
Nancy Pelosi do nothing right I mean
right in in light of like an incredibly
unpopular president who is you know they
the the House impeached Andrew Johnson
back in the day during Reconstruction
because he was vetoing everything he was
being very difficult he was acting
erratically outside of office etc etc
and the the case to impeach Donald Trump
seems to me to be so much less partisan
right and like I mean right this guy is
literally doing the things even you know
it's his corruption is so old-school
that they all of the commentary
accountably we don't want somebody who's
going to use the office to enrich
himself with foreign powers like that's
I in and it feels like what this
whistleblower was talking about was very
similar to that weather I don't know if
you're getting cash or if it's just like
we're gonna get some maybe some services
in kind for the campaign by promising
you things like
you know you go and do an investigation
on on Joe Biden's colitis yeah and we'll
you know we'll make it worth your while
with a certain investment or the you
know and and God knows what they've
gotten from the Saudis this when we look
back on this era
putting aside politics for a moment we
look back on this era and we say where
was the failure of our institutions the
failure is not going to be in the
presidency the failure is going to be in
the house right that's that's the
surprising thing about it right Nancy
Pelosi is uniquely positioned
positioning herself in history to be a
bigger problem than Donald Trump right
Donald Trump is essentially daring
America to impeach him in saying I'm
gonna do and everything that you could
possibly imagine it's almost as though
he is uniquely designed to violate
everything possible the way he thinks
like for him to offer a quote unquote
bribe it's not even a bribe to him
that's just how he does business like
but that's not how you run the
presidency that's not how you are the
chief executive of this country and yet
he operates in that manner and Nancy
Pelosi just simply looks and says we're
gonna leave it alone because for
whatever reason now in full transparency
I've put in a call I'm supposed to have
a conversation with someone who works on
her team because I want to know like you
know you and I Sam I think you and I
might have been one of the few
progressives to give her the benefit of
the doubt when she was running for
speaker and because we know one thing
about Nancy Pelosi when she wants to get
something done she's gonna get it done
and now we see that she does not want to
get this done and there's absolutely no
movement on it so I just need to know
why you know people want to know why I
am like full-throated against Nancy
Pelosi well I they need to explain why
she is not doing her job as Speaker the
house and so let's let's address this
this political question right because in
that same instance when Johnson was
impeached by the house he was not
impeached by the he was not convicted I
should say by the Senate and so he
wasn't removed and my understanding of
the history is the reason why he was not
was because the Senate felt that he
that you know that from a political
standpoint they didn't want to do that
that it would have been you know better
to run against him than to have him
impeached in part because they didn't
have a vice president at the time and
the you know I mean so that was that
they ultimately decided on political
grounds but I don't understand the
political calculation here okay like I I
can understand the concept of she has a
political reason but the political
calculation seems just be funneling to
me now maybe they feel like look we
don't have the votes we can't control
the the people in our caucus but again
that correct against what you and I both
know about Nancy Pelosi
oh yeah certainly and it also cuts
against the data that came out of 2018 I
mean it's one thing to say that if
you're in a purple district right that
you maybe can't come out for you know a
government control of all the major
industries or something but it's another
thing to say that you can't come out
against Donald Trump I mean these these
so-called front-line districts this is
not where Donald Trump won by 12 12
percentage points in 2016 these are ones
where was you know evenly balanced in to
the extent that in 2018 people won in
those districts it was because they
distance themselves from Donald Trump
because they attacked Donald Trump the
ones that lost in these districts were
ones that hewed too closely to Donald
Trump I mean this is what that bike
Cofer the the the pollster who had
predicted this you know the the the win
in like June or May of 2018 her model
showed this and and and and makes that
quite clear and Nancy Pelosi seems to be
just ignoring all of it you know what I
don't want to believe in in 10
dimensional chess but something just
dawned on me and I'm gonna throw this
out here and see you
tell me what you think perhaps it's
timing right I've never seen Nancy
Pelosi be just completely feckless in
anything that she's attempted to do as
Speaker of the House she's been pretty
vicious and pretty cutthroat and got
things done
maybe she's simply trying to time this
this is the only thing I can give her
Sam it's a stretch she's trying to time
this so that during the election we are
in the impeachment inquiry and we have
not yet reached the stage where the
Senate can find him not guilty are not
convict another and so he doesn't have a
political victory to go into the
elections instead during the entirety of
the elections he's mired in the inquiry
that could be the only reason I could
see valid for her to hold out this long
I I suppose I mean that I mean if if her
if she thinks it's gonna be more
effective at that time from a political
standpoint and that you could have the
boat the vote in October of 2016 and
excuse me 2020 and then put it on the
Senate but I don't know I'd like to see
the Senate have to deal with this for
like three or four months and at least
right and you know we're in September
now they're almost in I mean I don't
know when is the magic time the only
thing the only thing that strikes me is
that she either believes that she can't
get the votes from the Democratic caucus
in the house which I find hard to
believe right or and or she doesn't
trust Chuck Schumer to do his job and
that he in and she's not convinced
because that would also be very
problematic I mean if the whole idea is
that you want the Senate the Republicans
in the Senate to quash this but I don't
know like I don't know how bad you'd
have to be at your job if you're Chuck
Schumer to not be able to deliver these
votes like I could see maybe Joe Manchin
maybe I'm certainly joe Manchin being
what the lone holdout but that doesn't
seem to me to expose too many House
members although you know I mean that's
I I I for the life me I'm befuddled by
it
and the loo in the Lewandowski thing
showed a like a little bit of a taste of
what of like what they could do in you
know with impeachment again like I said
that I can't think of any reason either
but if I had to just really try the only
thing that makes sense is she's trying
to get the timing right on it for
political purposes but again your your
question is the one that's most
paramount when is the magic time then
when is the moment that she's going to
strike because there is a lengthy period
for the inquiry as well as the Senate
hearing the Senate trial the I guess you
know will have a better notion going
forward and you know I would think like
this whistle blower thing might be able
to give them this sort of like you know
the more impetus to to push this stuff
but there does there is a quality of
Nancy Pelosi being out of step right and
just sort of like not understanding this
political moment the idea of being
afraid of polarization is just absurd
the you can't there's times where you
basically you you know polarize is that
mean like the the and I'm talking you
know I want to pivot to to Joe Biden
hero I think is also not of the moment
but a lot of this is just sort of like
look you don't want to engage in the
fight but it's a dumb thing to say when
someone is pounding on your face with
their fists like yeah like honestly it's
like look I don't believe in fighting
and so I'm not going to add to this as
the person is pounding you into like you
know pounding your face and that is the
situation that we're gonna have going
into 2020 you're gonna have a polarized
electorate and you're not going to be
able to do it's not a question of of
convincing people who have already
chosen sides it's a question of
mobilizing anybody who might be in any
way sympathetic to your cause and one
you know as we talk about this election
there was a stat that came out today
about college students they doubled
their rate of participation
patient from 2014 to 2020 let me excuse
me to 2018 that's stunning
this is off year election and that is I
think pretty stunning I have a feeling
2016 was not a banner year for college
students to vote and I imagine they're
gonna come out you know with a similar
dynamic and if that holds true you know
I guess we'll see maybe some of that in
the in the primary season but we have
the polls well you know I know you've
been sort of banging the drum on this
thing of you know the the interest scene
squabbles on the left just give me your
sense of where everything sits at this
point well I mean let me start with Joe
Biden right he he is so out of step and
it was weird that we saw Pete Budaj kind
of paired some of that same that's the
same talking point says we don't want to
be too portal polarizing but like you
said this is we are in the height of
hyper-polarization in this country
there's I can't imagine us getting more
polarized and what is going to diminish
the vote the turnout on our side is for
someone who's not willing to engage in
the fight
the people want a fighter they want a
champion who can take it to Donald Trump
the way he's been taking it to us over
the last I mean even beyond his
presidency since before his presidency
so Joe Biden is completely out of step
in that way and if he survives the
primaries and gets the general election
he certainly is not going to mobilize
the people if he's talking about not
engaging in the fight we need we
honestly need a street fighter in this
in this election in terms of the
primaries and the bitter divide you know
I think the number one thing that we
need to focus on on the Left
progressives is to get rid of Joe Biden
you know there's there's a lot for us to
discuss between everyone else but the
first and foremost thing we need to do
is make sure that we're telling people
not to vote for Joe Biden because not
only would he lose but he'll depress the
vote for I I mean who knows how long it
would take for us to recover from
another four years of Trump because we
elected our we nominated someone like
Joe Biden who wants to not get into the
fight I I'm convinced you know that of
the the viable candidates at this point
in the democratic
that Biden represents the biggest risk
because of the reason you're talking
about I mean I I'm terribly scared about
it absolutely and I mean let me ask your
opinion on this because Biden's strong
you know most prominent strength at this
point seems to be older african-american
voters and in predominantly in the south
and what is I mean I have to I have I
have a theory about well let me I'm just
I have a theory about what what concerns
me about this cohort
I think this cohort is gonna come out
and vote for whomever is the Democratic
nominee yep right because they're
heavily heavily invested in Donald Trump
losing I mean we all are but I think you
know there are reasons why if you were
an african-american and particularly an
older one why why you would be like that
is paramount everything else is
secondary because they have more
experience with with you know the
implications of someone like this but
they also are an incredibly reliable
vote I'm convinced that that a and I
don't I haven't seen any data on this
and I would love someone to pull it but
it's it's probably just not worth it for
for whomever but if Biden's support
comes from people who are reliable
Democratic voters that is not terribly
helpful in terms of an argument as to
why he needs to be the nominee
whereas hypothetically speaking there's
another candidate who brings out
african-american voters who are marginal
in so far as their reliability to vote
at any given time mm-hmm
yeah I think that's a that's that's a
spot-on analysis here here's the problem
that we face though and this is why it's
so critical that we don't waste time
bickering in the primaries is that those
reliable Democratic voters who are going
to support who currently support Joe
Biden
they're going to come out in the
primaries they're going to be the ones
who show up they're already registered
they don't have to beat the deadline to
register in their state they've been
registered Democrat all their life and
so they are going to be the ones to show
up in the primaries the real question is
is how well-organized it's every other
campaign particularly Warren and Sanders
are they organized enough to make sure
that they can rival those votes during
the primaries or are we using our energy
to - to fight one another when we all
should just be registering the hell out
of everyone we possibly can and making
sure they know their primary dates and
making sure that they have the imp the
energy and the motivation to actually
show up because Joe Biden voters are
going to show up if no one else does
yeah I think that's absolutely right and
you know I'm looking at like the I mean
sort of fascinating what's going on now
with in the media and I don't know how
important it is frankly and I could make
an argument that it's disadvantageous
for for Bernie Sanders but I asked I
could say that it's it's to his
advantage that that the the media does
not take him seriously at this juncture
but ladies California Paul Sanders tied
for 1st latest New Hampshire poll and
the Boston Herald Sanders in first place
the newest Iowa poll from CBS Sanders 3
percent behind Biden latest Nevada poll
Sanders in first latest South Carolina
poll also from CBS Sanders in second I
mean that's a good place to be in he is
ignored in every conversation that I
have seen it's it's it's bizarre and and
I think you know there is an argument
that at least nationally his numbers
have been pretty static and you know
consistent throughout but when you're
talking about and you could also argue
that like when you look at like second
choice voting in these instances he's
sort of down on the list you know like
even in some instances in Iowa of seeing
polls where bhutto Joe
is more second choice than than Bernie
but I mean you really have to go deep
into the crosstabs to make an argument
that Bernie Sanders is not as viable as
Biden or Warren I mean it's it's bizarre
yeah anyone making that argument at this
point is completely disingenuous and
just and just changed the channel the
problem is there's so many people on so
many channels who are carrying that
those talking points and I don't know if
it was on your show it was pretty
recently though that I discussed that
these people have a vested interest in
in keeping Bernie out of the
conversation because not only as
consultants and not only is the
consulting class the Democratic
establishment like their entire
livelihood is centered around the
machine as it exists today both in the
media consulting world political world
fundraisers PACs it's built off of the
way the world is structured right now
and so who's the biggest threat to that
structure it's gonna be Bernie Sanders
and so they have every incentive whether
they would admit it or not we know they
have an incentive to keep Bernie out of
the conversation as much as they
possibly can but still despite all that
he's performing and he's out performing
in a lot of ways I like you am convinced
that the best the best chance that a
progressive has to win which includes I
don't care if you're a warrant supporter
or a Bernie supporter the best chance
for your candidate to win is if it's a
three-way race deep into this race
because as soon as it's a two-way race
you know the candidate on the Left
whether it's Warren or Sanders is going
to get the the hundred percent of that
fire and I think part of the reason why
Bernie's left out of the conversation is
so that the critique the leftist the
most leftward critiques can be aimed at
Warren well you know and so I think
that's what they're trying I think that
it's like more comfortable for them to
do this and I I think you know that is
my you know argument as to why you don't
want if you're a Warren fan you don't
want Bernie out of the race now if
you're a Bernie fan you don't want
Warren out of the race right now you
don't want to be you know the real
concern I think for folks is Budaj to be
honest with you because he's got a lot
of money and he's like a number I'm
looking at this there's a poll from Iowa
State University and when you're talking
about like second place if the
Democratic caucus were held today which
of the following candidates would be
your second choice Warren is in the lead
for this question with 18% Buddha judge
is in it comes in second 14% and so I
mean then you get Kamala Harris then you
get bide and then you got Bernie and so
I would be very concerned about people
to judge at this point from the left Joe
Biden is going to be Joe Biden and I
think right you know it's quite possible
I think people also should have that
concern but Buddha judge seems to me to
be the the threat at least in the
beginning and then it's just a question
of like you know if Sanders numbers here
for California and New Hampshire uh and
Nevada and South Carolina hold I mean
he's in very good shape let me ask you
this is there room getting back to those
older African Americans who are
supporting Joe Biden and III you know I
couldn't answer this question in my
grandparents I couldn't mic my
grandparents at least my grandmother she
spent the winter in like the Boyton
beach area of flow yeah and and I don't
know if you ran into her at any point
but but I remember Sarah Silverman doing
the great schlep which was during the
2008
campaign trying to get young Jews to
tell their grandparents not to be such
bigots and vote for a Barack Obama which
is basically what it came down to and I
don't know what percentage I don't know
if that was effective at all I have no
idea I mean I feel like I could have
convinced my grandmother to stay at home
I don't know who she voted for at the
time but I you know at the very least I
feel like I convinced her to stay at
home by just by telling you the wrong
date on the election but but do you
think that something similar I just saw
a piece in The Times talking about this
dude yeah there's something similar
because certainly Sanders does much
better with the younger african-american
cohort than he does with an older one
which is across the board is same with
with white people too for that matter
but do you do you think that there's
like oh yeah with something like that be
effective no absolutely I mean it's
actually happening right and you're
mentioned in the piece by a steed
Herndon he wrote an accident I did it
came out yesterday or today this is the
only way it's gonna happen right the the
younger generation younger black folks
who are far more steeped and like far
more online and and and know the
information understand the necessity for
medicare-for-all
understand the risk they understand the
risk that they're up against they're
actively trying to convince their
parents to just leave Joe Biden alone
what how much of a change will that make
you know what percentage are we talking
about I don't know but I do know that
it's an effective strategy because your
parents look it's funny the older you
get the more of your parents will listen
to you right that's a phenomenon like I
was able to convince my mother to change
her vote as well I got her off a Biden
and so I think if everyone actually
tried to employ that across the board
but particularly in the african-american
community we can we can shake that loose
a lot of people just feel comfortable
with Joe Biden because of Barack Obama
they feel comfortable with Joe Biden
because you know they you know at least
his racism is baked in and and they
become accustomed to the taste of his
racism but if you shake them up a little
bit and just show them how how informed
you are
act if you are and how passionate you
are your parents will probably come
along with you I know it kind of sounds
like you know kind of mushy and
everything else but that's really where
we are at this point here's another way
to think about it with the with the you
know I'm kind of I don't really want to
mention it but with the Working Families
poll one thing I noticed was there was a
lot of activity on the warren side with
one-on-one conversations personal text
messages personal phone calls to people
to actively say hey we want you to
support this candidate and ultimately it
started winning in that direction I
think we cannot neglect the one-on-one
relationships that we have and our
ability to convince that one person in
our house are those 10 people in our
immediate sphere of influence that job
if nothing else Joe Biden is not the
pick I think that's the preeminent
message you can write and argue over
Warren and Sanders but we all should
agree that that's Biden has to get out
of the way I mean it's much easier to
just say rather than convince somebody
to vote for someone and just say like
your choice is just not viable and
because that's when this race starts to
shake loose I mean the I just the the
idea that this is going to be a
two-person race at this stage of where
the polls are I think is people are
deluding themselves and it is much
better for the left my perspective to
have two candidates of the left that are
there now I know there are some who
would you know I mean there's obviously
critiques of Warren there's you know
there's critiques of Bernie but
nevertheless when you look at this field
there is I think a and the extent that
it's binary they're on the left and the
rest of the folks are not yeah I
honestly don't believe that that that
Warren and Sanders are going to
cannibalize each other's voters like I
think that the the Venn diagram between
those voters are is spaced out enough so
that that is a viable strategy right
most people are going to say we don't
want them both in the race because
they're gonna pull from each other but
but you know if this week is in any
indication the way the the cohorts are
lining up and
lines are being divided there seems to
be enough differences between those two
camps to be able to use each other to
fight back against Biden together versus
tossing one of those candidates out of
the race lastly I just should say that
apparently I just got texted from my
sister my grandmother did vote for Obama
well there you go
so all's well that ends well Ben Dixon
always a pleasure man I'm glad to have
an opportunity to talk to you about this
because obviously this is like a big
topic you know probably mostly online at
this point yeah but so much of our
assessment you know my understanding 9%
of Democratic voters have settled on
their candidate and and and so there's
there's a lot of room for change but Ben
Dixon folks can check out the Benjamin
Dixon show on YouTube right or you can
find it as a podcast and I hope people
are listening to your program on a
regular basis hey thanks for having me
Sam it's always a pleasure Murr Ben
we'll talk again soon thanks all right
folks
and take a quick break and we will go to
the chief youth correspondent of the
majori report I hope I don't know if
she's calling me freaking out and but
that that could be anything it could be
just a function of like she wants her
allowance or something like that but we
will take a quick break and hopefully
talk to my daughter who is hopefully at
the climate protest in New York City
[Music]
you
back on the majority report on the phone
it is a pleasure to welcome back to the
program as our now our chief youth
correspondent for the majority report my
Lassiter
milah where are you right now I am near
City Hall and what what's going on there
any other people there yeah there's like
basically someone I can tell maybe a
million coming like there's so many
people here it's insane
well just give me a sense of like where
are you looking out on like are they all
students while around the city there's
yeah I'm saying how many kids I saw like
like there's so many high schoolers here
and there's so many um there's so many
kids here and there so there's like
everyone's here and some people are just
trying to get through and like and I
feel bad for them but it's truly amazing
and so what are people are they're
people carrying signs I mean what what
are people oh my gosh
yeah so many people are carrying signs
right now it's insane and we're trying
me and me and my friend are trying to
find read-a-thon Bert oh wait yes I can
okay you can hear all the screaming I
think people are starting to move I'm
not sure where everyone is and so are
there are there speakers there or what
well yeah I think I think people are
waiting for Greta Sundberg I'm not sure
where she is
that's what me and my friend are trying
to do right now and then like I know
famous celebrities are gonna be here
like Jaden Smith Willow Smith that's all
I know
right now but there might be other
people and well let me get a sense so
why why are you doing this aside from
obviously seeing some of your top
celebrities but what why why are you
doing this because I feel like it's like
we're the next generation yeah and like
we have to kind of like we can't just
like sit back and let it happen because
we're clearly like we're gonna end up
stuff gonna happen we're gonna end up
like I don't know like we
yes like if we don't do anything about
this like the world's gonna go into
crisis not necessarily in like I don't
know 17 months or 12 years but if we
it's gonna keep getting worse and worse
and worse so what we're trying to do is
just kind of make a statement that like
more than that were the future we're the
next generation and we're not gonna let
this slide you know and I mean are your
I mean what-what was the how excited are
your friends and and and and the other
students I mean to do this or does
everybody sort of have that share that
that sense and everyone shares that
sense it's amazing it's amazing
everywhere I go it's like ever there's
like the enthusiasm is just like 100
percent like 155 billion percent it's
like so many people are just sounded
like it's so much in power like some are
generation like there's so many kids
from like all over in New York cities
it's like coming here to protest and
stuff do you guys I mean do your friend
how much do you guys fret about this
like how about what do you mean like I
mean how much when you you know all the
difficulty in being in eighth and ninth
grade and stuff like that
how much of how much of an extra burden
is this on you guys I mean do you guys
talk about this like when you're hanging
out or I mean how much does it come up
in between your conversations with your
friends I mean like it's honestly like
it's insane like like many people are
like talking about it many people are
excited about it you know it's just like
it's not it's insane it's a great
movement and everyone's really happy
about it but I'm not I'm not talking
about this particular protest or the
movement but but when you guys are
hanging out when you're hanging out with
your friends or when you're at school
and you're just you know shooting the
the stuff with each other how often does
this come up I mean do you guys is this
is this an ongoing concern or is it just
something that's you know in the
background
well honestly like I think that it's not
necessarily in the background but it's
like it's like it is it is one of my
main concerns it's one of millions many
concerns and like that but people care
about a lot but like you know like a
team being a teenager is difficult and
you know it's like it's like you have so
much to worry worry about this - because
it's your future so I would say many
people are super aware of it and super
caring about it because there's honestly
there's so many you can hear there's so
many people here everywhere I'm walking
like they're just like like crowds and
yelling and screaming it's the most it's
so interesting and it's crazy how many
people you see here and it's like you
run into people you haven't seen in ages
it's like it's an amazing thing it's so
amazing it's like seeing everything so
what do you think you're gonna do I mean
after this I mean what what do you guys
have a sense of like what the next steps
are I mean like honestly I think that
like I think I hope that this time this
protest kind of makes people realize
like makes art the older generation
realized that like there is an issue
going on and that like the new
generations not afraid they got for it
we're about to be in a huge crowd so I
might lose you okay well is there
anything else that you wanna you want to
tell us about what's going on down there
or just in general
it's like 10 times the size of the
climate March 10 times the climate March
from parts of 2019 it's amazing it's
super cool all right well good luck stay
safe yeah I will
all right I'll talk to you later I'll
see you probably all right in a couple
hours okay
okay good job there she is
chief the kids are all right kids are
all right
and I hope they like you know it's a lot
to ask of a of a ninth grader to start
organizing there are
some kids who you know who are you know
more in tune with that but I think this
is good it's going to be interesting to
see what comes out of something like
this because I don't remember another
instance of such a student dominated
protests with this many people and I got
to imagine it's going to I mean I
brought my lie down to occupy a couple
of times and it was intimidating for her
to be around that many people protesting
we got caught up in a couple of marches
occasionally and that may be white
dreadlocks would also be intimidated
there was a whole whole a whole bunch of
stuff that was intimidating but you know
you get to a certain age and then you
feel a little more confident and I
wonder the I would imagine we're gonna
see some some organizations and some
organizing and some and more protests
coming out of of what we've seen this
week and I don't know how much the
message will resonate we watch these
this fox news report and everybody's
just like I can't believe they're seven
hours I mean well the scary part is the
people in power free to ignore it
yeah I saw that with the Iraq war
millions of people protested and it
didn't do anything that's true that's
true but hopefully this will resonate
more and I hope I hope there are you
know campaigns out there I mean I guess
there's not a lot of people to register
because these these a lot of these
people are not gonna be voting age
although I would imagine the seniors
right will be 18 by by next year by next
November I mean certainly and it'll be
interesting to know whether what
percentage and we're talking about a
million students supposedly in New York
City I don't know if they're all down
there but a million students you know I
don't know how many what the percentage
of that would be seniors but a hundred
thousand yeah and even if they can't
vote there are lots of different ways
that they can get involve
obviously I mean why DSA has chapters
all over the country kids as young as
high school there you go all right
we're gonna take a break go into the fun
half of the program just a reminder it's
your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member at join
the majority report com she gets him
like some type of milah branded schwag
maybe that might be she's gonna be all
of our boss someday whoa
I already delivered that way to
convincingly yes I felt your exhaustion
oh my god she did a great job I'm very
proud also just coffee co-op very cocky
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off
check out the a.m. quickie just about to
send the quickie off on its own into the
world on its own little feed so check it
out today super easy for you at the
moment all you got to do is check your
majority report audio podcast feed or
sign up for it or just visit it listen
to one every morning we get them out the
door now
Brenda what are we getting them out the
door now by like almost like 8:30 every
day right pretty close so today it's
Friday yesterday was Thursday before
that was Wednesday that was Tuesday what
happened on Tuesday Michael Oh what
happened this previous Tuesday was Jesus
Christ I'm a villain I literally forgot
for a second this is all the way back it
was wow that was that was a you moment
right there and coming up this Tuesday
I'm very excited to be welcoming Makayla
Wilkes to the show she's running for
Congress she's challenging Steny Hoyer
we talked with Shahid pitar about his
campaign to replace Nancy Pelosi and now
we'll talk with Makayla about her
campaign to replace Steny Hoyer I really
could not imagine a bigger upgrade in
every way shape and form huge upgrade
like insanely big upgrade a real
progressive
left candidate with who speaks actually
very movingly incursion Illya bout her
life experience and a basically a you
know
non non sort of like a very genuine way
and then also uh Mike Racine and I are
gonna be talking about politics and
movies starting with this new ad for the
have you seen the new uh
if I forget the guy guy from the office
is starring in a new Amazon series with
like the most studying Pro Venezuela war
propaganda and so we are gonna go a
little bit on a tour of Hollywood
militarism with some Paris before
sorry if Jim wasn't depressing before
Jim Halpert anyway there's a lot of
people who don't know that the
Department of Defense under writes a lot
of Hollywood film big story back in the
arts so that's kind of what we're gonna
beginning we're gonna on the more sort
of substance then we'll get into that
but we're also just be watching some
schlocky movies and making fun of them
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube first seventy six
thousand subs thanks everybody
the the the one of the other benefits of
getting rid of stone at steny hoyer in
fact probably the biggest benefit and
beyond just upgrading a specific
congressperson is steny hoyer
the way that he has been able to
maintain power in the house and yet
discipline is by having enough corporate
donors that he doesn't have to worry
about raising money for himself being
able to go out and raise money for
others and to to get rid of that
influence in the house it'll undoubtedly
go to some other corporatist
but the you're still diluting it to a
certain size so that's great and i just
just could you imagine like just the
every element of that wind i mean and
you know shy head to shy it's great as
well
and the yes the just broadly speaking
challenging primaries against I think
all Democratic candidates frankly is an
extremely healthy thing and except for
Edie Markey with Joe Kennedy Joe Kennedy
absolutely sucks get out of here
yeah he doesn't you know there's no old
style Kennedy fun or glamour it's just
all entitlement and and Ed Marquis
actually really not half bad I I
wouldn't hesitate in a moment to vote
for Markey but broadly speaking I am
like Pro challenge keep everybody on
their toes
I don't think Kennedy is an upgrade from
mark to mark ii at all but i will take
down all these challenges over non
challenges but yes yeah there is such a
thing as a primary from the right like
what they're planning to do to the squad
yeah absolutely and and frankly I'm not
convinced that Joe Kennedy is not a
primary from the right of Mark II
frankly yes Warren endorse Markey hey LC
endorse Markey I mean I think they saw
this coming down the pike as it were the
Mass Pike anyways Jamie oh my god yep so
this week on the anti Fattah Sean and
Andy dropped an emergency episode on the
UAW strike so if you really want to
understand what's going on with that
strike its significance to labor
movement and its historical context I
highly highly recommend it that means
that we pushed our episode with Aaron
Bustani till next week we already
recorded it it's very good if I do say
so myself we talk about his book fully
automated luxury communism bring up some
of the critiques that people have
brought to it and you know we had a good
conversation also this weekend we're
recording a new episode with people from
no new jails and I'm very excited to
talk about the prison abolition movement
Matt we talked about it earlier the
disappearance of three billion birds
since 1970s here about an earlier
instance of Americans killing off what
was about two fifths of the bird
population by massacring
just the passenger pigeon by the
hundreds Derian right after the American
Revolution this is why we can't have
nice things
alright quick break see that's in the
Senate's in the Pioneers episode of
literary hangover
see you in the fun half Jamie and I may
have a disagreement yeah you can't just
say whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer I'm sorry I didn't
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defensive
 idiot we're just going to get
rid of you all right yes
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars yeah you're scum you're
not they accuse me you you all
right gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber silastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
go flirt with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
what's up everybody
sudden Walter block said you remember
that I remember sitting there and Walter
block just out of nowhere went hey sharp
if we all looked at each other like oh I
was talking and he yes I remember
sitting in the studio he was saying that
to me
how it was incredible memory right it
was a lot of little pretty sort of
stunning in many respects so it seems
like we got to be serious this is an
economics ploy I didn't know who the guy
dissing you on I'm just saying it was a
very funny contrast taken seriously he's
going to be a debate with serious
academic he's a professor yeah Sam first
of all shut up secondly right is the man
at the Walgreens obligated to have sex
with you well then no desegregation I
rest my case
um by the way barely an exaggeration
maybe even less so than what he actually
said people should really watch that
walter block if you haven't seen that
yet from the from the kraits
so i'm going to see and it's apparently
it's sold out a Billy Bragg at the
Brooklyn library next week as the in a
conversation with Amy Goodman lucky you
I am lucky Brendan got me a ticket right
before it sold out I think and
we had Billy Bragg on the show the other
day as you know and in his in his
pamphlet he mentions Eric Weinstein who
is one of these people he works for a
Peter teal and then he has his own now
podcast he is one of the IDW guys
supposedly he coined this phrase that
that despite the fact that he's
obviously got a pretty decent position
in society with Peter teal teal and that
he has access to all of these IDW
platforms that they feel like they are
somehow in a dark web now the dark web
as you know is where a lot of like Nazis
hang out and neo-nazis and white
supremacist and also I would imagine
people who are doing illicit things yeah
I'm gonna say right forget about the
drug deals right and a lot of drug deals
and but the idea is that they're not
allowed to have that because of their
ideas which are which are because of
their ideas that they are not allowed to
have a public forum they have to have a
secret forum almost like if you were
let's say a you know practicing religion
in certain societies or you know you
wanted to hide the fact that you were
celebrating Shabbat under Nazi
occupation and you had to do it in the
dark and you had to do it secretly and
they're so quiet and secretive about
their opinions right as opposed to let's
say being able to go on to a show that
has a couple of million views or being
able to get a book deal or being able to
tour or being sponsored by I don't know
turning points USA or I mean on and on
and
on and so Billy Bragg and Weinstein had
this exchange where and I don't know how
this initiated I'll look it up now it's
a little bit weird right I mean I can't
quite tell how Weinstein has but I don't
know if Billy Bragg initiated or not but
so eric wise had said so I'm not a
welcome in front of your audience on
your upcoming dates to discuss this or
show some solidarity and any coming
together right the Billy Bragg wants to
pull people apart and Billy said no
thanks I'm interested in how you square
your statement about refusing to engage
with certain arguments that you don't
consider intellectually rigorous with
the IDW supposed commitment to free
speech this is the point that you got
you all fired up can you address it and
so here's how Eric addresses it of
course because of his because of his
openness to debate and the importance in
the esteem in which he holds the
exchange of ideas so I was open to
exposing protest singer and cultural
icon Billy Bragg and his claims against
me to my audience I was willing in
exchange to go on to his stage where he
has home court advantage I don't know
what that means but it's it's a real
shame that Eric perceives this as some
type of game where one would have
home-court advantage to imagine let's
show him on one stage in the middle of a
performance well sorry I know it's just
so unfortunate bad entertainment you
need to look at it like that as opposed
to just simply a platform and I'm sorry
go back go back to the other one to show
his audience that he was straw Manning
me it was not to be door still open now
I find this to be fascinating because if
this is really about ideas certainly I
think people who watch this show and
know that I've been doing this for 10
years in this iteration and been doing
this for 15 years and I think I've been
quite explicit about a whole range of
ideas
I made a similar proposition to Eric
Weinstein some time ago
when he and I should I should say that
his never I never brought him up in any
context as far as I know I mean maybe
but I don't know but he went on to make
an accusation about what I was engaged
in on Joe Rogan show with a huge
following of course here it is I think
that there's a very strange thing going
on
not with Dave Rubin but with the crowd
of people that is just trying to eat
Dave Rubin and hadn't been blind him and
confuse him mmm
and this you know this is this guy Sam
cedar who do you think he's a Russian I
hope he is well I don't know I don't
think he's Russian but I do think that
his his I think he has a grassroots
following I don't think this is
inauthentic that just loves to dark
harass well dunk drag I hate this
language I just can't um King I like the
word dunk
oh really yeah that's fun no I'm not I'm
not a fan no no no because it's just it
cheapens all converse oh you got dunked
on your home court advantage Tom this is
that thing in third grade that I think
Eric never as well he found out that he
won't engage them and so they think it's
cute to just constantly on them and
they also think it's cute to take
anything that he says and interpret it
in the worst possible way possible and
not think of it as him just being a guy
who's trying to talk about things on the
fly and maybe isn't even prepared about
the subject at hand like let this show
you know we were talking before we were
gonna go on there where we and talk
about Mike come on let's just talk yeah
and so when you do that come on let's
just talk thing yeah you never know what
the is gonna come up and you might
have a piss poorly formed idea of what a
subject is just i ramble yeah what does
what I've done Mike to previous well no
you're not but it seems you know it's
easy to think that you did that
but with DES
you know there's enough moments where
he's misstepped where they just feel
like okay we got a wounded antelope yeah
the truck picked him off and you know I
think there was probably a move to do
Shapiro and there was a period where you
were saying I just want to address I
mean stop first off like look I
understand maybe you don't realize
you're gonna be talking about Jesus on
any given day but if you don't have the
basic understanding to know that Jesus
and Muslims were not contemporaneous
then maybe you should really really do
your best to stay away from anything
remotely close to talking about that
like I mean I guess you could say like
look I didn't realize that we were going
to be talking about you know I don't
know the planets so I up in knowing that
the Sun was not inhabited I mean there
you know there's there's there's some
baselines here but I don't know why Eric
Weinstein felt it was necessary to bring
up my name in the context of people who
have a problem with Dave Rubin I don't
know what it means to blind somebody
with criticism on Twitter but he is
correct that we want to eat Dave Rubin
though here's Eric Weinstein apparently
he just learned by watching my show or
somebody snitched
yes that's somebody snitched and the
fact is I asked Eric to to discuss
publicly with me what was going on with
Ruben I invited him on to my show I said
I would go on to his show but nothing he
doesn't want to engage now I don't know
if it's because he doesn't perceive that
I have the the proper size audience or
that in some way but it's it's
interesting to me the way that he
decides to whose criticism he will
address and who's he won't and that he
feels it's okay to invoke my name on a
platform that I don't have access to
and at least imply that somehow I am you
know using my followers to corral a
wounded antelope with a perma swarm with
a perma swarm or something and allow
Rogen to characterize it as something
that I think is cute I don't think I
don't do this for cuteness so now I do
it I don't say incredibly demeaning cute
is the way you describe a little puppy
or a little kitten or a little child
it's not about being cute here I
actually think that what these people
are doing is incredibly dangerous I
think it creates a lot of societal ills
very very extreme societal ills I think
actually that in many respects it
provides support for some of the worst
things that are happening in our society
today I don't think that's cute and I am
happy to discuss this more with Eric
Weinstein and if he apparently it takes
him a day or so to hear what we say on
this program maybe he'll hear it now
maybe you talk to me first and then
maybe Billy will see that you can
actually have an engage with people who
with whom you disagree with and maybe he
will then respond more positively to to
your requests you're worried about not
being welcomed in front of Billy Bragg's
audience you're welcome in front of mine
there it is so come on let's discuss
this we can talk about Dave Rubin we
could talk about Ben Shapiro whoever
else you invoked in that segment with
Joe Rogan I'm happy to have this
conversation I look forward to it and I
am sure because of your intellectual
rigor you're incredibly smart guy I have
no doubt I've listened to you speak I
have no doubt that you're far more
intelligent than I but I still think
that my my ideas are worthy of
engagement so when you come on you'll
have the opportunity to make your case
I'll have the opportunity to make my
case
so we'll see if you actually have the
integrity of the principles you espouse
because I know I have no doubt that you
have the intellect but the question is
you make these pronouncements about
what's so important in our our discourse
but you don't follow through you only
follow through when you think that maybe
I don't know I don't know I'm what why
you would engage in this way when I've
invited you and you know you know what
I'm about you know it very well and I
know it that you know it very well
so we'll see you know what I'm about
what's up Irv Gotti look at Sam's
language changing I love I went on I did
a you know it added out I did a I did a
segment with Irv Gotti on re members uh
fallback Friday and we got we went deep
into it at one point I actually I meant
to bring this up with Ben Dixon herb
Gotti said look I never voted I don't
vote and he's you know he said like kids
you should vote but I don't vote because
he voted for Obama cuz he just thought
it would be interesting to see what
happens if a black guy gets into office
but he was like beyond that he was like
I just never
I didn't grow up thinking that
government could do anything for me and
that it's up to me and and and and and
he asked me and I don't know if this
will make it to air
he asked me like did you grow up
thinking government could do something
for you and I said well I grew up
thinking that government could be used
to do something for other people and I
think in another context I would have
said but I understand particularly as a
black person in this country that you
would not feel that way but I will say
this that I'm not convinced there is a
circumstance where someone would the
earth God ease perspective could be
convinced otherwise period like I don't
know that anybody could show up and say
to him I'm gonna provide for you this
this and that and get that guy to vote
it sure didn't sound like it I
was the context in which he was coming
from now it's conceivable that like down
the road you could prove it to him by
actually delivering but that's very
different than hearing something that
would inspire him to devote well that's
true but and and also there's different
um you know there's there's different
like class configurations to that
dynamic as well you know because I've
got II incredibly successful because
well I'm not talking now I I think he
obviously this is an attitude that he
developed not since becoming I think
step outside of you know a pretty narrow
set of circles to be honest and you go
to any type of different class and
racial you know groups that's a very
common sentiment I've heard people from
a variety of really any type of
background that I would not describe as
basically you know affluent express some
version of that sentiment yeah and it's
hard to tell them that they're wrong
when they've got so much evidence in
that point of views favor but I mean it
is possible like I think Russell Brand
foetid for the first time to vote for
Jeremy Corbyn the grime artist Jamie I'm
not talking about I'm not talking about
he hosted I don't know and then and then
we saw I mean we also saw like a young
woman of color on camera saying Jeremy
Corbyn could suck my dick Labour's never
done anything for us and you know that's
in the UK obviously but I think there
are similar sentiments going on here
right I mean that's my point is that I
don't know that III mean putting aside
whether they it's it's justified or not
I don't know that you can convince
someone of that well that but I don't
know that you can dis possess someone of
that belief well I think obviously
obviously if you if you're talking about
someone you know like who has attained a
certain amount of wealth or acclaim or
something like that they're exposed to
their you know they're in a different
context and maybe they start to thinking
like whoa I got things to lose but it
also seems like a lot of those people
may also just be like
I'm gonna go with the guy who's gonna
give me the 20% tax break because I'm
incorporated as a loan-out Corporation I
don't know it's I think it's just
something interesting to contemplate
let's I haven't even called into the
thing I haven't done any of the stuff
that I'm supposed to do as a host I
apologize gosh darn it
here's John Delaney I heard is this from
the MSA okay so today's right okay so
this is chris hayes thing right this is
the chris hayes climate climate thing
and he sat down with a bunch of
different candidates I heard I heard one
reporter on Twitter say after I think I
don't know who who it was that left the
stage maybe it was Sanders had left the
stage and Hayes said you know we got to
take a break when we come back we'll be
talking to John Delaney and you know
people got up and they were just like if
he had said I'm talking to John Mulaney
I'd be here but I'm not gonna there's no
point
and here is John Delaney with his his
proposal to deal with the urgent crisis
of climate change this is fascinating if
we ever want to get something done big
on climate it's gonna have to be done in
the Congress the United States by
passing laws and the best way to pass
big transformative laws is to get
bipartisan support so I introduced the
only positive bill nothing will happen
does anybody is there anybody in the
room that can tell me and maybe you'll
have some disagreement about it
specifically but what is the
conventional wisdom let's just do it
that way I'll qualify it that way
of what the most recent transformative
law that has been passed in the United
States in the past decade what is it
the transaction of law would be the ACA
would be the ACA Obamacare can anyone
tell me how many Republican votes we got
on the ACA three and a half
cuz of we counting Arlen Specter is a
Republican or not well he was a Democrat
well he had already flipped yeah okay so
then - okay - and only one of them is
left right so before John Delaney even
gets to the premise of his weak tea
proposal he is already basically
completely fabricated some notion as to
what is necessary to get his weak tea
proposal past centrist parties anthesis
by partisan support for transformative I
mean I if he ever makes it to the debate
stage again I'd like someone to say like
do you not think the ACA was
transformative because he will eat his
tie before he says well no he was
transformative but it was trans
transformative you might say my free
transform and I just need his thought
right let's just go backwards Aaron just
hear that I want one predicate he laid
there that is really the essence of his
whole answer can I just say like I'm
looking at like his the history of
bipartisan you know congresses and they
mentioned the 83 85 to 85 Congress as
like a hallmark and here's some of the
you know successes their declaration of
Martin Luther King's birthday which is
good though we know there was some
holdouts on there yes John McCain to
 up amendments to Social Security to
preserve the pension system solvency the
raising taxes on workers a major
revision to the federal criminal code
that included increased penalties for
drug trafficking and terrorism suite and
reduction of the deficit through a
package of spending cuts and tax hikes
yes that's transformative we're a
completely transformative you know it's
another transformative what was that one
that made sure that we didn't have poll
taxes anymore in the country was that
slightly transformative
oh yes the Voting Rights Act how when
the test was that bipartisan well the
Voting Rights Act was well
actually let's do this let's historic
size it if it was voted today no it
would be all totally Democrat Republican
but it was geographically that
stripped-down that's really it was very
northern repair announced back fair
enough we lost all the Democrats that
voted against it are now Republicans
that's true welfare reform in the crime
bill we're bipartisan right and they
were transformative you know that way
that is the other point whenever they
get together and do something bipartisan
that's yeah that's for human beings but
let's go backwards here and so he's
wrong anyways about transformative laws
requiring bipartisanship the ACA
considered by conventional wisdom to be
a transformative bill it certainly
expanded Medicaid the arguably made the
case it certainly changed the quality of
insurance on some level if you don't
measure it by affordability it provided
at least a baseline for what constitutes
decent coverage not a not it not a
terribly high baseline but it's a higher
baseline but good done in the Congress
the United States by passing laws and
the best way to pass big transformative
laws is to get bipartisan support so I
introduced the only bipartisan bill on
climate it was a carbon fee and dividend
which Chris and I just talked about and
it had Democrats and Republicans an
equal number and I think it's a template
for what I'll do as president in my
first year oh let me follow up
legislation so that didn't get a vote
didn't get a vote but carbon fee which
by the way is also known as a carbon tax
right how many well we introduce a three
and three thirty three I mean that is
impressive but it's so far from the
reality the political system right I
mean the point is the leadership and I
got three members they're not how says
this and every single person is dealing
with the problems not telling anything
you don't know but it is the case that
john bainer of course never would bring
that to the floor be in the same way
that Mitch McConnell will never bring a
piece of climate legislation of the
floor unless he thinks he can kill it
and make a point right so that's why we
have to win the house in the Senate
and but even when we win the house in
the Senate we've got to put four things
that can get broad support
I like that helical II got the type of
co-sponsorship that you can just go and
be like dude come on buddy you and I for
me oh this isn't going anywhere you've
got a golf game this weekend we cosign
in a bill it might even be proved handy
for you in some random interview the in
fact partisan credentials I would go
even further and say it's the the
conversation could also have easily been
like exons gonna throw us a couple of
bones if we put this out quadrant so
that we have something a/c block if you
know what I mean for any real
legislation all we need is six guys to
do this and we know it's bipartisan
we're not gonna have to make our phone
calls this month incidentally I have a
fantasy about running for president and
I'd like to mention this when I'm on
MSNBC I I wish that kid ended in think
by the way congressman Delaney I have
more followers but it's the great I'm
sure he does I you got to appreciate
Hayes is like sort of quiet skepticism
where he's like every question is asked
where you have the sense that he's
holding back a laugh oh yeah you can see
the look playing across his face it's
very clear this is interesting we talk
about Joe Biden's desire to add a public
option to the the Affordable Care Act
even one that people could buy into as
opposed to just being limited as the ACA
is now to people who don't have an
option of getting health insurance
through their employer or any other way
and subsidies only being available up to
a certain percentage of of wealth in
this country certain percentage of
poverty and the idea that you know costs
are crazy the real question is like how
do you cut costs well here is the former
Medicare administrator dr. Don Berwick
he was under this is under Obama he
explains
why the public option at a house hearing
will not be sufficient for for
containing medical costs I'm a little
worried about the public option for a
kind of technical reason insurance
companies want to provide insurance to
people that don't need it that's how
they make money and so anything that can
be done to gain risk so the public
option will be used by all the people
who really need the insurance insurance
companies would then try to find ways to
have people who really need care go to
the public option which would enrich it
would make it would it be a good
business case for them and that's not
good for the country so look I mean this
is an extension of the argument as to
why you can have private insurance if
you have Medicare for all it just needs
to be supplemental to what is offered in
the context of Medicare for all and
because if you have it compete with
Medicare for all the insurance companies
are going to try and I don't know if
they'd be able to do it if Medicare for
all existed and you still had competing
insurance I mean I guess in my mind it's
an open question for some it's not as to
whether you would have enough people who
enter into the Medicare for all program
so that the risk pool that is all the
people who are involved in the program
is the risk is dispersed amongst more
people the whole nature of of insurance
in terms of health anyways and probably
other I mean this is just the way
insurance works it's a small number of
people who are going to be responsible
for the highest number of costs but the
point is we don't know who those people
will be over the course of a lifetime
now once you've identified them if
you're the insurance company and you
want to insure people you want to make
sure those people are not part of your
risk pool and you want to offload them
and if you offload them into a system
where only a certain number of people
are paying into the system because
they're by
as opposed to it being taxation on
everyone you'll have a higher percentage
of people who will need the service and
that's when insurance breaks down so I
think the question of private insurance
is overblown everybody needs to pay into
the system they want to get a different
insurance program that's fine but I also
think you need to make like the vast
majority of doctors and service
providers also be part of the system and
that's easy to do I think you can't be
you can't get accreditation unless you
take a certain percentage of Medicare
patients and at that point if
everybody's paying in and everybody has
access to the same doctors really
doesn't matter in my mind what happens
with private insurance or not but
Natalie sure actually though made some
really important points about this that
it basically if you still have a system
where doctors and she's much heavier in
the details I think probably than any of
us certainly me I am still the system
medication ah brilliant and if you have
a system where basically you need to
have the doctors only built to Medicare
essentially because that cuts the
there's additional like the real
clarifying distinction of Medicare for
all is free at the point of entrance
right like you just need to have a
system that eliminates the possibility
of people having to play it paid adduct
abodes and co-pays when they actually
seek treatment we all understand that
you know it goes through the tax dollars
of course but it needs to eliminate the
capacity of the system to charge people
at the point of purchase or create any
additional layers of bureaucracy so I
mean her argument basically is like sure
if there wants to be like a private
insurance plan that deals with things
that are not primary essential medical
care like that maybe deals right you
know faceless sure that's when we can
all sure that's okay but you cannot have
her view is that it jeopardizes the
whole because you don't why doctors to
opt out or this is Eisley well but what
I'm saying is have it filters through
the system to do there are other
mechanisms that you can use to
that there that they have to be part of
the system I mean right now we have it's
arguable as to whether trap laws are
legal to inhibit your ability to get the
Constitution to have access to the
constitutional right of abortion right
like if Texas this one was struck down
although I questioned as to whether the
next one will be can say that you need
to have 16 foot ceilings to perform
abortions and otherwise you're not
allowed to perform abortions in these in
these offices seems to me that you can
say like if you're going to be licensed
as a doctor part of that licensing
requirement is you must accept 85%
Medicare pay patients 90% Medicare
patients may be you know I mean that's
and then boom you want whole private
insurance god bless you but it you know
maybe it's for when you go into the
hospital that you get like a gold
gold-plated bedpan or something like
that but I think broadly speaking there
are other ways to do that I think is my
point now maybe that's maybe maybe it
would be harder to do it that way I'm
not convinced that it would be I think
at that point you would see private
insurance go it stinked more or less on
its own I mean it's not a terribly
viable business as it stands unless
unless they can be guaranteed to offload
the sickest people and in this instance
it wouldn't be an opportunity to do it
it wouldn't hurt the funding because
everybody would have to pay the taxes
regardless of whether you park pay you
know are involved in the system or not
if there is a if there is a problem with
requiring doctors to take a certain
number of Medicare patients as a
function of their licensing I'm not
aware of it but yeah it seems like
that's a good argument for Medicare for
all being a non reformist reform which
is to say a reform that picks up its own
speed and causes a chain reaction of
things going in the direction we want to
go so like for example like you just
said private insurers go out of this
people aren't using them anymore it's
not because we made a law against them
it's because this is what the reforms
triggered we have basically taken their
space to perform profitably away from
them and I mean the only reason why I
mean I think just from a political
standpoint on some level it makes it
easier but I don't know maybe there is a
reason why you can't compel doctors to
take Medicare but it seems to me I mean
you can do it I do worry what's gonna
happen with specialists right now that
don't take insurance at all but I
imagine it would have a hopefully a
positive effect because the bureaucracy
right now of dealing with insurance
companies it's just so much that the
best doctors don't have to do it so they
just won't right like I see all
specialist that doesn't take insurance
and it sucks been there
meanwhile mayor Pete decides that he is
mayor Pete I think it's feeling some of
his viability and he needs to find a
lane
and I think he thinks it's somewhere
between being the young Biden and being
the the not quite Warren and so here he
is trying to worm his way in there and
and really you know the whole point of
Warren's attacked on this and I do think
that there is you know you could
critique it I guess in terms of framing
but I like the idea of taxes losing
their special place in where they as a
cost of being a citizen is somehow and
in living in the country just like
literally living is somehow unique
uniquely bad
yeah don't reinforce Grover Norquist's
were unique
the uniquely expensive like where a
dollar of taxes is magically worth like
$2 of paying for I don't know
food or home heating or some other
requirement like electricity like look
you can say there's no electricity tax
but of course there is no one lives
without electricity you got to pay for
it then you might end up subsidizing
poor people's electricity right well I
guess that's maybe part of it but the
fact is everybody pays for it everybody
pays for tougher electricity that's a
it's a cost that's generally associated
with probably your wealth you have a
bigger house you have more electricity
bill but mayor Pete sees an opening here
and he's gonna take it regardless you
know senator Warren is known for being
straightforward and was extremely
evasive when asked that question and
we've seen that repeatedly I think that
if you are present I should be just to
be clear the thing that she's supposedly
being evasive about is will her plan
raise taxes and look of course it's
gonna raise taxes but the point is is
will it lower costs and the question is
asked in a certain way if the question
is always will it raise taxes you're
immediately saying that's the most
impart because it never will it lower
costs when was the last time you heard
Joe Biden or someone who liked mayor
Pete asked the quite will it lower costs
will it lower costs that's the that is
the most relevant thing why do they have
to be so roundabout about it exactly why
is it like a bank shot of like well what
cost will like what will be the
distribution of costs right like why
don't you ask that what's the
distribution of cost now like what is
the cost structure now versus later
no it's will it cost more or less I
think that if you are proud of your plan
and it's the right
and you should defend it in
straightforward terms and I think it's
puzzling that when everybody knows the
answer to that question of whether her
plan and senator Sanders plan will raise
middle-class taxes is yes why you
wouldn't just say though so and then
explain why you think that's the better
way forward our plan posit what do you
mean the better way forward if you're
gonna be straightforward when you answer
this question it should be a course it
raises taxes but of course out-of-pocket
costs are less so it's a it's a savings
like I mean if you're going to say she
should be straightforward when she
discusses the plan you should be
straightforward
instead of an acting puzzle right I'm
completely confused by this though so
and then explain why you think that's
the better way forward our plan does not
require raising middle-class taxes it
does create a way for everybody to be
covered and I think that's what most
Americans want look people are used to
Washington politicians not giving
straight answers to simple questions but
at a time like this on an issue this
important that's exactly what we need
now I'm sure Jake Tapper's next question
is but does your program lower costs
period cost for the consumer for every
single consumer does it lower costs
period we want to get straightforward
that's the straightforward question
that's the C rate forward answer H it is
like I mean is there anything more
obnoxious honestly than saying like
they're not being straightforward and
then being that sort of disingenuous in
your critique this guy's from the this
is like this is the most disingenuous
person running for president I think
hands down but he's so smart he's a
smart guy he's a smart guy
as Cornel West says we need to overcome
the cult of smartness also I don't
really know how smart smart is I mean I
think he's a smart guy I mean I think
Tom Kha yeah and there's also like
plenty of people who I would describe as
smart enough
so what smartness is a privilege
laundered through rich
occasion yeah that - he's book smart
he's gentleman kinds of smarts I've been
very clear over the years on how for at
least a time and I will concede it was
only a brief window of time if anyone
saw that documentary on McGovern called
a bright shining moment well we had
another bright shining moment that of
course was when and and Scalia passed
away and was it create public sector
unions were spared in the was it the
Friedreich's case yes in the
Friedreich's case sadly that seat was
never filled and we got that case again
in Janice
but just because Ann and Scalia is gone
doesn't mean that he didn't spawn a lot
of bad things one of them is now our
labor secretary his name is Eugene
Scalia okay one second and he is being
questioned by senator patty Murray this
is a confirmation hearing he's the
nominee I should say this is a
combination now you remember the last
Labor Secretary we had right didn't he
had to resign was it because oh I know
he gave a sweetheart deal to a a
pedophile child sex trafficker this is a
hearing where patty Murray is talking
about the Paycheck Fairness Act which is
a proposed US labor law that would add
protections to the Equal Pay Act which
was passed in the early 60s and the Fair
Labor Standards Act so as to address the
the gender gap in pay and here's Eugene
Scalia's response to a pad
Marie okay well I'm the lead sponsor the
Paycheck Fairness Act it's a bill that
would close that pay gap the House
passed it earlier this year would you
support passage of the Paycheck Fairness
Act ranking member Murray I support
fairness and pay and fair working
conditions for women it's something that
in my work at my law firm as a manager
of employees was important to me and in
advising clients but you won't commit
today to supporting that I I will commit
to two things ranking member Murray I
can commit to providing any resources
the Senate might find helpful in
deliberating that legislation and if it
becomes law which is of course your
decision the Senate's decision
Congress's and the presidents if it
becomes law I certainly promise to
vigorously enforce I just want everybody
to know that if these historic trends
continue it's going to be 75 years
before that gap is it gets any better
why would you want a Secretary of Labor
who would want to promote labor laws
which guarantee no gender discrimination
in terms of pay that that's that's so
out of bounds of what we wouldn't expect
from a labor secretary oh but he's fair
to the women who work for him so yes is
what I'll tell you said the ladies that
work for me a very cardi as far
as the other thing I don't want it
totalitarian government shall know
trying not to create the Sylvia dovey
it's very magnanimous of him to say that
if you pass a law I won't just ignore it
that way
if you put in the work if you and the
ladies get down there together in the
boiler room and you coordinate your
friggin cycles and you pass it I won't
ignore Congress by the way that is a
very nice nail job you have I would just
like that to be doted it's really
generous of him super generous here is a
wonder kid dan Crenshaw former Facebook
administrator who I'm a owner of two
eyes who is here is here is Jamie
finally speaking my human language here
is Dan Crenshaw who makes obviously a
lot of hay in the media out of being a
vet he was wounded in service and the
implication is is that because he's a
vet his proclamations deserve just a
slightly special status in our society
that because he has sacrificed as a vet
that he somehow has a status that is a
little bit rarefied that we all owe him
a little bit more attention and
seriousness I guess then I can
understand that sentiment certainly
folks who have gone to war and and and
become injured have sacrificed quite a
bit I think on some level they should be
ups more upset about those people who
sent them off there but Dan Crenshaw I
mean the reason why gets a lot of his
attention again because he's an injured
vet had this to say on Twitter watching
Bernie pander to different groups to get
their vote has always disgusted me but
now it's personal I didn't go to war so
that you could take care of me Bernie I
went to war to serve our country and our
country needed it and this is the
sentiment that we're we're Crenshaw will
rely on his status as a vet to sort of
pierced through right like he's not just
a pedestrian walking by who he is a vet
and you must listen to vets unless
you're Dan Crenshaw
ensuring every
like how can you just sit there and not
do we need your leadership right now but
you cannot it is M no it's laid out
clearly and
like this it's hurting our bodies and
minds on just cozy up to dictators how
are you going to just let him lock kids
in cages like come on dude you need to
get your courage but we need to
[Applause]
[Music]
you don't wobble better in criminal you
repeating things he's not a cobra - half
the things he is done I would be in
Leavenworth I would be underneath
Leavenworth sir
like you would be - you can't let this
happen there you go that was pretty
effective I thought Danny crotch I just
wants to have a conversation it's weird
how they all retreat into that I liked I
liked Felix Biederman pointed out about
Dan Crenshaw that just like in like
Brooklyn there's a bunch of like kind of
annoying people that sort of like put on
the effect of being like a tortured
novelist or something when they're not
there's a lot of people from you know
rich people from Dallas basically that
really want to like cosplay is being
like you know like macho and they're not
it's not just from well he was no but he
was just yeah but he's just giving you
that like that solid contract well
that's in fact where Dan Crenshaw is
from and Dan Crenshaw is a rich kid and
I understand that he chose to like go
overseas for whatever disturbing reasons
he might have wanted to go overseas for
but at the end of the day like of course
he can screw over fellow veterans he
doesn't have any financial stakes and
anything yeah no he's fine he's wrapping
himself in the pageantry that we have
around the troops which I would argue is
very destructive in this country but
when push comes to shove of course he's
not gonna have solidarity with his
fellow troops that's ridiculous
there it is folks checkpoints I mean I
think that's rink on some level though
you have to give kudos to crunch for
saying look just because you're a vet
doesn't mean that we have to listen to
you
yeah and
a good point they if that's the lesson
lesson learned Dan Crenshaw you can't
resist and dad I've gotta take care of
you
yeah we don't we don't you standpoint
epistemology and the members only
elevator III I will say this it would
have been my entire opinion of him would
have changed had he said that that would
have been very impressed same honestly
that would have been pretty great just
because you and I share the vet we can
have different ideas about America and
that's not the video camera I would use
either it doesn't have the low light or
that rating that I would want here is
Ben Shapiro this is a this is a
beautiful genre this is clip number 13
this is a beautiful genre of of
right-wing talking you know this is
where Ben Shapiro reminds me of Rush
Limbaugh there was a I used to listen to
Limbaugh quite a bit back in the day
when I would do a seven to ten or a six
to nine radio show and I distinctly
remember an episode and this must have
been somewhere around the mid arts where
I'm listening to him and he is talking
about tinfoil essentially tinfoil being
placed on a glacier I think it was in
Switzerland and because it was was
melting and he was reading and I do the
same thing I I have stories that I've
picked out and I highlight them in
yellow and I think he probably had a
production crew that at that point would
highlight the the stories in yellow he
never read through let me see the
headline
and he was basically making the argument
that environmentalist tree huggers had
gone crazy they they they are so
convinced of this hoax about global
warming that they have put tinfoil on a
glacier that's how insane these
environmentalists have gone and he reads
on environmentalists were upset about
the tinfoil that was placed on the
glacier by the owners of the ski resort
who were trying to maintain the ice in
warming conditions obscures our nut
above uh we gotta take a break we'll be
right back crazy he hadn't read the
thing clearly and didn't realize that
the story actually proved the exact
opposite of what he was talking about my
camera which was which was that in fact
global warming was impacting the
capitalists who owned the ski resort and
environmentalists were like hey this is
going to be damaging to the environment
they know that you're trying to prevent
the the water flows and you're
contaminating some of this runoff water
and you just misread it
I imagine on some level that's what ben
shapiro did here in some way but of
course he doesn't have the full story
he's just sort of winging it he's just
doing the classic right wing play which
is anything that is in any way new or
different than what you've experienced
is by definition completely wacko
you've been living your life where every
day you know your coffees on your left
and your water is on your right and
somewhat someday you show up at work and
it's mixed up and that means that of
course they're coming to get you by them
I mean the Muslims or the gays or the
transgenders or the whoever it is and
Ben knows who his audiences they're old
people who just don't have the or
they're they're close-minded people who
just don't have
the the ability to even be aware that
people are identifying themselves in a
pronoun that may seem in some way alien
to them but instead he needs to make it
about science because he doesn't seem to
understand that like what languages the
polarization of the American public
continues apace with woke scolds doing
their best to ruin every aspect of
American life I'm very excited that
merriam-webster dictionary has now added
the non-binary pronoun they to the
dictionary because when I look at a book
for definitions of words what I want is
a made-up definition of a word that has
never been used this way in all of human
history a plural noun used as a singular
noun to house it well put aside the
pettiness of like the idea that there
could be a new word which incidentally
wokes Gould's I do not believe you would
find in the dictionary which I find very
polarizing that all the sudden he's
using a word I've never heard before
but wait a sec keep that up because oh
yeah I know I'll go right here too
he's complaining about the
merriam-webster dictionary well the
oxford english dictionary at its blog
writes that it traces the singular they
back to 1375 yes where it appears in the
medieval romance William and the
werewolf on top of which they argue that
if it's in writing in 1375 it was likely
in oral use way before then the werewolf
is a non-binary species yes
it's likely that the singular they was
common even before the late 14th century
that makes in an old form even older in
the 18th century grammarians began
warning that singular day was an era
because a plural pronoun can't take a
singular antecedent
they clearly forgot that singular you
was in fact a plural pronoun that had
become singular as well you functioned
as a polite singular for centuries but
in the 17th century singular you
replaced thou thee and thy except for
some dialect use and then it just goes
on to talk about how different times
people have had different perspectives
on this but let's let Ben continue with
his completely unfounded assertion that
this is the first time a plural term has
been used in the form of the singular
since the dawn of man of a word that has
never been used this way in all of human
history a plural noun used as a singular
noun to refer to a singular gender
wouldn't use a plural noun and
merriam-webster is gonna go along with
this which just demonstrates once and
for all that logic has gone out the
window
people are Taylor in science to meet
politically correct demands people often
I would say also this is not science to
me that this is language language to me
can we come up with other ways in which
we call for language to reflect a
political perspective yes we can because
it happens everyday on all sides of
politics in fact wake scold is a word
that fits his political ideology and is
I would add made up yeah yeah there's
some logic is what is not a made up word
wait there's a couple all these words
like the idea that we could just have a
printing press and create words and
language to me politically correct
demands merriam-webster according to The
Washington Post has added a new
definition of the word they to its
dictionary declaring the pronoun may be
used to refer to a single person whose
gender identity is non-binary they
according to the Washington Post is a
liberating pronoun for many non-binary
individuals what the hell is a
liberating pronoun how does it pronoun
liberate you were you in shackles and
then someone said they and now you're
out of the shackles well here is where
Ben doesn't seem to understand the
concept of
metaphor obviously you are not in
physical shackles but to the extent that
language can restrict you and in fact
that's what it is right language is a
definition by definition a word defines
you and if you feel that the pronoun in
some way defines you in a way that is
not accurate as to your definition of
self then they would be liberate was
been being shackled when the Economist
called him all right
I guess he would actually we had to
unshackle himself from that that limited
definition how does it pronoun liberate
you were you in shackles and then
someone said they and now you're out of
the shackles and what kind of nonsense
is this for many Americans the use of a
as a singular pronoun can be
ungrammatical and confusing that would
not be for many Americans that would be
for all Americans unless you're talking
about the small group of sjw's who
decide we have to redefine all of
language in order to meet politically
correct demands it's it is insanity and
then you wonder why people like the same
people who demand truth truth absolute
truth we're the media and we want the
truth also they is a singular pronoun
not what no all right I look a lot of
people I know at this point expect me to
comment on his inability to deliver like
a decent comedic double-take
a lot of people think it's easier than
that you know he obviously can't he does
like a triple take another look yeah
let's try it let's just look at the only
because I made quite a bit of money
doing a double take on many sitcoms been
incapable of doing it I don't get caught
up on this but it is worth looking at
again so they is a singular pronoun not
what no I mean there's CY they trouble
selling those scripts what that's one
way of doing it there's a lot of
different ways I got special glasses
version on the double take but can you
imagine how disturbing it would be to
see in print the idea of they being used
to communicate the notion of a singular
person
like the idea that they could really
could could refer to one know any one
person referring to themselves as a
would be extremely disturbing to see it
in print for instance let's look at this
Ben Shapiro tweet click on this here it
is if anyone on the right suggested that
Fredo is the n-word for Italians or that
fake news is the n-word for journalists
they'd be correctly run out of town on a
rail of insensitivity I'm sorry if
anyone meaning an individual does not
compute vade that's so strange
bullcrap that's confusing I don't know
it even means it's the first time in
history that's ever happened is the
first time in history except for that
was back in 2019 and then back in 2016
as Emmons Adi said telling a Trump fan
they're being conned is like telling
your friend not to marry a stripper now
your friend is singular as a Trump fan
is singular then why are we referring to
them as they booze exactly oh I know why
because their gender is maybe non-binary
in the context of that that Trump fan
could be male or female
mmm interesting and I loved lost he
wrote back in 2010 but dude period can
anybody get a happy ending while they
are alive can any body not anybody's can
folks get a happy in and no it is when
an individual fascinating oh I literally
okay I actually thought then was I
thought that was trying to make it joke
oh yeah no let me try my hand at comedy
is it really a happy i dick oh there's a
lot what about the cleanup process so
how big is bullcrap it's almost like he
doesn't really care about the grammar
here's one more time lol David Limbaugh
if anyone not imagine doing that that is
funny that's funny that's funny if
anyone thinks this President believes in
the Second Amendment
they'r nuts I need to rest after that it
is so taxing to see they refer back to a
singular person fascinating a singular
person
it's just Donald Trump is the only
conservative understands comedy and
language that's true it's remarkable but
is incredible I actually understands it
better than most liberals in fact and
then besides that it's just completely I
mean to be fair Ben Shapiro as a
philosopher and not a linguist that's
true
he is precision yes he is the precision
of his logic not his language folks at
you're of course not connected you'll
recall that some time ago a bunch of
morons felt it necessary to have a
straight Pride Parade in Boston now look
I grew up in Massachusetts I grew up
around d-bags like this all the time so
I'm not in any way disturbed by them I
feel comfortable around them I may be at
times I was one of them not quite like
these guys but in my own way let's go
the straight Pride Parade
but and I certainly look I am in favor
of people being able to do high jinks to
prove their political point even if
their political point is one that one
usually experiences as a 12 year old boy
and then you grow out of it by I don't
know late in your 12th year somewhere
like around 12 and a half you grow out
of these things like these ideas like
hey wait a minute straight oh yeah okay
whatever these guys obviously did not
they didn't handle this very well it was
really in many ways a disaster let's
just listen to this question that was
asked of these three stooges by Brian
who is I think he's a local reporter and
turns out to be a fairly salient
question we have to say that the
taxpayers are upset that city resources
are going to be wasted because you three
guys can't get laid Philadelphia your
girlfriend what's your name again -
Philadelphia your girlfriend's what's
the name I'm sorry what sir
Oh what
actually it turns out I'm asking serious
question he's not serious questions of
the straight pride with the guy here in
Santa Claus outfit holding the iPhone
who is revealing the fact that they had
done some research and spied on the guy
and found out that his girlfriend was in
Philadelphia I think nevertheless the
question actually was a very legit
question because now we know how much
that cost Boston police had to pay or a
it cost taxpayers over thirty thousand
dollars to deal with those what a
hundred people not even who showed up
for that dumb parade III just ridiculous
a wait a second what's this oh wow
what's this total this is more over time
holy oh yeah that wasn't the total whoa
that was just for the barriers I'm sorry
that was the barriers it turns out you
got to pay for the barrier truck and the
event activity the overtime cost was six
hundred and eleven thousand dollars so
the entire straight Pride Parade cost
the city of Boston six hundred and forty
thousand dollars you know the sad part
is they're probably cops who would have
showed up for free to that right spot
yeah that's probably true amazing thing
is like you know like like of all the
complaining they do about like the
special rights that gay people have in
our society the special secret rights
that they have how their speech is
suppressed yeah there you go
forty grand for that complete waste of
time do we know how many people showed
up to this yeah I think it was like
literally like a hundred so that's about
$60,000 per person yeah I'm quite
convinced if you had given everybody 600
bucks they would have stayed home you
could have given you could have saved
the city like seven
hundred grand man
I'm sure there's no other I'm sure
there's no better use of the money for
that it's good a good time to be in the
barrier delivery business I was gonna
say maybe maybe this whole thing is just
a giant false flag for stimulative
spending I have all of a sudden gotten
super sympathetic well it's a whole
bunch of guys got overtime good economic
activity what kind of girl I'll tell you
why I'll tell you I would do if I owned
a barrier the barrier company I would
make like yeah you know what guys it's
time to put on the Magic the Gathering
suits again and some straight pride
parade flags and right wingers are just
subsidised by barrier company yeah
that's between these organizers and the
barrier companies all right focusing
there here's what we're gonna do I'm
going to fire up the the IMS and I'm
gonna take the first ten IMS that come
in on the majority app before we go I
have not what this is good Saul cedar on
the I am first into the hi dad I wanted
to announce that Michael offered me a
weekly segment on a show called the
dinosaur minute with Saul I actually did
patreon.com backslash T MBS it's patron
cont yeah its patron only content yeah I
give the kid a cut with some juice boxes
and he has a lot of dirt on you doggie I
gotta say I gotta say that's an
interesting idea and I have the inside
track to him that's what you think well
how about these are it salt you know
those episodes you like to watch of
Superfriends and guess what
not gonna happen unless you work for me
he comes over he goes hey how's
everybody doing let's talk dinosaurs by
the way it's a dad night so let's record
late Sam's tend to profile he exactly
hey babes white right it's wears white
bright for a backstage pass to the only
show that matters the majority report
with
Sam cedar a square oh my god Sam
listening to Milo remembering her
singing moves like Jagger now climate
change activists can we see turistas be
more proud indeed thank you a square
when a prank reg Sam I think the thing
about the Philadelphia girlfriend from
the straight Pride Parade was a
homophobic joke Philadelphia girlfriend
ie his boyfriend that's why the other
guy cut him off right when combat is
tough man
that is bless your Trump what is a
Philadelphia girlfriend is his boyfriend
I don't get it I don't know I enjoyed
the meme that like it's the two arms
clasping each other and on one side it
says Gay Pride Parade on the other side
it says straight Pride Parade and in the
middle it says not making women
name's Darwin Sam you may recall that I
teach I'm writing to let you know I was
able to use the phrase zero-sum game
during a lecture I'm pretty happy about
it getting ready to start introducing
Social Security actuarial tables next
week I hear those are very popular with
the kids these days that's my
understanding
fraud save America roses are red sheep
follow the leader
hey IDW debate Sam from the majority
report Steph from Chicago I just wanted
to say regards to Mike alia so I was
troubled by some audience members
reactions I do not believe anyone in the
studio displayed violent hatred towards
Elizabeth Warren and I would like to
distance myself from that kind of
language I hope you allow me to call in
again about it once I've done some
reading I love you all keep up the good
work
much love it was a commenter who said oh
yeah it was just somebody being crazy no
it wasn't anybody calling anything can I
read what Trump said about the Blasio
leaving the race may I
yes all right oh no really big news
perhaps the biggest story of years
part-time mayor of New York City at Bill
DeBlasio who was polling at a solid zero
all capital a solid zero but had
tremendous room for growth
as shockingly dropped out of the
presidential race NYC is devastated he's
coming over when he's on slaking yeah
you guys got to get out there and make
Bernie win these early primaries oh
let's play this clip of Trump this is
important actually addressing the
partisan there excuse me the
whistleblower now the whistleblower is
in the Intel community they've been
there obviously throughout I would
imagine at least these three years of
Donald Trump and they have according to
the Inspector General made a complaint
that is urgent worthy of triggering the
mandatory reporting to the house to the
house
here's Donald Trump referring to it and
I gotta imagine that he may be a little
bit nervous about this one now once they
stop and they think about it and they
think about how Nancy Pelosi doesn't
seem to want to pursue anything like
this I'm sure they'll be fine but at one
point I think it's gonna be quite clear
that they realize they can get away with
anything
because they're not going to be held to
account this is a problem folks what joy
it's a partisan whistle blow they
shouldn't even have information I've had
conversations with many leaders that
always appropriate I think Scott can
tell you that always appropriate at the
highest level always appropriate and
anything I do I fight for this country I
fight so strongly for this country it's
just another political hack job that's
all
did you discuss Joe Biden his son or his
family it doesn't matter what I
discussed but I will say this somebody
ought to look into Joe Biden's statement
cuz it was disgraceful where he talked
about billions of dollars that he's not
giving to a certain country unless a
certain prosecutors taken off the case
so somebody ought to look into that and
you wouldn't because he's a Democrat and
the fake news doesn't look into things
like that it's a disgrace but I had a I
had a great conversation with numerous
people I don't even know exactly who
you're talking about but I have
conversation with idea who you're
talking about
I just guessed I did I just was talking
about the Ukraine but I had no idea
you're talking about because I didn't do
it so I wouldn't know and of course I
want to make it clear that when I
couldn't have talked about anything that
would benefit me because I always talk
about stuff that would benefit the
country I didn't say your button you
said your button yeah should go after -
that's right I have no idea why you'd
bring up Joe Biden in this context but
except for the fact that like with the
Ukraine but I have no idea what you're
talking about country wise so yeah Cuba
Libre numerous leaders and I always look
for the conversation that's going to
help the United States the most that's
very important
I don't know the identity of the
whistleblower I just here today partners
in person meaning it comes out from
another party but I don't have any idea
but I can say that it was a totally
appropriate conversation it was actually
a beautiful conversation and this is no
different than you know the press has
had a very bad here's a question like if
this guy was a normal normal human being
and we had normal politics some would
say like how do you know it was a
beautiful conversation which
conversation are you talking about
because all my conversation about that
you don't know what country you're
referring to but you know it was a good
conversation let me look at my schedule
today I have a beautiful beautiful
conversation scheduled with Iran I have
a beautiful conversation scheduled with
Saudi Arabia I have a beautiful
conversation scheduled with Pakistan oh
and rounding it out beautiful
conversation with Ghana it could be
anyone do you think he's also clever
enough to say that like whenever I help
me in some way I'm helping America so
necessarily this call was about helping
America but just continue to hear him
ramble it was actually a beautiful
conversation with the contingence is no
different then you know the press is had
a very bad week with justice Cavanaugh
and all of those ridiculous charges and
all of me mister mated the New York
Times and other places you've had a very
bad week and this will be better than
all of them this is another one so keep
it so keep so keep playing it up because
you're gonna look really bad when it
falls you know I guess something about
I guess I'm about 22 and oh and I'll
keep it that way
I don't want to talk about any
conversation other than to say other
than to say great conversation totally
appropriate conversation couldn't have
been better
don't know who you asking questions and
not as big as possible just comes bigger
downfall yeah and keep talking about
this because it's gonna be really bad
for you actually leave asking me about
this in fact I want you to continue to
talk about it and that's why I'm going
to allow the whistleblower complaint to
be released because I don't know who
said it
I don't know who the whistleblower is
but I gathered that they're of course a
Democrat and I don't know what
conversation it was about but it was a
great company it'll be so cool though if
it actually was revealed like I'm the
democratic whistleblower Oh
Michael Prince all right sighs Elizabeth
Warren let me Jerry
everything I am yeah so Clyde I don't
drop I'm a democratic snitch to I do is
complain all day ten more AIIMS then
we're out of here yesterday's sim turned
yesterday's I am oh that's a yesterday's
I am turned show on only to hear Sam ask
a child how much do you guys fret about
this train boy it's my daughter believe
me she has exactly the same vocabulary
that I do train boy Jan Crenshaw picks
the slime from his empty eye socket and
I wipes it on the underside of his
congressional desk very disrespectful
that's sort of gross cauliflower justin
trudeau doing what he can to establish
himself as Canada's Obama by any means
necessary
[Laughter]
pajamas boy pyjama boy eating Dave Rubin
is the ultimate way to recover from all
those high-level ideas by the way Rogen
and Weinstein inverted dunked on Rubin
in that clip by insinuating he can't
think on the fly I don't know how
inadvertent that was that was very
dunkey eyes yeah that was just sort of
like say you're a total and you're
trying to talk without a script
Stephen Velasco it's so weird how many
good guys with guns don't seem to mind
implying bad guys with guns when a law
changes and they might have to surrender
some of their weapons indeed Colorado
guy as long as polled voters top concern
is getting rid of Trump the real
likelihood of Trump winning a second
term in 2020 remains more likely than
not if the desire to win is more of a
priority than understanding how to win
why we actually lost in 2016 then Dems
will either lose the election outright
in 2020 but there'll be another
reckoning in 2020 like 2010 with Obama
2022 like Obama left his best Lou Leary
yeah I just I think it's just weird to
talk about all the Democratic voters as
if they have one mind that could be that
agile like that you know like
collectively we all must understand how
to be you know I just I don't know it's
a weird way to phrase that stuff well
they should care about winning but they
should also have a smart way to win well
they I think if you're choosing Biden to
win then you definitely because you
think he can win then you definitely
care about winning I think like we have
a different theory of how to win and
what might be more problematic and I
think part of that is just because like
you know we're professionally watching
this stuff yeah so listen to us guys
we're right Bull Prague's props to all
the kids doing the climate marches it's
adorable all play now work makes big
sexy I did not appreciate the king
shaming by the prank caller on Wednesday
many people totally not me love that you
look like a foot with glasses thank you
Neff Miley did a fantastic job reporting
for the clown art she's grow up in such
an intelligent young ladies such a
novice Thank You Neff that's very sweet
Columbus Mike I have a compelling
evidence that Matt is two kids in a
trenchcoat PM me for details proletariat
Singh we should hit fascists with
cascarones instead of eggs and
milkshakes
I love Sarah Palin since apparently our
radio waves are transmitted through
space I want the aliens to know if they
come here they'll get stole on we ain't
sweet libertarian it's karma 'test
right-wingers don't get MTG Portnoy if
you aren't familiar with Justin King aka
Bo the fifth column on YouTube did a
great short video sarcastically
celebrating Cavanaugh's Confirmation
contrasting the senseless tribalist
framing the media used to narrate
important issues and walking through
several of his judicial rulings that
almost all members of the manga crowd
would have been vehemently opposed to
and had said manga crowds spent any time
objectively looking at Kavanagh's record
they would likely have been opposed to
his confirmation if it weren't just an
own limbs he's our guide mentality I
will check that out Ryan from Santa
Monica why is New York's registration
and so long before the election I
believe California is four weeks so it
can't have anything to do with size is
it just to disenfranchise voters
yes it's an incumbent protection racket
is what it is that's what it is
sorry about that
and Michaels impression of Sam bench
bureau's wife here often he makes that
face when he watches with another man
Congressional baseball fan today's show
is brought to you by Southwest Airlines
we have no check bag fees whites only
segregating employee break rooms until
2018 plus we always ask mothers a
mixed-race children move the identities
we all do that with less baggage that's
why Southwest is proud to be the
preferred airline of Congressman Steve
Scalise and the final I am of the day of
the week
[Music]
should Trump lose the election next year
what lame-duck policies may he may what
lame-duck policies he may enact before
he's evicted and forcibly removed I
would imagine he would try and I don't
know I have an executive order that you
can't force a president from leaving I'm
gonna stay anyway
CEO Monday
[Music]
Oh
I'm going
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
oh the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
brakes
[Music]
